Good morning. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMB. We thank you so much for spending part of your day with us. And if you're listening later on podcasts, well Good evening, afternoon, or whatever it might be to you. Um I'm Troy Skinner. I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of FaithInChrist. com. Daniel Rasby is here. He's one of the pastors at the Church of Meets at Imran's house. They have a ministry that you can locate online at conqueredbylove. org. And David Borsi is here. He doesn't have a website, but I have it on good authority that he is chock full of fun. And we're going to test that theory today to see how much fun David Forcey is. So today we're talking about um pastors, elders, overseers, uh in a general sense. We're gonna be doing that actually for a number of weeks, as you know if you've listened to this show. before we tend to do arcs of of content and our arc of content this time has to do with uh what the research Responsibilities are for pastors and how those might be different from laymen and that sort of thing. And these are topics that kinda came up D on the air or shortly after a show was done off the air and we said, ooh, let's write that down. And we've got a list I'm not kidding. It's it's several dozen items. And so I'm trying to figure out how do I collate these in a way that makes sense. So I've taken about Somewhere between six and ten different topic ideas and kind of squished them together into what is hoped to be this series of shows. So we're not going to talk all about them today. But today we're going to focus on preaching and the ordinances, if we can cover both of those. And by ordinances, I'm specifically talking about the Lord's Supper and baptism. I know there's some debate about what the ordinances are Or what some might call sacraments, but we're going to be focusing mostly on the Lord's Supper and Baptism, because the principles that apply there would probably apply uh elsewhere too. So the question is, our preaching and the ordinances, you know, administering the Lord's Supper? baptizing someone, are these things reserved for only pastors to perform? Yes or no? So can somebody who's not a pastor preach? Can someone's not a pastor baptize someone? Can someone who's not a pastor administer the Lord's Supper? Um you know, if so, why if if not Why not? And if there are exceptions to the rules, what are those exceptions? So what Daniel says. Yeah, it's it's interesting. I I I always assumed growing up and because of different experiences I had had, I I just assumed that the sacraments are what the people do what the believers do, you know, the War Supper and and and baptism and I didn't ever have the impression that it should only be elders or pastors that administer those until it happened to come up in casual conversation with a pastor or elder at a Presbyterian church who was like the Lord's Supper. Of course it's only pastors and elders um that uh uh that that should administer the Lord Supper and I I just I asked the question and I I don't I didn't think I got a good answer, mostly because this particular gentleman wasn't really prepared to to answer the question. He he wasn't expecting it. Is w what verse what passage talks about that only elders or pastors should be administering these things and I I really can't see one. I mean there's elders are supposed to lead the church. Um You know, but the there's certain certain things that that the elders do, but it does it doesn't say only and I guess w uh we have to define a minister too, right? So we want to take one at a time, maybe baptism. I know there's a lot of churches that practice uh the fathers or other uh uh friends who baptize you, not necessarily a person. And I think It's interesting about baptism. Paul has an extended period of uh or extended passage where he's talking about, well, I'm really glad that I didn't baptize any of you because otherwise you'd be saying well Paul baptized me so I'm some special person and then he's it's funny because in Paul fashion he's like, Well, actually Never mind. I I didn't baptize him and him and and and also him but you know but And by the way I'm a pretty I am a pretty special person. But you know but the point, you know the the point is is is that don't be you know worried about that And so I said that w that's interesting and and I I I would take that passage to you know and infer from it that you bap you don't need to be baptized by any particular person because that's That's not the point. Not not about anybody that that's, you know, specifically. I mean it even says Jesus didn't baptize anybody, only his disciples did So far I'm on the same page with Daniel. Troy, do you have a would you say only pastors should be doing Performing these things. Um no. Have you heard the have you heard the argument maybe made a little bit better for the other side. So is I think especially in the Presbyterian Church it's a really big deal, uh, where only the elders can be administering the Lord's Supper and 'cause they can only do it to members For the worst. And the Catholics make a really big deal out too. Yeah. You know. And I think that's a good thing. um of of a local body have some responsibility to police what's happening in the pulpit. So not just anybody willy nilly can come preach. And I think that the responsibility for making that call would fall to the the elders or the pastors, the overseers, whatever label you want to use. So you're talking about preaching or now or baptism. If the elders hey, you know what, this guy's not ordained as a pastor, but we, the the the people who are leading this church, who are responsible for leading this church, trust And our appropriate responsibility for it and then also being able to say, you know, if If someone says something, not good or right, making the correction. And then to pivot from that on into the ordinances I think I probably have a similar kind of attitude about the Lord's Supper, actually, because the elders, uh, typically are the ones, you know, the lead pastor sometimes these are contemporary phrase, is the one who's Officiating what's going on, right? But the the deacons or the ushers are involved in oftentimes in distributing the elements. They're part of that they're holding the cup or the bread or what have you. Uh but they're doing that under the oversight of the elder who's responsible, making sure things are done in an orderly fashion and the way they're supposed to. So I think they have a similar attitude about that. I'm not sure about baptism. I think Any believer could baptize anybody. And maybe that and maybe that gets into discussion about what constitutes baptism, whether you should be sprinkled or immersed or anything. Yeah, yeah, that's this topic. Yeah, that's but it's a separate series of shows. But I think uh Can someone Go ahead. I was just gonna ask a ask a quest. Do you can somebody baptize themselves? You know, people were doing that during COVID. That's not even a joke. Yeah. How about how about that? I I think no, I think I think you're kind of making a mockery of it that way. Um and the whole point of baptism is I think to be public. Mm-hmm. That's a very key point, whether you're immersed or whatever. This is a public proclamation of look I am uh I am saved for the witnesses. And so if you're doing it to yourself, I mean like that's If if that's public and you're doing it to yourself, then it's it's it seems a little bit arrogant uh uh to me that you know that you can't there's nobody that's qualified to baptize you except yourself. That's a little bit weird If you're gonna do it by yourself in your closet then that's that's what you're supposed to do with praying, but I think baptism needs to be public. Now, baptism doesn't save you. Um doing baptism wrong doesn't necessarily unsafe you either. Um it would not anyway, not not just not necessarily not at all. On the Lord's Supper I have a little bit of different opinion because what I read you can take that by yourself. Well, yes and no. So my opinion on the Lord's Supper is that the Lord's Supper is a commandment to be done at Passover. With your family in your house when you slaughter the lamb. You're also uh breaking the unleavened bread and you're drinking those cups. When Jesus said, uh this do as oft as ye eat it It being the Passover meal he was currently eating. So in my uh theological uh understanding that That is commandments to be done. You could certainly remember his death at any time, but the commandment is to do it at Passover. And it really irks me that the church has completely separated Easter or Resurrection Sunday as a lot of people say now from Passover, they really need to be laked. And that that to me is when you remember his his death and resurrection and his body and blood being broken and shed uh uh for us that that's the commandment for the Lord's Supper. Now there is some implication based on some of what Paul is saying that the church was remembering it more often than that. It it's not extremely clear when they were r remembering it, but they were remembering it when they came together and saying you're also being gluttons too and you defeat Now using the bringing up of the Passover meal, um And pivoting that into the the primary topic for today is interesting because the Passover meal would be would be led by the head of the family. Family meal. And so I guess Daniel would be saying that, you know, if you're gonna recognize or ob observe the the supper it's gonna be the father who's handling this and is that what you what Yeah, I I will say so. And th and there are many um churches in which c uh that I was at Wonders recently that's what they do. They have the whole bunch of cups that are filled and each father goes and takes the cup and then they pass it around to their family so the father administers and the father is responsible for determining which of his kids are allowed to take of the Lord's Supper. So the elders are kinda setting up the cups at the be at the at the front of the church, but then each family breaks into groups and does that and and does that. Now this is definitely a rabbit trail, but uh you know it's on my head mind and I'm gonna if there's a quick answer. If not, I'll write it down, it'll be a separate show. But if we're going to make a tight association with the Passover meal, I'm not sure that I can think of any teaching from the Old Testament that children would have been excluded from that meal. So if we're gonna make that tight association, should should the Christian celebration of the Lord's Supper include all the children? I mean there are Christians who advocate for that, right? That's an interesting not just paleo baptism, but there's also paleo communion positions out there. Right. Well there there's I think that there's a passage from Paul saying basically if if one spouse is believing the children are sanctified, otherwise they would be unholy or s something to that effect. And a lot of people would take including me would take that to mean that if if a child has not reached the mental age where they're able to be able to process what sin is and salvation is verbalized it anyway. They are considered part of the kingdom because they are covered by their their parents. Um so that's interesting whether they would be able to I even though I've kind of come over the last few years to that position of where this is the Passover And I do celebrate Passover. I still don't have my kids take that part of it, which is interesting. Well, 'cause I was I was grew up saying, well, no, you can't take supper until you're I get it. And by the way, I I I And I think it does say let I mean it's like the head covering for me. I I don't have a firm position, but I will say I lean in the direction of being attracted to the patio uh communion position because of the covenant family idea. Yeah, you know. So it's it's it's very interesting and I think um when it I th I mean it does say let a man examine himself. It's uh there is there is that idea of individual responsibility. It says because people haven't done this that's why some of you died. So you need to take it really seriously, the Lord's Supper. Anyone who wants to be flippant about it I think that's a really big mistake. Paul was very clear say saying, you know, the the people have died over this, over coming and eating and drinking unworthily. Um so I I don't want to make a And that's a whole topic too about what is meant by taking it unworthily. But that's uh that's It's a sermon probably. So what I normally say if I'm introducing the word sufferer to people, I would I would say something to the effect of make sure you don't have unconfessed sin in your life, whether you're saved or not. Are you And so that's if it's right back onto topic. So if that's sort of a warning, some people call that fencing the table, right? If the table needs to be fenced Who fences the table if not the overseer, the undershepherd, the pastor? And and uh uh yeah, I mean I I I think probably m the majority of people would agree that that that's the case, that the the senior elder, if you will, is the the senior most elder is ultimately taking on that responsibility right of uh when the the group of believers that are gathered under his authority are you know, participating in these these ordinances, right? So uh but then, you know, some will Th then there's so almost this like a an issue of like management, right? Like some people think that it should be extremely micromanaged, right? Where as, you know, like he's It's uh it's going directly from his hands to you know to the person taking it. Especially the Catholics will be well known for such a position. Sure, yeah. the Episcopals. Yeah, you know to a Catholic, the Lord's Supper is the service. Like they may be preaching, they may be praying and stuff, but The Lord's Supper is the actual service and so when you when they excommunicate somebody, the person is still allowed to attend if they can't take the communion Whereas in a Protestant fa usually we're saying if you're excommunicated we're not having anything to do with you. We're not even gonna have you to dinner necessarily 'cause You need to really have a wake-up call and come to the case. And they have theological commitments that they they don't want the bread and the wine leaving the hands of the priest because, you know, their theology tells them that it actually is Right. It doesn't misrepresent. Right. It doesn't misrepresent or it's not just spiritual. Like it actually becomes the body and blood. And if you drop it and step on it or something like you have totally sinned against God. Like it it doesn't go in the trash, it doesn't go down the drain, it all gets consumed. Right, right, right. Uh so yeah, I mean I it's um Yeah, I I I think we're on the same page as far as the other responsibility. Yeah, so let's let's see if we can f uh pivot back to something Daniel asked like ten minutes ago. Like what are some things people who would disagree with us might point two. Let's see if we can get a second one. By the way, the voice you heard right before mine was David Forcey. The other voice you're hearing on today's show is Daniel Razby. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm not positive that this is where they would go, but here's one of the places I think they might go. Like Acts chapter 13, early on in the chapter, ch verses 2 and 3. And while they were ministering to the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, Set apart for me, this is God talking, Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them. And then they fasted and prayed and laid hands on them and sent them away. So this is an ordination. They have particular work to which they've been called. I think the idea there would be that they've been called to be overseers, elders, that sort of thing. So they have these kinds of responsibilities. Now whether or not you can shoehorn the Lord's Supper and Baptism and preaching into that might that may be a that would be an additional conversation we had, but they would say there is something different Where these guys are set apart and called, they're ordained onto something, right? To they're ordained into something that's not just every believer. And I think that's true. So I think the question is where if they're ordained into something, some role What is that role? Like what is distinct about being the pastor from being not the pastor? And I think that by default it's been, well, they're the ones that preach. They're the ones that Hand out the elements for the Lord's Supper. They're the ones that baptize people. They're the ones that marry couples, which is, you know, that's a separate topic we'll be getting to actually possibly uh next week I think. But so what what is the work to which they've been called, do you think? Well, I uh I mean I I think you you could use that that particular passage to say, okay, God God calls particular people to particular works. Like but but Paul and Barnabas were obviously not called to be particular uh elders over particular churches, right, yeah. Yeah, so they were granting churches. But so I I can I can take out of that the point that okay God does set apart certain people for particular roles within the church. Um the kinds of roles you might break in half and use during the Lord's Supper? Exactly. I wouldn't break a roll, it had to be a flat red Yeah, no no yeast, no leaven. So it's just not uncommon, yeah. Um so uh You know, I but I I think we have to look at scripture and say, okay, when when when we are told what the elders are supposed to be doing what is included in you know, what what work are they set apart to do specifically and and administering the Lord's Supper and baptism are not in those I think they they they shepherd the flock, they disciple, they understand who what their flock is, what their uh the problems they exhort, they they teach. Uh 'cause it says elders must be apt to teach. Um so those are the things the elders are definitely doing. I I guess the question really is 'Cause even in this other church, right, this the um this elder that I was talking to at one church, his church does that thing where they they hand out to each man like a cup and the the man shares with his own family. Each head of household or two. Each own household, right? If there if there's a widow then she gets the cup and she shares with her kids. Um so the other even in even in his understanding The he as the elder is not deciding which of the kids gets it or whatever. He just but he will he will give the cup to anybody and it's and he'll he'll say, Look, uh, you need to either be a member of this church or a member in good standing of another church that you affirm to us you are and we and we uh um we know don't have reason to disbelieve you on that then we'll do that. So they they have at least some cursory fencing like you're saying, Troy. And You know, I the but the more I I think in it the more the more it seems seems like the whole purpose of the Lord's Supper really is a Passover thing to uh to me. So I I don't get the impression that the church has to be doing a lot And there are that and you're not alone. There are a number of churches that they they have the supper one time a year. year and it's usually uh in in Eastern some association with the Passover season. And in the other churches it's once a month, once a quarter, every week. You know, what have you. So I don't know if anybody does it more than once a week. Are any churches that do all the ma maybe maybe Every meal a Bible study apparently. I think I've heard I think I've heard some people that do like a remembrance at each meal Yeah. I can see some richness to that. Um but we pray before each meal, most people most people do, so that's that may be uh where that comes from. On the on the baptism side, I am I am more confident that that does not need to be done within a church or during a church service. In fact I don't get the impression the baptism historically was done in the middle of a church service in in a building or whatever. Um So you may have a baptism service where we get together we're to do a bunch of baptisms. Yeah. But having it done in the middle, like in a baptismal that's built into the sanctuary and and stuff, I'm not sure if that's necessarily biblically it's done. When you repent. That's true. And and then you're baptized. And that's interesting because there's a there's a big there's a big subset of of Christians that are like, well, I got saved, and then it might be months or years later before they get baptized. And you see this especially with kids. A lot of times kids don't want to get up in front of a bunch of people and and do that. Um I know that I when I uh Or sometimes parents are are hesitant. For the for the kids to believe believe them. Yeah. Yeah. I mean uh um I've when I got saved, I was four years old, I remember it very, very vividly. But it it took me a few months before I wanted to get baptized, but it wasn't like that day. Um and I did w at the time we were going to a church they had a baptismal and the pastor, you know, went in with me and dumped me in the bathtub basically and that's what it was. Um so but but I I I can understand, especially from as now I'm a parent, you know, when do you when do you believe that they actually are uh making a true profession of faith? Um but you know then and that's and that's where the Paleo attorists will say, Well, I mean when you get saved your whole household gets baptized. Look at the jailer, he and his whole household were baptized in one night. No, I mean Biblically speaking, usually when there's well the father does something, the whole family does that. And we're all we're all followers of Baal now, or we're all followers of of Ra now, or we're all follow followers of Yahweh now, and that's We're gonna do And it so there's there's an aspect of community as well as individualism and I think too much emphasis on one or the other is the wrong thing. Yeah, I th uh um but just to uh tie a knot on something that was brought up earlier because we talked about, you know, Saul and Barnabas and they were particularly special in their roles. But there are other parts in the New Testament where it does say to s to a st to uh appoint elders in each city and that sort of thing. So that's what we're talking about is that 'cause that's what it kind of exists now. And so what are the role for the elders now? And I uh this is not meant to be self serving, but boy, it seems like an argument for if not house churches, at least smaller churches, because if if there is this great spiritual danger uh in participating in the Lord's Supper, for example. Or false conversions and baptizing somebody willy-nilly who doesn't really understand what the heck's going on. If that's an important thing, somebody's got to be able to have some some rains on that. And if you got a church with thousands of people, you know, you get a lot of things. Where's your first profit choice? Yeah, then your your vetting process is more difficult. But if you're in a smaller setting, it's a smaller church, even if it's not a house church, let's say there's a church with like fifty or a hundred people. And they know that David Forresty is under church discipline because they're small enough. They know what's going on. They know he's under discipline. And he shows up, he wants to participate in the supper. Like, David, you can't do that. Even if it's not the pastor handing him the elements, the person who's handing him in the elements will be like Well they wouldn't even let him in the door potentially. Potentially. Right? Yeah. Depending on the depending on the church. Sure. If if there's particular yeah, or if there's just a particular practice there. Yeah. Right. Or or or based on the event. So we got you too. We didn't have a whole lot of debate on that one, which I think might be good because it does set the the the stage nicely because I think we might have a little more debate as we move forward. Next week we'll be talking about marriage. I thought we you guys were going to really push back on the Passover thing. And whether pa and whether Yeah, things have to do with marriage and pastors. One, them officiating marriage ceremonies and also uh if only married men can serve as pastors. So I think we might have some fodder for some discussion about that a little more intently than we had this week. So I'm Troy Skinner. Also joining the panel this week, Daniel Razby and David Forcy. And uh you can find me online at Household of Faithinchrist. com. You can find Daniel and their ministry online at conquered by love dot org. Of course you can find this show and this radio station online at At WFMD. com. This is the Faith Debate. Thank you so much for listening. We will uh hopefully welcome, have you welcome us into your lives again next week, about 167 and a half hours from right now. Until then, God bless.