Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like ploughing pavement The people continue to place their hopes in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Base Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. There you'll find links and podcasts and news items and the Faith Debate blog. Our blog is your blog, so email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. I post Whatever you send me after removing all the curse words. Forty five blog updates. Actually, it's changed out. Ninety. Ninety blog updates. Used to be forty five dollars, ninety, eighteen a day, every weekday, Monday through Friday. I need the weekends off. So I encourage you, even if you don't send me something to post Go check it out and see what other sorts of nonsense people are s are uh saying. Some of it I gotta say is good, some of it not so good, but I'll let you be the judge. On the Faith Debate today A special opportunity for me to get a word in edgewise because Jonathan Sweitzer, my normal cohort on this show, is uh not with us. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. uh is on vacation, a well deserved vacation, uh, right now. So here in his stead, we replaced one with two. Two pastors from the Same church, so hopefully it won't be too much debate going on or we'll have a we'll we'll have a story on our heads. Uh Pastor Dale O'Shields and Pastor Steve Rivera. From uh Church of the Redeemer. Uh Steve, you are uh primarily responsible for the Frederick campus, correct? Exactly, that's right. Stomping grounds. Right, exactly. That's right. And one of the reasons we're having you uh you guys on the show, well first of all, if you haven't heard it already, the uh you can hear Pastor uh Dale Shields preach on a regular basis on this very radio station. So make sure you uh you listen uh each and every week. Um do we ever get to hear you preach? Will we ever will that ever happen? Okay We l we'll let him out of the cage occasionally. Exactly right. No, he's Steve's a great preacher, so So I had the pleasure of uh of meeting Pastor Dell for the first time today right before this show. I have met uh Pastor Steve in the past and uh but haven't gotten to know him well, so I'm looking forward to the opportunity to get you guys know you guys a little bit better here. Now the The the main reason you're on here today is to talk about an upcoming conference. That's right. Correct. Exactly. We have a pastor's conference coming up, Troy, on the nineteenth to the twenty-first. uh at our main site in Gathersburg called United Pastors Network and it's just a time of gathering for about uh two and a half days of just encouraging pastors and church teams to uh in the work they do so often, you know, being a pastor and going through the challenges of pastoral ministry, uh provide need for just refreshing and relationships and encouragement. So uh we're looking forward to that. Love to invite any of the pastors of the area to come join us as a part of it. Now this is your chance, Steve, to to vent in a very safe way that won't even feel like venting. Uh because your senior pastor just mentioned it's a chance for pastors to come together and deal with the challenges of being a pastor. So what are the challenges of being a pastor? That's a great question, Troy. Um, you know, it's just um it first of all, it's a blessing to serve at a church and uh there's so many rewards. But just like any other thing in life, you know, um you've you've got a lot of um challenges that come, whether it's through time uh knowing how to divide and prioritize your time, uh whether it's through um making the right decisions every day is filled with hundreds of decisions that could potentially not just affect you, they affect the lives of a lot of people. And so it's just um it's just being staying close to God, you know, and um just always making sure that you're um in prayer, you know. How long have you been a pastor? Um coming up on seven years actually. I've been on staff almost ten years at Church Redeemer and I've been pastoring for about seven years. So the first three years you were on staff, what was you weren't a pastor, what were you on staff doing? I was doing a lot of things. Actually I started serving in our kids' ministry uh with a sports program. And uh it's an upward sports program, it's a basketball program for kids that we started up. It's an intramural kind of basketball league within the church. So a lot of basketball teams formed within the church and kids play against each other in a very healthy, competitive way And Dale, how long have you been a pastor? I've been in ministry for 35 years. I've been uh the senior pastor of our church for 28 years this June. So you're gonna have a different each I think will have a different answer to this question. In your seven years, what have you noticed that has changed? And in your thirty-five years, what have you noticed that has changed? about being a pastor, about the demands, expectations, uh constraints, what have you. Who wants to go first? I'll go ahead and tackle it first if uh if it's okay. I think the the main thing for me and noticing uh Troy over the thirty-five years of ministry uh and twenty-eight years at our church, it's just the the um increasing biblical illiterate See of people, the fact that many years ago you could kind of assume that people had some working knowledge of the Bible, and so when you would preach a message you had some frame of reference. regarding you could tell a story from the scriptures and most people had some at least awareness of what that story was, but now in today's culture and environment uh the the knowledge of scripture, the knowledge of even Bible stories has decreased significantly. So it changes your approach even in preaching. trying to teach and get people uh into God's Word to understand some of the practical principles, but you have to help them frame the context to understand that. So that's one of the challenges that I've noticed. At least one of the changes I should say is that. Is that is that a cultural or it might be a combination of all. So if it is, then you know, which one is it primarily? Is it primarily a cultural shift? Is it a family strained shift? People don't have the time to invest in reading their own Bibles. Is it a church? problem. The church isn't teaching and and preaching the Bible like it once did over the last generation. What do you think it is? Uh over the last certainly the the the the three dec decades that I've been involved in ministry, there's a shift in terms of even the value of scripture, the belief that the scripture has something to say to us for our practical life. And then the Oftentimes the church hasn't taken the scriptures and made it practical enough for people to say, This is what this means to you when you go to work on Monday morning and when you're dealing with an issue with your kids on Wednesday night or whatever it might be. And so uh I think it's always the challenge of the church to take scripture, to make it practical, to make it relevant, but then not lose the um the the the the sense of authority of the scriptures as well as a part of the process. Now you are comparing the change in the church from, let's see, thirty-five years ago would have been when? I don't know, nineteen mid seventy nineteen eighty Nineteen eighty-ish. Mm-hmm. So that's a big span. That's an easier question for you. Sure. Seven years isn't a big span. So do you feel like there's been a shift in just seven years, or do you feel like it's pretty much the same as it Uh I think so. I think so. I think um we live in a time where uh the attention span is getting a lot shorter. Uh very Twitter friendly. So and so and so people are looking for a lot in a little bit of time. And so the difficulty is communicating a lot in that short t attention that you have people for. Good point, yeah. And and so and so it's it's very difficult to do that. It's very challenging to do that and it's getting more and more like that. Yeah, and that is uh actually this show itself is countercultural. Because you know, we tackle oftentimes we're not doing so in this exact moment, but oftentimes in this show we're gonna tack tackle really heady theological issues that sometimes play out over the course of a string of shows. Sure. We'll talk about one issue for four straight five straight six straight shows. Yeah. And that's that It is, yeah. And yet our audience seems to at least a certain number of them seem to appreciate it because he's coming back for more either that they're gluttons for punishment. So there is some appetite for it, right? Are we doing ourselves a s disservice to think otherwise? No, uh no. There's an appetite for it, but what we've learned and what I've learned over the years is that the way I tackle those kind of issues is I try to tackle them over an extended period of time as well. For example, I'll do a you know a a four or five week series or a ten like I'm involved in a ten week series right now. I finished up a thirteen week series in the beginning of this year and so you try to kind of break it down and take a little more time to work people through it. And so while uh I think people stay with you through it, uh it's just the the amount of um uh information you can give them at a particular point in time. So I I've gone to a lot more series preaching than I would have done maybe twenty years ago because I found that that's helpful in getting that kind of uh biblical education into people. Yeah. Now I know what we air on the on on the radio stations is is a pared down version of your message. Absolutely. Right. It's like a twenty-five minute. Yeah, exactly. How long would a full length unpaired down version be? Uh 35 minutes, I would say. About thirty, thirty-five minutes. Yeah. Okay. Maybe forty would be a you know uh the the preacher went long on a forty-minute sermon, okay And can you feel that that's my question. Do you feel like you push that thirty-seventh minute, that thirty-eighth minute, you're people are starting to weary like they can't hang in there? Absolutely. And that's a change from thirty-five years ago, isn't it? Absolutely. It's a change in all of our culture. I mean, you think about Troy, all the just how fast stuff happens in our world today, how quickly, as uh as Steve was mentioning a moment ago, the the Twitter friendly world Everything's a hundred and forty characters. You know, you've got to say it really fast and and uh the the you know kids are being raised in an environment where things are changing, even their their television environment, uh uh video environment is very, very rapidly moving and so to try to capture attention and stuff. And now you're having this conference coming up and your series that you're in right now is about relationships. Exactly. That's right. And that's kind of what we're talking about here. We don't really have relationships. No. It's we we have cyber relationships. Right. Yeah. Most people yes How many friends do you have? They say Facebook. That's what they think. They don't think about well I have John and you know they don't think about the actual people in there. And those Facebook friends aren't really I tell people, hey, when was the last time you asked one of those friends for a loan? You know, you g they're probably not gonna give them to you. So the point is, yeah, we don't even quite understand in some situations or s uh mindsets what real friendship is anymore. And then the conversations we have via Twitter. You're a couple of years younger anyway than so you probably have a little bit more in tune with a younger generation, is that fair? Uh I mean Pastrodell's pretty pretty on top of it too. He's he's he's ahead of the game. Oh I set that up for you didn't I because yeah you're gonna say Oh yeah my passer doesn't have a clue. He's still out of touch. I have a Twitter account. But do you I feel like I'm an um I'm I'm I'm probably in between your two ages, I'm guessing. Uh but I feel like I'm an older soul. I'm kind of a Luddite, kind of a throwback, you know uh Uh so I I've kicked back pretty hard against a lot of this modern day social media stuff and and all of that. But I'm wondering, am I right to do so? Do you think are there benefits Can pastors you're having this pastors conference can pastors make use of all of this stuff? Absolutely. Well it it allows people to see that they're real people that do real things just like everybody else You know? And and it allows people to get into their world a little bit. Otherwise we go from weekend to weekend without knowing the person who's speaking truth into our life. And and so being able to get into their world a little bit gives them not only credibility but a level of trust also, you know, where, okay, hey, I I I I can relate to this person. Which is really important because when when you know the feel like you know the person, you can trust them more obviously. So you'll p throw out a Twitter uh uh w what they call 'em tweets, I guess. You'll throw out a tweet and say Uh going to the grocery store now. Well, not quite like that, but um you know I I I do I I try to at least, you know, bring people into my world a little bit and and and at the same time also realize that There needs to be voices in that world, voices of uh of of uh wisdom and voices of truth and there's all kind of stuff as we as as we all know in social media that that's not so good. And so th I I think it's very important that we speak into that culture. We don't run away from it. I'll post a scripture verse or I'll post post a point of wisdom from a message I preach. You know, let me just remind you of this principle or uh something that relates to marriage in the family or raising your kids or those kind of things. In the midst of it I might post a picture of me with my grandkids, you know, so so there's a real life element to it, but at the same time also making people aware of the fact that there's There's some voices out there that are beyond just uh just the voices of the average crowd. There's some truth that we have to relate to. And uh that that's I think it's extremely important that we don't back away from that world. Yeah, you and you can you can use their medium to communicate your message. You know, and and why not use that as as leverage for the message that you're trying to communicate to them. You can go to them with the message, you don't have to wait for them to come to you. Yeah, and and that I'm sure that's true and it sounds true at at at at a certain level, but there's again there's a part of me that pushes back a little bit too because you know they'll cliche the you know, the the medium becomes the message. Yes. Right. You know, the sending out a tweet you're limited to only so many characters and so what typically plays in culture Is something that's very snarky, something very pithy, something that's just a quick mean spirited jab maybe. Those sorts of things play. Like the quick joke, the but dump bump. Right. So how do you share an important life life shaping uh life shaping truth. Something about the gospel, something about Jesus. And And compete with all the pith that's out there. You're not being pithy probably. At least I I wouldn't imagine you are. So Yeah Well I think it's you know I think to me when I think of that medium now and the communication style of our culture at this point, especially the other culture, um Part of what I I'm trying to do is just to get a voice in their life, just to be able to say, but by by the way, there's there's there's something that is beyond all the pith, there's something beyond the snarkiness, there's something beyond that If it's just planting a little seed, uh, Troy, you know, we know that oftentimes the the the life changing moments that will happen in a person's life is the culmination of a variety of seeds that have been planted. And so I look at my as myself on Twitter and and and those kind of places as an opportunity to just plant some seeds. So good This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD Free Talk. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Dale O'Shields and Steve Rivera from Church of the Redeemer in Gathersburg and in Frederick. And you have a uh Spanish speaking congregation that meets in Petersburg as well o'clock in the afternoon. And I think you have an online campus. I'm not sure I know what that means. Do you have an online campus? I do. Yes. So can somebody be a member of your church and just be a part of the online campus? Or that's a supplemental thing to be. Well to be on the online online campus just simply means our our our our services are available online for people to participate in If they're traveling or if they're shut in, whatever the case might be. It provides just a resource that when they can't make it to the physical location. Gotcha. Okay. We prefer them being there. And you have uh you have this uh conference coming up that you're preferring people would be at, but not just anybody. a conference that's primarily or is it exclusively even for pastors and their wives? Pastors and church teams, church leadership teams, yes that are, you know, obviously in in ministry of churches, it requires more than just the pastor. There's a team usually at some level that are helping uh provide spiritual guidance for the church. And so pastors and teams are invited to be a part of it uh again the nineteenth to the twenty first of May. A couple of weeks away. Yeah and I'll give you a chance to uh to to do this again later but let's do it now. If somebody um wants to get involved, wants to see about reserving a spot or spot. Sure. They just go to your website? Well united pastors network dot com. It's all one word lowercase. United Pastors Network dot com. All the information about the conference is there. Okay. But you could link to that from Church of the Redeemer. You certainly can. Church dash Redeemer dot org. You can get there easily. And it's not too late for them to register. Absolutely not. And this is not the first year. No, this is about our seventh year, I believe it is, that we've been doing this conference, right? Has it always been focused on relationships or it's a different theme each year? uh uh uh that that is a as it began was really to w with were two major words, relating and resourcing. So bringing pastors together to help them form relationships, obviously uh uh strengthen our relationship with God, but also with one another pastors need friends in their life, any people that they can relate to as well. And then also resourcing the resourcing and providing the resources that will help them more effectively do the ministry they are engaged in doing. How many pastors show up? Or pastors wrong wrong answer, wrong question. How many people on these teams and pastors? We had about 230, I believe it was, last year. So uh That's uh it's been about that over the last several years and so it's it's a g it's enough to where it's a it's a it's a great time to be together, but also for people it's small enough for people to find connection with one another as well. It's not like this huge conference. Uh where you go and just basically an anonymous attender, we provide opportunity for you really to connect with people and get to know some folks around you. Is this like a T4G uh on a smaller scale? There's like this uh go and get recharged and and get coached up kind of uh retreat atmosphere. Kind of like women of faith. Oh sure. Four church leaders. Okay, right. And and I'm not sure if they move it around I think they move it to different locations every year. Okay. This past year it might have been somewhere in the I don't know, Memphis or Tennessee or I don't know. Anyway. It's I would say I again not knowing what that exactly is, I would say that again it's just an environment you can come, we're gonna help we're gonna encourage you. We're gonna put some hope back in you because again uh I often say that ministry is brutiful. It's beautiful, but also brutal at times. And so you just need some folks to get around you, hold your arms up, encourage you, and then Send you away saying, hey, you know what? Let's go, let's do something more for God this next year. And so it's kind of a a recharging time and refreshing. How many um Uh times have you been involved with it? Oh man, I uh probably five years. Okay. Five years, yeah. And you take away some new kind of thing each and every time. Every single time. Every single time. Um make new relationships every single time. And you also get to see s similar faces from previous years. And so it's just amazing to be able to see people that are doing the same work in different locations, you know, and be able to um just share um growth stories and testimonies with each other. Yeah. From how far away do people come? Wow, we ha we'll have people from Honduras, we have people coming from Hawaii, we have people coming from California, and then a lot of people from just the local area here as well. So it's just a good uh diverse group of people coming from uh variety of places around the nation and again some from overseas. And as part of what you're going to do, getting back to what we were talking about before, is is going to be talking about how to uh not only be relational, but how to relate and how to use Social media, new media, new strategies. Yeah, we we do talk about you know we talk about I think our primary purpose, uh Troy, in pulling pastors and and church leaders together is more really on the personal side of encouraging them Not there to so much give them a a a a new truckload of methodologies, but to give them the relationship so that they have people that are in their life and are encouraged. And so our focus is really just to Build up, strengthen. And if there's any any pastors in the area that uh you're looking for some some folks to connect with that uh can you maybe you're a little little lonely or a little discouraged in what you're doing, hey we we'd love for you to be a part because we'd like to uh put some hope back in your heart. Yeah. Now you're the one who's primarily responsible for the conference, right? You handle a lot of the teaching and the organization and that sort of thing. I do. Our organization and we have various folks that will come in to help do the teaching elements of it and so we will have a variety of sessions, but again, a lot of it is structured around also just moments and opportunities for fellowship. We have uh you know uh special meal time that we have meal times we have together, those kinds of things. So it's much more than just the teaching aspect, it is again building those relationships. Well my the reason I was asking is my follow-up is for for For other people, they show up and it's a chance to be recharged and re- reinvigorated. Um, so who does that for you? Well, I I I find places like this to go to myself, you know. I I I I just was at a conference uh similarly in in uh I guess it was April or March or April, I believe it was. So I think I make it a priority in my life to try to get to several of those every year to make sure that I'm sitting somewhere and receiving instruction and encouragement because we all need it. Everybody needs to be spiritually fed and and refreshed and renewed. uh because you know your your gas tank will run out if you don't refill it. Now is this um a gathering of mostly like minded individuals or how how eclectic is the is the you know sample size Well we you know our our uh our church is uh is an evangelical church, so it's you know, the people that will join us generally for these conferences will be folks that have an evangelical orientation to their theology and their perspective of things and uh And so that's you know, it's th that's the folks that have generally gathered as a part of this. Okay. Well that's a pretty broad umbrella, but I mean yes you're gonna have uh Presbyterians and Baptists and you know independent church planters and all sorts of different all of the above. So anybody who's in l in leadership at their church, uh as long as they're generally evangelical, would feel at fitting. Exactly. We we we we obviously believe in the authority of scriptures and the importance of you know, Jesus Christ as as our Savior and Lord and and uh and and and those are the kind of things that we rally around and If that's where someone is in their heart, so they they would certainly would feel comfortable in our midst. Yes. Now is the kind of stuff that you're covering in the conference you're viewing a a a series in the church on the same topic. So if somebody is attending your church as as a member of your church. Right They're hearing a lot of the same kind of stuff that you're just repurposing it in the weekend or it's totally. What I'm doing right now in our church, we're doing a series on relationships, Tory, that talks about how to build healthy relationships in our life, talking about husbands and wives and parents and children, friendships. How do you what are the relational principles in Scripture? that we can apply to everyday life because I believe the Bible is a very practical book. I don't believe that God gave us a book just of of of high-minded theology. There's a certain theology we need to understand to understand who God is and and the study of God and so forth. But at the same time, out of that theology comes something that's very practical. It'll make you a better husband, a better wife, a better friend. And so uh that's what the series at our church is all about. Yeah. Okay, and so then what's the the the main um gist or drive in the conference. Well, how's that different? It the the the teaching at the conference is really oriented it'll be a variety of Maybe subjects that'll be there. I mean you say it that way, our overall objective for the conference is building relationships. That's one of those objectives as opposed to it's not a topic, it is an objective. Gotcha. See the difference there? Gotcha. Okay. So by the way, by the time they leave, we hope they've made relationships. Right. Today is Mother's Day. Yes. So happy Mother's Day to you two. Thank you so much. To the ladies in your life. Absolutely. Anybody you want to wish a special Mother's Day greeting to? Definitely to my wife, Christy, and to my mom. Absolutely for sure. Yeah. And do you guys have children yet? I do. I have two boys. Okay. So Well Happy Mom's Day, Christy. How about you? And to my wife, Terry, of almost thirty-seven years. So uh happy Mother's Day to her. Yeah, from what I hear from Steve, your wife must be really patient to be there with you for thirty seven years. Isn't that amazing? She is. I married up. And real quickly the contact information for those who are in who are pastors or part of leadership teams at churches that want to investigate, they do what again? Steve going to do that? Yeah, United Pastors Network dot com, all lowercase United Pastors Network dot com Okay. Or Church of the Redeemer. Yep. Church Redeemer dot org. Okay. Either one of those will work. Thank you, gentlemen. You guys uh gonna be on for next week's show too, you think? You wanna come back around or are we saying adios at this stage? We can do another if you'd like. Okay. To share some examples of relationship building. Sure. And exercises and and th and uh maybe some d things not to do as well as things. That's awesome. We can do that. All right, and to my uh lovely bride and uh wife of well, too many years, uh Dina, happy Mother's Day to you, honey. Uh thank you for listening. Thanks to our sponsor, Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? Thanks to my uh longtime partner in the show, but absent today, Jonathan Schweitzer. Uh, from Crossworth Valley Church. Hope you're enjoying your vacation. Have you back in a couple of weeks, I hope. Until next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless.