This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gap fest. With the mixed master as the master of steriles and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Where faith community leaders wrestle over the truth. Yeah, but that would do in less than 30 minutes learn. more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Oh how convenient. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble. Let's get ready to rumble. Ah. Yeah. In this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron, yes, buddy. And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and faster. Founder of Bridges connecting needs and resources in the local community. Ooh, mama. The notorious big bridge builder, John Sweitzer. Now I'm just getting warmed up. Pastor James L. Pittman Jr. is the lead under shepherd for the congregation of. of New Hope Community Church in Palatine, Illinois. That's actually my old st uh stomping grounds. I grew up in a whole bunch of towns in that area of suburban Chicago. And Pastor Pittman, he knows our neck of the woods pretty well, as it turns out, himself having studied pre-med at Howard University in Washington, D. C. But geography, that's not why he's on today's edition of the Faith Debate. Theology is why he's joining us by telephone. And it's an issue of such great importance that it is actually causing church splits, denominational division, longtime friendships are being called into question even But before we get into all of that, we're going to take a moment to let you know more about this particular minister of the gospel. So we're going to welcome Pastor James Pittman to the Faith Debate. Thanks for taking time to be with us, Pastor. Thank you for having me. Now because you're not part of our local community at the moment and uh you know people have no opportunity to know who you are, what you're all about I thought it'd be a good idea for us to talk about y y your background, how is it you came into being in leadership in the church? You know, what brought you to the place where you became a a pastor? Well I was doing my undergrad as you said at uh there in Northwest DC and um following in the footsteps of my mother in the medical profession, she was a nursing professor, she had a She was um I mean and I had g uh gone to Howard's and well about the sophomore year, the end of my sophomore year I recognize there's a a disease much more deadly than cancer and it was sin. And so at that point I had made the decision. Um Uh, between my sophomore. It's been a while now, sophomore's junior year. I I no longer wanted to study medicine. I didn't quite know what I wanted to do. At one point I wanted to go and get a PhD in biology and and be like Ken Ham. Uh, but that didn't work out. I I just got tired of my heart wasn't in it, I guess was the better better way forward. Then so somewhere in my scene I was gonna go to ministry go into ministry and so I wanted to go and do some graduate work um out here in Chicago. And so I went to Trinity Evangelical Divinity School in Deerfield, Illinois And even still was not set on being a pastor. I wanted to to to work alongside with churches. I wanted to strengthen the churches that existed through training with evangelism and discipleship. But I had a a friend of mine, a mentor actually, and I asked him because he was heavy into ch And I asked them, I says, why are you doing church planning when you have all these other churches that n that could be shored up, that can be strengthened? uh in evangelism and discipleship. And he said something at the time I didn't quite agree with him. He said this. He says, James, because I've learned. Sometimes it's easier to give birth than it is to resurrect the dead. And I didn't believe him, uh, but at this point now, um some twenty plus years later, he's right A lot of churches at this point, once you get a culture, it's very, very difficult to change it. Uh if your church isn't built upon evangelism. someone coming alongside years later. It's not it's very difficult to do, let's put it that way. So then I decided, you know what, I that's not going to work. Let me go into ministry and and the pastorate point. Um and so shortly after that I decided uh to to go in the direction of pastoring the church. Then Thus I I wound up here in New Hope Community Church in Palatine, Illinois. Now if I understood your story correctly, did you you came to be uh identify yourself as a Christian while you were in school? That's also another good question. No, I believe I was saved around fourteen fifteen, but I grew up in such a horrid church, literally Uh, there was there were fist fights on Sunday morning, okay? That was the church I grew up in. So I I understood the gospel and I did accept Christ. Um but I was never trained, uh, never discipled, got to Howard, I would debate and I would argue the Christian view in the the dormitories Um, but my life did not match up with the scriptures and living holy. Um, it wasn't until my my sophomore year um that I learned that Christianity wasn't something you just intellectually agreed with on Sunday morning. It was to be lived out seven days a week. And at that point I can say I started to read the scriptures and to be discipled. At the time I was being discipled by a navigator. And I brought my concerns to him and I said, you know what? Do I need to get baptized again? And he said, no, uh, from what he understood, I I I'd always identified as a Christian and I did. And I understood the gospel. I just didn't live it out seven days a week Um and so I I can say my walk really took off my sophomore year. So now you you've mentioned a couple of things that uh people who are familiar with certain ministries and people within the church might know. You mentioned Ken Ham. He's famous for his uh teaching and advocacy for creationism and the Genesis narrative and that sort of thing. Right. And then Navigator the N Navigator Ministries is like a evangelical uh uh evangelism uh organization. Is that what that is? It's a discipleship organization. Yeah, they focus in on discipleship and discipling believers. Um most notably on college campuses. So I was involved in the the navigators and also a campus crusade. Gotcha. Now did you the church you were going to when you were younger and there were the fist fight fights taking place Uh we should have a few of those going on the faith debate, don't you think? Spice things up, John? Yeah. Um was that a uh a Baptist church or what sort of church So was that why you ended up with a Southern Baptist congregation that you're pastoring now, or was there some decision making going into that? That was a uh um a predominantly African American church, which was identified I'm pretty sure with the National Baptist Association. National Baptists, yeah. Okay. And so you're at New Hope and it's a Southern Baptist Convention church. How d how d how was that decision made to join the convention? Well i i I I I I chose in seminary, so I come to to Illinois, I moved here in the fall of ninety five Started school in January of ninety six and so toward the end of my studies, oh about ninety nine or so, I started to look for a denomination to align with. Uh the National Baptist at that point had a national director that uh let's see Uh the wife burned down the house of the mistress uh and there was some embezzlement and so I could not go along that route with that denomination and and and they kept them in place So I could not go along with that denomination. And so it it came down to the evangelical free, which Trinity is a part of, and the Southern Baptist. And at that time uh in the late nineties, if you remember, the Southern Baptists at that point were putting out resolutions to counteract what was going on in the culture. And that was the time when I think they did the um the boy cut of Disney because Disney has started to go liberal in the in the area of homosexuality and so I said, you know what, I won't online with that denomination, that one right there, that's actually engaging the culture with the gospel. And so uh toward the last year of my seminary degree I started to affiliate with the Southern Baptist Convention locally here in the Chicago area. Now you uh distance yourself or chose not to go align yourself with the National Baptist because of some uh i irregularities, let's put it that way. Yes, if you want to put it that way. The evangelical free has uh church uh Yeah, that has a uh a a traditional conservative reputation. The Southern Baptists have a conservative uh reputation. Uh and you advocating for pushing back against the liberalism on the social s and political sphere with what's going on in Disney. tells me that you have a traditional and conservative uh orientation yourself. So what's that like for you? Because uh y this is the radio, people can't necessarily tell, but uh you're you're a black preacher in suburban Chicago Uh what's that like being conservative uh with the color of skin that you have in that environment? What's it like? Um You know, I i i it's it's funny because I hear that it doesn't go well for most. Now I have not run into personal attacks in my presence to my face. I don't know it's because I'm six feet two hundred and thirty pounds. Give or take a few that a few pounds. Maybe that's the c I don't know, but Most people don't don't don't don't attack me in my presence. Um so I I I honestly have not had anyone come up and challenge me. Now on the social media in the social media realm that that's a it's a different story, right? You get a lot of people who who would say a lot of things online that they would never say in person But i it was a culture shock coming to the northwest suburbs of Chicago I had there was a learning curve because I recognized that conservatives and this the when I moved up here this was probably the first time I had actually actually lived in a predominantly white culture And there was a definite definite uh learning curve uh coming here. So yeah, th there were some things I had to learn. But as far as the animosity that you see on the television of being black and being conservative, to be honest, I I personally have not run into that. What's the ethnic makeup of your congregation It is predominantly white, but we have a little bit of everything Japanese, Korean, um Filipino, uh Mexican, South African, um you know we've we've got it all, but it is predominantly uh Anglican And what what uh not that it matters, I'm just trying to get a picture. What what size congregation how many people, you know, uh w well, I don't know what it's like now with COVID and I'm not sure how you guys are handling that, but uh pre-COVID, how many people might gather on a Sunday Uh, is it is it Christmas and East or is it just a regular Sunday? On a regular Sunday we would have um I don't know, between thirty and take. It depends. I mean, because at one point it was higher. We had some shall we say church issues that brought it lower between thirty and forty. Now we're running in what between fifty and sixty normally if everyone comes here let's say if it's a Christmas you'll you maybe gotcha. Okay. So it's a it's a family oriented church where you're actually legitimately, you know, boots on the ground, pastoring these people, investing in their lives Personally and that sort of a thing. You're a black conservative outside of Chicago. Well that doesn't make any sense to most people. Right? And you're you're uh you're a black pastor in a predominantly white part of suburban Chicago and you've got a predominantly white congregation Correct. Which I mean that that's impossible because everybody who's white is racist, so I'm not sure how that happened. Now did you did you um uh it you mentioned you have it it's a relatively smallish congregation and yet incredibly diverse. Is that did you do something to help orchestrate that coming about or it just happened that way? Uh expository preaching. So the word God draw through who he wanted to draw and they looked how they look. And they looked how they looked. And I and I can tell you it's a it's an interesting story another time. Um having an African American with an MDIF from Trinity, I have been offered offered several uh positions at quote unquote mega churches multi-sites and but I had gotten to a point in my life to where is I recognized the challenges in that and I've tr I've turned them down. I don't want this is where I want to be. And the the idea of leaving my congregation. And and even though we are small. Um and walking distance there's a there's a church you may have heard of it um called Harvest Bible Chapel who just had challenges with their head Pastor. Um and driving distance within fifteen minutes is another little church called Willow Creek Community Church. So we we are sandwiched between two large churches, not just in the Chicago area, but the The the uh the country. Right. Um like wor like world famous practically. Right. Huge. And and and uh Lee Strobel came out of that church and he's been very influential with his uh case for books. Case for Christ, case for creator, case for case for Easter, that sort of thing. Yeah. Correct. Correct. Now do you ever run with those guys? Are they part of the you know are you part of a pastoral uh ministerial group or anything where you uh rub elbows with those guys and have any influence into their lives? No. Um as you approach Market. In the the mid-90s I had friends who did had interns at at at a lot of churches in the area and I was privileged enough that we would come together and we would talk uh particularly my first year before I was married in dorms and we would share notes of what was going on in our local church. And let's just say from those conversations, I made the decision to stay clearer them. What has happened recently is just things coming to the light. Let's just put it that way Yeah, by way in fairness, I think, you know, we've got about ten minutes, a little bit less than ten minutes left in today's episode. And you're and you've uh just spoke right before we went on uh the the show uh spoke for a few minutes with John Sweitzer and you and I only spoke one other time uh before uh I showed together So I'm going to give you a a quick snapshot of where I'm coming from on things, and then maybe John can do the same thing of where a very short version of the same kind of things that you are sharing with us. So I grew up a denominational mutt, uh, attended a whole bunch of different kinds of churches, including a Christian cult while I was growing up. Yeah, it was uh my my family was involved in the Worldwide Church of God and Herbert W. Armstrong and all that. Uh-huh. So uh and yeah, Armstrong ism, stay away from it with a ten-foot pole. But anyway, uh I came out of that very confused and so for about a decade I was very disillusioned and was very occasional in attending churches and I wasn't trusting anybody. And then I finally, you know, God did a work and I got some clarity in my thinking and uh and uh my wife got recommitted to her faith. And so for the last, you know, twenty, twenty-five years or so we've been pretty, you know, faithfully committed to the gospel message and biblical Christianity and that sort of thing. I got my MDV from Reformed Theological Seminary, the DC campus. And I what you said about uh easier to give birth than to resurrect the dead resonated a little bit with me. I've had two opportunities to try to resurrect the dead and it didn't go so well for me. And so now I'm actually trying to give birth and I'm I'm beginning a church plant uh in my living room right now. So that's that's kind of where I am. And John and I have been doing this show together now. By the way, I'm not sure of the exact date. It could be today. It might be within the next couple of weeks. Exactly our sixteenth anniversary, so we're entering our seventeenth year of doing the Fredakwece event. Sure. That'll explain all the gray hair that you got. Yeah well I thought it was you causing the gray hair. And uh so I'll let John give you his his background. He actually knows a little bit about uh where you are now too the Chicago area. Yeah, so I was uh like I said before, I was out in the Chicago area for three years when I uh right after I graduated from seminary Um, my story uh I guess starts with my grandfather planted thirteen Baptist churches across northern United States. They were the general association of regular Baptists. My mom and dad met at Baptist Bible Seminary and when I was about seven or eight they moved away from uh the Baptist groups because my dad f it was biblically untenable to say that the gifts of the Spirit had had uh truly ceased. And so uh we ended up being a part of uh some significant local charismatic groups Which ended up because of my dad's commitment to rigor with scripture uh bringing us into close contact with some messianic Jewish uh communities that uh we actually they started a uh high school together with them and a seminary. So after graduating from Orr Roberts University in doing uh a bunch of youth missions uh in uh a number of places around the world. I went to Messianic Jewish Seminary Got my master's of bill and uh then that's when we uh moved out to Chicago for a couple of years and served in the church in Aurora, Illinois. and uh then came back here and planted a church in uh right here in Frederick and during that time just ended up developing some amazing relationships with a number of pastors uh that were uh on the conservative side of uh the um scriptures and uh just uh Just came to to see that there's a role for churches to work together in key places. Um for the sake of the gospel, serving uh the poor and um and so I'm in that uh with my wife doing some uh some things here in Frederick that helped to draw the community together in key places. But Troy and I've been doing this show for sixteen years, uh, clarifying where churches can work together and where they can't work together. Uh and where churches can work with the secular world and where they can't work with the secular world, you know, trying to ask hard questions about uh how beliefs uh naturally um tie to what we can and can't do with people uh and you know, why not be honest about those things instead of trying to hide those things and so that's kinda been the heart of this show for many years and um which is part of the reason we want to talk with you because there seems to be some shifts going on on in the Southern Baptist uh convention that uh you've been at the heart of and so I guess we'll be getting into that here in the next show uh because I think we're coming up on the end of uh things here with this show. Yeah, and so I wanted to lay the foundation because uh when w uh something is ser the reason I wanted to have you on so the listener understands. I shared this with you already, uh James, but so the listener understands There is a um kind of a cold civil war going on inside of denominations right now and inside of congregations and Some churches I've heard they've lost thirty, forty percent of their of their congregation has left over the kinds of things we're going to be talking about on next week's show. Uh some people are are leaving or threatening to leave their denomination. Uh it's and and and it's It's tied in with politics, um, because, well, let's face it, the gospel is a political message. We're talking about a king and his kingdom, and so it's overtly a political message. And so it's gonna inf in inf influence the political dialogue that Christians have with the world around them. And and uh James, you wouldn't know this, but people who listen to this show might know. I also host A quote unquote secular show, if you will, a a local issues and politics show that airs on Saturdays called Frederick's Forum from noon till one. And I've been doing that the last few months and I've had some people who know me pretty well but I guess they didn't know me as well as as as I thought and they're labeling me or they they jokingly Well, I think, labeling me as, Oh, you're like far right. You're like an alt writer, you're like way out there, radical right. And you know, it's interesting. Anybody who's to the right of you is is radical, right? Anybody who's to the left of you is a radical left. I mean I understand that's how people they have their self perspective perspective. But All I'm trying to do is I'm trying to b bring consistent uh biblical theological outlook on the world around me. And our world has shifted so far away from that that now a biblical perspective is considered radical right by some people. By people who would uh who would call themselves conservative But you know? Uh or would call themselves conservative Christian. Uh yeah, maybe. Oh, okay. I'm not sure. Ma yeah, I think they would. Okay. But I'm not sure that that may I don't If you press them they would mix uh are you talking about Easter or or Christmas? So many of those definitions are shifted. Exactly. So much, so who knows if it means what anymore. So there's a There's this big fight going on and the Southern Baptist Convention is feeling it big time right now and James is really impacted by that and he says something publicly almost a year ago now that got a lot of people's attention within the denomination. And we're going to tell that story. How that's how's that for a cliff cliffhanger on next week's Faith Debate Show. You can find us online at WFMD. com. Keyword Faith gets you there. If you go there, you're going to find a link, a easy link to all the podcasts and a teaser for what the following week's show is going to be all about. You can also follow us on Facebook. You can follow me personally on Facebook, on Parlor, on Mi We. I'm on all those places. If you follow me, I'll follow you. Till next week, 167. 5 hours from right about now. God bless.