This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gap fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Treble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build a Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free brawl for CUA where faith community leaders wrestle over the truth. In less than thirty minutes, learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble! Let's get ready to rumble now. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Fate Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Get a more on And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder John Sweiser. Church, critical race theory, intersectionality, white privilege, black lives matter, white fragility, ethnic Gnosticism, Neo-Marxist Black Liberation Theology Postmodern cultural Marxism, identity politics, social justice warriors, systemic racism, LGBTQ plus rights. And so many more new words and phrases have entered our newscasts and entered many pulpits. There are so many different labels because there is so much complexity to how we got here and some people prefer certain descriptors. Much to the disdain of others who prefer their own certain descriptors. But call it whatever you want. There is a new so-called social gospel and it is viewed as an enemy of the one true bib biblical gospel by very many conservative theologians, and one of these theologians is Pastor James Pittman Senior pastor of New Hope Community Church in the Chicagoland area of Illinois, and he's joining us by telephone for the third week in a row on The Faith Debate. uh with me and John Sweitzer. And so we really started to get into the meat of it toward the end of last week, what the issues, the the core issues are that people are are are uh Arguing? Is that I mean debating? I mean some people are arguing coming to grips with, trying to understand. I mean some people are arguing in an argumentative way and some people are arguing in a in a kind of a classical argument way and we're trying to figure out what is the tr well People like me are trying to figure out what is the truth. I feel like I've figured it out. But doesn't everybody? That's the That's the problem. And so we're we're we're we're glad to have this conversation with you because you obviously have been wrestling with this with your boots on the ground, uh pastoring a a church that almost left the SBC. And before we get too far back into the into the the grist of the subject matter that needs to be wrestled, I do want to hear more about that story, because I I I I jumped in on purpose to not let you finish the story, but I'd like you maybe to finish that story now. So a little a around a year ago, maybe a little bit more, a little bit less than a year ago. You went on your YouTube channel for such a time as this is the name of your YouTube channel and you announced that you and your church were leaving the Southern Baptist Convention because of all this woke church critical race theory stuff that in your opinion is nonsense and an alternative gospel. And then you said you got a phone call. And then I cut it I cut you off. So w I don't know if you want to name a name, but was it a higher up within the convention that called you up and and and and whoever it was, what did they say and and what And obviously whatever they said persuaded you to stay. What was it that they said that made you stay? The Southern Baptist Convention does not believe the things that are being said to what my response was, but then how did J. D. Greer get elected? Uh and so long and short of that is n not too much came of that. Uh there was uh a gentleman that I was scheduled to have uh to do a conference with. Uh we're gonna be main speakers at this conference uh by the name of Tom Askell. Um I'm sure he wouldn't mind that. And so we had a mutual friend. I emailed him And I said, give me a reason why I sh I shouldn't just leave now. And he said, give him a call and I did and we spoke. For some time and and he said it is his belief that the majority of the Southern Baptist, uh the churches involved in the Southern Baptist Convention does not believe what is being um spoken of by J. D. Greer and he said and the long and short of it is if if conservative churches leave then we turn over the convention to those who are more liberal Uh and we turn over a lot of resources. And in doing so we we harm a lot of people. If I were in your shoes, based on what I'm I'm not in a s I'm not in the convention. I'm not Southern Baptist. I once was actually in leadership. I was an elder at a uh at a Southern Baptist church. And so and I was uh about uh half a dozen or so years ago was I mean, a blink of an eye away from launching a church plant uh with the Southern Baptist uh in in Frederick. So I know who they are, what they're all about and man I'm not sure that I would have arrived as easily well maybe it wasn't easy, but I don't I'm not sure I would have arrived in the same place because you mentioned Tom Askell Uh uh Tom Askell doesn't agree uh with critical race theory uh uh encroaching into the church. Uh you're a hundred percent right, but I don't think he's a majority. And the reason I say that is he's got his founders ministry, so he can if you want to see what Tom Askell's all about, uh you listener, jump online and and Google Founders, Tom Askell and They they put out a um uh a documentary uh by what standard uh by what standard last year that was talking about how Resolution 9 got passed at the convention in 2019 And it sure looked like Tom and his guys were a distinct minority. So for them to say, well the convention doesn't believe these things, well it sure looks like they do. So I mean uh so is Am I misunderstanding the majority minority uh mix of views within the convention? Or or not? It's the Farmers Organization and there's something else called Conservative Baptists, right, that just started organization. So he's a very important thing to do. Yeah. We'll we'll see. And so the thing is before the COVID thing came out, it was my understanding that th they were gonna go to the convention and get a true thermometer of how cold the body is. Whether or not um someone who is openly against critical race theory is going to assume leadership or not, that did not happen. And so now the the thought is to wait to Nashville, which is the next year. Now here's here's our thinking, right? Here's our thinking, Tom. Troy. Here's our thinking. If we leave the Southern Baptist, where do we go? Who who's out there a clear cut Uh because I do bel I do believe that churches ought to affiliate with other churches. Churches are not churches unto themselves. It's technically one body. Even Luther didn't want to leave the Catholic Church, right? The Roman Catholic Church So my my thing is, okay, fine, if there was a clear denomination by which we could throw our efforts and time into uh uh uh fellowship of churches, then we would have gone. But my question is Where do we go? Is it too simple to say you spawn a new one? Like when the when the Presbyterian Church of America, the PCA, when they got formed back in the seventies, they left the PCUSA and just started their own thing. One church No no no. I mean a group of them who were like minded and it was oversp I mean it wasn't critical race theory, but it was liberalism and it was about I think it had to do with whether or not the Bible was in inerrant and uh and and those sorts of things I think was what has was a issue if my church history is correct. But i i I mean it's liberalism under a different form. I mean the the the church is constantly beating back the the encroachments of liberalism And so I'm um I don't know. I'm not at that level of of leadership. I don't understand how hard it could be to pull that off. I don't know well The the convention isn't even technically a like it's it's a loose affiliation. It's like I don't think the convention owns church property or anything like that, right? And that and that's the thing. And so Mm uh us leaving and going has nothing to do with leadership here. Because the Southern Battle Convention cannot come into Palatine and dictate to us So our thinking is if we are going to first and foremost make disciples here in Palatine and then try to influ uh uh have a greater influence through church affiliations Then why not stay with the Southern Bass Convention and fight for biblical purity? But in the meantime, are you making your your your you know uh your your um what do you call them? Your the cash cash donations, you have to make a minimal nominal fee payment to the convention to kind of stay in good standing. Do you continue to pay that fee in the meantime if you don't like where they're going? The keyword is minimal. And it is to the state association by which Uh we the the membership is is actually um at least here in Illinois uh where where it's kept. So yes you you make your you make your your your minimum payment and I know a lot of churches Uh that have done that until they can clear up this this uh shall we say mess at the top. So okay. And then you don't make any voluntary payments that you know To to that or to ERLC or anything like that. You just a different show, but we've we've had problems. On all three levels of the convention. And so yes, we we don't we don't know. So that's an ongoing question for any church uh is you know what are the outer outer limits of unity? Right. And I always go back to uh Beatitudes seven, eight, and nine. Uh seven is blessed are the peacemakers that be called sons of God, but there's there's two higher levels than blessed are the peacemakers. uh in those beatitudes and that is blessed are those persecuted for righteousness and blessed are those who are persecuted for Christ's name's sake And so uh unity is a very high um uh priority in the body of Christ, but it's not the highest. The highest is the righteousness and specifically the righteousness that is Christ. And that's precisely what we're fighting for here. Is is how far does critical race theory potentially corrupt uh the clear teaching of scripture in the clear presentation of the gospel. And so um so Yeah, uh so this is a good place for us to transition. Let me reset again. That was the voice of John Sweitzer. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on 930 WFMD online at WFMD. com. Um and also by the way we're on the FM now, 99. 9 HD two. If you have an HD receiver, you can hear us on the FM. Uh Pastor James Pittman, the senior pastor of New Hope Community Church in Palatine, Illinois, is joining us and we're talking about this critical race theory and this woke church, you know, the social justice stuff and uh and the the challenges that that's uh uh local churches and denominations are facing and there's a battle, a civil war really, a a cold civil war that's taking place. And we're talking that through. And we started to get really into the meat of some of the issues toward the end of last week's show. If you missed that, I invite you to go check out the podcast And now maybe we can transition into some of what that discussion was and ask for some clarifying statements and and and get into the uh maybe a Bible study even. Yeah. Yeah. So you were starting to describe um that you know it ends up being a different gospel that that that Christ died for systems, not for individuals and that it ends up uh weakening going soft on sin, you know, that certain sins aren't aren't important, certain other sins are important. And so the the question, I mean there's a couple questions there. Is there a hierarchy of sins in Scripture? Like Like if you go through the Old Testament, clearly certain sins are considered like abominations worthy of death. Other sins, you know, have a higher sin offering that's required for them. Other sins a smaller sin offering. Right? So there's clearly something of a hierarchy of sins. And so So the church engaging in a discussion about which sins uh are worse than other sins is not necessarily contrary to scripture. Would you agree with that? I would agree with that, but the if you look at the critical race theory coming out of the secular, it's not that they argue about hierarchy of sins. They don't talk about it. Within the church, they now have to start redefining what s sin is And one prominent guy who's trying to do that says that if you are not opposing the system, then that becomes sin for you. I I I struggle to find that in anywhere in scripture Uh but so when it comes to critical race theory and those who are embracing that, it's not that they argue about the hierarchy of sin, it's being left behind. So okay, so I'm gonna I'm gonna push for a nuance here because um I know a bunch of pastors here locally that um that have really embraced the critical theory and my impression Uh on the ones that I know well is that they're they're endeavoring to diligently stay true to Scripture to preach the you know the scriptures clearly. Uh but I do have concerns in certain places uh where uh I'm uh I'm not convinced that they're drawing the lines clear enough. So so again, coming back to corporate sin, uh when when Jesus uh or John the Baptist says, look, if you're uh if you're a tax collector, do it this way. Um I mean a whole tax system can become evil and the point is is that the individual that is that is injust needs to repent, right? The guy that has the authority uh that is handling things wrong is the one that that needs to repent and start leading or take you know doing taxes correctly. Same thing with you know, masters, uh, you know, which we would say any kind of a business owner, you know, you're supposed to uh treat your uh employees correctly. uh i the the language the or or for that matter husbands and wives, right? Uh a marriage can be systemically wrong. because uh because it's being handled wrong by the individuals in it. And so uh all that being the case, uh and for that matter, Revelations two and three and Corinthians and Galatians. I mean, we have whole churches that were doing the wrong thing, you know, allowing bail bail uh no, it's not bailism. Um Uh I'm I'm forgetting the term. Uh anyways, they they were they were allowing the teachings of of Jezebel uh in in other um uh inappropriate doctrines in which meant that the whole church needed to repent, right? And so I find a significant amount of corporate repentance uh that that is appropriate where people in leadership need to address their their poor leadership that's affecting the whole system or churches for that matter, the angel of the church of of Ephesus, Athiatira, that needs to repent and do things the right way. Mm-hmm. Is that accurate? Am I seeing that wrong? Okay, so so here's you started off. You said a lot there. Let me let me see if I go back right there. Yeah. That's okay. When you say the tax collector, what was he repenting from? His sin. His sin and how he actually collected taxes and if you've defrauded someone, go back and pay them back what four times? I forget exactly what the thing is. But that's connected to his sin a a a husband or wife who sins within their marriage, that's connected to what? Their behavior. Right. When you talk about systemic racism nowadays It's whites who are now somehow guilty of past sins. Now, from a Christian perspective, if someone is racist It's their sin, they need to repent. If someone does something or have an attitude of racism, they need to repent for their actions. The problem now is that you have systemic racism which now whites are being uh uh they're attaching guilt to whites, not for what they've done, but what ancestors have done Okay, so I do see some places in scripture where prophets and even King David repents for something that happened previous. to their being alive. You know, even Josiah for that matter when he goes and in and he's he's the king of Israel that that was most pervasive in destroying all of the high places and all the idols that were in the land. Arguably what he was doing was he was destroying the systems of uh of false worship for the first time, right? We're told again and again that that king, you know, repented but he didn't destroy the high places. You know, the next king he did this, but he didn't destroy the high places. Then finally Josiah comes along and he destroys all the high places like for the first time, right? The system uh of of both Judah and the Northern Ten Tribes for all those years had systemic paganism uh that was being allowed to continue. And so Josiah, yeah, the leadership uh was able to uh lead repentance, the guy that was able to, but he was leading something that was needed that that truly needed to be repented of. And again, I uh I I think I see a similar thing in Revelation where they are um You know, they're they're handling things with bad doctrine, meaning the the the the system, right? We believe that principalities and powers, spiritual forces and wickedness, you know, and high places are the problem. Well those those principalities ultimately create systems of sinful oppression. Like everybody says Hollywood is inherently um, you know, sinful and full of greed and full of uh sexual immorality, right? Well that's a system that needs to be purged, right? And so that means somebody needs to lead to repentance and and the people involved need to turn to God in a way from unrighteousness. So uh again, it feels to me like there is a lot of systemic Sin issues that are addressed in Scripture in a way that are able to be repented of. Okay. That's apples and oranges. Here's why. Josiah, when he did it, the the altars and the high places were presently there. So you wouldn't have took them away. In Revelation you reference, it wasn't that it was worship done before in the past, it was present. It was sin that was going that was taking place among the people of God presently at that point. So now let's bring that into the present. If you show me where there's d jem cruel laws now in America, let's take let's stop it If you show me slavery right now, let's stop it. If you show me anything else that is sin codified or in laws, let's attack it now. That's not what's going on And so that's what drives me to the issue of extreme secularism. It does seem to me that critical race theory is used by non-believers to push an extreme secular society in the sense that that what they're trying to do is they're trying to remove Christ in religion from the public square meaning that they view the system that they view as being inherently wrong is any kind of Christian influence in society. And that is the point at which I have significant concerns with uh critical race or critical gender theory or critical any you know feminist theory, whatever. And I hear you, but it's very difficult. It's not like us in the church, we can ever address people who are not the people of God who can care less about scripture. It's the people in the church that I am addressing. It's the people of God right now who use those very scriptures that you just brought up, right? The corporate sins. It's it's it's if sin is going on presently among the people of God, like Josiah, like uh Revelation 2, then yes we are called to stop the sin now. And that's what the fire did. So I agree with you on that. What about a church that um that uh there was some church in the South that um that had uh it was a white church that had very clearly used uh finances and monies uh that were that were um how do I say extorted inappropriate like they had the documents that showed that they had um they had mistreated uh the African American uh communities and believers uh in their church in order to build it and so so they're saying okay it's right for us to make that right with those people here locally that we did that to Is that so off? So you're you're you're using an okay, you're using an example where there's a concrete example in which people did concrete things. And let me tell you, whether they're white, black, Korean, or Asian, if you do that Mm-hmm. You need to make recompense. How does that now translate into critical race theory of oppressors and those who are being oppressed? See what you said was sin regardless of the color of the people that were defrauded Yeah. How do you now attach that to race? Do you see what I'm saying? Well well just that in that specific situation it was clearly um white people is uh against black people, like it like it had a racial component to it. Yeah, and it's and it and it's and it's wrong. And and so the big the big problem I have here is is that if you can attach certain behaviors to individuals Like Christ did with Matthew, right? Yeah. Uh I I think that was a tax collector you were talking about. I forget exactly if it was. Maybe it was Zacchaeus. I forget. Was it Zacchaeus? I forget. Probably all of them. But but but if See what you're doing is you're attaching behavior to that person. Right? And there's a the there's a person in which you defraud it. That's sin. To bring a racial component into it, and now you're not dealing with individuals, you're dealing with systems and groups of people, and you're attaching guilt not to behavior. But to the color of one's skin, that is a different gospel. Yeah, like when you described earlier that the only sinners have to be the ones that aren't intersectionally, you know, oppressed. Meaning if you're black, white male, then there's no way that that you could not be an oppressor, but if you're, you know, um black uh female, you know, single then then you can't sin because you are inherently the oppressed. Like like that uh that would be a complete reversal of the clear teaching of Scripture. And so um so my point is just that I don't want to throw out the baby with the bathwater. Like there's deep concerns that I have about critical race theory, but there's also these key places where it appears to me that Um that we should have the discussion and I don't know how to have it without, you know, somehow embracing it because it does feel like There's so many dangers with critical race theory. This is the Faith Debate on nine on 930 WFMD. Pastor James Pittman, our guest. I'll be back next week for one more round. John Sweitzer, I'm Troy Skinner. Find us online at WFMD. com. Till next week. One hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from right about now, God bless