Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFM Brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating, House will make you smile, and Deer Valley Incorporated doing landscape, hardscape, and masonry. It's important that I mention that apparently. There's some sort of dist difference between masonry and hardscape. I didn't know, but I was educated. Anyway, apologies for last week he didn't have a word of the week, so Jonathan Sweitz is gonna have one for us here in a second for this week uh Jonathan the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And we're gonna have to get a second word of the week to make up for last week's absence of a word of the week. So Paul Monday's gonna have to come up with another word of the week this week Paul is senior pastor at the Frederick Church of the Brethren. Whatever? Is that your word of the week? I'll get to it in just a moment. I'm not sure you're the right generation to use that word. I don't think that's all. I don't think not allowed to define that authentic. Talk to the hand. Uh so and I also didn't mention, you know, what what's been on my uh nightstand. So last week. That's right. I didn't mention that. So I'm gonna have to mention two. So I'll do one now and we'll if you remind me I'll do one at the end of the show. Yeah. And I've been on this Ted Decker kick Yeah, that's a good series, I think. And Black is excellent. I would I would recommend black. It's uh kind of a fantasy uh religion it it's it's obviously coming from a Christian perspective in the world. And actually you're gonna be surprised by the twist by the time you get what to green or white? Which one is it? There's black, red, white, and green. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So it's there's some great twists that I will not give away. All right, word of the week? Word of the week is civil religion. That's two words. Oh, okay. Phrase of the week. The phrase of civil religion. Civil religion. And civil religion is the idea that there is a religion that is non sectarian that is at the root of the founding of the nation. Right. It's not quite Christian, though it's kind of Judeo Christian. Exactly. And that that George Washington and A. Blinken and FDR and Martin Luther King that all these guys tapped into the civil religion where you call out to God And you even repent for sin, like like Lincoln did, uh, for not doing what is righteous before God. Right. But you don't quite go so far as to say that it is in the name of Jesus or, you know, a specific religion. Religion. Okay. Coming off last week. Since we we transitioned into we're contrasting that with true religion, we'll use like a biblical example, I don't know, King Josiah for example, who And he tears his robes and he repents and turns to the true God. Not some vacuous idea of God, which would be civil religion, I fear. But the true God. Alright. And he gave you uh a a potential word of the week if you couldn't come up with one on your own, by the way. Oh really? So he's an option? Providing he can define it. What is it? Well it was non-something. Did I say non-something? Non non non non non sequitur. Non uh Oh, yeah. Right, non sectarian could be a word of the week. So if you like at the end of the program. We'll figure that one out. Absolutely. Give me some time to think it through and we'll have a pocket. Everybody at home is Googling it, everybody's driving it. four minutes into the show. Let's start. Yes. Okay. Now P for pros here. Pros. I know. This is why we have four listeners. The three of us and my mom. Yes. That's why we have the four of us. But she's encouraging. Well Yeah. Hopefully you've been waiting like crazy. No uh so that we can have some affirmation this week that it'd be okay for me to punch Jonathan in the nose. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That was the promise last week that we would get an answer on that question. Waiting. So we're gonna talk about peacemaking. Yep. And uh I'm not sure why, it's not very timely or topical because the world is at peace right now. Yeah, right. Yeah. Yeah, I mean the last six months have s have seen the the uh turning on fire of the entire Middle East. In major major turnovers. And you know what I'm concerned uh could be happening here? What I you know, I was in high school or middle school, or in fact in school, junior high school, not middle school. Right. They're teaching about World War One. And all I can remember is there was an Archduke who was assassinated and that's why the world went into war you know, went into war. And I'm thinking Why? Why that was the spark. Really that one guy really was that important? Like that one guy, really? But really all the dominoes were lined up. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And then that one guy is Taken out and all the dominoes fall. That's what broke the dam. And I'm concerned that we got all these dominoes lined up in the Middle East right now. And it's going to take one stupid thing like, I don't know. Like the the vice president of Yemen, if they have a vice president, will stub his toe and the world will be thrown in the arms. But that is what happened in Tripoli It was a guy who is a Muslim gentleman who lost his job and was trying to make a job selling stuff on the street because he had been like uh like a white collar professional selling stuff on the streets. And the government came in, the secular government came in and a woman berated him in front of the entire community. Right. And so the guy set himself on fire because he was embarrassed and ashamed And that little incident was the spark that seemed to lead to to Egypt, Bahrain, Jordan Iran is a very good idea. So now there's all this unrest, right? And we're feeling things spiraling out of control in some sense. And our president, Barack Obama, says, you know what? Enough's enough. We gotta do something. So he gets our military involved in Libya. And the Immediately lost his entire Democratic back. Yeah, he lost everybody that voted. The reason I voted for that guy was to get our troops home and here he is you know, putting him in harm's way. So but I don't know that I agree with this decision, by the way. Sure. But what are the options here? You know, what are the peacemaking options? theology. Hey, would you do me this favor, dig specifically, Paul, into the theology scripturally? Right. So you because I know that there's a lot of practical arguments, and I think last time we had John, we got into those. Right. But let's dig into the you know. Well, I mean it's very I mean it's relatively simple in the sense that uh For persons in the historic peace church tradition, they go back to two major uh sections of Scripture, the Sermon on the Mount and then Romans twelve. those two. And uh in both cases, you have a bent uh expressed, you know, by Jesus uh to uh not return you know, violence for violence, evil for evil, uh not to do an eye for an eye. You've heard it said unto you, an eye for an eye, tooth for tooth, but I say unto you, etcetera, etc. And then um and then of course in Romans twelve it literally says uh not to return evil for evil. Now another part of Romans twelve both of those are quoting from um from the Old Testament, uh quoting from Solomon in the Old Testament, son of David. Right who was the king of war, right? I mean he attacked everybody attacked, he beat you know he was he was a war anyway, uh Solomon or David? David was. Solomon was not. Solomon was less so He didn't have to because David had beaten everybody. You you could argue that David th by the use of the sword brought axe you know da David. Yeah, yeah. But the understanding is that that that that That the New Testament is the new covenant through Christ, and against the whole imagery, I you know, you've heard it said unto you, indeed, that you know, what you're saying is actually factually true in terms of biblical history. But now I'm coming and bringing a a a new reign, a new covenant, a new testament, a new understanding in that way. So let me ask this question. Are you comfortable uh identifying who is your enemy. I'm not saying on the air right now, but do you do you on a regular basis why not? Do you on a regular basis stop and say to yourself, you know what? This person has set himself up as my enemy and because of what he believes and how he acts, I consider him my enemy. Well the way I is that a part of the peacemaking I I I think I think probably uh a better way of framing it is in terms of identifying that uh which is evil. In other words, a peacemaking tradition is not naive. I mean Hitler was evil. Gaddafi is evil uh Saddam Hussein is evil. Uh yeah you go to yeah yeah yeah yeah you go you go through uh so so really it's Gaddafi it's so it's I mean I don't think we're adverse to to to naming you know naming enemies. I mean clearly a part of this scriptural foundation for the New Covenant is a is a is a is a call to love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you. That's why I love you so much, Jeff. Well that's the point. You love your enemies. I mean I can't love my enemy until I've been willing to say that person is my enemy. And then I can I can tap into this passage that says If my a I mean up until that point I'm thinking this is my neighbor and I'm supposed to love my neighbor. I'm supposed to take care of him and if he's hurting, do whatever. Or it could be my friend, in which case, you know, there's a friend that sticks closer. There's all kinds of passages. Or it could be somebody that's a believer in the church and we're we're clearly giving instructions about how to bear one another's burdens in the church and love one another and all that. But once he's my enemy and he he I'm bothered by him. He's bothered by me. There's a there's there's an inherent um uh uh what do you call it um conflict between us that is irresolvable. Right. That's the point at which this passage comes bounding off the pages and I'm like, oh, in fact Luke 6 is another good one. It says It says if your uh it says, Love your enemy, pray for those who persecute you. Exactly. Do good to those that I forget exact the exact language. And again, I just preached through that, you know, a couple months ago. You know, when I get to that passage I I teach my congregation, look, let us not be afraid to identify an enemy. Even culturally. I had cultural enemies. Well yeah, you you you a absolutely and then and the but then then then scripture also gives you the permission uh depending on the enemy, I guess, uh to go further and to and not be naive and and and to name uh the fact that that's a particular person in the case of a Hitler for example uh could yeah could be doing evil whatever. And this is a very important thing to do. But where David uh if Solomon's the one that wrote that passage, this is where David, you know, gave good teaching to Solomon 'cause David repeatedly in the Psalms identifies his enemies as those who do wicked. Yes. And then he says, if a righteous man rebukes me, I count it as a privilege. If a righteous man, you know, challenges me or or gives me a hard time, I count it as a blessing, he says. But what my enemies, oh God, and he prays. Are are we allowed to pray prayers that God knock out the teeth metaphorically of my enemy? God Break the arm of the wheel. Well, but but that's what Romans do where Romans twelve is really incredibly important because it says there has to be justice and indeed the enemy needs to be confronted and essentially judged and and and be armed. And dearmed and but but it's but it says, you know, judgment is mine, saith the Lord, I will avenge. So Romans twelve is is very clear in all that. But then it comes this very radical, counterintuitive, counter cultural teaching. Love 'em. So here's the great challenge that I feel like I have these days. Uh Frederick County has lost a hundred fifty thousand dollars for funding for uh uh charities that that minister to the poor because of the commissioners. And in the context of that Is it okay for me to rally the entire city to raise money for these charities, even if some of those charities are pro abortion or pro homosexual. People that I would count my my cultural enemies. Because I'm gonna feed him. He's thirsty. I'm giving him something to drink. Well that connects to our last program, see, in terms of this whole idea of what what is appropriate and you know within the public sector or the public square in terms of all war is in the public square, right? I mean when you're dealing with any kind of war Right. Well I think that's where you're it's a good point and I'm trying to think of uh I mean I mean many clergy. I mean Rick Ward, for example, again America's pastor, if you want to use that phrase he actually has addressed this very concern as well. I mean can we can we work together on where we do agree and have commonality Uh in such a way that our enemy even ends up being blessed. Like Daniel, who was serving Nebuchadnezzar, the most arrogant You know, self aggrandizing, i idolizing himself, you know, and slapping God in the face, king in the world. But Daniel is serving him to be the best that he can be. Well, Joseph serving Pharaoh, making him can you make a case for this broader Yes again it Non sectarian civil religion. Well, or non-sectarian. What do we mean by sectarian? Get to the word of the week here already. Okay. Yeah, we'll do that. There's an appropriate definition or or application of of God and righteousness and got and justice, all those things, um, in the public square, whether you call it civil religion or or or uh there's probably another non sectarian uh outreach or whatever And and and the problem is if you take a more sectarian, more narrow view on that, uh, then you know essentially it's a matter of just Christians being able to really work with other Christians and there isn't even the possibility of a Judeo-Christian kind of emphasis because I mean fundamentally we need to say as much as uh we have great respect for Jewish people uh we don't want anybody on this program to be uh anti-Semitic in any way, shape or form I mean fundamentally if you just want to say it starkly, uh uh Jewish people do not believe in Jesus Christ. So sure. No, not at all. But what I'm trying to say is if Billy Graham was on this program, uh Billy Graham would not hesitate to say that there were many times in the course of his ministry that he joined, I mean not to conduct a crusade, right, but in other humanitarian efforts to connect with Jewish people. Now and he was actually honored by Jewish groups for his humanity. But to flip it the other way, if Franklin Graham was on this program, his son it would be very interesting to ask him The very question you're asking him, I'm guessing, I can't speak from Franklin Graham, I'm guessing he would be more sectarian or more narrow in saying, I'm not sure whether Samaritans first and my humanitarian efforts can connect up with a non-Christian group. But the foundations theologically is there for blessing your enemy. So what are your what are your theological foundations for how we go about making peace? And getting wrong with our enemies, coming to the place of Right. Well the the critical thing is naming it for what it is. And in many cases uh enemies are wicked, they're they are evil. So you can't be naive. That's the first place for the So when you go to sit down with somebody that you count as an enemy, it's okay for you to say, I think you're wicked Yeah, I mean i I mean, you know, you you articulate that. I mean that's the essence of the Frederick Faith debate. So that we can say, hey, we're wicked. You're disagreeing with the wheel. Well well well yeah. And once we said that we said okay, well now that we got that out of the way, let's talk. Well yeah, well well what yeah, I mean you you uh no that's a foundation we bring people out so we can call them wicked? Is that why we do the show? But it's a big part of it that we think that we need to be able to have a a a debate in the United States or something about who we are as Americans. Right, right. Thomas Jefferson, the clash of ideas is Sure, that's a good thing. Is is build an environment first and foremost where everybody agrees that it's okay for the ideas to clash and that we're in disagreement with you. Severe disagreement with you. That's the voice of Jonathan Sweitzer who was talking, the one who said that Absolutely. Jonathan is good. Whatever. Jonathan is the senior pastor of Cross Israelite Chapel and Paul is the host of uh Time of Challenge and senior pastor at Frederick Church of the Brethren. So I say I get an extra title. I'm also currently the president of the Evangelical Ministerium. So he gets two titles, I get two titles. Two times I just felt like that. Nobody else would do it. No, they only gave me that because, you know, nobody else they couldn't get anybody else to do it. So Jonathan was saying, okay, so it's okay to confront your enemy and say, hey You're wicked, you're evil, and therefore you're my enemy. Right. Right. So now you've established that foundation. Yeah. Now what? Well, and then then secondly, in many cases because of the underlying wickedness, e uh evil, whatever, y you don't necessarily have someone who's going to cooperate. You could have someone that is a is a is a is an incredible threat. So then you need to you be very practical in finding methodology to contain the evil or the threat. So all our traditional evil. Yeah, so all all our tradition is trying to say is that just as there are uh conventional weapons to address evil or you know uh a threat from the enemy. Well we're believing there are unconventional weapons And we believe Christ Himself modeled unconventional uh weaponry, or what's typically called nonviolence So th th the best example I used, I think I used it on a previous program, is that when we had the uh you know, the Cuban uh missile crisis, um uh Kennedy was strongly, strongly urged by Curtis LeMay and other military types to go in and just bomb the smithereens out of them. Kennedy implored a nonviolent means of containment, literally with the so-called environmental. Oh really? Okay. Well that's a that's the program. Or the other the other classic example I've used uh probably on this program previously and otherwise was George H. W. Bush getting uh Noriega out of Panama that he literally just somehow cleverly you know stormed the Vatican Embassy where he was holding up and he kidnapped the guy. and brought him back uh to to uh to a Miami prison where he sits today and supposedly he's given his life to Christ and the case. So sometimes it's okay to use force in a nonviolent way. I mean I mean a pa uh you know uh uh working for bees softly carry a big thing. Yeah it's not it's not it it's not being naive, it's not being a whip, it's not being a doormat. It's basically it's basically us It's being incredibly in other words, others be very blunt about it. I think in many respects conventional weaponry, conventional um, you know, eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth. It's just it's stupidity. I mean it's it's I mean strategically strategically you I think you have a higher probability in many cases, especially since Vietnam of winning against her enemy if you want to use Win Use language then using conventional uh weaponry, because the great lesson of Vietnam is that we tried conventional weaponry against the Viet Cong and the Viet Cong basically outmaneuvered us and outslowed the wheel. from history. I mean the Kennedy thing worked because you know the we're in the height of the Cold War and there was always the threat that if people didn't cooperate with our diplomacy the hammer would come down. So if they knew that that would never happen, I don't know the threat would work. And you know, f about twenty years bef thirty twenty five years before that we have the example of Chamberlain trying to appease Hitler and try to your does your tradition believe that that Hitler could have been brought down without violence? But we would not we I would view uh Chamberlain as naive. Uh a peace position. Totally a peace position. This is the authentic biblical peace position is not naive. It names in other words Chamberlain did not name his own. This is why the tolerance orientation has created a naivete towards the Muslim world that over in Europe, Sarkozy, Cameron, and Merkel have all declared publicly that multiculturalism has failed because mu the Muslim communities have refused to assimilate into the liberal democracy. And just down in Florida, there there the the there's a court down in Florida just um today that I was reading about uh that was um that was uh agreeing to base their decision on Shariah law. Now the way that it's going about, I'm not sure that I'm totally uncomfortable with that specific uh situation, but the question is is when does our naivete create for us a situation where we think everything's at peace but in r in reality what we're doing is we're just glossing over. I'm just simply saying That I think there I think I think it is it is st it is stupid, it is not smart to you to basically send wave after wave of young Americans I mean, against uh uh an enemy today in the majority of cases because the level of casualty And not just casually, but but all you have to do is go down the wall to read and walk through and see the incredible cost of war in terms of what you guys recommend to do with Al-Qaeda. Like like just kinda walk me through a process of how we would come to peace with with somebody like Al Qaeda. He's very clearly evil they are evil. Well what you'd have to do is no way to sit down and talk with them. No, but you basically then come up with e I mean you be you be begin by using technology. I mean my goodness everything Is it okay to sanction the the country Well yeah, absolutely. Oh yeah, that would be nonviolent. That's okay. Yeah. I mean, I don't I I think in the specifics of all that but I'm just simply saying, isn't there some way through a surgical strike or sending in some sort of uh covert operation. I mean something like that. I mean, isn't there some way that we can use all the brain power and M MI MIT and Prince and other places like that? to come up with just an unbelievable way of capturing are you of the opinion that that when the beast arises in the end times or whatever your eschatology is then Christ comes to defeat it, that it's going to be nonviolent? Yeah, see our interpretation is that the sword in that in that coming out of his mouth is is the word of God, is truth. Right. Not a literal. Not a literal. When it talks about the blood's going to come up to the to the um horse's uh bridle. Right. So that's metaphorical blood. Yeah, basically. I'd have to have the chapter based in front of me. in a metaphorical way, not to be violent in a actual physical way. Yeah, exactly. But but for only one reason. And the whole objective is to win. I want to be very clear. That's why I started out the way the the objective is to defeat evil But our tradition is just simply saying, what is the most effective methodology and strategy and weaponry to do that? And we're saying that conventional weaponry, the major I mean a great example is that when one of our saints Dietrich Bonhoeffer basically betrayed. He's your saint? Well, I mean i in the peace position, I mean the cost of discipleship uh Bonhoeff was my saint too. But but see, he basically betrayed tradition. And he basically but he basically thought in the eleventh hour against Hitler that what I'm basically talking about is not going to work, it's not either. So what did he do? He took up conventional weaponry. He went in to try and participate in the assassination attempt to get Hitler and it failed miserable. It's fascinating to me. Well it's just adding extra, extra notes to. He doesn't charge anything extra for you. Absolutely. Putting some teeth little some teeth in. You have like m um almost no time, but uh really like if you can in thirty seconds, what do you make? Well the Bible's teaching that you know the the the government, the civil authority has been given the sword. To restrain evil. I believe civil government government has the has the has the the the biblical right to def to to defend itself uh but but not take offensive action i i y uh using conventional weaponry at least. But again, whether it's in the truly defensive uh war is okay in a nonviolent way. Yes, in a nonviolent way. And I believe there are nonviolent ways of doing that. No, no, no. But the b see the bottom line is for my position is conventional weaponry does not work. So if it doesn't work, then we need to find an alternative and we believe the alternative is non is non- You would argue war never works That's the point. Okay. Other than the spiritual war which we know will be one. Well we support. And we support we we support the full armor of God. It's in it. The full armor of God is not conventional armor Except for the sword of the spirit, which is the word of God. Well it's not conventional. No, it's not. No, no, no, no. Okay. Fine nonsectarian? Well non sectarian is is is that we're not uh demanding that every you know the every Yeah, interaction of religion and culture uh demands uh my label uh in terms of whether I'm Christian or or whatever, that non-sectarian is basically trying to find make the case for a broader application of uh uh justice and peace and righteousness in God's name. Uh yeah, he's applying it you know, specifically in the context And so uh I understand why he went that direction with that defining. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Ray Chapel. Thank you so much, sir. Yes, sir. Paul Monday, Senior Pastor at Frederick Church of the Brethren. Thank you. Appreciate it, my friend. I'm Freud Skinner. Again, thanks to our sponsors, Deer Valley, uh, Landscape, Hartscape, and Masonry, and Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Until next week Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home when the job is done. Putmint Plumbing is dedicated to providing top of the line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Plumb and plumbing, how can we make you smile? It's nine o'clock. New radio nine three.