Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio nine thirty WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skiner. You can find me online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Joined this week by Daniel and Imron Razby, the RASB Can be found online at conqueredbylove. org. And we're joined this week as well by David Forcy. You can't find him online. He is a proud Blooddite. So we are going to be picking up a conversation from months ago now that we originally thought we'd be picking up within you know, a week. Like we we finished it was uh Imran and Daniel Razby and me were having a conversation, a rather I thought, fruitful and vigorous conversation about penal substitutionary atonement and uh innocence and guilt and honor and shame and power and fear and all of that sort of stuff. And we really wanted to have the conversation with uh David Forcy involved as well. And so we said, you know what? Let's Let's just stop here and next week we'll make sure we get David here and we'll pick it up. And next week turned into next month, which turned into the next month. And if you've been listening to the show now for the last uh several um weeks, uh then you understand I've already explained what's going on, how we're using a different studio setup and all of that sort of thing. And so here we are in our new dig, the first time we got the band back together. uh in this new setup. I'm hoping this works. If you're hearing this right now on the radio or later via podcast, then you know that it worked. And if you're not hearing it, then you're not hearing me wondering if it's going to work So you can't hear us, raise your hand. David, are you raising your hand? So I'm I'm gonna take thirty seconds to give you a behind the scenes because we've always sort of been pretty transparent about how we do this show. So I have a recording set up that's very similar to what we had with with the radio station studio as far as uh audio recording software and that sort of thing. It's very familiar to me. It's very user friendly. I experimented with a number of number of different ones and found one that's like, ooh This is the most intuitive one so far. This one sounds kind of like or feels like kind of what I'm used to. But then I had to figure out how to make that work in uh in this newfangled high-tech, you know, world And it it's been an odyssey, but I think maybe we've got it figured out now. And so here we go. So where we where we leave off, guys, do you remember? Um I I think we were trying to come to grips with um uh whether the honor, shame, power, fear, uh, and uh innocence guilt dynamic uh are are different. forms of the same gospel, like different presentations of the same gospel, or different enough that you're altering the gospel somehow by choosing one over the other. And we're talking about, you know, the cultural context of course is the reason for all of this. I th I think that we probably need to define our terms this week to make sure we're talking the same language and not talking past each other. But why don't we start This is kind of a real uh a real point of interest for for Daniel Rasby, particularly, uh and his thoughts on this I think are part of what triggered us wanting to do some shows on these topics. So Real quickly, Danny, if you're comfortable, maybe you could kind of walk through what you think the issues are and what you're advocating for. Yeah. It's not more than one gospel. There's only one God, Father, Son, Holy Spirit. It's triune God. Um there's only one way to get saved. It's by the blood of Christ. But the way that you approach or explain the gospel can be more effective to different people by using different uh methods of explanation. And based on where you can come from, what your background is different aspects of the gospel are gonna resonate more strongly in your mind and your heart. Just like you know everybody's uh in in different walks of life They you know, certain doctrinal things or certain commands in Scripture th they're they're more deep in your heart because this is what God's per personally brought you through because of some sin struggle you may have had in the past. And that's not it to say that It is it doesn't matter for other people, but it just matters more deeply in your heart than it might be in somebody else's. So that's all I'm saying. Contextualizing the gospel to who you're talking to and recognizing, and this has been Um in the area of uh mystiology, how do you I think myssiology, the the uh study of missions and how to preach the gospel in different nations and cultures. This has been a pretty common topic for maybe fifty, sixty years that missionaries are trained. Hey, hey, you know, know the culture that you're speaking to. and kind of meet them first uh on their terms and bring the gospel, same gospel, but bring it contextualized for that culture. So I would posit, and I'm not the first one to posit, that there are three distinct um cultural paradigms in this world for how people view what is considered right and wrong and how do you know whether something's right or wrong. And in the West it's all about guilt versus innocence What's what's right and wrong is based on something you personally did or did not do, that you now have to be punished or pay a penalty if you have done the wrong thing, you are now guilty. In the East It is a much more than a can we come up with nicknames for all these? Is that is that like the law and order gospel? Gi guilt versus innocence. Right, right. Yeah. Uh and yes, I guess you could come up call come up with nicknames, fun nicknames for all these, but I don't want to get too too far from the um uh from the definitions here. So just just real briefly the three paradigms will be guilt and innocence, which is in the West, honor and shame, which is in the East and Far East, and then power and fear, which is in mostly in Africa and South America and some island nations and and so on. And those paradigms are how people view what is good or bad, what is right and wrong and morality And they're not uh uh a lot of times people emphasize one at the exclusion of the other two, uh at the expense of the other two, but they're all part of uh of true what is what is right and wrong. Um you know, but in the East people don't care so much about your own personal acts as they do how it reflects on your family and your tribe and your nation. And so it's more of a collective guilt type of thing is how you say how you would feel it in the West. It was more of a collective guilt rather than an individual guilt. Um and you know the those are those are the the three. I I'm not as familiar with the Tower and Fear, but uh people in the power of fear culture, um, they emphasize the strong versus the weak and they're often uh more inclined to be worshiping uh demons and spirits and and and so on because they see power there. And a lot of times what what has has uh come through very strongly in preaching the gospel is when you identify that Actually, God is more powerful than all these other spirits. And that's why you know you need to be really taken seriously because he is actually the victor. He is actually more powerful than everything else So just another way to put it on in in the West, Western culture, God has forgiven our sins, He's covered our sins, He's taken the blame, okay? In the East, he's lifted us up from a place of a dishonor to honor. He's accepted us as sons, and so we now have honor in his family. And in the fear he has conquered death. He has the the biggest worst thing is death and he's conquered death. So all of those are true. It's just one one or one of those resonates more with that culture group, that's all. And I'm going to have David give a response here in a second, but without re uh hashing the entire conversation we had a few months ago when we talked about this topic with just the Razzleys and Lee on the show. My concern is I would agree that the Bible does talk about power and fear and shame and honor and of course guilt and innocence. My concern is if we're if we're concerned about talking about the guilt and innocence part uh of at least getting to it uh that we end up actually having potentially either a different gospel or a watered down, insufficient uh characterization of the gospel. If it's merely for mystiology, if it's merely as a like a Mars Hill moment, like let me Let me meet you where you are. Oh, you're all about honor, shame, or you're all about uh power and fear. I can meet you there, but with the goal of getting them to understand that they stand in a position of unholiness before a holy God because uh uh what things they've done wrong because of uh being under the headship of Adam who was fallen and uh we we stand condemned with him in his original sin. Um th those kinds of things. And if we're if we're reticent to go there, then we end up with, I would suggest an unbiblical presentation of the gospel. So that's kind of in a nutshell what I was trying to say last time And I don't know for sure where David's going to stand on all this, so let's all let's all listen with rapt attention. What do you think, David? Um uh yeah, so I I I did go back and listen to the uh the episode that uh you guys did without me, so I could uh catch up. Um Uh how'd we sound by the way? We sound pretty good? Pretty good, pretty good, yeah. Um not very good, but pretty good, right? Yeah, it was okay. It was okay But but ever but everybody should go back and listen to that episode if they haven't and uh uh you know, see how that uh that ties in with uh with today. So um Yeah, I I I think it's I I think it it is fair to say that um rather than like three different expressions of the gospel, maybe maybe I would say that these these three are more like three aspects of the gospel. Um so I could tie um guilt and innocence to uh like I I I would probably tie that to like Christ's uh taking our sins upon himself uh on the cross. Um I would tie like the shame honor to Christ um like putting uh his righteousness on us Um, you know, so it's not like we're cleansed of that guilt, and then we are given honor, and then we are uh seated with him at the right hand of power, right? Uh you know, with him in the heavenly places, um, right, fellow heirs with him. So uh I I think that to Like I I I think all three aspects are are important and uh I mean important and necessary pieces of of the whole gospel. Um I I I think I think it'd be fair to say, you know, like uh uh like when I you know if I'm gonna share the gospel with somebody, I wanna start with where we agree on what is true and so if you know depending on the culture and the thing that is emphasized in the culture I wanna I wanna look go in there and I say, okay, where where did they get it right? And then build out from there the other aspects of the gospel that that they might be that them that they're missing Um so does that that I I think that sort of is how I I view it. You have a much David, you have a much better and more accurate uh um understanding of what I'm trying to say than than Troy seems to. Troy is kinda out in the middle of nowhere. I don't know what's going on with I'll explain I guess a little more and maybe you can uh steer me right or I'll say something you'll be like, oh okay, now I understand what you're saying and Yeah, if that's what you mean then I'm agreeing with you perhaps. I don't know. So um my concern so it could be possible I I'm I'm hearing incorrectly. So my concern is that um we're choosing one or another uh at the expense of one That's my concern also. Right. So I I would want to be focusing on them all. I would say the the warp and woof, you know, of the of the gospel is penal substitutionary atonement. And it's that's that's a forensic kind of a term, legal term. We stand guilty and condemned because of our wrongdoing, because of our unrighteousness. We are unholy, God is holy. And he is a God of love for sure, but also a God of wrath. And so we deserve eternal death. uh we we uh we we deserve nothing good uh because we are guilty. Uh Um, and so if we're not going to take people there, then we're we're jettisoning a huge part of what the Bible teaches. You j you're you're saying two things which I believe you are are contradictory. You're saying on the one hand it's important that we don't emphasize one of these at the expense of the other two. But actually the most important one is penal substitution Like uh uh uh but okay, but that's the guilt and innocence piece of it. I'm not saying it's more important or less important. I'm saying it is very important, but you need to have a proper understanding of all three of these uh um paradigms to have a complete understanding of the gospel. It is not to exclude any of these. And as Westerners And I'm I'm Eastern as well as Western, but as Westerners we are we're gonna uh feel uh things very uh logically, very law and order type of uh t as you mentioned, David or Um uh it's it's all about the legal terms of what Christ did. He actually took the penalty that we do deserve to go to hell. I agree with you on all this, Troy. We do deserve because we are sinned. But I guess here's my the point I'm making. The the honor and the shame and the power and the fear are part and parcel with the guilt and the innocence. Whereas the guilt and innocence are not necessarily part and parcel with the shame, honor, fear, power part of it No I I'm in a shameful position before God because of my guilt. No I have a No no no no no no You're in a shameful position before God because of Adam's sin. That's the difference. And I share in that guilt. So you're den so you're denying original guilt? Original sin? No, no. Original sin is the shame and honor peace. And that's what David just mentioned uh a minute ago. Actually you didn't say in quite those. No, there's a penalty for sin. There there is. Okay? But the reason but the drastic language, that's penal substitutionary atonement language. If we've losed that we've lost the gospel. That's my total. Total depravity Troy, you would agree, is extremely important to understand before we can even get to the gospel. The reason we're totally depraved Yes, we all have our individual sins, but if for some reason Troy you had woken up and and had managed to not sin personally your entire life, you would still be going to hell because of Adam's sin. Yeah, uh obviously nobody's ever done that. Because of his federal or or other way of putting it, covenant headship. Right. We all stand we all stand guilty in ease. But that piece Is much more emphasized in a shame honor culture. And and what I'm saying is it's very, very important. The original sin it has all to do with shame and honor. It doesn't actually have nearly as much to do with guilt and innocence. Guilt and innocence has a lot to do with your own sins, which you have done and I have done and everybody's done. It's very, very important when you have a correct understanding of the gospel to know that both You have sinned, and also Adam has sinned, which puts you in a position that you couldn't even get out of your sin if you wanted to. Not that you're ever going to want to, because we have we have no capacity to turn to God without him reaching out and pulling us out of that mire, out of that shameful position. He would put us all in a shameful position why? What? Adam put us all in a shameful position, why? How did that come to be? Because he he uh he separated us from God. Well Adam actually sinned in three ways simultaneously What what did he say when God when God went uh asked him, Where are you, Adam? He said, I was afraid because I was naked, so I hid myself. He was afraid. That's the fear part. Right. That's the consequence of what he did. Yeah, well no. He was afraid. He was He was afraid because of something he did, right? He wasn't afraid with no reason to Uh he they could he was ashamed and then he hid because he was guilty. All three of those are present in Genesis three And and what Christ did, you know, you need all three. So Paul spends a long time in 1 Corinthians 15 talking about The resurrection. And how dying for our sins doesn't really help unless he comes back. The resurrection is where it all stands or falls, right? So Christ having victory over death completely Be more powerful than anything else, more powerful than sin and death, that is the crux of it. Is that more important than him dying for our sins? No. Both have to happen. But he but he has both but both have to happen. He has to die and rise again for the plan of salvation to work. Okay? My my point is All of these are aspects of the gospel. They are different layers to the gospel. It is very, very important to understand that Christ has paid the penalty that you deserve. And that's that that is the uh um innocence guilt piece. But it's also important to know that because of Adam's sin, we are completely separated from God, we are naked, we are ashamed, we are filthy, dirty, disgusting unholy people and only in o only way to be with a perfect God, with a holy God, is if He washes us and makes us clean. That whole washing piece are non-guilty people shameful? I have a I have a question about the uh Uh yeah, so what uh what was Adam's first sin What was his first thing? Yeah. Oh I I'm not sure I understand the question. I mean Okay, so uh at what point uh when I act And I do something that is sinful. Is that where my sin began? Yes. What uh what about what about my uh Right. What what about what what might happen before my act of sin? Like my thoughts? Right, yeah. Or decision to or something or something going on in my heart, right? So the The question might uh be answered this way is that Adam's first sin was him doubting God, giving him instruction. When Satan said, Did God really say And so Adam doubted or in his heart he questioned what God said. Yeah, so I I I guess what I'm what I'm thinking about is Uh right, like where does um it does the right so so when Adam you know, took the fruit and he ate it, he lost his innocence. Right. And then and then he realized that he was Naked and ashamed. Right. And so so there's sort of a chain reaction that direction outwardly. But I'm I'm also wondering if there was something Right, because it cause the the temptation posed by the serpent was you'll you'll be like God, right? So I'm wondering if there was like a like a desire for power, a lust for higher honor, right, that led to the uh Right, the the the loss of innocence. Right. So I could I could almost build out the the fear the fear and the uh and the shame on and in both directions. Right. And that's kind of my point is that these things are happening simultaneously. It's they're different aspects of the same sin. I mean, the the Bible talks about, you know, there's something there's collective guilt versus individual guilt, right? By the Bible says in Genesis in Exodus 20 I am the Lord your God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me. But there's another passage that says the father shall not be put to death for the children, nor the children for the father, each one shall be responsible for his own sin Is God a different God? No, obviously God's the same God saying that. So that is showing that there is collective responsibility for sinful actions. And that's the thing. Okay, well but it's chapter twenty and when it talks about uh visiting the sins upon you know the the the the m several generations Uh of course the the the goodness of God is for you know thousands of generations or whatever. Uh but I think the context there is talking one, it's talking about the mundane level, the earthly physical realm of things And there are consequences. So if you sin and do something bad, the people around you will pay the price for it. And one of those prices might be they will continue in your uh bad habits, what we might call generational sin, until somebody breaks that cycle But I think in Ezekiel chapter 18, I think the other passage you're talking about is Ezekiel chapter 18. I think that's not about the spiritual reality. Uh not the mundane, not the not the merely physical. So I I I don't I think I would frame it differently. Yeah, may we may frame it differently, but you you would agree that you know because of one man's sin, we are all guilty Yeah, but yeah, but that's different. Adam is unique, just as Christ is unique. So if you sin, I'm not guilty But Adam's in Diamond, because he's my federal head. He's my representative. He's the he's at the head of the covenant agreement here. And what I'm saying is I stand or fall with Adam, and that's why I need a new Adam, a second Adam, as it says in Romans And I'll keep my new head. It's a lot easier to understand how original sin works if you're in the Eastern culture. Um, I'm not saying that you don't understand it. You understand it very well. You're you're as a pastor and you've studied this topic, but my point is in America, in the West, for example It's very difficult for people to to s to come to this understanding of, okay, why exactly should Adam matter to me at all? I mean, I I didn't do that. W why am I supposed to be uh punished because of what Adam did, right? And you s we you can build up the theology and build the doctrine. There's a lot of passages that talk about it. But to an Eastern mind, it makes perfect sense. Oh of course Adam did something that way, we're all blamed for it. We get it. We're all we're all stuck in this Miery uh mess that Adam put us in because the East thinks of everything in terms of family honor or tribal honor. And if you are born in a place that is uh ho awful, let's say you know your mother was a prostitute, for example, then then you you can never be anything better than the son of a prostitute That is the it the the they have this um idea that we are a product of what our family does, and so you can take that idea and say, look We are of the family of Adam. That's why we're a product of what Adam did. And that's why you can never be good enough to go to heaven. So you can talk to a Muslim. You can talk to a Jew, you can talk to uh a a you know Hindu, some uh somebody that is of an Eastern mind and who is hoping to work their way to to to uh um something better someday and you can point out the flaw in that they say look Because we are dirty and filthy and unholy, because of what Adam did, there is no way that you could ever be good enough to get to heaven. And That that is the uh the uh I believe the best entry point for somebody of an Eastern mind. Now you tell them, look what Christ did He washed you and made you clean. You are no longer of the family of Adam. You're the family of Christ, right? You have been made sons of God. Because of what he did. What did he do exactly? He came and he took all of our shame, he took all of the uh uh punishment, he took that on himself, and he separated himself from God and died. And then rose again, defeating death. And I I'm just saying that if you ask any number of people who are are are uh saved, who are believers, in the Middle East and the Far East What did God do for you? How are you uh saved? Why do you know that you're saved? It was because God removed my uncleanness and he made washed me, he made me clean, he made me uh heirs and co-heirs with Christ. That's that's what he did for us. And how he did it, yes, by dying on the cross, taking all of our sins on on himself. All that's true. But that's That what it means to me is that he made me honorable and um and pleasing in his sight and he covered me with his robes. And and in the West a lot of people don't care so much about that. They just want to know, hey, is the fine paid? Is the debt paid? And that's why, you know, a lot of people misunderstand. And again, and this is not you, Troy, but a lot of people misunderstand. They say Well the debts paid, I guess I can just sin now. Uh who cares? Because it's once once for all, right? That's that is the trap that people fall into. And every culture has their own trap they're gonna fall into. Well because I understand the gospel this way, let's just take it to the logical extreme and that's gonna be I agree that's a problem. The logical extreme of all of these is a problem And the guilt and innocence has its problems too. When you say well Christ has paid for my uh sins once and for all, then it really doesn't matter what I do in the future. I can sin as much as I want. And Paul says now I mean there's there's specific teachings that that would speak against it. I've got to jump in 'cause we're running out of time on this episode. Uh I I do like that all of us, all four of us on the show today are are are I think working towards maintaining a vertical uh aspect to these things and not merely a horizontal And that's one of the the dangers uh with some of these things too is we're more worried about what our neighbors think or what what it's going to mean for my family as opposed to what it means before uh before God and for the reputation of God and that sort of thing. So I think we we're we're going in the right direction there and that's that's very encouraging. We have so much more to say, goodness gracious. So we're gonna pick up on this theme next week if everybody's agreed And um we'll we'll start things back up. Find me online, I'm Troy Skinner at householdefaith in Christ dot com. You can find the Razgeys online at concordbylove. org, and you can find David Forcy I don't know, walking around a local store somewhere, I guess. And you can find us on the Radio Station's website, of course. Go to WFMD. com, look for the faith debate page there. We're gonna pick this back up about one hundred sixty seven and a half hours from right now. God bless