Welcome to product. I want to thank our sponsor, Putman Fleming and Heating, How Can Make You Smile. Uh this week joined by Jonathan Schweizer, Senior Pastor of Crossworth Vice Chapel, and Vivian Weinstein, who is Uh a member of Colamy, I believe, and um knows lots of stuff about lots of things. We'll find out about that in a second. But first I'm gonna tell you how to connect with us. Go online, wfmd. com, keyword faith You can email me, Troy at WFMD. com. If you email me something even vaguely interesting, I'll end up posting it on the blog because my blog is your blog. So again, go to WFMB. com keywordface What am I reading? Interesting book by Stephen E. Smallwood called Spiritual Birth Line. I think I have to read it again 'cause I'm not sure I a hundred percent followed everything he was saying, but the parts that I followed I thought were very interesting and very helpful, so. Do you ever read any Daniel Silva? No. He is a writer of uh novels about Jewish um the Israeli Secret Service. and a guy who uh goes around defeating the enemies of Israel. And uh I've gotten into reading a couple of his novels and they're always enjoyable to me because um they paint out these these close relationships between the guys that are like the spies at the top level of Israel, you know, and who who the who the top spies are, you know, that fought back in all the wars and And uh it's just a good interesting read if you're looking for something just kinda fun. What? And um she said, Yes, you know, Bar and Bob Medzford. I said, No no no, I'm not gonna be able to do that. So you weren't taking the class for that reason. Am I in the wrong class? I wanted I wanted just to learn, you know, and there were many things we were learning. You decided to go ahead and get Bot Metside. Well, it was too late. I was past the point of no return. This was the second year. I finished a year so I thought, you know, maybe it's it's too late to go back. So I decided to go ahead with it. How did you get associated then with sitting in on that meeting uh at uh at the religious coalition together? This is where Vivian and I met. Uh we were talking together about what can we do with the commissioners uh cutting all the funds for uh for the the poor and for these Nonprofit organizations. So Vivian was there and she she had very strong Oh I came as myself. I came as a representative of no one. I called Um uh Reverend uh Scott Scott Scott in asking me if I might be just a guest and I wouldn't talk. How did you even know there was gonna be a meeting? Um I had heard somebody mentioning it and I I thought the it was I can't remember now who exactly it was, but I heard that there was a meeting and I didn't know what kind of meeting it was, whether it was a public meeting or what and I kind of check back and I remember some articles past year having written been that were written in the in the Frederick News Post about it and I was extremely you know concerned you know what's going on but I there were a lot of things I didn't know because I'm new here only a year So I I I a I figured I called him up and I asked if I could just sit in on it. You know, of course I found out that it was largely what I appreciate so much about all of my Jewish friends. They take action. They don't just sit there and say, I don't know what's going on. But they say, you know what, we can study, we can figure it out, we can, you know, ask permission, you know, to to to be a part of things and you went for it. And now you're on the radio. We don't sit silently and submit. Then you've only been here for like a year and a half. Where'd you come from by the way? Um Texas actually. I've been down there a long time. Um I have a eastern accent because I spent most I was born in the East. Yeah, yeah, you're Georgie. Uh actually New York City and um and I've been a nurse. I lived in New Jersey for a long time and that's where I worked and I raised my two boys. But um uh y you said it's interesting uh you said action and the the two basic principles of Judaism. This is I find this to be true with all of my Jewish friends. are action and study. Yeah. Two basic principles uh of Judaism and and so interesting and you know, you don't it just because it It it's just so automatic, I think. Right. It's built into who you are. What Solomon wrote in the Proverbs that you would add knowledge, right? So you so you don't be a simpleton and that you would take action based off of that knowledge. The prudent man acts out of knowledge, but the fool The simple keep going and they suffer for it, you know. And so sure enough, do you study Proverbs at all? Um I've never made a great study of Proverbs. No. I really haven't studied deeply in Proverbs and I probably should Well Torah you were going to ask us a question like five minutes ago, but we've been talking about you know what she what Vivian is studying, so should we come back to that? Yeah, well we'll probably I think we'll probably end up getting there. I mean this is this is all good background. Yeah, very enjoyable. And the and the question I have I mean you grew up uh Uh Vivian and grew up I'm assuming in a Jewish ho household, right? Yes. And Johnson, I know you grew up in a Christian household. That's right. Baptist originally Now you have some uh messianic Jewish stuff in your background too, so this might change this might be different than the typical Christian experience of the yeah. She almost walked out of the room. Bless her heart. But she did it with much fun and sh and so I felt like she loved me afterwards because she's so kind. But I'm wondering well if you can't if you can remember that far ago. I mean you're like what, nine hundred years old now, John. Yeah. Yeah. What were your impressions what can you recall being your impressions of Judaism and Jewish people when you were a little boy? Well tell the truth. The messianic Jewish guys. Right? And so I was a part of of a charismatic congregation. And so so the Jewish guys were always dancing and they had, you know, streamers that they did with it. You know, and there there's a a a style of dance, you know, that d uh m you know, the the the rhythm to it. That's like a polka what you just did there. Right, right. So pardon me for for uh associating that. But that was my my early memories was that And then um the the school, my dad started a Christian high school uh back in mm uh seventy uh no eighty two. And he did it along with some Messianic Jewish guys. So a large portion of the teachers at the at the school were were were Messianic Jewish. And so I felt like I had the strong influence of both the action and the and the the study that was built into the whole school orientation. That was a big part of me because those guys they they were always activists. Right? And that was the funny thing is that I don't know that that we um charismatics were so activist, but these guys were. And the other problem with the charismatic movement uh in the Christian world is that they didn't tend to be very rigorous with scripture. They weren't great students, but my dad always was, and so it was like this great fit that, you know, we're gonna do something with with what we believe and we're gonna study to show ourselves approved to be, you know, well equipped, you know, for whatever it is that we do. And so anyways, that's kind of my background and and how I came into and so my first impression was that they danced, which meant that there was joy. And I liked that. You know, as a and I was probably about twelve at the time. When I came into it, a good friend of mine graduated from high school with me. His name was David Shishkoff. And he went to Israel It made Aliyah, is that the right word? And he wooed his wife, who was a sabra, completely in Hebrew. after having grown up in the United States. His parents originally were uh were nudists out in uh Arizona, right? And uh in in you know, Jewish but nudist and and kinda, you know, uh sixties people. Uh but then they ended up, you know, uh accepting uh Jesus. Uh they call him Yeshua and they use a lot of that language, but in the context of all that, um You know, I ended up interacting with these guys and and they're some of the closest friends. When I visited them in Israel, they broke into tears and they said, Ah, we had such Great covenant, that was the term they used with your parents. And they they cried tears of joy, you know, oh it's so good to see you again. And uh It's really rich for me, you know, just that part of my background. So that's a good part of my background. Right, right, right, yeah. It was touch and go there. Could have had for a minute. And the other guy uh was was Keith Intrader And uh and he grew up um he first of all he graduated from Harvard and then somewhere in that time frame he decided to go to Columbia to be a uh a a logger and he was like on the other side of the whole, you know, like uh environmentalist, you know, radical, you know, out there seeing what's really going on and and that kind of thing and and he too was just a real activist guy. He's he's there in Jerusalem now And uh and he's he's at the forefront of building relationships with the Palestinians down in the West Bank. And he's an activist along those lines. It's very exciting to see what he's doing there. So anyways, that's my background. That's my impression. Um you grew up in a Jewish household, you've admitted such? What were your what can you recall from when you were a little girl? What were your impressions of of Christians and Christianity? Yeah, interesting. Uh I think I have to think back on this. Um I grew up in a Jewish household in New York. Um in New York. Right. Um the I had always known basically nothing but Jews. My gr grandparents, my father was not born here. He came as an immigrant with my grandparents. Um his family um He supposedly had eleven brothers and I understand, you know, they all did not survive. Um as a child, the the Second World War and in they were from Russia. Wow. Um and so he luckily made it to this country in the twenties. He was about six years old or so when he came here. Um he was beaten up 'cause he couldn't speak English, which I tonight when I was listening how they were going to have a hearing on English as the only language, you know, it brought back that memory of knowing how he'd always been beaten up 'cause he couldn't speak English and I'm sure It's not it's the same with every new immigrant that comes to this country. And you know we we love we love our, you know, mixture of cultures but at the same time we beat them up when they come here. I'm amazed at how much for Jewish people that I know that that they're approach to issues of immigration is driven by a deep historical um record of being people that were immigrants, starting with Egypt and even the even the laws uh uh that they were supposed to be kind to the immigrants in their midst Uh in the Torah was directly related to the fact that you once were were foreigners in Egypt. And so therefore you should treat foreigners well yourself. And like it was it was a this therefore that. We didn't call them foreigners. No, that right, right. The Hebrew word was um I'm forgetting the exact word. But it's it's just those that are different. You know, that are maybe not your you know, y from your tribe, so to speak, or whatever. Yeah, the word alien is used in some English translations, but that doesn't quite fit the meaning of it. No, and I and I'm not I don't have enough knowledge. Yeah. But I but it's it's correct. And so so here you're saying that we need to not be against those that can't speak the language because in your Th there there there is some understanding of that but now I feel that from my father, you know. And I I know when I was a young girl I was travelling on a train and I remember It was we met yeah in America. We have never you know, I've been out of America, but uh this is all as a young child. Uh there were a couple things that are very strong in my memory. One, a person telling me that they believed and they were told they were Christian I don't know what brand, so to speak, but they were told we were this is children this is children talking to children. Okay. Yeah, right. Okay. Okay. Children talking to children and saying that You know, th that that we did not have a tail or horns. No, they felt thought we had spin told that we had a tail and horns. And I could not believe that. That seems so Is that a difficult world or what? It's such a you know vivid memory. So that would have been like in the thirties. No, no, no, no, I'm not that old. I wasn't born until the forties. So this would be into the came over in the twenties. My father came in the twenties and I was in the forties, so this is maybe late in the forties at this time. Also after the Second World War. Well there's a couple of things that happened. In the thirties when when my parents were getting together, they were growing out of a pretty much orthodox Judaism. Really? And when they got into America, of course, they began to break away. This is a generation No. They were Russians, but they were Orthodox Jews. And uh my mother's parents did not come from Russia, they came from other areas of Eastern Europe. So they were Ashkenazic Jews. Okay. Okay, Ashkenazic Jews. And these are the ones from Eastern Europe. That we usually identify as seeing the pearls down the you know uh the side of the pais and and and and black clothing and um uh their the more Middle Eastern Jews are known and from Spain are known as a Sephardic. That's right. Okay. Anyway, so um I I lost my thought. They they um you know they've come from this they've come from this And and um so they began as as young people, you know, teeners teenagers' twenties and so on, they began to break away. And this generation, a lot of them broke away from the deep religious aspect of Judaism, many of them. And my parents did. And this is a certain number of them. And they also became very, very much into um social issues. Sure. And so this kind of group of Jews that I come from Um they used they spoke more Yiddish than they did Hebrew. They they that part of that culture is what you know, I I mean I learned more Yiddish when I was a child and I could read Yiddish when I was younger. I could not read Hebrew. And it could be the same thing. About maybe ten years before that time? I'm not really sure. 'Cause it was it was seemed like it was in well, it was right around the time of nineteen forty eight. When uh when they went that direction. So anyways it was a new language, yeah. So you know so as children we got uh um sort of we got cultural things. Uh we didn't you know, I didn't n understand a lot about prayer I don't think much m many children really do. But it only was later that I, you know, sort of began to want to study. Later, like in the years. You know, when I was more of an adult. Okay. You know Over over the age of eighteen, you know, wanting to study more and and and that's when I study in on in religion in general. But they were more um I would say anywhere I mean, uh they became like Jewish atheists, some of them were you know, agnostics. But uh, you would consider your family regularly. Yeah. Yeah, a lot of people. But we also were in a very Jewish community. Yeah. Until um around the fifth grade when I moved away from that area and then I was in I was like the only Jew in the in the school, my sister and I. Was that Texas or still New York? No, no, no, this is all New York. Okay. And um so That that was a whole new thing. There were there were times when things were said to us. Yeah. Like keep your mouth shut and stuff like that. I mean it sounds so slightly hurt by a Jewish school teacher. You know, and that was really shocking to me. Right, right. So keep your head down don't make waves. And so, um, you know, I I just had to grow up with it. I mean I didn't get beaten up fortunately. Um another thing that as a child that strongly, strongly affected me Um, was growing up watching people come back from the war. That was a little child then and remembering the numbers on the on the arms and things like that. Move me and meaning people that would have been camps in POW camps in Nazi Germany and seeing that they survived and these are people that I was really too young I but the conversation the people were around me and you know, so this and the more and I mean I read about it far younger than people do today. I mean I know they'll give everybody a copy of Anne Frank diarbe in Franklin there, maybe in high school. But you know, I remember it being at a much younger age that these things, you know, really deeply affected me. Yeah, yeah. You know, um and so And so in that context your impression of Christians was that somehow they didn't like you, somehow they were a danger? No, no, not really. You know, I was in America. I was in America. You know, there were some negative experiences But I I had a very positive outlook toward people. Wow. Um, you know, and toward equality with people. And and I I found one thing that came up significantly when we were with Yeah, I didn't grow up with hatred. I'm interested to hear like what what like how you define that 'cause definitions are important. Well, um Equality means that, you know, um we respect each other for our differences and love each other for our sameness. um, you know, um that we we have the same opportunities and that, you know, all of these things. That that um you that I think that the thing that I dislike most is that people who are very, very wealthy, more than they could ever spend in three thousand lifetimes don't see it important to to help, you know, do something with the world. I don't say hand out the money, but you know, build a bridge, fix a roadway, anything like that. True. And so I have a, you know, kind of an idea about society that that's um how are we doing time wise? Because I don't know that we can get as as deep into that in this particular ship. Yeah we've got a couple of minutes left. It's interesting a couple of things that struck me is um You both have a ver as ch as children, you both shared stories that were very rich with your family's faith traditions, right? I mean you Jonathan grew up in a You were immersed in a Christian faith. Yeah, my grandfather planted thirteen Baptist churches. My dad also went to Baptist Bible seminary, so I come from like a long line of Baptists. And Vivian has shared, you know, that she was so reverse and was like a scholar, a poor scholar, you know. And I always remember him going to synagogue. What I remember though, w we were not very religious, but my grandmother one day asked And she couldn't never really did learn to speak English. She asked to take us, this is on the Lower East Side, to synagogue and w just me, my sister, and my grandmother. And that's when the first time I ever kissed a muzzle, which was a religious thing. Yeah. We'll talk about that next week. And today, you know, to this day I think back on that and maybe that was sort of the beginning of me searching into the religious part of my culture. But where you did have experience with uh each other's religions at a young age, Jonathan seems like he had lots of exposure to Judaism and Jewish influences and they were In my teenage years. And they were very positive and he had these glowing things to say. And you didn't have as many exposures, Vivian, to to Christians and Christianity but the ones you had don't feel like they were very powerful. I haven't gotten into that either. You know, I think um you know, as I got a little bit older, you know, and and I was still very small You know, I I went into a church and we we had a group of kids, there were five of us in on grade school. I remember that. And we were each a different religion Yeah. And we had made friends. Okay. Over to time we became the our little quick of five. You know, every kids, you know, make their little group of friends that they're their favorites. And um So one day we decided that we would each go to each other's um place of worship, you know. Wow. And I can remember going into churches. It was such a strange experience. So I always understand when people come into a synagogue because this might be their first time and then it must be just totally different. Different. Like, you know, when people call out in the middle of the service or talk with the rabbi in the middle of the service. Yeah. Or, you know, um And and I've been in some small synagogues, so so I think this is more common to small synagogues. Bigger s synagogues really are a little more like churches in a way Um but smaller synagogues are not, you know? In in the sense that people are very quiet and they they let the leader lead and that sort of thing. But the service is a little different in smaller. Well Troy will tell you, he's been to my church. We rather do it where there's interaction back and forth. We have a rich tradition of that kind of thing in in the stream of churches that I'm a part of. But that's not necessarily true about all Christian churches. Now I'm assuming you keep you keep a kosher home for that thing. Um not when I was younger. My parents didn't, my grandparents did. Um I did not do it for a long time and then um I guess it's about it's gotta be Somewhere maybe around the time that after I got my mixed. Okay. In fact, I had a little bit of bacon this morning. You have to forgive me. We'll end with Jonathan asking that question. I'm curious because you know you uh have strong the Christian faith in general, but particularly as you view it, there's a strong connection to a Jewish heritage right in your Christianity. Sure. So why don't you keep a kosher home? Yeah, that's a good question. My nutritionist, who happens to come from a Jewish background himself, uh tells me that uh that I should eat uh healthy whole uh whole grains and uh that I should eat meat when I eat meat and I eat as much as I as I want to at my meals and uh and eat nothing in between the meals and have a little bit of dessert with everything. So I follow my nutritionist. What does that mean you should eat meat when you eat meat? What does that mean? Just eat only meat? No, no, no. It is what it is. You just you just have a little bit of meat, you know, whatever with your meal and you just he he makes no distinctions uh about Uh various meats. Various meats. So he's not kosher. No, he's far from it. In fact he was he was raised uh I think uh atheist would be uh or agnostic. Probably agnostic would be uh how he was raised Yeah, he and I he and I have had uh extensive discussions about that. He's way uh better read than I am and uh and so I love to talk to him because he's always Uh expanding my own. Well have you consciously decided, you know, we don't need to keep a kosher home or you've just never you've never really thought about it? It's funny because there's always been in the circles of churches I've been in these diets fat diets that would go through and so health has always been an important thing. Uh and at different times maybe it you know, we played around the edges of whether or not uh shrimp and and um and bacon, you know, the these these uh meats are are good for you or not and generally we come away uh it's probably not the best for you But we haven't really made a big deal about it, but we've always made a big deal about being healthy and eating as healthy as you can and exercise and and that kind of thing. Almost to being a religious expression of who we are. Yeah. Yeah. It's I find it interesting that you said a kosher home. You didn't say you know, you keep you know, kosher or you know, just kosher home. You don't quite know what you're talking about, do you? No, no, that's good. That's really interesting because you don't know quite what you're talking about. Yeah. Do we need to close the show out? Yeah. Yeah, why don't we pick up a We'll talk a little more about kosher and then the other the the kissing of things and all that sort of thing you were talking about before. Yeah, kissing the mazuza. And then we'll give Jonathan some kisses. Or I or I will anyway. Well that might not be clean, so that might not be kosher. All right. Thanks for listening. Thank you guys. Vivian Weinstein from uh Beth Chalome and Weisser from Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks to our sponsor, Futman Plumbing and Heating, How Can we Make You Smile? Again, I encourage you, visit us online at wfmd. com, keyword faith. There you will find a daily Monday through Friday updated blog My blog is your blog, so email me Troy at WFMD. com and if it's anything reasonably interesting, I post it. No editing, no nothing. Except for the occasional cleaning it up or s correcting a misspelled word for you so you're not embarrassed. Anyway, until next week, thanks so much for listening. God bless.