Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County where freaking with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Froder Faith Debate on Froder's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD, sponsored by Putman Fleming and Eating. How can we make you smile or online at WFMD dot com keyword faith. There you're gonna find the Faith Debate blog along with podcasts of this show and news items and find all sorts of links to different religious uh traditions if you want to Educat yourself a little bit. And uh if you want to check out what's on the blog, well I should make a requirement is you can't read what's on the blog until you sent me something for the blog, but that would be uh rather obtuse. Anyway, our blog is your blog, so email me Troy Skinner at ClearChannel. dot com I post what you send me. Ninety blog updates go up each and every week. It's eighteen a day, Monday through Friday. So check it out uh right now and if you if you fall behind just you can catch up on the weekends. You can read all ninety In one day. Don't do that. I I that's that's it's not edifying. Just just don't do that. What have I been reading lately? I forgot to mention uh last week, so I'll give you two this week. I actually Uh normally I I try to read something a little headier than this, but uh uh Mitch Album is not exactly heady, but I read a couple of uh Mitch Album books recently, Tuesdays with Maury and the Five People You Meet in Heaven Uh both fun reads, interesting reads, uh inspirational in their own way, but uh theologically challenged, uh to say the least. So let's take that for what it's worth. On the show this week, back for more um um Abuse? Was last week tough? Last week wasn't tough, was it? Okay, so back for more personal enjoyment of Pastor Dale Shields and Pastor Steve Rivera from Church of the Redeemer in Gaithersburg and Frederick. Um online at I got this wrong last time. So what is it? Church-Redeemer. org. Church Dash Redeemer. org. Don't forget the dash. The dash is important. And they've got a big conference coming up. We're going to mention it now. We'll mention it again here in a little bit, but it's the United Pastors Network meeting. actually starting tomorrow. Exactly. But it's not too late. You can still register, still get involved. And somebody wants to do that, they just ring Steve up on his personal hot the hot phone. Just go online, right? Yeah, United Pastors Network. And how much is it? Are you are you saying that publicly or I want to say sixty-nine or seventy-nine dollars for the whole vent event. So very reasonable. That's mere pennies. Absolutely. A great investment in your in your life. Yeah, it's less than twenty-five bucks a day. Exactly. So you get food with that and spiritual and otherwise. Yeah. You can meet your best friend if you come too. Really? Yeah, your next best friend. Scott's gonna be there. My friend Scott is a is a missionary in Albania I'd be shocked if you were there. Well you never know. You never know. The theme of the conference is um relationships and the idea is well theme, I don't know, maybe not the right word, but the the the the goal, the agenda is for you to develop and and and cultivate relationships. Yes. And you coincidentally have a uh series going on that you're preaching on right now about relationships encouraging the congregation to do exactly that to build that cultivate relationships. So Uh if I were to play hooky from either the conference or the uh or or some of your sermon messages, what are some things I'd be missing out on? What are a couple of things you could share? that are important for us to uh building good, healthy relationships. And the follow-up's going to be later, but don't answer it now, but it's going to be what are the things I need to avoid doing. But what are the things I need to do? Well, I started out the series, uh, Torah, talking about just the whole principle of connection and how God created us as social beings and how uh The first time that God, after creating uh the world and the all that we know of his creation in Genesis chapter one, when you get to chapter two, the first time he says something's not good is when he looks at Adam and says it's not good for you to be alone. And so that was the first observation that God gives us in Scripture of the fact that we are made to have relationship and connection. with other people. If you study scriptures, you realize that scripture is filled with with people connecting. And you wouldn't you think about Moses, you have to think about Joshua. You think about Elijah, you think about Elisha, you think about Jesus, you think about twelve ap twelve disciples with him and so it's a relational book and because of that we need to build those that that value of relationships in our lives, which is not quite the same as it perhaps used to be uh in culture. And it's Seems like such an obvious point, but in today's age we need to remind ourselves that, you know, it's important to actually interact and have a relationship with other people. Absolutely. It's so easy to just get parked in front of your computer or sit on your smartphone or watch TV or uh or play pseudo relational kinds of games where you're you're playing a video game against somebody that's living halfway across the country or You have, you know, twenty three hundred friends that you've never met. Exactly right. Things like that. So we take it for granted. What does that what does that say about us? Yeah, it says a lot about our culture, actually. Okay, so a good first step to making sure that my mind is right on that. I wake up in the morning tomorrow and I want to make sure that it's a day filled with good relationships. I need to remind myself to do what? Well, the first step for me and what part of what we looked at in our first message in the series is just talking about the idea of valuing that, just to stop for a moment and think about who are the people in my life. Who are the real people in my life that I'm going to interact with today? And that starts, obviously as a believer in Christ, that starts with my relationship with God because I can't be a good husband. I can't be a good father, grandfather, pastor, whatever role I might have in life without that relationship. But then out of that, who are the people in my life? I have my wife. I have I have my family, I have people that I work around and work with, and so all of those I have to value that. If I don't place value on it I will not invest in you. Invest in what you value. Jesus said, where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. So that's the beginning point. And that's kind of a paradigm shift in people's minds. And part of it is just an intellectual exercise or a heart motive kind of a thing. It's a checklist almost. But if if uh you, Dale and you, Steve, are are going to know that I value you, I'm going to have to do something to to demonstrate that as well. What are some things, Steve, that uh you have found uh of value in realizing that you've been valued or that you've in one of your better moments have done a good job of showing somebody else that you value them? Yeah, I think it it requires time, honestly. Um any relationship that you wanna have is gonna require time. What else you want? Because you're not getting that. Um I I want great friends and I hope I can get great friends and they're gonna come to me. But what we realize is that great friendships that we have to be proactive with them. Like we have to go into not just with a uh consuming mindset, but a contributing mindset. What can I give? Uh if I'm gonna have valuable friendships, I gotta go into the willing to sacrifice, willing to give time and effort and attention. It's all a thing to to the people in my life because uh if I want to get a great friend, I have to be a great friend first. And I don't know, do you think that's uh at some level that's always been true, but I think it's less true now than it used to be that those sorts of things could happen more organically. Right. It seems that people used to accidentally spend time together. Right. And they would become friends because they were in close proximity. They were working in the backyard at the same time. They were working in the same factory at the same time. They were you know, meeting at the same w uh one four way stop in the center of town at the same time. And now me we we l oftentimes live miles and miles away from where we work. And so when we get home we're exhausted. Right. And the last thing we're gonna do is just sit out in the yard and talk with the neighbors. Right. Uh we have a an uh a tradition we started at my house on my street when we fur the first summer we we lived there, we decided that we were gonna do this and Uh so every year now it's only one day out of three hundred and sixty five, but at least it's one day. Um but we everybody lives on our street and there's about twenty, twenty five houses on our street. Uh we invite everybody on the street to come to our backyard for a barbecue. Well And people know about it. We've been doing it for years now, so everybody knows it's coming. Mm-hmm. Everybody's been invited except for a couple people who have moved onto the street uh within the last couple of years. Okay. Everybody else has been there forever, so they've been invited No a dozen times. Sure. Uh and still, and it's only one day for a handful of hours, and still the overwhelming majority of them do not show up. Why? What am I doing wrong? Well, uh uh uh maybe maybe tic-tacks, I'm not sure. I'm not sure what it is, but uh Uh I I think it's uh it refle it's a reflection of where we ha well, it goes back to what I was saying a moment ago, we don't value that anymore. And even even to where people get to even in the same environment sometimes while they're in an environment where relationships could happen, they are caught up with these things called smartphones and I mean how many times have I seen it at a restaurant? You know, there there's a family sitting there and everybody at the table has their smartphone and they're texting someone that's not even at the table. And there have been times even with my wife and I we caught ourselves doing that. So we make a we did times made a fact of each other. Put your phone in the middle of the table. You kinda and if you reach for it, you you know, you lose kind of deal. But it's it's just it's just the world we live in. We connect with those that aren't with us and disconnect with those that are with us. The smarter the phones get the dumber the people. Exactly. Exactly. It it's probably we're at a time where it's the easiest to connect with other people with with all the technology that we have, yet we're the least connected. Because these these devices they they provide um superficial relationships. Exactly. Very superficial. Yeah, there's no uh There's no element of poignancy. There's n there's no opportunity for those meaningful moments of silence. Right. Yeah. Where you're just there. You're with the person and they know that you're with them. If you're silent on your cell phone, if you're not texting back right away, they wonder, oh, they must not be there anyway. Exactly. But you can say something to me that really challenges me maybe. Or gets me thinking or hurts me or and my first reaction is going to be That. Yeah. Exactly. And people listening on the radio are like, what they just go off the air for a minute? That's what happens with the cell phones. Are they still there? But you guys are staring at me like he's being quiet for effect. I think that's either that or he just froze on that side. Um so it's one thing to be purposeful. Yeah. But I I guess it takes two willing partners to be purposeful at the same time. Yeah, well I I was thinking about right before our our program today, Troy, we had the opportunity to sit down together and chatting for a while. And the fact that we were able to ask questions of each other about who you are and where you came from and I've learned something. I feel like I know you now, at least at some level. It's still a beginning level. But because we actually, I'm not sure how long we took before the program today to talk, but that time was an investment, but Now there is a connection. There's something that begins to form bonds with that as Steve was saying a moment ago. You can't do without time. You can't do without giving attention. You can't do without asking some questions of another person. And that's that's key because oftentimes we do all the talking, we do very little asking, how are you, who are you, those kinds of things. So Uh real quickly, um, because I don't want to steal all your thunder from your messages coming up, but what are one or two points that you're gonna probably touch upon in your series that are on the do-not-do list? Wow. Uh I try to approach things very positively, you know, and to tell them what to do instead of what not to do. But uh you know, what uh one of the biggest things is to to fail to listen, to not be a listener. Because the Bible clearly says that we're to be uh quick to listen and slow to speak, and we tend to reverse that. And so I think all of our relationships could improve dramatically if we could just address that one issue. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Uh I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Pastors Dale O'Shield Shields, and Steve Rivera from Church of the Redeemer. You know, you gave me a thought there when you talked about the conversation we had beforehand and you know we were able to learn a little bit o about each other and you were able to learn a little bit about the the background for this show and that sort of thing. So Somebody listening to the show right now might not know who you are. Some people listening do know who you are, but some of them don't. So, you know, start with Steve, uh, if you're comfortable doing that. You know, this is the show and tell portion of the show. You know, stand up and Five minutes or less, you know, tell us about yourself. Where did you grow up? You know, what are your interests? Did you know how how did you become a Christian? Why'd you pick this crazy job as a pastor? Things like that. It's a great question. I was actually born in El Salvador, Central America. And I lived there for the first two years of my life, uh, with my parents and my brother. Um and then we moved here, uh, to United States to Maryland, uh nineteen eighty. And I've lived here ever since, gone back to visit many times. I started attending a small church uh in the Silver Spring area, grew up going to church every time doors were open. Um, you know, I was it was in high school, I think, in college, um, when I really just began to dig into scripture for myself. and uh really begin to um believe uh what I was believing because it was my faith. And that's such an im it was a such an important transition for me. Um because up up until then, you know, it was so easy to just kind of r ride the coattails of my parents' faith. And I had to make my faith my own. And that was a huge turning point because then I was living out of conviction, not out of rules. You know, and I think it's it's a very important decision for each one of us to make because Um when when when your faith gets challenged is when it's gonna really be tested and then it's it's really gonna you're gonna tell whether it's your faith or it's somebody else's faith. And um it it makes it so much easier to stand up for what's right and for what's true. I you know, went when to University of Maryland. Um so it's uh it's uh it was an environment where it wasn't friendly to my faith. Um, but because of the conviction that God had given me, I was able to live a life that was um full of conviction and um with the grace of God in my life, obviously I was able to to walk in that truth. Um worked in physical therapy for about three and a half years and felt the calling into ministry when I was working at the clinic after I graduated from University of Maryland. And um uh Just came through serving, honestly. God gave me just a huge passion for the church and just to build the church of God. And um it's been the greatest decision I've ever made. And my life just to give my life to to to the church to build the kingdom of God. And we learned last week that you're married and you have two children. Yes. And how old are your kids? Seven and five. Yes, seven or five, two two boys. Okay, so you're enjoying life right now. Wait about ten years. It's busy, that's for sure, Troy. It's a busy season. Uh it's n it's one of the most rewarding seasons in the yeah. And I hear boys aren't as bad as girls, so maybe maybe the teenagers won't be so bad. Uh I had two girls, so uh I'm not gonna comment on that. I love my daughters. And and when you became a pastor then as Uh is there a special training program that Church of the Redeemer has? Or do you go away to seminary or some sort of Bible training? I came up under the training of Pastor Dale. Pastor Dale I actually taught at Regent University and so he's a he's a teacher as our and he he teaches Um the region in British British Columbia or the Regent of Virginia? Virginia. Okay. So just came up under the training of Pasherdale and uh have learned along the way, yeah. Okay. Alright, your turn? Okay, wow. I was born in South Carolina. And my dad and uh mom were in ministry. I was raised in the Southern Baptist environment. And my dad was a pastor all of my life and so I'm a I'm a PK. Grew up in a preacher's home and uh he served churches mostly in North and South Carolina and so you got initiated PK as preacher's kid. There you go. Good Uh and glad you know that. That's excellent. And when I was seven years of age, I accepted Christ in my life. I was I remember the evening when I was uh laying in bed at night, wondering uh having heard a number of my dad's messages by that time and uh trying to figure out whether I was gonna go to heaven when I died or not and and I felt that conviction in my heart. I asked my dad to come in and share with me the way of salvation. He talked to me about uh Jesus Christ, how I could invite him into my life. And it was that moment that I met Jesus and accepted him as accepted him as Lord and Savior. And then from that Uh the spiritual growth process was called into ministry at uh 18 years of age and preached my first message as terrible as it was at 18. Uh so uh that's uh in sort of the trajectory of audio recording is that somewhere? That would be terrible. That would be blackmail materials. That was a terrible message. Darn it's lost. So you uh it wasn't like for you his second career, Steve, yeah, in physical therapy. For you it it's Wow. And you got into ministry around the the same time that Steve got into the country. That's probably true, right? Yeah. It's making me feel very old. Well he's only he's still only a teenager. Yeah, there you go. That makes me feel better. I don't know how you got here in nineteen eighty and you're still a teenager, but Yeah. And you said you mentioned you have two daughters. Two daughters, exactly. Uh huh. Uh any other children? With two daughters and five grandchildren. Oh. And so uh Yeah. Two two grandsons and three granddaughters. Well by the way, you guys didn't learn this part about me, so I I think most of uh the listeners to this show know, but not everybody listening would know. So it's Turn about the fair play. Um I am married. I have two children. Uh uh my son is a special needs child, so uh he's the eternal child. Uh-huh. And uh have a daughter who's now in her first year of college or actually just finished up her first year of college. So talk about feeling old. Um and yeah, love her uh Uh as much as I love anything. Sure. Uh but that's not to say that, you know, ages like fourteen through seventeen weren't challenging. That's right. Those are rough years, I think, particularly for girls. I mean that's my understanding. I'm not sure what that is. I'm not a girl myself, so I can't say. Uh but uh yeah, was uh born on the West Coast, but uh grew up in the Chicago area, so I'm a big sports fan of the Chicago sports teams. Spent time in Florida about ten years, spent time in upstate New York, spent time in New Jersey. Now been in here in Maryland for the almost a decade and a half. Wow. Wow. Amazing. And it's funny, uh all those places I've moved Um it I've lived away from the Chicago land area for more time than I lived in the Chicago land area. And yet I still think if somebody were to ask me where you from, what's your hometown I'll still say Chicago. I'm not sure what that uh what that says. Somebody asks you the where you're where you're from. Do you say Maryland? Do you say El Salvador? What do you say? Uh it's a tricky question actually 'cause I I try to read into the question 'cause sometimes they do mean where were you born? Because they know they can tell I'm not from here. Some sort of a Spanish influence, exactly. So I read into it a little bit and they'll answer based on that. Yeah. Okay. I say El Salvador. That's it all for Elvis. Yeah, I usually well I I you Maryland is our home now and but but where you're from I will usually address it as my origin my ri state of origin. So So now how'd you end up in Maryland and how'd you end up with Church of the Redeemer? Uh good question. We uh in nineteen eighty-six uh we were actually earlier nineteen eighty four, eighty-five or so, I was serving at uh what was then called CBN University, it's now called Regent University in Virginia Beach, Virginia. I was the director of campus ministries there and also teaching in their uh one of their graduate programs. But we felt having grown up in the church I was That's Pat Roberts in the school, correct? Yes, yeah, it is And so I'd originally I'd always been involved in church life, church ministry, obviously growing up in it felt a call to ministry, but I was kind of living that call out and uh campus environment as a campus pastor, you know, in that that role. But I just felt a very strong stirring that we were n needed to be planting a local church. We believe very strongly in the value, the power of a local church to transform communities. And so uh it was from that that we felt a call to the Gathersburg area. And um uh that's a long other story in terms of that. But we sh we came in nineteen eighty six and uh just uh actually uh rented a high school room and I began to go around knocking on doors, inviting people to church and uh The rest is history, isn't it? Is that really what you did? You went knocking on doors. Uh knocking on doors and passing them out, inviting people to church and I I I haven't heard anybody ever share that. I'm sure others have done it, but I've never had anybody share that story. So what was what kind of response did you get? Uh very warm responses. I mean not necessarily a lot of people came to church. Our first service we had one family that came. And so I preached literally to one family that showed up. Uh you actually stood up and did the a message. I did the whole deal. You didn't feel like this a little more informal. You did it like that. Well I actually pre well I was I I I tried to be sensitive to the fact that there was one family. But as I say, I was very thankful they had like five kids, so they almost filled up a row, you know, in the in the little school we were in. And did they come back the next week? Absolutely. They were back for probably the next ten or twelve years until they moved. Well that's saying something because you know, there's You show up in the only family. There you go. You're thinking twice about coming back the next week, right? So good for them. That's pretty amazing. So you have special plans coming up in a couple of years, maybe? It'll be a thirty year anniversary. Yes, exactly right. Is that the kind of thing you would We haven't really thought about the you know the celebration in terms of it, but uh now that you bring it up Uh I guess we should start planning. I think it's a task of faster speed. No, I mean it's uh seriously. First of all, the fact that uh I mean the t I don't know what the uh the odds are. You probably do know. You probably could tell me the percentages of church plants that fail. Oh yes, about seventy percent I think. So the odds of you succeeding at all. And you started out with one family with five kids. Showing up that first Sunday. And now you have thousands in the church, correct? Do you know what the the actual number is? So that's astounding. And now it's multiple campus on top of that. So it's it's be becoming this really big thing. And on top of that, another thing that's really inc increasingly rare is you've been the pastor in one place for thirty years. Almost thirty years. Yeah, it's amazing. Awesome. It's just a an honor and blessing to uh to have that opportunity and privilege to to be Uh just a wonderful church family and we're just just very, very blessed and grateful for it. Uh and now and we only have a little bit of time left with and I want to give you a chance to uh plug your conference one last time. But real quickly, do you have aspirations of uh being, you know, the senior pastor of of uh your own church plant or of a eventual campus that uh Church of the Redeemer would have or you're you feel like you have a good fit with what you're doing. Um no. I I'm I'm just I'm planted at Church with the Redeemer. I know God has called me to to serve this church in whatever capacity is needed and I just uh I'm faithful where where I am and what I've with what I've been given. And uh just let God handle the rest, you know. Um just being faithful and being planted in that and God will open up doors that He wants for you. Now the the conference is starting tomorrow. Absolutely. Troy starts tomorrow at six o'clock P. M. I believe, six P. M. and uh goes through Wednesday morning and we'd love to have any of the pastors in the area just to be refreshed and renewed. to join us united pastors network dot com or church dash redeemer dot org you can find it there. And you guys aren't can't I didn't think they asked you not camping out in the same hotel or something. Like everybody goes to their own place and comes back. In the morning kind of thing? No, well there'll be some from out of town that'll be staying, you know, obviously in in in in late. No, no, no, no, no, no. We we left You guys do that sort of thing? Yeah, they say you gotta be brave. No more. That's right. We tried it in the past. Certain lessons you learn along the way Well it's it's been a pleasure getting to know you two. Uh thank you. Steve Rivera, pastor of the Frederick Campus for Church of the Redeemer, and Pastor Dala Shields, who is senior pastor for the entire entity that is uh Church of the Redeemer. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. It's been brought to us by Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? You want to thank our sponsor, Putman Fleming and Heating, how can we make you smile? Because I'm not sure I said it earlier. Did I say it at the beginning of the show? Yeah. Okay, I said it three times. They owe me more money. Absolutely. Uh visit visit us online at WFMD. com keyword faith Um my partner, John Sweither, should be back next week and if not in one of these weeks real soon he's out on vacation, a well deserved, hard fought for uh vacation. And he's getting by on like rice for meals because he gave all his money to his parents to go on a uh I think their fiftieth wedding anniversary uh trip or something like that. So isn't that awesome? Well about relationships. Anyway, thank you for listening. Till next week, one hundred sixty seven and a half hours from now. God bless