This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Good morning. Thanks for spending part of your Sunday with us here on your favorite radio station. as we established last week. I'm Troy Skinner. You can find us online at WFMD. com and Household of Faith in Christ dot com on the panel as we continue down our uh kind of Twisty, windy, uh inconsistent road of Chaclan Tulip, the doctrines of grace, the uh the tenants of of the five points of Calvinism as opposed to Arminianism, all that sort of stuff we've been talking about. We're gonna try to wrap that up as best as we can on this week's show. Here to help us do that is Imran Razby, Daniel Razby, and Josiah Bone Jelani. By the way, the name uh Josiah Bonjuwane might ring a little bit of a familiar bell because he was on the show as a guest uh a couple months ago. He wrote a book called The Head Covering and I encourage you to you can Google that or go to your favorite search engine and put in the head covering Josiah and you'll be able to get a a quick hit and find it. And of course the Rasby, they've been on pretty regularly now for the last uh several years on the Faith Debate, so hopefully their voices and their names uh resonate with you. And I'm not sure. We started talking about a limited atonement with some more focus last week. We never really got to irresistible grace and what was planned for this week was perseverance of the saints. So our Our goal as best as we can is to at least spend some time touching in a meaningful way on irresistible grace, sometimes called effectual calling, and the perseverance or preservation of the saints, which is also sometimes called eternal security by the way. So uh I'll start off. Irresistible grace. I think if God ordains it, wants it, it's irresistible, but he allows us a choice to resist it and uh refuse and go to hell. Um so in that sense that's the one point that I think I see both that that man can walk away. I think uh Saul did do that. He was chosen by God. He was anointed by God, and he chose not to obey him and not to repent and left and walked away from God. So uh in God's in in god as Josiah said, in God's mercy, he allows us the free will to walk away. I think there's something to that, but I think if God wanted specifically, Josiah, you're going to heaven, I don't care about your feelings, then that grace is irresistible. You wouldn't have a choice. I think God's capable of that. And I think he's done that many, many times. But I think in some cases he does say, Hey, I've I've knocked on the door, this is what it is and you know what You want to go to hell, that's your choice. You're going to hell. I'm telling you, this is the way to get saved. I'm reaching my hand out to you, drowning in this ocean. If you don't want to take my hand, I'll let you drown, but I'm giving you my hand And uh some people have just grabbed by the th by the back of the neck and pull them out of the water when there was this kicking and screaming. And that's kinda like me, I feel like. I mean p pulled me out when I wasn't really even looking, I wasn't searching, I wasn't doing any of that stuff. So That can be a little bit w one or the other. So the that's the the li uh the uh irresistible grace. Limited atonement, not everybody's gonna be saved. We d agree on that. Uh but how the definition i i is l is fleshed out, that's where we differ a little bit. And then perseverance of is of saints, same thing with Saul. Once saved, always saved, right? That's the perseverance of saints. You're never gonna once you've got your salvation, you're never gonna be not saved. So and and we're gonna go into another show later when where they have all these supposed evangelicals that are becoming Catholics. Are they now being unsaved? What's going on? So we'll talk about this some other time. But that's really the core of the of the f factors of tulip and I think the whole idea of that is trying to help people understand what God intends what he does and man can take it a little bit too far. Okay? We take everything too far. That's just who we are So let's go back to the core beliefs. And I think core beliefs were pretty much the same. It's just how far do you take it? And so just kinda what I was I I I want to piggyback on that. This is we were saying off the air before we started this this segment Uh is that that's also where I d Daniel, where where I would um disagree with the overall doctrines of grace is I do believe that God while his grace is certainly powerful enough to be irresistible. He intentionally uh uh gives you a small piece of it so that it can be resisted if you if if you so choose. And he does not force you to become saved. I do believe the salvation process cannot start until God opens your heart. But I also believe he does that for everybody at some point in their life because all uh nobody has excuse. We're all um uh uh condemned uh we have condemned ourselves. And so at at a certain point most people are exposed to that truth and then reject it and then they will go to hell. Um so that that will be where where I would m more more disagree and and now I sound most like an Armenian than I than I would than I would ever sound. Um and then on perseverance of the saints though I do believe once you are saved, now there's no going back. You're a child of God, you're in this camp, he that is not against us is for us, and now you cannot lose that. It's not possible to lose your salvation because if we could lose our salvation, we would. And I think the ability to lose your salvation would be works based salvation, meaning you have to do things to keep it. And if you didn't have to do anything to get it, why do you have to do things to keep it? And that that that would be where I so obviously the question uh I I'm sure if you disagree with me, Josiah, the question you're probably gonna raise is well what do you do with these people that look uh appear, make all appearances to have been saved and now now are not? And there's two ways to to to read that. The two easy answers are, well Um I don't know what's in their heart. Either they weren't saved in the first place, they're just putting up a good act, or they still are saved and they're just going through a temporary uh uh fallen phase where they they're they're trying to block out God's uh conscience that he's given them and and someday hopefully they'll they' So but uh it's really uh hard to prove one way or the other which which of those is true or whether they actually have lost the salvation. So then we have to go back to scripture and see what that has to say. And then I you haven't spoken yet, so you can talk but uh I mean Troy has been itching to say something it looks like as well. Well I'll just throw in that um I maybe take it a step further than both of you towards the Arminian camp again. Um or the opposite of the Calvinistic point of view. So I would think I believe that it is possible in all cases to resist God's grace, that there is nobody I I do appreciate what you said um earlier, um but Um I believe that there there is resisting and there's I mean, here's a few verses that just kind of illustrate that it's we're able to resist and Acts 7. 51, ye stiff-necked and uncircumcised in heart and ears, ye do always resist the Holy Spirit. As your fathers did, so do you. John five forty, ye will not come to me that you may have life. And I could go on. Isaiah 63. 10, Genesis 6. 3, but I won't read all these verses. But I do believe it's possible to resist um God's grace. And uh As in regards to perseverance of the saints, I definitely do not believe that um we necessarily have to continue being saved after being saved. I believe that God still allows us to have free will even after we're saved And so we can make the choice to walk away from God. I don't think there's any exterior force like Satan, um people around us Any exterior force, life or death, um I'm trying to remember how Paul puts it. Anything in all creation? There's nothing in creation that can separate us from God except ourselves. Because that's the one thing he doesn't mention. Um none of those other things can separate us from God, but if we walk away from God, he's still giving us the free will to do that. So I don't I mean that it's an interesting argument from silence because the the the Actually it's not from silence. I could quote I have ten verses here, I'll just quote one of them. That particular pass that particular passage he said that Paul lists all these things that he doesn't mention yourselves, and so that's an argument from silence. And the point what Paul's making there is he's trying to make it clear that 'cause th we're talking about our definition of terms, what foreknowledge means and all that sort of thing. All can mean different things. It can mean all meaning every individual particular thing, it can mean a particular subset, it can mean all kinds. So all doesn't necessarily mean all every possible uh thing in existence would be all. Um for ex I could say that um Uh you know, when you say that uh try trying to think of a of a good example of this. But anyway, the point is because all can be understood different ways, Paul's making an argument there saying uh that all of these things can't keep us. And you might well what do you mean by all? And he lists like just about every possi he he he lists like a half a dozen different things there to make it clear. In this case, I'm saying oh, there is nothing that can uh thwart this reality. So anyway, you said you have other verses though, so what other verses do you have? Well let me just throw a few of the hard ones out right off the bat. But um in regard to perseverance of the saints or once saved, always saved as it's more commonly called, um Hebrews six, four through six I believe totally destroys destroys that that that belief system. It says, For it is impossible for those who were once enlightened who have tasted of the heavenly gift, who were made partakers of the Holy Spirit. So these are people who had the Holy Spirit, were enlightened, and had tasted of God. And have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the world to come, if they shall fall away, so there's a possibility of them falling away, to renew them again to repentance, seeing they crucified in themselves again the Son of God afresh. That's one verse that shows that it is possible to lose your salvation. Yeah, that particular verse you're you're stretching it beyond the bounds of what it it must mean. Okay. And so if we use scripture to interpret scripture, how would you understand that That particular verse you just read in light of first John chapter two, verse nineteen, it says that they went out from us, but they were not really of us. For if they were of us, they would have remained with us. But they went out, so that it would be manifest that they are They all are not of us. So how would you how would you harmonize or understand the verse you just read in light of what John writes in his first epistle? Well, I feel feel like they're talking about two completely different topics. Um Adam Clark in his commentary, there's no no one knows exactly who John is speaking of in that passage, but he he gives a suggestion that possibly speaking of false teachers. And These false teachers used to be in the churches, but they were excommunicated or kicked out. And so, you know, they went out from us that it's manifest to the congregations that these people were not actually true believers. So that could very well just be speaking about a very specific group of people, such as False Two. But they were identified as part of a visible church. People would have looked at them and said, There's a Christian. But then they they left. Yes, so and John's saying no, they were never Christians. Mm-hmm and the fact that they left shows that they were never Christians. 'Cause it doesn't say that They were never teachers. It says they were never of us. Is his is the are you would you be arguing that the first epistle of John was written only to teachers in the church or are those written to No, but that specific verse you read could refer to any number of things and tea false teachers is one definite possibility. Uh it doesn't have to be interpreted in a Calvinistic sense. Okay, no, I okay, but who's us? He uses the word us twice three times, four times, I'll count five times. In this one verse he uses the word us five times. So who's us? It could very well be referring to the the council of apostles or you know, like church leaders and such, you know, they're not of us. Or he could just be referring to Christians in general. It doesn't really matter either way. First John opens with John talking about how he saw and touched and heard Jesus Christ. And I write this so that you can have this fellowship. that that I had. You can have the fellowship of the apostles, all of those who witnessed Christ. He's talking about what they already knew. Is that how you would understand the opening to the letter? Not necessarily. Just speaking to Christians but referring when he says us to perhaps, you know, h himself and the uh his fellow apostles. Okay Um the you didn't use the word, but what you're hinting at earlier, Daniel, was provenient grace, basically. Uh there's a there's a thing. Yeah, provenient grace. That's a very fancy theological term. The idea is that Uh God takes these people who are dead in their sins and opens their heart enough to give them the freedom to choose. So they were dead, but he gives them this little window of opportunity, if you will, a provenient grace There I I find challenges with that view because I cannot find a scriptural argument for that. I I I think it you can make some sort of a logical argument if your presuppositions are are more Armenian. But I I it's hard I'm hard pressed myself to find uh 'cause I've leaned in that direction once upon a time and I was challenged and I tried to defend what I was trying to say and I I wasn't uh able to and it's tied to some of the other things we are talking about. Uh if somebody believes that Christ uh um hi those he redeemed was a particular group of people Uh so at the cross he has a particular group of people in mind that ties intimately with the uh irresistible grace. Um because if he died for them, they are going to receive the call positively and accept him because he died for them. He had them in view. But otherwise for but if he died for Imran's great great grandmother, and she's now great great grandmother, she's I'm sure she's long deceased. And as far as we know, she wasn't saved. But if he intended, if he died on the cross for her, then for her he failed If he intended for her to die at some point in her life she would have accepted Christ as her Lord and Savior. But he i i i it it it does require a response. I mean it requires the that humans also desire to be with God. It th you know, god God is making a way for that relationship to be repaired, but it's we still have to Okay. I'm not uh I I I'm missing the connection with what I said, but that's that's fine. I'm I'm we've been do uh, uh For those who don't know, we record a whole series of shows at one time and we're now like in hour two, two and a half of talking about this and I'm getting a little f muddle-minded. So I'm sure what Daniel just said was exactly on point. and totally uh connected to what I was talking about, but I I wasn't hearing it, but I'm sure that's on the other hand. Well you're talking about Jesus Jesus having in mind a certain group of people when he when he died on the cross. I think he had in mind that he was saving the world. But the world doesn't always want him or accept him. So those that do will be saved from that. And uh on the same point, I mean uh it comes to mind, I don't remember the exact passage, but you can you guys know it better than me, is that, you know, Jesus says, Those whom the Father gave me I have not lost one. Right. That's from John chapter six. Right. That's not lost one. Except Judas, which he says also. But that that's what people say, well this is about the apostles. Yeah, but then why would yeah, it wouldn't it doesn't fit. So d he du uh Judas was not given to him. He was never saved. Okay, because he didn't lose a one. Because it says he would because it says except for one the son of perdition, meaning he was not a child of God, he was a child of the devil. I mean there was a So that the scripture would be filled, which then he says a few verses later So that will be why th I mean there's that and and the hard passage you brought up in Hebrews where hard for your your perspective. Uh which is that nothing uh well no you you would say What was the Hebrew passage again? Here's that passage is that is that it's impossible if you fall away to come back again. I think that's that's what the that I was bringing out the point that if you shall fall away, so it's actually implying that Christians can fall away. So I wasn't Trying to go into the theological nuances. If it were possible. If it were possible. It's not possible. So if yeah, if it's so I think it's a stretch. And same thing when you were t uh talking with uh Troy about who's us. I think you're stretching it. I think you're you're trying because you have a hard Arminian viewpoint, you're stretching that definition of us to be it could be this, it could be that, it could be this, it could be that But I think if you actually go back to the Bible and what does the Bible say and and and really test it with the Bible, your argument doesn't hold water there because it can't be just My point is it can't be a verse that's used to prove either side. It's just there's so many possible interpretations of that verse. You can't say this proves Calvinism because it could just as well. And I will agree by the way. I'll know we can take any single verse and prove anything. I think the the the point I've not done a very good job of articulating is if we take the whole of scripture you know, all of the books of the Bible, all sixty six books of the Bible, and we look at it in its totality and you take this passage and that passage and this verse and that verse and this author and that verse author and this context and that con you look at the whole tapestry of it that the Uh yeah, you could take away you say, well that verse doesn't have to mean that. Okay, but if you combine that verse, it doesn't have to mean that, with these other four dozen verses that are nuanced versions of that and when you pull them together they're all they have one big meta narrative that fit together um then you start to get to a point where they kinda sorta must mean that. So it's not that the whole doctrine rests and falls on one verse. But the totality of the verses make a compelling, consistent case from scripture has been my experience anyway. Uh and you were uh referencing uh Hebrews, that same book in chapter twelve, it uh it refers to Jesus as the author and perfecter of the faith Mm-hmm. So uh he's the author of the faith. We're not the author of our faith, he's the author of our faith, and that's why it's a gift from him. So it's it's i even within that same book We we find reasons. We find m more reasons to understand Hebrews differently than the Mr. But in what sense is the author of our faith? There again it's like Well what does author mean? Could just refer to the Christian religion. I see him as the originator of the Christian religion. Place author and finisher, so then it's a if author means originator, he was the beginning and the end of our faith. He is our faith Our faith is in Christ. I I don't know but I don't think it refers to that um type of faith that's within us that causes us to believe in in him. It's it's just faith in general, like um origin is Christ, 'cause Christ and the resurrection, that's that's th the defining characteristic of Christianity. I would say um th you know, just on a logical note And this is something that Bodie Bacham said very, very well, I thought, uh, if you could lose your salvation you would. And Bodie says uh he thinks you ha you have to be extremely arrogant to think that I'm saved and now there's a possibility that I could mess this thing up, but I haven't. Like if if you have to s you you say, look, I I could mess this up and potentially lose my salvation. But I haven't yet. So you're not on y now you you you're ascribing to yourself something that is so much more than a human could ever possibly do because if the our our nature is such that if there was a way to to to leave the fold of God we would and and and so that that's why I I d I don't really hold but again that's that's not more argument on logic as Troy is Talking about it. I agree. And that's that's why we can't lose our salvation. As a new creation, it's much easier to retain salvation And so we're not necessarily like we were before, where we just try to walk away from God. So why do I get sinned? I mean, Steve, there's still free will. If if we um if we If it were true that we could not lose our salvation, then it would also make sense that we'd never sin again as Christians. So I'll use the biblical and try to make your point for you for a minute. Troy, what maybe what do you What do you have to say about the parable of the sower and the seed that falls and springs up eagerly receiving the word grows big and strong and then all of a sudden you know it has no roots so it disappears But it has all this fruit apparently or it it not fruit as far as far as next generation see, but it really appears that it's growing and it does eagerly receive the word it says. I think it's the phrase that's used. They eagerly s received it So they liked it, they loved it, they they wanted more of it, and then they died out. So how would you equate that to losing or not losing your salvation? Well again I would call to mind uh first John chapter two and and then to put a a a even a larger point on that. Um these are not phrases that are original to me, but there's there's there are those that talk about um There's the church that we see and there's the church that God sees. So the church that we see is is often referred to as the visible church. It's what we can see with our eyes And then there's the church that we can't see because we don't have the eyes of God. We don't have His omniscience. So the church that only God can see is invisible to us. And so that's called the invisible church. It's not invisible to God, but it's invisible to us. And so to a point that was made earlier in our series of shows on this topic We can't know ourselves with precision who is saved and who is not. Only God knows with precision who is saved and who is not. So those that uh eagerly uh gobble that up and they want more of it or whatever that phrase was they use Daniel. They love it, they want it, they want more of it, or whatever you said. Um They had an enthusiastic response, but it we're not saved by enthusiasm, right? We're saved by God. Uh we're not even saved by uh raising your hand when somebody says close your eyes and raise your hand if you want to accept Jesus. We're not saved by that We're not saved by walking an aisle. We're not saved by anything like that. We're saved by the sovereign will and choice of God would be the reformed argument. And so those people that raised up enthusiastically Actually you mentioned uh the very first show we did on this cycle of shows, uh Charles Finney. That was one of the weaknesses of Finney's approach was it was uh high on enthusiasm and and he had a lot of manipulative tactics uh in his preaching, um uh he put benches there for people to come and sit with in in anxiety, the anxious bench it was called, and uh they were so overwrought with their sin. and he orchestrated things. Today we do that with music mostly and fog machines. Uh back then we we we did it and with lighting. Uh back then Finney did it differently and he got this exuberant response from people And it was said that, oh, Finney saved, you know, thousands and thousands and thousands of people. But what was the legacy of that? If you go back to that part of upstate New York, the generations that followed, those people were so hardened to the gospel because they felt like they were saved And they actually reject and tr and it was referred to as the burned out district. So that's connected to that parable. It was also burned out before him when Jonathan Edwards had come through some several generations before. He was a Calvinist and had preached a very opposite version of the gospel got burned out. Revival again under Charles Finney. I actually personally look at Charles Finney as a great hero, but um just had to throw that in. Yep, no, and and most Armenians actually uh Actually would. I I find I I I I'm not uh questioning Charles Finney's uh place in heaven. As far as I'm concerned, he probably is in heaven. Only God can know for sure. And there were some good things there. On the whole, I think he was far more dangerous than helpful for what it's worth. But um Uh we've mentioned it a million times and I I think this is a key verse and I'll I'll just read it. This is from John chapter six. This is uh picking up in verse thirty-seven and um all the Father gives me will come to me And the one who comes for me, I will never cast out. For I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. Now this is the will of him who sent me. that of all that He has given me, I lose nothing, but raise it up on the last day. For this is the will of my Father, that every one who sees the Son and believes in Him will have eternal life, and I myself will raise him up on the last day. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up on the last day. It is written in the prophets, and they shall all be taught by God. Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me. Not that anyone has seen the Father except the one who is from God, he has seen the Father. Truly, truly, or verily, verily, depending on your translation, I say to you He who believes has eternal life. That is a key passage connected to all the things we've been talking about over the last uh five shows. We've got like maybe a minute or so left. So if anybody has a short quick point or rejoinder or something they want to say, otherwise I'm going to begin to take us down the home stretch and as some people like to say, land the plane. Well, if you uh I wanted to go on a different topic for a second, just for a little second. You know, in this in this day of c of castle culture and and things like that, people get upset. We upset a lot of people. We say a lot of things that people don't like. So if you're out there and you're you're hearing some of the things and you enjoy and and you and you like what we're saying, even if if you're not sure you don't agree with what we're saying, but you like the fact that we're saying it and bringing it up then reach out to us. Get a positive comment. Reach out to the the s the radio station and say, hey, I like what they're doing because very quickly we could be taken off the air because we've ticked off too many people Just be aware of that. Fair enough. Appreciate that. Yep. Uh send your complaints to me. Anyway, that was Imran Razby closing us out. We'll also hear from Josiah Bonjohani uh Bonjowani. Uh Daniel Razby on the show too. I'm Troy Skinner. Find us online at wfmd. com and household of faith in Christ. com. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from oh right about now. God bless.