From the police state that is Frederick City, where freestyle with impact is like plowing pavement, in the gridlack that is Frederick County. Where people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. Just outside the Capitol of the former Republic of the United States of America Where religious freedom is increasingly a wistful memory. This is the Project Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Flubbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com keyword faith You can find links, podcasts, uh news items, the Faith Debate blog. Speaking of the blog, my blog is your blog, so email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com Whatever you send to me after I remove all your curse words and things that uh don't say flattering things about me, uh after I excise that stuff, I then post it. That's that's not true. I actually haven't gotten anything unflattering, but if I did, I would love posting that. So send me something unflattering. That'd be great. Uh forty-five blog updates go up there every week, nine a day, Monday through Friday Uh 'cause that's the maximum amount that will show on one on our page, the way our our uh website's designed. Uh nine postings will show a day, so I pull it up all the way. I'd go ten if I could, but can't go ten Uh so encourage you to go on there and see what people are saying to me. It's kinda cool sometimes. Sometimes not so cool. Don't forget to follow Jonathan Schweitzer on Twitter. You're on Twitter now? Sweitzer Jonathan is at SweitzerJonathan. Go look me up and follow me. I always knew you were Twit. It's only two hundred forty characters that I get to speaks, right? So isn't that what you call somebody that's on Twitter? A Twit? Uh Twit or a Tweet. A Tweet? I don't know. It's sweeter to say Tweet I guess. I don't know. Well Tweety was a bird. Anyway. So on the Faith Debate Show, uh again I'm Troy Skinner. That voice you just heard talking about being on Twitter is Jonathan Sweitzer. He's the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And the other boys that chimed in there real quick, uh talking about birds With uh Tom Wilde, good c former colleague here at the radio station, and is now for the last year, two years or so, is uh pastoring Brunswick First Church of God. So it's uh first time we've had him on the show. Uh we've known each other all this time. And we finally have Tom Weil on the show. What's up with that? Yeah, what's up with that Welcome Tom. Well hey, you know it's glad I'm glad to be here, but I didn't get the invitation till uh about a week ago. So what's up with that? Problem is I know you too well, Tom. Coming right back to you, Troy. Actually the uh the the subject that we're talking about today uh I think is a is an interesting one given who you are, Tom, uh before you became a pastor. When I think about Tom Weil, uh oh you know going back to the Tom Wild that I did, Tom, you ready for this trouble city? When did I meet you? The mirror is gonna get nine years ago, probably, right? It's about right. You know, you weren't a pastor then. No. Right? You're a pastor now, the last couple of years, but you weren't a pastor then. I was not. But you were a big time outspoken Christian And I still am. And you still are, then. But they kind of expect that from guys like Jonathan Schweitzer and now Pastor Tom Weill, right? And and host of the faith debate. Of course we're going to be religious. We're gonna talk about our faith all the time because that's we got one track of minds, that's all we know. But you were a sales guy, and yet you'd be walking around talking about your faith all the time. I remember this one time Uh there was a musical performer that was on tour or whatever and came through Frederick and stopped by our studios because their sister station is a country station. I forget who the artist is now But the artist and his band comes through and they they performed an acoustic set uh in our conference room and all that. Okay. Anyway, Tom goes out there to meet him in the lobby and first question out of his mouth is, Are you a Christian? You remember that? Well, he was wearing a cross. And, you know, I was given a little bit of the devil for doing that. In fact, not only that, I mean I gave him a hug and and uh we kissed each other on the cheek and I mean it was it was really cool. He was he was a Christian? He is a Christian. You were given the devil for that? Somebody came after you? Well one I won't say who course she doesn't work here any anymore, but uh So he came out and said, you know, that's not the place to do it. And I said, why not? If he's a Christian, I'm going to greet him as a brother You know, from a different mother, but nevertheless my brother. So did you in that scenario, did you like read you know, 'cause sometimes you can read people and you're like, you know what, I just know that guy's a Christian. I don't know what it is, you know, w you know it's spiritual or whatever, but there's you know, sometimes you can tell some people that are wearing a cross You can tell, you know what, they're just wearing it for joy. I mean, did you read the guy and you're like, okay, I really think he is? Or was it just a question that you were looking for an opportunity to share the gospel and if he wasn't you were going to use it as a chance to share the gospel. If you was then you'd just be happy about it. Yes. I mean uh he he looked like He'd be interested. Yeah. And he just he just had that look about him. I don't know. And maybe it was the Holy Spirit moving me to go over there and do that and I just did it. All right. So let's talk about that. Yeah. People that listen to this show, some of them are Christian. I'm sure some of them are not. But I know I get feedback from neighbors and people I go to church with or people that I know in the community and I think those that are Christian are most likely to come up to me and say, Hey, I listened to your show, blah, blah, blah, blah. Those that aren't Christian are probably going to be less comfortable because they're afraid I might like, you know, start knocking on their door and preaching Bible verses at them, you know, unexpectedly or something. Oh wow, they've heard you on a fundamentalist. But I know that there are people listening, they're Christian, uh, but they're not necessarily in church leadership, and maybe they want to be more bold in evangelizing, but they aren't sure how to go about that. And here's this story about a guy, like Tom Wilde, not a pastor at the time, who's very bold, takes a chance, but actually gets called on the carpet by uh your uh the person I think you're mentioning was your boss at the time, correct? Yes. Yeah, so it gets called on the carpet by your boss. Uh and you took a chance that the guy uh wasn't maybe a Christian. He could have been offended. Turned out that he was. So how often has that scenario played out for you? How often are you that bold? Whenever the door is open? Okay, how what does that look like? How how can I know when the door is open? Is there ever a closed door? No. Not really. There's never really a closed door. It's just it's more obvious that it's open. Uh it's it's just more obvious. When uh before I came to WFRE, I was And WFMD. And WFMD of course. Uh my my favorite AM station anyway. But I was working at a dealership and one of my salespeople came over to me and said, You need to talk to discuss where they want to leave. And I said, Well, let let them leave. It's it's okay. And he said, But you always talk to him. I said, Well, uh, you know, in this case, uh I just don't think we should. So this lady went out and then for some reason I really don't know what moved me, and again I I just blame it on the Holy Spirit. I went out to her, she was in her van, and we started talking, and uh She wanted to pray about it. And I said, well, that's a good idea. See how God is leading you. And uh I said, tell you what, do you mind? Can we pray right here, right now About the purchase of the car? About yeah, about whether she should do something. Uh you know, God isn't gonna tell her uh I Well, I'm not sure, but I don't think God is gonna tell her, yes, it's okay uh to spend that much money or this much money, but he's gonna tell her uh whether s the whole scenario is is right for her So right there uh in you know in the parking lot we held hands and prayed and Bottom line is she did come back, she did buy the car, and when I went back in and the salesman was saying to me, he said, Well, what were you doing out there? You're holding her hand. And I said, Well, we were praying and he says, You gotta be kidding. You're a weirdo? Yeah. Like, why were you doing that? Well why not? This is not a situation where you're where you're preaching the gospel, this is a situation where you're where you're identifying a fellow believer, and in the context of identifying a fellow believer, I mean both of these situations we've talked about right now uh you you identified a fellow believer. In identifying a fellow believer, you just made the connection. Hey, we're both believers, so we have a certain amount in common. And so let's go ahead and talk about it. That's different from sharing your faith with somebody. you know, in the workplace. I mean I guess in that moment you're sharing your faith with another believer, you're sharing together Christ. But I mean in terms of like preaching, you know, trying to win the loss, neither one of those situations are winning the loss situations. No. So do you also do it in situations where where you get into conversations with those that are unbelievers? Oh I do. I do. Um I can just be having a conversation with someone and they'll say something. Uh oh thank God You know, I got through that. Well, yeah, we should thank God. I mean God is responsible for for everything and He gives us blessings that we don't even know. Yeah, yeah. So you know that happens All the time. And how how is that received? Do people feel like uh here's one of these heavy handed everything's about God guys or Oh that's interesting. Let's have lunch and talk about this faith you seem to have. Troy? Uh I I do, but I don't know that I'm as as bold as Tom. Right. They were much more careful in concepting my spots. And I'm not sure that that's appropriate. I I it's I definitely have moments where somebody will say something like that And depending on the mood or depending on on what's going on, again, you know, maybe you call it a door being open, I'll I'll use it as an opportunity to say, well, you know, I between you and I r I really do thank God. I mean, I think he's really helping us out in this situation. You know, and and sometimes that's that's an opportunity to dig deeper, you know, usually it's just an opportunity for me to salt you know, my conversation with eternity, you know, with with with my appreciation for God and for what he's done in Christ, you know, and then p I I move on and and just see if something might open up later on. But it sounds like you well, it sounds like what we're grappling with here is whether or not it's appropriate to use something like that to break into a conversation. Is appropriate what we're asking? Yeah, I mean I don't know if uh if I can think of a time when I've walked up to somebody and boldly like Tom, like first words out of my mouth meeting somebody, Hey, are you a Christian? I'm not sure if I've ever done that Uh I have. But if I suspect uh maybe I have and I can't but I don't think I have. But if uh if I suspect that, you know, they might be uh open to something religious or unique whatever the fear out of your head. I tell you why. Because you know, if all of a sudden um The Ravens, let's say, or uh the Redskins win a game by thirty points and they've had a had a miraculous day. Everybody talks about it. Everybody's willing to share about it. They don't need somebody to say, Well, are are you a Redskin fan? You don't care. You just spread the word. Well, you know what? What is more beneficial to them? The score of the game, or to know that they have salvation and can live out eternity with God? I probably would just really get a kick out of how much you you you share the gospel. But I'm gonna pick a hair with uh split a hair with you on that. The Redskins is or or or sports in the United States is something that everybody shares. Like a good conversationalist, when you're getting in a conversation with somebody about anything You're always trying to identify the areas of commonality where you hold things in common. Now, all of us hold in common that we are spiritual beings. Right? And all of us hold in common that that we're here in the United States where we have freedom of religion, but it's not the case that we all hold in common a belief that Christ is the Son of God who has brought salvation, eternal life to the world. Right? And so so if if the Redskins win and I go out, you know, in society and I'm like, Yeah, the Redskins win and somebody else is a Pittsburgh fan, they're like, Oh, shut up You know, you know, and they they they rip on me. Well, you know, it's it's all good because that's the nature of sports and sports interaction. But that is not the nature of of spiritual conversation. Spiritual conversation is not that light and is inherently has a gravitas to it that when you approach it, you know, a heaviness. Yeah, you like that big word? Oh man, yeah. I have to write that down. Use it somewhere. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I learned it from Troy, I'm sure. But you know that's part of the problem. You know, it's it's not a matter of finding commonality. It's it it's a matter of Speaking the truth, sharing with somebody No, I agree with you on now that. I'm just saying that the illustration that you used, I don't think fits. Because yeah, you tell everybody about football, but but you tell everybody about football because it's uh you know it's just like the weather. You walk outside you you're like, oh, it's raining today, so everybody you see, oh, you know, rainy day today, you know, you just kinda make that that quick connection conversationally or or you know, there's a big election and so you're like, oh big election today or you know, whatever it is that we all have in common You know, and and and it's a conversational thing, but I I'm just saying, yes, we should share the gospel and yes we should be preaching the gospel, but I don't know that that Illustration is is a healthy one. As Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFFD, and we are uh Gleefully joined this week by Tom Weill, who's talking about the uh Brunswick First Church. I'm already blessed again, Tom. This is a good discussion. analogy or metaphor or whatever the right thing there is, but try to bridge what John's issue is. A a better example within the same vein might be I grew up in Chicago I'm a Bears fan. Are you an Obama fan? I w No. I am not. Were you not paying attention at the beginning of the show? He was trying to he was laughing. He thought it was funny I do too. Do I get to help make up some of those things that that you open the show with? I want to try a couple. But anyway, a difference would be if I walked around in what is you know, Ravens and Redskins and a little bit of Pittsburgh Steeler land and tried to convert people to become Bears fans. Right if I if I came It could be irritating. Hey how about those Bears? Bears, who care about the Bears? I I'm a I'm a Redskins or Ravens fan or whatever. No, Bears, Brian Hurlacher, he's the one, you know, Jay Cutler, he's cool, you know No, who cares about that? I care about, you know, RG three and you know Ray Lewis and guys like that. And they so I wouldn't have so if you're doing it with a serious intent to convert people Unfortunately, you would be obnoxious as a Bear fan. But if you're doing it just because you know there's a couple other people that are sports fans and you like to rise it up together then it's not irritating, it's something that kinda everybody's doing together. And so that's the thing about using that particular illustration that I think see, see my my read of you, and I'm just I just met you. I didn't you know Troy's known you for about ten years now. Eight years maybe? Eight or nine maybe eight or nine years. Somewhere in there. I'm just meeting you. My read of view is that is that, you know, I think that I would just have a blast hanging out with you. I mean you're just You're just a good guy, you're you're great to hang out with. Uh and so I'm not saying that you're overly heavy on any of these things, but there are people out there that would take an illustration like that and wouldn't have the same maturity that you have and they would go out and I think they would just be obnoxious. I mean maybe you are that way I don't know. You know, I'll let uh I I'll let you decide. But my sense is that is that that kind of illustration in the hands of a less mature person isn't going to produce the same fruit. I use that only because Troy was talking about Earl Lacker. That's that's the reason I brought that up. Yeah. Well sure. Sure. I mean you could talk about Anything. I mean anything that people love to talk about. The point is, the most important thing that can possibly happen in their life The most important thing, living out eternity with God, nobody wants to talk about that like they would Good news from something else true. I don't know if it's this week it's either this week or next week's show is our eighth anniversary. Because we started in November of two thousand four and now it's November of two thousand and twelve So break out the cake. Get the balloons. Get the Mormon Tabernacle Choir. I had I good old times. I'm not in agreement or disagreement necessarily so my my saying I'm in agreement on something doesn't mean I've been in disagreement up till now. But uh that caveat out there, I d I'm in agreement with Tom on the importance of getting the fear out of your head Yeah. And you got these uh newer Christians or maybe they've been Christians for a long time but they've stayed kind of an immature Christian or they don't have a lot of confidence in their faith or whatever, and they're not putting it out there. It'd be helpful if for you guys as pastors to hear advice, tips, uh encouragements, whatever. But for example, something that Seems to me might be a a practical application type of a of a piece of advice to give somebody is if you haven't done it before, you've never shared your faith with anybody, you've never kind of put it out there, taken a chance. start with what seems to be low hanging fruit. Like Tom saw a guy with a cross around his neck and he gave off this vibe of being kinda at peace with the world thought, you know what? Something tells you that guy's a Christian. So go up to somebody you think is a Christian and say something about your faith. It it's we it's a wonderful day to be alive. I've God's great, isn't he? And see what they say. You're checking out the grocery store and you think the person favor they're wearing a cross or something and say, Oh, what church do you go to? Or do you go to church? I see you wearing a cross. Something that's innocuous and safe. And then you get comfortable with that and you realize, okay, that's pretty easy. And you can ratchet it up and take bolder chances down the road. So I read a book recently that talks about uh people that are growing to be more Christ like. You read a p a lot of pictures, I'm sure. Yeah. No, it did. Yeah. A lot of diagrams and that kind of thing. And uh and you know the first stage like the baby stage, you know, and then like child stage, you know, young adult and you know, fully mature, you know, where there's a real sense that you know Christ. And what they said was that there's nothing that is a greater catalyst for moving somebody you know, uh deeper in their maturity level with the Lord than going public with their faith. and learning how to on a on a regular basis, on a daily basis, let their faith be a part of their public persona. That there's nothing that that has a greater um uh effect of moving things along cat catalytically, a catalytic effect on somebody's walk with the Lord than going public with their faith. And I agree with that. I I find that to be true. I work for a guy, I gotta tell you this story. I work for a guy who was um an is Islamist. Okay? And super nice guy. We got along really well. And I invited him to come to our Christmas cantata at church. Yeah, nice. And uh He said, No, I ca I I can't do that. I said, Well what about your wife and your children? I'm sure they would love it. The music is great. They'd have a terrific time. And he says to me, he says, Well I'll tell you what, if you'll go to Mitsi's with me it was a that's a gentleman's club uh using that word loosely, then I'll go to church with you. They call it Is gentlemen's club, but you never find any gentleman in it. No, you don't wait a second, though though you're telling me that an Islamist, he's an Islamist. Well a Muslim. No, no, no, no, he is. He's trying to say that that a Christian environment is the same thing as as a gentleman's club to to his mindset? No, he was just What was he saying? I mean that was a real backhanded slap. Well it was but You know, Oh I took that to me that he hung out there all the time and he wanted you to go with it. No, no. He was just trying to get me to to move off of my belief and go with him. and saying, Well look, you go with me to where I like to go and I'll go with you. So he really was going to Mitzi's. Well not all of you were he's been there. He's been there. And uh He was just trying to lead me off, I guess sort of like you know, tell me I would have loved that one. I would have sat I'd have looked him in the eye and said said, You are you realize that you're not gonna go to heaven Uh, even according to Muhammad's teaching, if you're doing that kind of activity, I mean what's wrong with you? I mean, i i it that's that's a pretty uh blatant disregard from for the teachings of Muhammad that he would uh that he would engage in that kind of activity. So so I would have gone I would have gone really strong with it with him at that point. What are you thinking? I thought you were a Muslim. I mean at that point I would have said, So you really don't hold your faith very strongly, do ya? That would have been a good statement to tell him and I didn't think about that, tell you the truth. Uh I was just surprised at yeah uh at his offer. Yeah. But I told him as much as I would like to see him and his family in church, uh, for the cantata I couldn't do that. That does raise a related issue though. How often had Jonathan, maybe you have because you've traveled in so many circles where Muslims are gone to these debates and these forums and those sorts of things I've never tried this and uh pardon me wondering if it's duplicitous to to think of it in these terms, but to in to ask to be invited or to ask if you could go to a mosque. Kind of with the hope that they'll then be interested in checking out your church. Have you ever done that? You know, along with obviously if you're a practicing Christian, you're gonna find things that you disagree with. But if you're genuinely willing to go and to to try to find things that are good, you know, while then being prepared to ask questions about things where you disagree and you're willing to have a genuine conversation where you don't browbeat somebody, I don't think that's disingenuous. I think that's That's an honest, you know, um uh American influence, you know, that that isn't necessarily disingenuous. I think it's called having a relationship. Precisely. And there's nothing nothing really wrong with that, but he was not a practicing. I mean that the there's no question about that he wasn't. In those situations when people aren't really practicing anything that's good and they want to take us to some strip club, yeah. Should we go? No. Yeah, I'll go to your strip club, but you're coming to church with me on Sunday then. How would that honor God? Yeah, yeah, yeah. The point is is that is that what they need to hear is that now as a man that that uh honors the women in his life, I would never do something like that. Because half of the world is woman And there's no way that I would let any woman in my life know that I that I do some kind of activity like that, that I would want them to feel that d so demeaned that somehow they're only good for sex and that's it. You know, I I feel like there's a standard there that that the the right way to approach such a low standard is to is to let them f you know hear in their s in their conscience, you know, how vile their activity is. Great. There goes Mitzi's as a sponsor of the show. That's right. Oh no, that's a real place. Our range. We might actually turn it into an advertisement. We don't want to do that. Plus it throw temptation out there for somebody, you know, and then bad enough the names out there now, right? Nevertheless, classic situation. That's good good discussion. So we're going to uh wrap up our show here. Thank you, uh Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Cross Hospital Example. Uh by the way, what am I reading these days? We'll get into this maybe in a c in a couple of shows. Preaching the whole Bible is Christian Scripture by Graham Goldsworthy. Nice. Highly recommended. If you're a pastor and haven't read Graham Goldsworthy, you've got to read it. Everybody's ready. All right. Thanks to our sponsor, Putt McFlanagan Heating. How can we make you smile? Check us out online, wfmd. com, keyword faith. Until next week. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service. Because we believe you deserve it. Pop and plumbing, how can we make you smile?