Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement. Because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putman, Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com keywords. com Faith. There you'll find links to podcasts, news items, and the Faith Debate blog. Our blog is your blog. So email me, Troy Skinner at clearchannel. com. I post what you send me 18 times a day, Monday through Friday. That's 90 a week. You don't have to read them all, but every day you're bound to find at least one thing that you find is interesting. So check it out. Again, it's WFMV. com keyword faith. On the Faith Debate Today, now I'd like to share with you things I've been reading. Well, we're gonna build the show today around something I saw recently. Maybe this is an old classic that you are familiar with and have known forever, but it was new to me, a movie called A Man Called Peter. It's from 1955. I had never heard of it. I was, I don't know, searching around looking for something uh interesting and new to watch and I love the old movies. I love movies from the thirties, forties and fifties particularly I am known uh on occasion to watch some nineteen twenties silence classics as well, and uh a really good sixties movie is okay, but I feel like uh Hollywood began to come off the tracks by then. So Uh anyway, here's this movie from nineteen fifty five called A Man Called Peter, and I'm assuming it's gonna be about the Apostle Peter. And it's gonna be some sort of, you know two thousand year old historic kind of perspective. And it's not. It's based on a preacher from the last century in America, although he's not originally from America. He's got uh quite the Scottish brogue So I Peter Marshall was apparently very well known and somehow had a blind spot and didn't really know uh who this important historical figure was, who died well before his time, around forty-seven years old, I think. And uh five, six years after his death they made this movie. So you can tell he was g made quite an impact uh during the Depression and war years. And uh it's amazing the the vigor with which he preached, but it's amazing to me that Hollywood this was a major Hollywood release put this movie out. Now to show you what a really good job the actor does who plays Peter Marshall in sounding like and really carrying the Peter Marshall role, it's unbelievable. So here's a snippet of the actual Peter Marshall. Um early nineteen forties maybe I think, circa thereabouts. A few years probably before his death, maybe uh maybe during or just after World War Two, somewhere in there I'm guessing. And this is the Peter Marshall. We're gonna listen maybe five minutes or so of this and it's just classic classic stuff. I hope you agree. At the beginning of the war there were two notable examples. You may remember the founding of Leothhenia and the loss of the city of Benares off the west coast of Africa. And at that time, one of the popular songs was, as you may remember, The beer barrel polka. And we read incredible as it seems. We read of survivors struggling in the water, crouched, wet and shivering in lifeboats, singing together. Roll out to the barrel and we'll have a barrel of sun. One might wonder at the choice of a song One might be aghast at the prospect of chasing eternity to the strength of the beer barrel polka, but there is nevertheless something thrilling about the spirit that can sing at such a time. even although what they sing seems inane and strangely inappropriate. I have often thought what a startling contrast to another maritime disaster which some of you will remember in May nineteen twelve when the Titanic went down I was a very little boy then, but I can well remember the special editions of the papers and the magazines with their heavy black borders describing the loss of this magnificent new ship which men said could never sink. This floating palace was in collision with a floating mountain of ice And I think I'd ripped open a hull that was claimed to be unthinkable. And when the orchestra, which a few minutes before had been playing Strauss Swalzies in the ballroom, gathered on the boat deck, and when the male passengers stood alongside with the cry women and children first. Lording lifeboats, as many as could be lower away. They waited patiently Hoping that there might be a chance of rescue, and then when it appeared that none was likely, the orchestra began to play, and they began to sing. But what did they sing? They sang, Nearer my God to thee, nearer to thee, e'en though it be a cross that grazes me, yet all my song shall be nearer my God to thee, nearer to thee. Nearer to thee. Now when you contrast that, with roll out the bottle, and we'll have a bottle of gun You can see what has happened to a nation's faith. You can see what has happened to the faith of people in thirty years, can't you? Taking eternity to the strains of the beer barrow polka. Or lay that pistol down or mare the ghost What a commentary upon the faith of immortal souls. And yet this stoic has always inspired us Heroism in the face of difficulty has put backbone into many a man, so that if the oyster were to say I'll never give in, I'll fight it out on this line. Though I'm bleeding and sore, yet I will never surrender. I must remember that the darkest hour is just before the dawn. I'll hang on I say that's noble, it's thrilling, it's fine, it's magnificent, but it does not adequately deal with the problem. The grain of sand is still there As a matter of fact, the oyster does none of these things because the oyster is at one and the same time a realist and an idealist. And you can be both. You must be both. In times like these. You must be a realist and an idealist. And a Christian can be and must be both. The oyster knows with the profound wisdom that God gives to the humblest of his creatures that nothing is accomplished by rebellion against hard reality. The oyster knows that you can't deny a bleeding, fatting, pain in your side. You can't deny blood. The oyster knows that no amount of stoicism can ever make life comfortable again Once a grain of sand has entered your shell, so what does the oyster do? The oyster begins carefully and patiently with infinite skill to deposit upon the coarse a milky substance which upon its sandy base is spun and wrapped in nature's magic to make of the gray of sand that for which divers are willing to risk their lives. A pearl, a thing of beauty and hidden light, smooth and warm, wondrous beauty wrapped around trouble. Now let us then learn from the oysters. For life is a difficult game and these are trying times. We have not yet begun to pay the cost of the war. There may be some in this very place, some within sound of my voice, who will be called upon to make the supreme sacrifice. There may be some who will be called upon to make a great renunciation To lay upon the order of patriotism that which they cherish most. There may be parents whose hearts have already begun to feel the pang of a separation that might last until the end of betrayal because blue stars are turning into gold. Troubles may come as we know not of. Pain may come to us and grief, for many horrible things are possible and many horrible things are yet to happen. But if the blow should fall, it will not crush us nor lay us low. For remember, Ezekiel did not set himself upon his feet, he did not pull upon his own bootstraps to rise from Dead horizontals? No, the Spirit of God raised him up. The Spirit of God entered into him. The Spirit of God came to him and changed him. So too may the Spirit of God come to you and to me. So too may the Spirit of God enter into your heart and mine. So too may you and I be changed, and God knows we need to be It's true. God knows we need to be changed. All right, that's the actual Peter Marshall. Um sermon, I'm guessing, circa nineteen forty-two or thereabouts. Now we're gonna hear An actual Peter Marshall sermon, but not delivered by Peter Marshall, delivered by an actor portraying Peter Marshall who sounds un It's unbelievable. This is a song that we're listening to. This choir singing is uh also from the movie. It's astounding A movie like this, I don't think it's made today. A movie that features long sermons, a song that features uh Christian choral groups singing traditional hymns uh and staying with it, not just a little snippet of it to give you a flavor, but actually the whole song. And listen to this. Or hearing them sing like the whole song It's unbelievable. Man Call Peter is the name of the movie. If you if you like old movies. If you're a feminist, you won't like the movie, I'll warn you right now. It's a definitely a uh uh a period piece. It's a movie for its time, so let's not forget that Want to thank our sponsor, Putman Point and Heating, How to Make You Smile. This is a special edition of the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. What we're going to hear him here in a second are actually two sermons taken from the movie. I've edited them to go back to back, so it'll sound kinda like one sermon perhaps, but these are two sermons From the movie. It's approximately ten ish or so uh minutes of uh of content of preaching in a Hollywood movie, believe it or not. It has been said that a new minister's first sermon, while he is still strange to his congregation and his congregation estranged to him, frequently has Far-reaching repercussions. You have your ideas of what your pastor should be, and your pastor has his ideas of what your church should be. I have come practically as a stranger to this imposing old church, a church whose history is almost the whole of this country A church whose traditions and legends I respect and find thrilling and exciting. Now, history and tradition and legends are fine. We couldn't live without the past. But past glory has never been enough for a nation or a church or even an individual. There's always the all-important now and the more important future. I look out this morning on a church not even half filled. Now, this in no way injures my personal pride, my vanity. I'm not here to recruit fans for a fellow named Peter Marshall. Nor am I here to sell anything. That which we call salvation. And the most comprehensive term it is It's a free gift. You can't buy it, neither can you earn it. It's not a reward dangling before the Christian like a carrot before a mule It's not something that the church has to peddle. And probably no idea hurts me more than suggesting that I am a salesman endeavoring to sell people on the idea of religion. I resent it bitterly Religion is not for sale. It's given away. So, today as I start my ministry in this hallowed old church, I think it only fair to explain that it isn't the church or religion that I'm trying to present, but Christ. Not the pale anemic, Nanbe, Pambi, Jesus, the gentle, Jesus, meek and mild, but the Christ of the Gospels. Striding up and down the dusty miles of Palestine, suntanned, bronzed, fearless, the knuckles big in his carpenter's hands, the Christ who upset the moneylenders, the Christ who had a good time at weddings And who would not allow his host to be embarrassed by running short of wine. The Christ who loved people, all kinds of people, but particularly red-blooded folk, for he himself was red-blooded. The Christ who called a spade, a spade, and who let the chips fall where they might. Not the Jesus of the perfume cloisters of pious sentiment, but the man who walked the streets of the city Stopping here and there to pass the time of day in places where you and I could not afford to be seen and getting a huge kick out of it. Let us be honest. Let us recognize that the kind of people that Christ liked best were not the kind that the average church appeals to at all. Think of the people whom he personally invited to be his friends Peter and Andrew, James and John, fish merchants, Zacchius and Matthew, unpopular tax collectors, Saul of Tarsus, an aristocrat, a persecutor of the church Mary Magdalena, once a prostitute. Joanna, wife of Herod's Chancellor, a so-called society woman. There are, I'm sure, in Washington, countless people who fall into just this category. We cannot afford to be indifferent to them. We must invite the sophisticates, the irreligious, the lost, and the lonely. We must extend to them our fellowship and introduce them to Christ. That is our business, nothing else. For Christ likes people, all kinds of strange people. People whom we might have to think twice about before cultivating. He wants them. He enjoys their life and vigor. He wants to hear laughter, a joke, if it's a good one. A man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, that he was, but it was in order that our joy might be full. That is the Christ that I know. That is the Christ that I will have dwell in this historic old church. His big carpenter's hands stretched out in welcome. James Fourth chapter fourteenth verse For what is your life It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little while, then vanisheth away. What a queer thing for James to say. It's a strange statement to find in the New Testament, is it not? Is he being cynical? Is he joking? Well, hardly. If you look at the context in which this statement appears, you will see that James is speaking to those who make great assumptions as to the future With never a thought of the contingency of life itself. He's addressing himself to those who never think of God and who act and live as though they had a mortgage on time Those who give no thought to the fact that they may never see tomorrow. Those who act as though they had a long lease on life As though they had immunity somehow. As though that cold and clammy hand of the dread messenger would never touch their hearts Yet, death inevitably comes to the king in his palace, the beggar by the roadside. The animal and his whole. But what is death? Is it to be blown out like a candle in the wind? Is it a shivering void in which there is nothing that lives? Is it a cold space into which we are launched to be evaporated or to disappear? Are we to believe that a half-man eternal humorist tossed the world aloft and let their destiny a chance that a man's life Is the development of a nameless vagrancy that a hole in the ground six feet deep is his final heritage? There are a thousand insane things easier to believe than these How can we believe that human personality will not survive when one who went into the grave and beyond came back to say, Whosoever believeth in me shall not perish? But have eternal life. In a home of which I know, a little boy, the only son. Was ill of an incurable disease. Month after month, the mother had tenderly read to him, nursed him, and played with him, hoping to keep him from realizing the dreadful finality of the doctor's diagnosis. But as the weeks went by and he grew no better, the little fellow gradually began to understand the meaning of the term death. And he too knew that soon he was to die. One day, the mother had been reading to him the stirring tales of King Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table, and of that last glorious battle in which so many fair knights met their death. As she closed the book, the boy lay silent for a moment, then asked the question that had been weighing on his childish heart. Mother, what is it like to die? Mother, does it help? Quick tears sprang to her eye, and she fled into the kitchen, supposedly to tender something on the stove. She knew it was a question with deep significance. She knew it must be answered. She leaned for an instant against the kitchen door and breathed a hurried prayer that the Lord would not let her break down in front of the boy, that he would tell her what to say. And the Lord did tell her. Immediately she knew how to explain it to him. Kenneth, she said, as she returned to his room. You remember how, when you were a little boy, you would play so hard all day that when night came you were too tired even to undress and would tumble into your mother's bed and fall asleep? In the morning, much to your surprise, you would wake up and find yourself in your own room, in your own bed. You were there because someone had loved you and taken care of you. Your daddy had come with big strong arms and carried you to your own room. Kenneth. Death is like that. We just wake up one morning to find ourselves in the other room. Our own room where we belong Because the Lord Jesus had loved us. The lad's shining, trusting face looking under hers Told her that there would be no more fear, only love and trust in his little heart as he went to meet the Father in heaven. He never questioned again. And several weeks later, he fell asleep just as she had said. That is what death is like. Yet, in the life beyond, the question inevitably comes, with what body do we move Certainly not with such a body as ours is today, not with rickets or a clubbed foot, not with twisted spine or withered arm, not with colours hands or wrinkled brow Not with a heart filled with the broken glass of vanquished dreams, not with the drunkard's thirst like the fires of hell, nor the sensualist lust like gnawing worms Not with the bitter memories of a son's crime or a daughter's shame, not with the scar across the throat of the maniac's frenzy mate, no Not with these do we make our entrance upon that larger stage. We rise, not clothed again in dying clay, not guard once more with the faded garments of mortal flesh. But with the shining mercy of God. If the Bible is true and Christ has not deceived us, There awaits beyond the curtain a life that will never end, a life of beauty and peace, and love. A life of reunion with loved ones who, like ourselves, have trusted in the very presence of God. There should be no more pain, no more sorrow, nor tears, nor parting, nor death anymore. AIDS shall not weary, nor the years condemn. We shall enter into that for which we were created. It shall be the journey's end for the heart and all its hopes. It shall be the end of the rainbow for the child explorers of God. We have his promise for that. Let us pray. Our Father's God, to thee who are the author of our liberty, and under whom we have our freedom, we say our prayer. Make us ever mindful that we are the heirs of a great heritage and the trustees of priceless things, lest we forget the price that was paid for them or the cost that may yet have to be met to keep them. Make us strong, O God, in conviction, with the insight of our perilous times, and in the courage of our testing It's astounding to me. Not only do they include the sermon, they include the prayer. What you've just been listening to is A long snippet from a movie called A Man Called Peter, a man called Peter from 1955, a story based upon the life of Peter Marshall, a famed uh pastor from about what, I guess, sixty years ago now. His wife Catherine Marshall wrote some memoirs. I think they were published and and uh were successful as a book. It then based the movie on it and the movie was reasonably successful. Richard Todd plays the character of um Peter Marshall there and does a fantastic job. Sounds just like him. It's uh it it's really just astounding to me that that movie got made and was as successful as it was. I wonder if they made a movie like that today. Actually they'd have to Obviously we have to pick up the editing and the pacing of the movie a bit because of today's tastes. But would people go and flock to see a movie that had five minute, ten minute sermons in the middle of the movie. Would they? I wonder. That's a fair question, don't you think? This is a Frederick Faith. Heck, we don't even like to go to church and listen to sermons. Much less go to the movies and listen to them, right? This is the Frederick Bay Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Want to thank our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Want to thank uh Jonathan Sweitzer, co-founder and longtime partner of this show. Not with us today because of scheduling conflict, but He'll be back in short order, if not next week, within the next couple of weeks for sure. Thank you for listening. Again, I encourage you to visit us online at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Again, send me an email, Troy Skinner at clearchannel. com, and just see if I don't post it up there. Thanks so much for listening to 167 and a half hours from now. God bless.