Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm your affable, lovable, joy-filled host, Troy Skinners. Yellow shirted. Joined this week by the uh That doesn't mean cowardly though, just yellow shirted. Yellow shirt what is that? White? Yellow, what is that? Yeah, look You're becoming like me. I've been talking about your clothes for so long that you have just fallen into my pattern. Yeah. Oh I've lost interest now. He's senior pastor at Crossroads by Chapel. And uh Ken Gosnell is the area chair for the C twelve group in the Washington DC metropolitan area. Uh soon to be coming to a neighborhood near you. Uh he's also pastor at Restoration Point Christian Church in Frederick. Rick. And we're talking about how to do business uh as a Christian, how Christ would have people do their business. Um C twelve is a networking, mentoring, accountability group that uh gets together uh monthly, I guess. Peer advisory board, monthly meetings. People talk about what would Jesus do if he were in my situation uh kind of a thing. And We talked in the very first show, I think, about how what percentage of businesses we think might be run by Christians and it was, you know, uh five ish percent maybe. Three to five percent. So we think maybe there's a thousand of them out there and so Ken's out there trying to find them. So Uh I wanna ask you, how do you find them? That one smells like it's run by a Christian. I'm gonna go knock on that door. So if people know of a Christian They let us know about it. There are a number surprisingly a number of businesses that will have some kind of faith on their website. So maybe they'll have a verse of scripture or Some symbol that represents the problem. Although I gotta tell you, my experience is then with the j unfortunately, a very high percentage of the businesses that would put that out there as part of their marketing message are frauds. They're putting that out there as like it's a seal it's like the good housing seal housekeeping seal of approval. What? No, no, no. The people that come to advertise and would use that don't really mean it. I've had clients over the years that have said, you know, we're a Christian business and it's a big part and you I want to mention that and I'll say well you can but There are jaded people like me who have been burned and that means nothing. In fact my radar gets even more intense. Red flags go up. Okay, so you're truly a Christian, you don't have to necessarily mar so I'm just saying Because you are you guys train these CEOs for their business to be used for the sake of the gospel. So does that mean that their advertising includes a fish or or like how how is it that I walk into a mechanic shop you know and I want my car to be taken care of. How's how is a CEO gonna gonna lead his company, you know, to do that right? Furthermore, what if you've got to hire Right? Whoever involved who you hire based on whether or not they're Christian, can you? There is a lot of flexibility to what CEOs can do and how they can run their companies. Um what we encourage our CEOs to do is hire based on values. So if you s establish a company and you develop your mission statement and your values and your ma values reflect Christian biblical principles When you hire people, you're gonna have to hire them according to your values. And so that process alone it helps a lot of companies Sounds like profiling to me. I mean like if you say do you add as one of your values that you want people to sacrificially, you know, lay down their lives to serve others You know, like like that kind of language you know Christians will p key in on that and other people might not. Right, certain companies do that, absolutely. But like here's the thing I mean, there's the uh I think it's pretty well known by most that the founder of Chick-fil-A is a Christian and he runs his business kind of I don't know if he's a member of C twelve, I have no idea. I don't think so. But uh I forget his name that's the So the local owner of Chick-fil-A, I guess he's a Uh it's a is it it must be franchise. Oh, yeah, yeah, okay. But the the the big international company that is, Chick-fil-A, is run by a Christian family and they And one of their missions, one of the reasons they do what they do for as their business model is they believe that teenagers need to be impacted because they're the future generation that will be out you know leading the world and they feel like if they can have and most A lot at the most. A lot of teenagers, their first real job is at a fast food place. So they feel we can hire these hire these teenagers to come work in a fast food place, which they're gonna do anyway. Right. Might as well put them in a Place with Christian values, teach them about service and it's my pleasure to serve you and all that kind of stuff that they do. But that doesn't mean that all the franchisees are necessarily good Christians. I'm sure there's a bunch of knuckleheads who are Frogulant Christians who or maybe not Christians at all that are running Chick-fil-As. So you don't know what you're gonna get. But it is a bit of a dog whistle, right? Christians kind of begin to know that oh Chick-fil-A, they're closed on Sunday. I'm going to support them because they have my values. So it is a bit of a dog whistle. Okay, so but I still haven't heard how you use your business, like Chick-fil-A or, you know, a mechanic shop to win people to Christ. Do you actually use it for the sake of the gospel? Yeah, absolutely. I we're not prescriptive, meaning that There's no one size fits all for every business. Right. But we do challenge our uh business owners to uh really care about the souls of their uh employees. And so they don't just look at their employees, for example, as somebody to produce a product. That's one component of it. Right, but there's an ethical problem there. They work for you. You pay their check. Right. If they say no to you, are they gonna not get promoted? Are they gonna get fired? No, absolutely not. Right, but isn't there isn't there an inherent pressure that I mean this is what we're told uh you know that um that managers in the workplace, you know, whether it's at you know uh Whatever large company that they work for, Beckter or whatever that managers, you know, can't share their faith in the workplace, that it's unethical because there's too much pressure. for people to want to say yes to them so that they can get promoted. I mean how do you teach that might avoid that. Right. That might be true in individual companies where you are reporting but as a CEO and a business owner, you have the authority to run your business. As you see fit, th the the law provides you that opportunity. And we've been in existence twenty years. We've never had a lawsuit against any one of our businesses. Sure, I'm with you, but you still haven't answered my question. The question is is it unethical is there an ethical line where somebody in authority on Saturday is making a uh an appeal to somebody about how they believe that that the person that is under their authority would would be Inclined to convert because they feel like it will improve rather cloud Their favor with the boss. You know, they're in the company and they want to get in the boss's good graces and so uh people are uh being uh almost encouraged Right. We would never it would be unethical if you put pressure It would be unethical as a pastor if you went and visited some elderly woman and put pressure on her to convert or to give money to your church or whatever. So we would never prescribe Oh man, I've been doing that all the time. I can't do that anymore. But if you have a if you care about your employees, I mean I I've been in many different positions throughout my career. And in every position that I've had, I've always cared about the people that reported to me. Genuinely cared about them. I didn't you know, just I wasn't trying to convert them just to receive a gold star somewhere. I prayed for people. I gave money to people. I helped people because I genuinely cared about them. If that provided an opportunity for me to share the gospel with them They welcomed that and received it. I never had anybody I prayed with my people. Uh prayed with every new em employee that I had. I've never had anybody come to me and say, Ooh, I hated that you did that. Because they they sensed an authentic genuineness that I cared about them as a person. Not just you know, and I shared my faith with them faith with them. They had a uh free will to accept or reject that. Sure. It didn't change my perspective of them because you know. But uh they never n none of the people ever said, Oh, I hate that you do that. They appreciated the fact that I was genuine and authentic. I I wasn't perfect. I was still I still made mistakes as a boss. I still made mistakes as a human. But they recognized that overall I was really trying to live out my faith. And that's what we challenge our CEOs to do. And so it's not so much an overt evangelism where they go and sit down and say, you know, have really been meaning to talk with you. You know, I uh I think that you know Jesus Christ. Uh is is just amazing and I yeah, I think you should consider giving your life to Jesus Christ. It's not an overt thing like that, so much as it's as it's uh interacting with them in a caring, compassionate manner. that ends up opening them up to considering, you know, you're so kind. Why are you like that? Well I'd love to tell you sometime if you're interested. Or maybe it's supporting a mission and it's a business you know a lot of businesses support lots of different Sure topics right maybe they support the little league team or they support you know or Compassion International or Frederick forty eight forty eight. And so maybe they say to their employees, hey we're going to support this organization or we're going to support this cause go out and spend the day. in this particular situation. So I mean there's there's millions of opportunities to be about kingdom business and our day to day business. Who's that word kingdom again? Everybody's using it these days. Did you notice that? Kingdom is a buzzword. Ever since Jesus Kingdom of God is at hand. What was he thinking? Ever since that movie Kingdom of Heaven came out. Ever since Jonathan Schweitzer, the uh King, I mean uh senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And uh Ken Gosnell is the area chair for the local C twelve group, also pastor at uh the point. uh Restoration Point Church here in Frederick. Um we've been talking about you know what these uh business leaders are aspiring to and and all the different angles we can take on that. I want to take a moment and You're not going through the thing. They um they're te they they're teaching each other and learning from you and all the C m C twelve materials and from the Bible itself, all the things they should be doing. And they ch go away for a month and they come back and And the most common version of this scenario would be what? When they say, man, I'm really struggling with this. What most commonly is the this that these Christian leaders are having a hard time doing in their business. We have individual coaching sessions with them between C twelve. Okay. So that's that's another sixteen hours a year. I'm good with this math. Sorry, eighteen hours a year. No more than that. All at the least cost of interesting. Yeah, you're right, it's a very variable in the Washington. So like travel time. So they come back. And some people say that there's nothing like it, that they wouldn't miss that meeting because there's Okay, so the question is what do they most say that they want to do the next phone call after the meeting and you're following up and they're saying oh I'm really struggling with this, what do you most commonly hear? Main issue. I mean the the issue that we talked about. But I mean the the issues that every business owner deals with. How do I make payroll at the end of the month or at the end of the week? How do I manage my products and services so that I'm generating cash flow in an effective way? Um how do I do my business as a ministry for us? That's one of our would be one of our top fives. I'm thinking about doing this concept or this idea, I'm thinking about doing this, how can I do this? How do I handle my employees effectively? How do I hire and fire in a way that is g helpful to our company but also doesn't wound or hurt the person? So for the most part the the issues that they're struggling with are not unique to a Christian context. So how often do you find yourself having to slip into pastor mode and deal with Moral struggles that they're having. Yeah, do you ever have guys come in and say, Man, I really, you know, got wasted you know, couple of weekends ago. We don't have that We don't have that issue, but we do have guys that come in and say that they've got some spiritual issue that's going on their in the in their life. They're human beings just like everyone, especially marital issues, all those kinds of things. Financial issues. Parenting parenting issues. Uh but you know I don't I don't prescribe to be the uh even though I'm a bivocational pastor, um I I you know I really leave the pastoring for the the pastors to do. My focus is really on helping them uh accomplish their goals, set their vision, uh help them with the peer advisory board run the meetings in an effective way so that we get something out of it. Um if we're going to talk about some of those issues, we're going to talk about it from a perspective of how's it related to the business and how's it I mean obviously we talked about some stuff. What are the best practices, how to as opposed to the deeper spiritual. I mean y you deal with the deeper spiritual issues, but in the context of vision and strategy How do I handle my day-to-day business issues right now? What's going on in my business issues? you know, be members of C twelve groups and you say, well the larger churches maybe uh might have, you know, a a pastor or two uh join a C twelve group. But if they're joining the group and it's not primarily dealing, at least not in an overtly way with you know spiritual issues, but it's day to day business operations Uh do these churches they don't have to s make a profit. We talked about that in the very first show we did together. The churches don't have the same kind of business dynamic. So is that a square peg and a round hole? Or do the churches have to be on guard against the secular business model mindset? Well, I don't think it's not a secular business model mindset. Our our biblical our business mind mindset is all biblically based. So Anything else? Okay, well, okay, think of the word secular. A business model mindset as opposed to a church model mindset? Do they have to be Is there a difference between a biblical business model and a biblical church model? I would say no. I would say they're very s similar. I think the problem that our churches have gotten into is we try to run our church I've never asked that question of myself. Like a secular business. I think I think they're very different actually, myself. I think that we get in trouble when the church is a very good thing. I think when a church tries to run itself like a business, it gets in trouble. And I think when a business tries to run itself like a church, it gets in trouble. I think that a Yeah, but but we just added a qualifying word to that whole discussion. a biblical business model and a biblical church model. Right? So often when we when when we think of churches running themselves like businesses We're thinking to ourselves that they're going out to the business world and finding what works in the business world, i. e. the world, right, you know, not the church. the business world and then bring those practices into the church and so then it turns the church into something less of an organism right of people. But but if if he's describing He's describing an ideal and the ideal is that your business is no different from Your church, you know, that that we go back to being how we spo we're supposed to be, well, back in the garden or something, you know. Uh that back in the book of Acts. But the structures would be different, right? Like your business is the CEOs of that join your CEO group are CEOs. Right. Right? It's not a plurality of elders, for example. Right. But they have the peer advisory board Which would still serve as an advis Elder Board, if you will. In that com component. So yes, there's some unique niches that each each would have. But the over arching ideas or overarching ideas would be the same. We're trying to have a kingdom impact. We're trying to serve people. We're trying to love God and love. Okay, so the devil's in the details. Would a would a business ever get to the place where you've got uh you got four or five guys that are like the elders of the company? Yeah, you got companies like that out there. You know, we're your partners. You know, we're inviting you to be a partner. We feel like you you've you've shown that you have the the the expertise, you know, the follow-through, the effectiveness, and and so there's certain business models that are built on an eldership type model. I mean I'd never thought about it before, but it's actually the case. You know, you do have that kind of a scenario. And so maybe somebody could rise up through and become a partner because they prove themselves to you know, to be able to handle things at that level, other people won't be able to, and so they're just right to be deacons. If you're gonna argue that that would be the biblical model or a biblical model. Then you know C twelve has to be encouraging all these CEOs to go to more of a partnership Well so that I was anticipating that question. When you guys talk about biblical models of management What is give give me can you give me like a a short version? What is a biblical model of management? Well I think the that's a that's a good question. I think the biblical model of management is to model um the fruit of the spirit that w we talked about last week, you know, making the Holy Spirit Lord of your life, making sure that He's not on the fine line. that he's an intricate part of what you're doing, how you're managing people, how you're dealing with people in an effective way. I think modeling with Jesus how how Jesus taught management would be a would be a a leadership model. Like you're there to serve others. We're there to serve others. On how we deal with customer complaints. Every company has customer complaints. Uh-huh. Right How do you deal with that as a company and an organization? Some people throw it aside and say, Oh, I don't care about the customer. I d you know, if they complain I don't you know, we don't need them, we don't care about it. Our mandate from a Christian perspective is a customer to complain is a wounded soul. And so our job is to go out and the Bible tells the us that we are to heal the wounded soul. And so it's our responsibility as a Christian CEO and business owner to try to solve customer complaints. So we looked at that from a biblical perspective, but then we looked at it from a from a business perspective and the studies show that one out of every twenty people complain about your service. Uh or excuse me, one out of every twenty that complain about your service is the one that you hear about. So for every one that complains, there's twenty others that didn't complain. Now, if you can convert that one person that complained and satisfy their need, that they're 87% likely to do business with you again. and tell fifteen other people about your business. Of the fifteen other people, seventy-five percent of them are they're gonna do business with you. So it is a compelling business perspective to handle your customers in a way that's effective and handle complaints. But we get it from a biblical mandate, right? Okay. Okay, so is there is there a um in terms of a biblical mindset a reproduction orientation that you're to reproduce Business, you know, uh people that are good at what they do to reproduce um skills and and training or to r you know to to reproduce after yourself to to raise up other people that would be able to run their own businesses? Sure. We we have a a focus on training our employees to making sure that they're equipped to do the task that they've been given. And obviously part of that would be that we want to grow the best we recognize the part of the best businesses are the ones that have a focus on training. I mean you look at for example the Ritz Carleton, uh they train you know, top rated hotel. They're not a a Christian organization obviously. But they spend a lot of m uh money every year on training. And they they even equipped, I mean there was a study done recently that they looked at from a hotel perspective the top two thousand complaints that any customer might have when they come to the Ritz Carlton. And they equip their people to spend up to $2,000 to solve their complaint. Now what they're doing is they're training, they're raising the bar, and people like to go to that hotel chain because they recognize that they're gonna get great service. So that is a biblical perspective, if you will, though we need the focus on training to rise the bar so that people come to our business. Are you using the name drop, by the way? A th is there a a well-known company that their CEO is a member of a C twelve group somewhere that you know of? Uh the probably the largest organization, it's probably not well known, but it's the called a K f it's called K Force. It's a Nasdec traded company who's the CEO's a part of the C twelve group. Okay. And how large is their company? Uh I'm not s I can't remember off the. Actually C twelve was focused on CNN a few years ago. The reason I asked was if you were named something I'd know, I was gonna try to think if I could like say, yeah, identify something different about that company. But yeah. Yeah, I got I got more questions. I don't know. Can we come back one more time? I feel like there's a muff I mean you don't have to. No, no, wait, wait, wait. Jonathan has more has more questions, but Ken, do you have more answers? Oh, there you have it. Smooth. What was that again? I didn't know I didn't catch that. So uh in like sixty seconds. Frederick 48. Frederick 48 on September 27th and 28th, we're calling all of Frederick to get all of their friends, everybody that we know, to give more money to those charitable organizations that help those that are that are most in need in this difficult economy, these difficult times. to to give to those organizations for that forty-eight hour period and our goal is to give more money in in a two-day period of time than we have ever given before as a city So that's our that's our hope and our goal. Two days to to to to expand uh the number of people giving and the amount that is given on that day. You get to choose the organization, whichever one you think is best giving. But that we all do it together on that forty eight hour period of time. September twenty three. Will be the what will be the most giving for the city ever in two days. They tell me I'm not supposed to give numbers. Oh. Because uh 'cause then if you don't hit it then They think that you failed. Nonsense. You know? Right. So all right, so you can help me figure out what number we should go for. Seventeen. What? Million dollars. Pittsburgh did in one day over six and a half million dollars. That's unbelievable. Yeah. Well Pittsburgh can do it for Crane Allen. That's right. A bunch of Steeler fans can do it, whereas the Ravens and Redskins fans can do it. Well Maybe not the Redskins fans, but maybe the Redskins. Oh a lost half of them right there, didn't know. That's uh Jonathan Pfeizer, senior pastor across Rhodes Valley. This year the Redskins will do it. This year's the year. And no uh well we'll find out. Yeah, it could be. We'll find out soon enough. Ken Gosnell is uh also a pastor at Restoration Point Christian Church in Frederick And uh the reason we're having on the show though primarily to talk about the C twelve group. He is the area chair of that uh national organization. I'm Troy Skinner. I want to thank our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile, by the way? What have I been reading? I think it fits the context to what we've been talking about. Jerry Bridges, the Pursuit of Holiness. I I I've done this a couple of times and I do it now. If you are one who leads book studies, b you know Bible study type thing. It's a good book to use for that purpose. I would I would recommend it for for that usage. Visit us online, wfmd. com keyword faith. Uh there you'll find a daily Monday through Friday updated blog. Please email me Troy at WFMD. com because my blog is your blog. Till next week. Thanks for listening. God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, Honest answers an amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Pub and plumbing, how can we make you smile