Broadcasting from the West Side of Big Brother City and In the heart of Gridlock Keunty, where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement. As people continue to place their hopes in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Fate debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Eating. How can we make you smile? You can visit us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. It takes you right to the Faith Debate page where there's the blog and there's news items and the podcasts of this show and links to all sorts of uh world religious traditions and Actually all the different varieties of of of Christian belief are kind of represented on there as well. And uh the blog, our blog is your blog. So email me Troy Skinner at clearchannel. com. What you send me I post 18 postings a day, Monday through Friday, is 90 a week. So be sure to check that out. On the Faith Debate today, we're going to be self-critical. We've been putting ourselves on the Sigmund Freud's couch and wondering why is it we do these things that we do on the radio. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church in Frederick, and Dr. Neil Chempong from Covenant Family Chapel in Frederick and also uh Star, the Star Of his own program here on WFMD. I don't know if that's the right way to put that. uh share a uh uh that those who lead many to righteousness will shine like the stars forever. There you go. And Daniel I was right Huh? Don't you try to squash what Jesus is doing in your life. And you brought up Freud in the context of the world. Uh you don't like my reference to Sigmund Freud? Yeah, well Freud's whole idea was that there was this subconscious out there that all of us are trying to tap into, right? That somehow, you know, like there's this this world mind that that is behind all of us. And so everything that you and I do is directed by this world mind and we don't even know that we're doing these things subconsciously and we're being driven by all these other you know, uh uh orientations. And uh so in Freud's mentality, the reason we do the show is because It's the right time in history for the show to be done, and somebody was going to do it because subconsciously the world mind was it was gonna was gonna call somebody to rise up and do the show. We should schedule Sigmund to come on the show. Oh wait a minute. Is he dead? So I guess he's facing all the problems that all of us face, right? So I wonder where Sigmund is these days. What does that have to do with subconscious? He subconsciously died? I'm just saying you're going to be critical of his view, we should have mind to defend himself. But we can't because he's dead. Oh It's definitely easy to argue. From here on out, let's only have faith debate with people that are dead. I'm just saying we're gonna win a lot more. I'll feel better about myself. Well, I wanna just make that sure they've been dead for a while. You know, if they're if they're newly dead, I I d I still don't like our chances of beating them in a debate. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mentioned last week that I was going to mention at the start of this week what I've been reading lately because I know people read along at home. So I've been reading a book by uh Cleland Boyd McAfee called The Communion Service So uh you can if you want to get into deep theological issues uh related to the Lord's Supper, and that's a book for you. Jonathan Sweitzer is a senior pastor of Crossroads uh Valley uh Church. I wanted to say chapel, but and we would have had two chapels here because Covenant Family Chapel. Are you ever going to change the name of your uh chapel to church? Like John's uh church did like it's C F C and we're C V C Oh how about that? Alright, so we're talking about uh radio ministries because we're all involved in radio ministry. Uh John and I do this show. And uh Neil is now on this show. Plus he has uh the the program on Sunday mornings from nine thirty to ten where you can hear his sermon preached. And so we're kinda self examining, that's what the Sigmund Freund wrote. Self examination. Self examining, you know, should we be doing this? And w how do we answer those who criticize that we do this. Not necessarily criticize how well we do it, although we get our fair share of that too, but just the mere fact that we do it gets criticized sometimes. And I think we've answered most of that reasonably well, at least To my satisfaction. I'm persuaded that we're that we're on good ground here. Um but I uh There are two things I want to make sure that we talk about uh today at least. Uh and one of them is concern, not so much with this show, because this show doesn't mimic anything related to a Christian worship service. But shows like what uh Neil has on nine thirty uh to ten o'clock, or the show that's on immediately after this with uh Robert Quintana and his sermon message from nine to nine thirty at the Seventh day Adventist folks, or Um or we mentioned last week, I think it was, maybe this week before, Joel Olstein, who has the vast television ministry and all those guys, the Stanleys, you know, Charles and Andy Stanley and yeah Is there or should we be concerned at all about people deciding that well I don't really need to go to church, particularly in the dog days of summer, which it is right now, and maybe I you know, attendance is always down in the summer anyway for some bizarre reason. Should we be giving people that much more reason to think that they can stay home and well Charles Stanley's my pastor? I'm gonna stay home and listen to Charles and worship with With with with those folks down in Georgia, even though I'm here in Maryland. Should we be worried about that? Absolutely. Yeah, I agree that um we we ought to be worried about you wanna go first and no? Yeah, I mean the question is were were we saved to be alone? In our faith? Are we saved to be a part of the family of God? I mean, were we reconciled to God so that we could be distant from God? No. We were reconciled to God so that we could be close to God so that we could be in his presence. And his body is a part of his presence and we weren't just reconciled to God, but we're reconciled to one another, right? That's you know, love God, love your neighbor. And so if we're not in some measure being deeply reconciled to one another, where we're in an environment where Jesus Christ is is magnified, then we have failed to understand. the full message of what the gospel is all about. And if we're just living it alone somewhere and we're not connecting with other believers, we're not uh studying the Word of God together, we're not praying for one another, bearing one another's burdens. you know, uh just the the different elements that that represent church. So right, the next question then would be, does that mean well, maybe you just you listen to the message on the radio? And then you have your Christian friends on Facebook, you know, here in the local area and you just connect. Possibly. I'm open to, you know, maybe there being some options like that. But my experience is that people that are, you know, just listening to something on the radio and not regularly going to some kind of a meeting with other believers. Uh Well, that's the point. They're not going to some other meeting regularly with other believers. They're not making that that next step. And if you're not, it's like um having, you know, a really nice car and leaving it in the garage. You know, never driving it. I mean, uh you've been given so much and you're only partaking of so little of it. Why would you do that? Yeah, let me read a scripture uh from the book of Ephesians, um chapter three from verse seven he said, and this is Paul speaking, he said, I became a servant of this gospel by the gift of God's grace given me through the working of his power. Although I am less than the least of all of the Lord's people, this grace was given me to preach to the Gentiles and the boundless riches of Christ and to make plain to everyone the administration of this mystery, which for ages past was kept hidden in God who created all things. His intent was that notice he says that Notice is my own words. He says, his intent was that now through the church the manifold wisdom of God should be made known to the rulers and the authorities in the heavenly realm. According to his eternal purpose that he accomplished in Christ Jesus our Lord. And so notice what the Bible is saying here that God has an intent. His intent is that there are things he's going to accomplish through the church And so the idea that you would listen to somebody on the radio and not make it to a local church ministry is wrong He says that there are things he's going to accomplish. And if you keep reading two other rest of the book of Ephesians, he says that we all come together and we fit jointly together and grow together. Because it is in coming together that we learn from each other, that we gain strength from each other. Let me put it in a modern language. Christianity is never a lone ranger thing. You you you have to depend on somebody. All of creation the Bible says God has made creation interdependent. We depend on something It's like saying that if this thing suffers, the other thing suffers. So w the idea that this whole modern concept of privatization that you have to be by yourself, I can listen to him, is because mostly people are running away from responsibility. We do not want to become accountable to other people. We don't want somebody telling, uh can't do it like this. Be careful a little bit Um, I'm not telling you what to do, but I don't think you have to go that way. And so we find many people who do stuff like that is because they have their own mindset about the church. Let me put it out this way. In the book of Matthew, I think that I just like holding scriptures. Please or please forgive me. You don't like it, but it's all scriptures to me. Jesus, uh, after after Peter had said you were the Christ, the Son of the Living God, Jesus makes a very powerful statement. And he says that uh Peter, right, um Based on the words that you have said, right, I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Then he talks about he introduces that concept of the word church where many people call ecclesia. Very often we tend not to understand the clear meaning of that word because it's like the Senate of God. We've been sent to enforce some spiritual laws. And you cannot be by yourself until you go under those whom the king has actually put in place to educate you to get that work done. And so that relationship of being in a local church is very, very important. It's not something we should run away from. And um But are we contributing to That problem, Sadie? The only way we are contributing to it is we are not hailing people and directing them back into a local church. But I still believe that we have a responsibility of relating the Word of God. It's just that people would always use whatever you do. They they could choose to go right or left or it. And it does not always put a risk on the radio. So you're asking by by having a fake debate or by putting messages on the radio, are we encouraging people then to not go to church? Right. I don't think I don't think we are encouraging them, but not just a radio program, not just to make it so focused on the radio, but even you know we want people to be in relationship and we want to have a ch opportunity to minister to them and uh coach them along and have them encourage us and we encourage them. We want to have that. So when we start using pseudo relationship tools like Facebook and Twitter and Instagram and things like that, are we contributing to the problem by making use of these things that are in many ways a drag on the the the the the culture, on the positive flow of culture. It's that these are negative influences on on the culture in which we live in many ways. You're talking about Facebook and there's a lot of pastors. Just to understand what you're saying there. Are you saying that those things by their very nature are a drag or that peop the way that people use them makes them a drag on society. Like Facebook and those kinds of things. Well yeah I mean I guess I'm asking you to kind of help define that. It does happen. See We were our church was going somewhere one time and I had a bunch of teenagers, right? I was amazed to find out that they were sitting close to each other. We're not talking to each other, but they were texting each other How about that? And I'm talking. All I know is that back in the day You're not uncomfortable with that? You think that's a good thing? All I know is that back in the day people wrote a lot of letters to one another. Uh-huh. And those letters were very influential. When I went away to a men's retreat, I went with a guy that was like fifteen, twenty years younger than I. I did not call my wife maybe once the weekend This guy was in touch with his wife via texting at least twenty times a day. Right? There was an ongoing interaction between the two of them. Sending, you know, a little, hey, how you doing? You know, hey, what's going on? You know, I'm thinking about this, I'm thinking about that and there was genuine interaction that was happening on a regular basis. And I'm I I'm just saying that that was more interaction often Then my wife and I, and I find that when my wife and I text one another, we have a better idea what her day is like, what my day is like, you know, throughout the day, and then when we get together later on in the day, you know, around dinner, right, so it's not Either or, but it's both and, you know, I'm able to say, Hey, you know, how you doing? It sounded like things are pretty rough today. Or I can say, Hey, it sounded like you're having a good day today. What's you know, tell me about it. Right. And so I'm just saying that that it's not uh from where I stand, it's not inherently negative. You know, and so then that's the question, do we be like Amish and just go back and get rid of all of it? There's no way. If technology is the reason why my wife and I can't see each other throughout the day because I go off to work somewhere and that's the whole industrial revolution model And I go off to work somewhere and she you know, she's at home or she's doing whatever. So we're in different places. If technology is the cause of that, then is it wrong for technology to to uh to develop ways for us to go back to you know, like if I was working on the farm next to my wife all day long, right, we wouldn't get in these super long conversations. with one another, she'd pop in and she'd say, Hey, you know, I was thinking blah blah blah, you know, and and I'd be like, huh, and I'd grunt at her and I'd go back to doing my thing and then later on I'd say, Hey about what you were saying, I was kind of thinking this You know, and they'd be little short little text type messages to one another until we had time to sit down and have more conversation. So I don't know that it's inherently negative. You know, it's just the g you know, it's it's just like nuclear power. If you use it to kill people, that's one thing. If you use it to Sure, and I'm not saying that this I I'm not mean this my personal position isn't that it's inherently wrong But uh it seems to me that it is overwhelming and used the wrong way. It's used more ice but is there any power more unhealthy God has ever given to us that we have used in a healthy way more than in an unhealthy way? There's none. I can almost I mean this seems silly sexual interaction and yet mental interactions, our tongue. We'll listen to a recording of this show in twenty years and what I'm about to say sounds so silly now, it might not seem so silly in twenty years There you know, years ago church services were hours long. Right. You know, now if they're an hour and a half, it's like really reaching the the the limit of what people can stand. And so now that means sermons have gotten shorter And so some churches still have sermons that are, you know, an hour or so, and those are long sermons by today's standards. They might have been short sermons years ago But now we even heard Neil mention or uh on an earlier show about how, you know, he's shortening his message a bit uh to make it more of a thirty minutes because that seems more like it it fits the attention span, it fits the purpose of what he's trying to do in his church. They're getting short. There are some churches they don't even do really sermons. They do these little, I don't know, sermonettes. They might be a few minutes long. Well, you could get to the point where the sermon could fit on a text. A hundred and forty characters. Are we just gonna text out our sermons? Bang? Is that what we'll be doing in twenty years? It it's possible we can get to that place, but Um you mentioned that um John was saying that it's not inherently wrong. I think it's more about research. How can I use these tools? the right way and do it. For example, um before I got so much into texting, I couldn't talk to my wife most of the time till she's back from work. Because of the nature of her work. Right. She's not a type who's gonna go to a phone. But now I can some FaceTime, she can see my face. She can see me with the kids at home. We can talk. So My thing is research it and see how best can I use it. For example, I like Twitter only when I'm trying to send a short message to a friend. But if I'm gonna send something down to my church members, which I believe the message is not in a hundred and forty characters, I'm not using Twitter. I gotta go through some different medium. And so For example, like I said, I'm trying to cut my messages down. And it's only because I teach in series. So I don't need to crumb everything, have to say it one Sunday. I just say part of it the Sunday, the following Sunday, and I believe in repetition. And if you listen to me of other radio, you would notice that I would always recap everything I said the previous Sunday. Because I want to make sure you get it Um, so we could still use the modern methods, but we need to research very carefully, not to keep destroying things. For example, I was teaching most of the kids down in church that all right, texting might be a good thing. But I don't like text in short sentences, uh short forms of words. Why? Because it gradually destroys my ability to spell words correctly. So I still text and I text with most of the young people down in my church. Pastor, why do you keep taxing long sanctions? I said because I want to make sure that I'm I still know how to spell words. I said, how do you spell this, Wes? I said if you ever went to spell and be, will you Well and and you had just said a second ago this whole idea that back in the day messages were, you know, super long. The reality is that is that We as a culture imbibe a ton of preaching through or or storytelling through television all the time. Right? And so, you know, if you're a believer you're making a choice about what kind of uh you know uh information is coming at you. For example, you read possibly more than anybody else that I know, uh except my father. He reads more than you. Uh but I'm telling you you're you're a close uh you know second. And uh how many books do you read in a month? I re I try it my my uh and I'm pretty pretty good at sticking to this. I try to read a book a week. Wow. Yeah, see what I'm saying? So but previous to to the uh to balance that out though, because some of the books that I read are are fixed theological tomes, you know, and they might take me the better part of two weeks to read, and then I'm a little bit uh tiredness isn't the right word, but elect intellectually grab a little tiny phone. Int intellectually I'm a little bit weary and so then I'll grab something that's like light and I can just like it's it's fun, it's not really gonna be too challenging a Ted Decker novel for example and I'll blow through that in a weekend. Okay. That kind of thing. But previous to the Gutenberg Printing Press, you would not be reading like that. You'd have no opportunity to do so. And so you're taking in all this stuff. And all I'm saying is that back in the day when they would have super long messages or in societies where they don't have uh a lot of um media to communicate in other ways. The result is they do it all at certain times of the week and it's longer when they do it. And and I think for us just to say, hey, you know, we don't do it as much as they did it back then misses the reality that, yeah, we do. We do it way more than they do. We imbibe it in a lot of different directions and the reality is that that we need less of the message and more of these spending time with one another. now than we did previously only because the messages are you know so pervasive. Like every pastor that I know is encouraging people to read books and to get CDs and to, you know, listen to that or listen to that. You know, and so if people are Uh availing themselves of those opportunities, you know, they're getting away. Instead of them having a discussion that is different, they are normally whatever I teach on Sunday is like a lecture. And in the small groups, they actually have a lab. It's just like they go through the whole message all over again and they discast everything all over. It was my way of just making them Try to make sure that it doesn't matter how short it is, I w I need you to go beyond just whatever you heard so you can learn more. Yeah. Lecture and lab that's an interesting uh uh one two punch concept there. Uh real quick, we're we I think we alluded in between shows between the three of us we wanted to talk about this and then in the uh you know five minutes or so that we have left we'll we'll we'll talk about it's probably good that we're limited in time so we won't trash people too bad. And I'll use somebody that's respected uh for the people who are fans of this show, fans of the theological uh, you know, view of the three of us on this show, most people would say in large part that they that they respect what John MacArthur preaches. But he's got a national ministry, international navy. You can hear his sermons and stuff. And you know and I think you're right to be a little concerned about uh the way that he goes after uh attacking the charismatic movement So there's a guy that we b that we think is doing good work, but in that area we're uh we're troubled. Joe Lolstein, who's the poster child for everything wrong with modern American evangelicalism, uh gets through the mix. But then even on top of that, somebody that I think is very marvelously talented and gifted and is doing incredible ministry for the Lord in Seattle, Mark Driscoll. But you take him out of his context and you listen to his message outside of his church and it's like you're gutsmacked. You're like, what in the world is wrong with this guy? Is he on is he on drugs? He's so like crazy in the way he conveys the gospel. So what do we say about those things? These these national, international big ministries that are outside of a local context, outside of a local church context. So that maybe John MacArthur is speaking to an important issue in his church when it has to do with the charismatic gifts, and yet out of that context, it's really offensive to somebody who's in the charismatic movement. or Mark Driscoll is talking about sex inside of marriage and doing it in a very interesting way. And in his church is exactly what the men in his church need to hear, but men across the country. So I feel like we got to separate those two those two um uh issues. uh you know, uh uh uh stories or or I'm sorry, examples. Right? Driscoll is dealing with something that has to do with you know, the gospel, you know, and he or or righteousness and he's doing it in a certain vernacular, right, that connects with a certain people group, right? Which would apply First Corinthians fourteen, which says that to prophesy is better than to speak in tongues. You know, if you're not speaking in the language that people understand, you know, you're speaking between yourself and God, it blesses you, but it doesn't bless others. Right? So he's speaking in the vernacular. When we're dealing with MacArthur's approach to to uh to rejecting other parts of the body of Christ, there's still an attitude there that uh that has to be addressed in in terms of, you know, whether or not he's handling that in a Christ-like attitude or whether or not he's He's allowing himself to uh to exhibit what is unchrist-like attitudes and behaviors. My point in all of those and how I tying them together is okay, well let's just focus on the MacArthur thing. If it was just MacArthur in a church in Los Angeles with a hundred people in it, it's still an attitude problem, but it wouldn't have the impact in the American church like it has by him. So how much additional responsibility should the carry? Yeah clearly it carries more responsibility. And what are the checks and balances? Like if s you know in a lot of uh uh uh church If you go off the rails, John, and you start saying something from the pulpit that's not right, there are people that are going to call you to account and say, Hey John, let's clean this up. That's not right. I'm sure you have mechanisms like that in your church, your elders or your church network, your denomination, whatever it is you have, it's providing spiritual oversight. What's the oversight for these electronic ministries? I believe that I think that every pastor who is into some form of regular ministry must become accountable for what he puts on the air Now even though we air out my messages, there are some of my messages I do not allow them to put on the air. Because sometimes I'm addressing an issue that has to do with the local congregation that I'm seeing. And anything I put out on the air, I'm looking at, okay, who am I going to reach with this message? Because it really matters And that sometimes we may think that something is is good enough for everybody else, but it may not be. To me, the let most test is this. Even if I don't agree with Jonathan. on something. I will not use my puppet as a place to disagree with him. I will never do that. I normally would want to teach God's word and deal with the issues that is wrong but without having to call people by names. The reason is this. We do not want to come across to the world as people fighting among themselves. But rather dealing with um dealing if he talks about a concept that is wrong and I believe it's wrong and it needs to be corrected, I will correct that concept without pointing a finger at him Because it is important. It's like um bringing my children together and telling them, You see that guy, he said this so next time you see him hate him. No. But then Um, these are things that you cannot do. These are things you should not be doing. So if my child goes out and sees that the other person is doing it, then my child then has a responsibility of saying I'm either gonna like him or not like him, but Daddy never taught me that. He only said that this is wrong. So it is the way we still tellin the story. We're not telling it right Right, Jesus disagreed with many things uh with many of the teachers of his day and he taught in direct opposite to what they were saying, but he not publicly unless they were present In his face. He never called him by name. He but he corrected it. And he corrected many things in his culture. For example, in Matthew 5, Jesus talks about he says You say. He says God's word says because they had their own paraphrase of the Ten Commandment. He says, and you say, and then you say. But he's not calling names because it was the religious tradition of that time and he wanted to correct it so he deals with the very principles that people are teaching that are not right. But as ready ministers, I believe that Whatever we put on there, we need to listen to it ourselves. Not that after Sunday we feel good and it says, all right, media team, get it on there. No. I listen to myself most of the time and sometimes I'll tell them I need you to delete this whole line out. Why? Because I might have been referring to somebody who was sitting right in front of me and it's not an appropriate thing for everybody else to hear. And we've reached the end of our time. Dr. Neela Champong, Jonathan Sweitzer, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. Our sponsors Putman Plumbing and Heating, How could we make you smile? And thank you for listening. Until next week, God bless.