This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The faith debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with a master of divinity. From Reform Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Oh Troy Skinner. Thank you for tuning in. You can find us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith, and also find uh links to uh podcasts of the show uh as as they become available on WFMD's Facebook page so you can find us there as well. Mine is the voice of Troy Skinner. The voice you will not hear, at least right now, is that of Jonathan Schweitzer. Um my partner in crime is out of the I don't know, making mayhem in the community without me. So we'll clean up that mess later. And we've had a privilege, you know, we've done this show for uh I was just talking before we got the show uh started. We've been doing the show for coming up on just shy of fifteen years now and in the first fourteen plus years we only had one political candidate uh on the show ever and now we've had two within the last just uh two, three months. or whatever it is now. So I'm not sure what that says. I'm not sure that's good or bad, but I'm going to say that it's good because what that means is because we don't talk politics per se. We talk faith matters, religious matters, theological questions, big philosophical worldview questions. And So the fact that we're having candidates on the show must mean we have candidates that are interested in such things, and so that can only be a good thing. Right? So on the show this week And in the studio, I'm gonna start with that, because ladies first. So in the studio, might not be speaking much if at all, but a good friend of mine is uh Angela McIntosh. Uh I've known her for at least a dozen years probably, and uh in uh the last year or so has become an increasingly important part of uh my family. life and uh she's a dear friend. So hopefully she'll have a chance to pipe in at some point. And Tony Campbell, who is U. S. Senate candidate for the state of Maryland, and um former chaplain And I don't know all this history, so I'm going to kind of be v very general and give you a chance to introduce yourself a little bit. Well first of all, thank you for having me, Troy. I uh You know, I uh I teach politics and religion at Taos University, so you know, coming to a show that uh you can uh actively engage in talking about theological issues and how intersects with the s with government and and uh issues of policy uh is very important. So Um my background is I I got my doctor at Liberty University, got seminary there, finished my MDiv also there. Um was a former Army Chaplain and uh have been uh in ministry for I don't know twenty years, twenty five years, something like that. Um both of my parents are preachers, uh so I'm a two PK. Um and you know I uh You know, as a young person you uh you realized uh that your mom and dad were right. And that there's right and wrong in the world. And May if I jump in real quick, did you did you not want I guess as typical kids that want to acknowledge that? No, it's what point did you turn that corner and realize that mom and dad were. But when you actually living your life and actually realizing that, there's a difference between uh um kind of head knowledge and experiential knowledge. And so, you know, pr probably when I got out of the army the first time, when I was enlisted in in the nineteen eighties and um That was an eye opener. Now is there a story that goes with that? Did you have like a an epiphany where you had a dramatic life change? Like I've always believed this, but now I believe this and my life is now in a new trajectory? Um I think just um living life and you know kind of seeing kind of the the fruition of of God's creation and and and choices that we make. You know, and and having that, you know, kind of n there was never an issue uh as far as Oh, you've done something wrong. It's more of a realization of, oh, that's how life works You know. And and I think that's something that unfortunately there's a there's a lot of there's there's a couple generations that really haven't had that. Um and whether through, you know, kind of the maturation process of going f uh and growing up and kind of being in a church and having that kind of um grounding. Um and then when you didn't grow up and grow up and experience life in in a different way so that that happens then if you don't have that grounding then, you know Yeah, you know, training a a child the way they should go. But if you don't have the training, then what happens when your life happens? Yeah. So starting out your you know PK shorthand for preacher's kids, in case you're the uninitiated. And you were uh times two, so you need some psychological counseling after that. 'Cause I I don't mean that as a negative against you or your parents, but there's a lot of pressure. on pastors' families and if both of your parents were preachers, there must have been an awful there must have been you must have felt at some point at least there was a spotlight on you. I I've never felt I never felt that growing up. Um I think my parents did a very good job of Uh you know, f it wasn't that kind of uh it wasn't that kind of spotlight. Um We had a whole community of of people who were in ministry. Um and so it wasn't, you know, our small, you know, charismatic, you know, Church of God in Christ, you know, d you know, congregation. Um there was never that kind of, you know, intense spotlight on what you're doing and how you're doing it and all that stuff. Um because we were all saved. There wasn't that kind of um uh there wasn't that kind of um scrutin uh scrutiny's not the right word because there's always scrutiny. Um but there was their abundance of attention. Yeah, there there there was never that. Um even um yeah, even you know, kind of teenage years, there was never that kind of pressure. How many brothers and sisters do you have? Two brothers Okay, and where are you? Are you middle, oldest? I'm the oldest. I'm the smartest. I'm the brightest. Sorry, that was a little bit Oh yes. Okay, so from the that that church uh training now it's interesting. You said Liberty. Yes. But you also mentioned Charismatic. Yes. Liberty's not really a charismatic school. Charismatic I think Oral Roberts or something. So Uh Liberty is more of like a Baptist kind of a school. So are are you still kind of theologically in a charismatic vein? Do you more in the in the more the like a Southern Baptist vein? Like where do you fall now? Uh uh the the how we do worship Is is the only thing that I saw differently between the two. Uh the general tenets of the faith were the same. Um So that that that theology w there was never a uh this is not familiar to me Um so there wasn't that conflict. Um but yeah, you know you know, you go to uh ten different two different churches and you have ten different ways of doing worship. Right. So that's never been that's never been an issue to me. And in a baptismal view. Right. And again, you know, if you're listening, you're not sure why I'm even raising that question. Um you know charismatic uh uh in very basic broad strokes, believing that the gifts uh God gave his church uh in the you know uh early in the Acts era of the church continue to exist now. So we have uh prophecy and healing and things like that speaking in tongues available to the church now. And then there are those who say, no, that that that was only for a season, it doesn't exist. And most Baptists would not be charismatic, so there'd be a difference there. I mean there are Right. Charismatic Baptists. And most Baptists, what's distinctive about them is the idea that you have to be a you know professing believer who can make a credible profession of faith and then be um be baptized almost always by immersion. And so those are distinctives for Baptists. So there's not a whole lot of theological trouble to get into there, I guess. So I guess that's how they can go. So you have your M div. So you worked as a pastor in a church or you uh you went straight into the chaplaincy with the army or uh straight into the chaplaincy. Um you know, my my parents still have a small house church. By the way, M Div, Masters of Divinity by the way. So they still have a small house. They still have a small house church and and and I I go there once or twice a month and you know, be a good son and and help them out and that kind of thing. Um but most of most of uh my calling was in a chaplaincy. And uh because I don't have I don't have the the patience in the spirit to be a pastor. Um because I'll tell somebody off somebody somebody real quick that they need to get the few questions I'm gonna check off my list now. I'm not gonna ask that one or this one. But you have to you have to know what your spiritual gifts are Yeah, yeah. You know, and and that and the p I don't have my dad's patients. I just don't. So did you have did you continue your education after your MDiv at Liberty? Yes. And so because we didn't talk about that yet, so what was that? What's your doctorate? You have a doctorate, right? Yeah, doctorate ministry. And where's that from? Liberty. Oh, everything's liberty. Okay. Well my I I have a master's from Towson in social science. My BA is in political science. Um, but my two seminary degrees are from Liberty Liberty. Okay. And what is it you said you teach again at Towson? Politics and religion As as one subject or two separate subjects? Uh there's a survey class on the intersection of of uh church and state. And then I most of my classes are political theory. So everything from Plato, Aristotle, Luther, Augustine. Okay. Well this is a chance for us to talk a little politics for you, because you you know, you do want to talk about that and you're still stumping and trying to get people to know who you are and want to cast a vote for you. And pardon my directness, but I I don't know how you think you're gonna win because Ben Carden i is in Maryland. So we'll talk about that as maybe i as as an afterthought to your your um Your f what'd you say your philosophy of politics? Right. So what is your philosophy of politics? Uh that the founders of the Republic got it right. Um and they didn't invent stuff out of nothing. you know, they read Plato and Aristotle, they knew that democracy was probably the worst form of government and so that's why they designed a system that they did. That we have Separation of powers and checks and balances because John Locke wrote about that stuff during the English Civil War. Um, that there's a that a middle class is important for s safety and security of the state. That's what Aristotle wrote a long time ago. So they they put these different pieces together uh in a thing called a republic. um for specific reasons. They didn't trust the government, they didn't trust themselves. They d certainly didn't trust the people, meaning the masses Um so they put together a system that would basically withstand, as uh James Madison said, that ambition must be made to counteract ambition. that people are going to be ambitious and want to try to push the lever or push the needle in their direction. But if you put a system together that's going to not allow that d kind of demagoguery, then you're gonna have a republic that's gonna withstand this withstand this test of time. Um There's a lot we can unpack there and I'll ask you some follow-up questions so we can do that. By the way, that's the voice of Tony Campbell. He's asking to for your vote to be your next senator from in the United States Senate from the state of Maryland. I'm Troy Skin, this is the Faith Debate on nine thirty WFMD. Um so but I do want to go to afterthought before I press deep. Because Because and the reason and I feel like there's a logical flow here. So they got it right two hundred and some odd years ago when guys wore funny hair and smelled not so good because they didn't bathe that frequently. And you know, so these guys they got it right. And now Today, people who do bathe and and have uh more contemporary hairstyles and seem to have it more together, they're getting it wrong. Yes, is what you're saying. Well yet the ones that are getting it wrong own this state I mean let's get right Maryland votes Democrat like almost every time. Except for governor. Yeah, so what's up with that? Yeah. So, you know Any other any other state except for Maryland, if you elect a Republican the last basically the last two two out of three times that we have a choice of governor The people of Maryland selected a Republican. Bob Ehrlich and Larry Hogan. So does that does that mean anything or is that just a coincidence? Um the thirty percent of the of the voting population that are independents tend to vote for us if we have the right message, right candidate, right at the right time. You know. Um when's the last time that a vote for US Senate in Maryland was close? Uh probably the last time a Republican won was Magnifius. That was before I got here I think. When was that? Yeah, that was before you got here. But, you know, d the it's it's not th I I think the question is going to be, are we still in the in this cycle of we're going to get rid of the uh establishment deep state stuff? because, you know, we w could have elected Anthony Brown. The people Maryland chose not to. Could have elected a Kennedy, the Kathleen Henny Towson. chose not to. Um I think a message uh a a message can be crafted that someone who's been in office for fifty one years, elected first time nineteen sixty seven that's not what we need. That that kind of same uh what um you know definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result. Um And you know, I was in Baltimore City uh uh a couple weeks ago delivering a couple yard signs. And someone kind of, you know, pulls up, I'm putting a yard sign on, comes and says Hey, I aren't you Tony Campbell? I'm like I'm like, uh yeah. It's like, well, I've I've I've seen your signs, I'm gonna vote for you. And I didn't know who this person was. Now you know, multiply that by, you know, you know, have like one point three million people doing that, then I think we'll be in the ballgame. But I I think it's good of course it's going to be it's going to be a challenge. Um but there are avenues t for victory um that I'm not necessarily going to get into because it's more about strategy than Yeah and I don't and I don't I but you know I wouldn't be doing this to just do it. I'm not doing this for the law or opposition. I'm I'm doing this to win. Yeah, no, and and that leads into my question I was just going to ask, because when I had Jerry Siegel on who's running as a Democrat against Ben Cardin, and there's and the polling that seems to be there's not a whole lot of polling for this race for some reason, but the little bit you can find, it seems like Nobody's challenging Carden on the Democrat side. And if you believe the polling, it doesn't seem that the Republicans are either. So I asked Jerry Siegel, I said, you know, in the back of your mind you must be thinking, okay, I might not win. So what's my motivation beyond that? And there's gotta be some platform. And for him, his big thing is he wanted to have a platform to talk about what's going on in the Middle East. That's like a lifelong issue for him. So as So uh one A is I'm gonna win. And then one B is I want to accomplish what? Like what is are you trying to build momentum for conservative causes in Maryland? Are you trying to focus on a particular issue Are you trying to encourage uh a new face for the Republic Republican Party? 'Cause I want to talk about that too. You must feel some pressure not only being a Christian running in politics, but an African American running uh as a Republican. You must there's all sorts of pressures there. And so I mean uh Are any of those tied to another agenda? Agenda sounds pejorative, right? To another motivation? There are the issues I want to talk about. Um, you know, school choice. I think I it's very important to me uh as an educator uh and being on the board of a charter school in a city. Um but those those pieces of policy Uh, where you're talking about, you know, in things that are happening on a national level. What what should the role of the national government be? Um You know, common core, no child left behind, race to the top. You know, the Department of Education getting into curriculum management and teacher standards There's nothing in the Constitution that says that they should be doing that. In fact, the 19th and 10th Amendment says that they should not be involved in health, education, and welfare of their of citizens, right? Those are left to the states. But talking about what is the proper role of government in it and re educating folks about that is very important to me. See and that's now we're gonna script a little politics, but this is where, you know, faith and and and worldview and politics do intersect. And so I'll put my cards on the table. I I think the the public education system is a disaster. Uh I refer to myself and my sister and people that I know well. I refer to us all as victims of the public education system. uh survivors. Uh everything I feel like I know that's of any importance at at all I learned on my own. I didn't learn it in school. You know, more of a self-educated kind of a thing. Or or you know uh university level and seminary level kinds of things that that was valuable. But in the public education sector, none. And I feel like it just it's it's the same thing that happens with uh I'm assuming you're pro life. Yes It's the same thing with the pro-life question. We end up as Christians, it seems to me, and or even if you're not Christian, just conservative politically, arguing on the terms of the progressives. So instead of saying, let's get a r let's Let's recognize that life begins a conception and that makes the whole choice thing, my body thing off the table Because if it's a life, it's a life and they're con constitutionally protected. And with the s school thing you just got done saying that the federal government has no business. Right And yet as a U. S. Senator, you're going to try to affect change on that. So you're sticking the federal b uh business nose into something that has no b they force us to fight on their turf. How do we stop that Well, I I think just having the education to shift the narrative. That that's how you begin to i because people have people are are they follow the path of least resistance and so if you're you're if you're gonna tell 'em that we're going to give you X, then people are going to get they're going to want. this. They're gonna want what is f supposedly free even though it's not, right? So we don't even have We have very few people who are even willing to have the conversation about what is the proper role of government. And don't even get me started about it not being free, because it's the furthest thing from free. It's probably the most expensive way to do it. Well and and every every local government uh in Frederick and any uh any other jurisdiction in the state, you know, the public education budgets fifty-five percent of your property taxes. Fifty-five percent. Which is nuts. Which is yeah. And you compare the expenses per pupil in the public education system where they've got scale on their side. Right? They've got usually the more you make of something, the more widgets you make, the lower the cost, the higher the profit margin. Public education, they're they're educating more students and it costs them quite a bit more than the private schools are paying for people. And then you do the I'm not a big fan of the standardized test scores, but y y what you you got what you got to to try to measure things by. And even by their own standards, these standardized test scores the homeschool kids and the private school kids far outperform the public school kids like every time. Well, and it's even worse than that, Troy, because this even the standard is is off. Yeah. One is one of the hats that I wear is on I'm on a P20 Leadership Council, which kind of deals with education on a macro level in the state of Maryland You know, there have been discussions in the room that I've been in in the last couple years trying to figure out what exactly the PART scores does. What does it do? What is the purpose of the PARC test? We don't even know that. And that's the money that our that our government is spending. Throw that into the bucket of things we don't know. That's on purpose. That's my point. We end so we end up using their standards, because the only thing we have for discussion, we end up playing on their turf when we know. They know, and they know that we know, that they know, that we know that it's all useless and yet those are the disgust we they're not even in the room and we're using their standards as kind of a platform from which they have a dialogue. We've already lost the war at that point. Right? I don't know. Anyway, w I've got to wrap this this uh this episode up. Believe it or not, it's over. No way. We're gonna have you back next week. I do want to talk about your your your experience as a chaplain. Uh I do want to pick your brain more about some of this political stuff. I want you to have a chance to unpack a little bit more of uh of what your platform that you're running on is because it sounds like a lot of it would be stuff that I'm uh that that I'm gonna be interested in. And I hinted at it. I do want seriously to talk about the issue of race in the political party. And I'm gonna warn you now, you have plenty of time to think about it. You know the question's coming, we've got to talk about what y your platform and your ideas are in relation to the president. Because Donald Trump I b the more often I say Donald Trump, the higher my ratings go. So Donald Trump, Donald Trump, Donald Trump. Well i look it means Thirty seconds. So first of all, you know. Oh, we don't have I'm sorry. We'll lead next week with those thirty seconds. Do not lose a thought. Till next week. God bless.