This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. Uh, the faith debate is on the World Wide Web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with a master of demand. From Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Troy Skinner. Some Christian pastors have contended that erecting a wall between Mexico and the United States should be thought of as an act. of violence. Trump's wall, they say, is not sanctioned by Scripture because fortified borders lead to the deaths of people trying to cross them. Therefore, alternative ways to secure the border must be researched and implemented. After all they say Jesus came to break down walls, not build walls. So are those pushing for the construction of a wall at odds with God's word. I'm Troy Skinner here to help us identify biblical perspectives on the wall and all issues immigration. Are Morgan Kochenhauer, Pastor of Frederick Seven. Seventh day Adventist Church and Tim May, Pastor of Pleasant View, Church of the Brethren. And if Tim May's name sounds familiar, yes, it's that Tim May, half of the Mid-Mayerland Live Show heard weekdays three to uh six every afternoon here on WFMD. Uh Tim May and Frank Mitchell do that. And actually Tim, I'll give him some credit, uh uh Frank rather, uh give Frank some credit, he's the one that said, Hey, why don't you do a show on the faith debate about you know the whole immigration issue in the wall and I don't understand how Christians can support the wall, 'cause if you listen in the afternoons you know that Frank is opposed to the wall. Yes. Uh I don't know if he identifies as a Christian. I'm not saying I'm pretty sure that he probably doesn't, but I'll let him He's a believer, but we don't know what he believes in. That's a good line. So I think Uh I want to spend a little bit of time at at least the beginning part of of this show. Well I I'll have to hang in last week, by the way. Was there anything you wanted to get off your chest at the conclusion of last week's show? 'Cause I don't wanna I think that was pretty good, but I but I think uh Morgan wanted to say some more about we were talking about uh I I know that we're not gonna I don't want to uh deport mass amounts of illegal immigrants. I I don't want to do that. Um I wanna deport anybody that breaks our laws such as, you know, serious felonies and things like that. And and I I'm not getting away from the subject. But I I think you would kind of agree that the other one is a little bit more. and they were running from danger, you would house them as long as you possibly could. And in the process, you would try to find uh a a better or a good or better situation, uh living situation for them so that they're safe. And I think for us of America, you know, I'm not for deporting anybody as much as I am listen, li i for the people who are coming in here with with with good intent Let's take care of them and find them a great situation. That's what America's all about. Now I think that uh I want to get into in a second, like I alluded to m a moment ago, into the messaging problem that uh the marketing issue that the uh that the church might be facing in all of this. But I want to push back a little bit on that. Because I can hear in my head people who would disagree with you. They they would go further. They're agreeing with everything you said in the previous two shows, but the tail end of last week's show and the beginning of this show, you've lost them. They're like, wait a minute They broke they broke the law, they should be kicked out. Now here would be some, I think, some Christian spins on that. There are people out there trying to do it the quote unquote right way. standing in line for years, went through all the paperwork and the interviews and all that sort of stuff to try to get here, and yet there's the estimates are anywhere between twelve million and thirty million people jumped ahead of 'em in line And would it be the Christian thing to do to reward those who cheated the system and jumped in ahead, uh, versus those who didn't? I hear what you're saying though, Tim, is that there's a practical reality. Are we really gonna go root everybody out? It's Uh it's a nearly impossible task. Would we better serve putting our resources somewhere else? Because wherever you're allocating resources, that means you're not re allocating them somewhere else. There's only so much to go around. But I think that people can be in support of deporting those who came here illegally or s overstayed their legal uh residence uh illegally uh to say that they should be sent back. I don't think that they're violating uh a Christian tenant, but I think that's an area where Christians can agree to disagree. Well, I I think we do agree to disagree. First, I don't want to be mistaken thinking that I that uh il illegal immigrants here should be given citizenship. Don't don't don't let that that it never occurs to me. I don't think that is a r a right that they've earned Uh so so registration yes, citizenship no. Uh as far as the people that s so to speak broke in, uh rather than came in through the through the gates. Um, you know, Bible and and biblical teachings tell us that you know, if you do something wrong it's sin and all sin is bad and you know, uh if we're gonna forgive Which we must do. Uh uh to to what point and how far do we go? For example, when when Morgan's talking about do we uh or you just said do we you know twenty five I I think twenty-five million Illegal immigrants? Let's be real. We don't know. There could be Three hundred million. Right. There could be four. Well there's more than four. But we don't know. But yeah, those who want to limit it usually say it's around, you know, t twelve, fifteen million. Those that go with a bigger number usually go twenty-five, thirty million. It's probably somewhere in that range, right? If if the people on both polls are using somewhere between twelve and thirty million as a r it's probably somewhere in that range. how wonderful illegal immigrants are. I believe most of them are, but there are still the the lawbreakers and uh and then i th others saying that we don't need any more lawbreakers in the country And then the the the progressive side of this will come back and say, well, yeah, but they they do less crimes than people here. I don't think that's an answer. I think, you know, if they did one crime it's too many and that's the fact they do less than the ratio here. So that that that's nonsense. What we have to do, we have a situation here, and we started out a couple weeks ago talking about the wall and and the morality or immorality of a wall. Uh first of all, the walls are practical. Uh uh instrument that's going to be used, whether you call it a wall or fence, or whether you call it drones or lasers, it's going to be you you you have a right you have a right to have borders. There is no question about that. Uh this would be one of the few places in the world that didn't have a border. Uh so that shouldn't even be a question. What we do in and how we treat immigration is another is what the what Morgan and I kinda agree in each choice. That's the underlying question. It has nothing to do with the wall. It has the fact that there there are people coming in illegally and And some people don't want illegal people here. They they don't like Hispanics. They don't they don't like uh Muslims, they don't like Christian. I don't know what they do or don't That's the un that's the emotion that fuels this entire debate we're having. And I think once we confront the fact that that look uh w as as believers, as Christians, I want to take care of people. Mm-hmm. But the next sentence should be, I can only take care of uh so many. You know, I'm and I'm not endless. And and that's the part I think that's driving maybe the conservative or the right side uh uh frustrated. I how much more can I do? Uh teachers are are are are uh they're they're striking. Too many kids in the classroom. Well, if you have tens of thousands of illegals coming in, uh they're gonna we wanna educate 'em. That's you know, that's our obligation under the law. We have to educate 'em. We have to uh take care of a medically go, God bless them. But what happens to the resources that y you know, something's gonna happen and and that's I think is We've been a couple of weeks on this. I think that's the bottom line choice. I and and it it has nothing to do with the wall. It has to do do we want illegal immigrants to say and do we want them to come in? You know, something that struck me as I was getting ready to do these series of shows, you know, I was refreshing my s uh my knowledge of some of the issues and the stats and that sort of thing and it Boy, it was harder than one would think to get your head wrapped around how much territory we're really talking about with the wall because I w I went to I'm not exaggerating, I must have gone to a dozen and a half websites. And I got different information. I got I probably got ten different kinds of information from a a dozen and a half websites. Holy cow, what's but generally speaking, my sense of it is The wall uh the southern border wall or the s the southern border uh for the United States and Mexico is a is a little bit less than two thousand miles. About a thousand-ish of that is uh natural barriers with mountains and rivers and things like that, mostly the Rio Grande, but also I guess the Colorado River and whatever. So now you're talking about a thousand miles. Of that thousand miles, there's already seven hundred miles of fence that is constructed. Now part of the debate is the fence isn't all that good, there's huge gaps in it. So so what we're really arguing with and what people in the church are fighting with each other over is really should we shore up the seven hundred miles of wall we already have and build an extra three hundred miles That's what we're fighting about. It seems almost silly when you think about it. We're gonna like we're gonna really have this messaging problem that I alluded to w uh uh and kind of sully the the the message of the gospel over three hundred miles of of of some sort of fence or wall or whatever. I mean anyway, so here's why I think we have a messaging problem. In marketing terms, that's part of how I make my living usually is you know, marketing advice. And one of the things I always tell my clients is they they want to say too much in the commercials. You know, I want to talk about this, I want to talk about that, I want to talk about this. It all gets lost. And at some point you're almost arguing against yourself in your own message. Yeah. Dri in a in a unified message, drive it home. Now if you have a different point you want to make okay, it's a different marketing campaign, and you're gonna have a different campaign for that singular message. We have mixed messages now coming from the church. We have some who are saying that Uh you know, they see these horrible video images on television of children who are crying, they've been separated from from their parents and they say that's That's immoral. That's not just. That's that's that's wrong. It it it gets me in the field. I don't like that at all. Um and they don't think that therefore it's congruent with their faith. Like it doesn't match up with what I think Christianity should be about And so they're going to say things like, Russell Moore, President of the Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission for the Southern Baptist Convention, he said everyone from Franklin Graham to Willie Nelson has registered grave moral concern over the immigration issue and the and the wall and the separating families and that sort of thing. And uh here's Daniel Denardo, Archbishop of Galveston, uh Houston, says Separating babies from their mothers is not the answer and it is immoral. And then on the other hand, the other people say no, enforcing the laws is the right thing to do. Taking And we haven't even talked about this yet, but for every unskilled laborer who sneaks into the country, that's a job that some unskilled laborer who was already here doesn't now get to fulfill. and and to pro provide. So there's argument so we're arguing against each other, we're talking past each other. Um how do we f solve that? Well y you you brought some great points. Uh first of all, I never thought that people snuck into the country. I they they they kind of break into the country. It's not Yeah, I don't think you have a robber going into your house. I just accidentally snuck in. I know you that you actually break in. So I don't want to d I don't want to downplay that the fact is is a crime. So anyhow they're here. What what do we do now that they're here? Do we uh do we penalize them? I I didn't understand where you're going with with the with your opening there. What do you What was the question in the in the opening? At the very beginning of the show? No no no no no. Today today. Uh where are we now? Wha what are you saying? Well what I'm talking about now uh what or what um well we're halfway through the show by the way, so I'll do this. Tim May is the uh pastor of Pleasant View uh Church of the Brethren in Jefferson and Morgan Kokenauer is the pastor at uh Friday Seventh day Adventist Church. Ian Frederick, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. We've got these two camps in the Christian community. So this isn't the there's the it's not the normal camps. The normal camps are you got the the Protestants over here, the Orthodox over there, the Roman Catholics over here, or within the Protestant camps you got the The Methodists, the Presbyterians, the Baptists, you know, the whatever, you all know the brethren, you know, the the Sister Seventh-day Adventists, whatever. They're different camps. But this is just basically it's fallen into two camps. And they cross pollinate There are Roman Catholics who are opposed to the wall. There are Protestants who are opposed to the wall. There are Roman Catholics who support the wall. There are R For Catholics are Protestants who support the wall Like they they're cross pollinating. So just an as an overarching message about what Christianity is supposed to stand for, we can't agree. So how do we clean that up? How do we some have tried by reinforcing their camp. There was a statement put out by uh I think it was a hundred or or forty or whatever uh faith leaders saying this is what the faith community believes, but it's just what they that forty or so people believe. How do we get people to understand what the true biblical Christian uh approach towards immigration should be? How do we cut through the nonsense and ask people that No, no, no, this is what it is. That's what I'm saying. How do we do that? How do we equip people to be able to to articulate their faith on this question? Well you you you The show's been on about ten years, but uh that's a two thousand year old question that we've been dealing with for two thousand years about how do we have Christians have the same thought processes and uh and and bother and things such as that I I think that y you're y you you you never will have a one hundred percent we agree. We don't we can't even agree on abortion, you know. I I think you can But uh you know, so uh I I don't think you're ever gonna have a world to come to this side is right and this side is wrong. I think it's gonna be it it's gonna be what we're able to t to to the part we haven't talked about is what is the church doing for these people. Now if we're Christians and we believe that we are to help and we are to take care, what are we actually doing? Are we ignoring them? Are we saying they don't exist? Or we don't have time, we don't have money, we have to take care of our own? Or actually are we, you know, filling the food banks? Or are we taking care of the you know extra work that we can find for people? Points uh that I think it goes to now in in the series where we are, Troy, is what is the church's role? Do we have a role in this situation? And you would say? I think we do. Yeah. I think they're all God's people and I think we do have an obligation. And um what that obligation is, is um for each church to decide. I don't think you can turn your back. Well here's an example of a church feeling like they're they're fulfilling their role and it ties into what I'm talking about. So uh 600 clergy and laity from the United Methodist Church. brought church law charges against Jeff Sessions. Sessions is a member of the United Methodist Church. She's part of that denomination. So they brought church charges, law charges against him. Uh and the charges included child abuse for separating young children from their parents and detaining them in mass incarceration facilities. They charged him with immorality, with racial discrimination, with the dissemination of doctrines contrary to the established standards of doctrines. So there they've decided that this is a church discipline issue. Yeah, I think I'll t yeah I'll step in now. I think I think Children to be and and forgive me if I'm taking something out of context right now, but it I think that kids parent families are being separated every single day because we have parents who break Who break laws. They break drug laws. They break uh uh murder law. I mean we have people who do things that requires the state or government to step in and separate the family because either the parents aren't taking care of the kids uh or or for whatever reason. Now in saying that, uh the one thing I'm trying to teach my kids is and and this is something I've I always have at least tried to hold by is If I know I'm going to do something wrong, then I better be well prepared to take responsibility for it. So if I'm driving fifteen over the speed and I get pulled over Well, I shouldn't expect to get out of the speeding ticket. I should say, you know what, yes, I did it, and I take responsibility and ownership of it. And all the police officer is doing is holding me accountable for it. Now the police officer obviously can let me off Or write me a ticket. But either way he's holding accountable. And I think what's hard for people is is holding people accountable. And I think within the church and outside the church Uh we're seeing egregious uh egregious uh uh accounts of people not being held accountable for their actions and being dealt with, whether it's with the sexual misconduct that's taking place within the church or with issues uh w or with legal issues happening outside the church, uh it is about holding people accountable but also taking responsibility. Now in saying all of that, nobody wants to be the bad guy. I mean, nobody wants to be the bad cop. I mean you have to be a kind of messed up person. Yeah, you really want I really want to go in there. And tick some people off and really stick it to this person. Nobody and i and if you do that, you're probably upset or ticked off about something. But everybody wants to be the good guy who comes in and just resolves and helps who they want to be the hero And the immigration situation, everybody's wanting to be the h be the good guy and be a hero, and that is happening in a way that is not uh that is not and I and I don't want to overuse this word over the past few weeks, but is not sustainable because We have an open door. And it sounds like if you were to if you were to uh break this down, if one of these people were to come to my door and they were to knock on the door and find the doors locked, they'd take that personal. Like somehow I've offended them by locking my door. But in reality, having this checks and balances at my door, if someone's coming to sell me Girl Scout cookies, knock on the door, hey, we're good. You're wanting to steal my television, I have the door locked, checks and balances, I'm not opening those doors. So we do as America have we don't have open borders, we do have an open door policy where, hey Come on in. And to use your analogy, you know, uh even more in a more extreme, expanded way, because you talked about last week, I think it was last week, the person who shows up uh on the run from danger or they're in really desperate straits or whatever and you can say, Yeah, come on in, you can hide out here, I'll I'll I'll feed you, I'll take care of you, I'll do what I can to protect you and and meet your needs and get you back up on your feet and you know, whatever you need. But then a second person comes and a third and a fourth and a fifth and a sixth and before you know you got seventy eight people in your house. At what point is it to say, okay I wanna help, but now my kids are starving 'cause I'm giving all my food to these people who really aren't part of my family. Right? So at some point that that's part of the concern I think in this dialogue too is Let's say it's thirty million. How many more can we handle? If if it is thirty million, that's close to ten percent of the people in the country are not here legally. Correct. If that's an accurate number. That's a that's a huge number. What percentage Do we get to the point where we say we can't do it anymore? And I think that's part you're saying, the unsustainability part of it. Agreed, and all of us have gone to a store of some kind, bought something on an e on an impulse. On an and it's an emotional impulse, whether you've got the 80-inch television versus the 65 and you get home, and yeah, it looks great, but then you look at your bank account and you're thinking, oh crap. So I had the emotional impulse by and then I gotta live with the consequences of that and thank God for Walmart because I can take anything back after how many years I get my money back for it. But in saying that, just because you have an emotional response to something doesn't mean whatever happens next is the right decision. But you talked about, both of you did, about uh tempering some of the the rhetoric that we hear with a Christian perspective that says, look, once they're here We need to treat them like people, take care of them, do the best we can to serve them. They're they're part of the the human condition and the church has a role in meeting them. There's a s a a study that's been done, one of those polls. I don't you know take this for what it's worth, it's a poll But there's a poll that says that sixty-eight percent of white evangelicals so that's us sixty percent of sixty-eight percent, so nearly seven out of ten of us say that America has no responsibility. in housing refugees. Where's the where's the disconnect? If that's if that's accurate. Right. If that's accurate, where's the disconnect? Why would those who identify as white evangelicals say America has no responsibility when it comes to refugees. Yeah, I I I find that I don't believe the foe. Yeah, well I said take it for what it's worth, but even if it's ten percent, like what's wrong with you're hearing Your well I will say this. This is probably the answer actually. Uh of the sixty eight percent um How many of them are actually Christians? How many of them are actually going to church? How many of them actually read the Bible? How many of them actually pray? How many of them actually heard a sermon in the last ten years. Like a lot of people go around identifying as Well, I'm white, you can see that, and I'm an evangelical. You ask them the first thing about their faith, and they can't they can't answer it. So that that might be the answer right there. Um I ran a little short on time last week. I don't want to do that again this week. We've got the big uh well not quite two. It's a little less than two weeks Twelve and thirteen days away now, where there's a big play at uh your church. Do you want to talk about that, Morgan? Yeah, we're gonna be looking at the life of Esther and how Esther was uh an answer to a prayer that was seven years in the making. And that's what a that's what's amazing about Esther is that all of a sudden uh God's people realize they're in an they're in a life and death situation and they're praying for God to do something. And what they don't realize is God did something years before and now it's just a matter of God opening their eyes to the answer that He's already provided for them. So we're really excited about the Esther play because it's you know a lot of people want to know, does God answer prayer? Well he probably answered your prayer seven years ago. So it's called uninvited. You can find it more by going to the church's website, ariseforgod. org, not dot com dot org Uh two showings uh for the play, April twelfth and thirteenth. Uh I think seven o'clock is the start time. I've been told that that you should expect is about a two hour kind of a thing. So between seven and nine. And I don't know if it's a ticketed event. Just about to say admission is free. And everyone is invited. So you don't have to go online and download a ticket or anything. Just show up. Not this year. We're doing it differently this year. Uh but yeah, you just you show up at our at our and you go to our website, our address is on there and we'd love to have you. Okay. You have any plays going on in your shirt? Lots of plays, but uh what's the address on the uh seven six four three seven Jefferson Pike. Where it is. Okay. Not to be confused with Jefferson, which is the s the town where your church is actually close to Jefferson. And uh plugged his uh church's website. What's your church's website address? Org. Pleasantview Church of the Brethren dot org. See that the both got the dot org thing going on. All right, next week, I've teased this uh a couple of weeks ago, I think. I do want to go into the scripture. The ones that get bandied about that get referenced, get cited in this argument and say, Here's the scripture. What do you say to that? Now in fairness, I will say those that typically throw them at me haven't really read the Bible, they've heard these scripture references and they and they want to throw them at me as a weapon. Uh so you know With that as a caveat. That's what we're going to tackle next week. And it'll be our last uh go round on this issue. All right. All right. You guys are okay with that Perfect. All right. Morgan Kokenhauer is the pastor at Frederick Seventh Day Adventist Church. Tim May is the pastor of Pleasant View Church of the Brethren. This is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. You can find us online at WFMD. com Go to the keyword section, put in faith, and then hit enter and it takes you to the Faith Debate page. Or you can click on the drop-down menu for the on-air menu and you can click on Faith Debate and get to our page there. Once you get there, you're going to see uh a link to all the recent podcasts of the shows that have aired uh in in the recent past. You can go to the audio vault section of the website and find uh podcasts that go uh back even further than that You'll see a listing of shows that have aired recently a description of the panels and the topics and that sort of thing. And you'll also get a teaser of what's going to be on next week's show. So you can do that at WFMD. com again keyword faith. Thanks so much for listening. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless