Welcome to the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Thanks so much for tuning in and making us part of your Sunday morning. You can find us online at WFMD. com. And if you'll follow along to the sorts of things that we talk about and do outside of this show, the easiest way to do that is to connect through social media or if you want to email me or even text me or whatever. Find all that information at Household of Faith in Christ. I'm Freud Skinner. And if you've been listening the last number of weeks and you know who's with me, we've got Imran Razby. His friends call him Raz, so most people here call him Imran. And uh And uh Daniel Razby is here as well. And um David Forcy, all four of us are pastors of house churches uh in the area. Uh we've got the the house church it meets at the the Rasby's house or Ed Rembrandt's house or whatever you guys c call that. And then um David's is the church at David's house And uh mine actually had the name, Household of Faith in Christ, which is why I sent you to the Household of Faith in Christ dot com website Since we are a newly assembled group of uh pastors talking about this sort of s uh you know, theological things in the Bible, whatever, we spent some time getting to know each other uh in recent episodes and Start talking about what it is to have a house church and what people can expect and that sort of thing. But I thought it'd be good for people one, for us to get to know each other better. And also for the audience to get to know where we're coming from on some things and just back up the history needle a little bit. Go back in time, not back to like, you know, the third century or something like that. But go back a handful of years to deal with the kinds of things that are still impacting our life today and people are still talking about and wondering about, and it'll help them know where we're coming from. And if they're right minded good Americans who agree with us, then if they're, you know, commies, then they're gonna disagree with that's okay. So so I just showed my hand on that. So I've got a a list, as you can see, a long list. If you're on Facebook, we have we're live streaming this on Facebook, so there you go, a long list. I've got like eighteen pages of fine paper. Eighteen yes, it's I know I gotta get out my m magnifying glass. to read this. Um but we're gonna start going back, I don't know, five, six, seven years ago when there there began to be the rise of a spirit of populism uh in the Western uh world. We saw this uh I th the first time I took notice of it was with Bernie Sanders on the Democrat side. And uh then we saw uh playing out with what was going on in Europe, particularly with uh England, the UK wanting to break away from the European Union, a populist uprising there that caused the whole Brexit thing. And uh then the whole Trump phenomenon. Uh I think that it's interesting. Different ideological viewpoints there, different political commitments, and yet they have in common Uh a populist uprising. I don't know if you guys noticed that same thing. If so, if you ha or if you disagree. Can someone define populism for me? Um you are are you all asking me to do that? Absolutely. We talked about that in the before. Define the terms we're going to be using. Well I'm meaning by that it's basic it's an uprising of the will of the people. So it it's it's it's the people trying to take back control from the institutions that have dominated their life, that sort of thing. Um So anarchy. No. Pure democracy. Not necessar so I guess we do have to try to define our terms here. Absolutely. You just posited that kind of describes all of the communist uh r revolutions such as the Bolsheviks and everything else. Um It would also describe the American Revolution. Right. So basically people that are not happy with the status quo. So that's not really a new thing then. How narrow could we make it? The fact that it got traction. I mean Bernie Sanders, there are those who still think he uh he beat Hillary the first time and that he had it stolen from him by a bunch of shenanigans behind the scenes from the DNC who didn't want Bernie Sanders, they wanted Hillary, uh back in uh I guess two thousand sixteen. So he has a lot of he's faded now because he's getting older and people realize he's not the future of of the movement kind of thing. But I mean Bernie almost won the nomination. So populism like w uh like Brexit did win. Like from the grassroots does grassroots have something to do with populism? Yeah, it's a grassroots uprising. The people um Uh I don't know that's the way I said it was the people try to impose their will is how it's like. things change and I I would go back as far as really Obama. Uh I think Obama was uh really underqualified to be president. He didn't even show up for most of the voting. And he voted president when he was there, um, as records show, yet he became president with really no qualifications whatsoever and he got reelected and people voted for him just because he was black. And uh even uh at the time Biden what did he say about uh Obama? Well he's a good looking, articulate uh b black man, uh so maybe he's uh something to satisfy. Right, exactly So I think that's when it really kinda started where people were not really voting on, you know, trying to maintain what this country was about, but to change it, to dramatically change what this country is. And uh I think it started there and it continues to this day. May maybe it would help if we were if I were to clarify how again the way my mind thinks about this is what it's the antithesis of. So you're reacting against a statist ideology. So it's a reaction against the power of the the institution, the state. Uh the deep state, that's where the whole deep state thing kinda comes in. You know, we want to we wanna drain the swamp, get rid of the deep state, and replace it with the will of the people. And again, as as Imran said You know, that's kind of what America was was based upon. It's, you know, Abraham Lincoln, a government of the people, by the people, for the people. That's a populist idea. Uh so it's interesting that you lump Bernie Sanders in that because he advocates for a communist agenda which is that everything is run by the government, not by the people. Well yes, to get there, right? That's I mean, I disagree with your ideology, but that's the point of their argument is you have to travel through the dictatorship and the socialism and the overbearing government system so that on the back end of that you can have Kumbaya and everybody's living communally and the people are doing what they want to do and You know they never get they never seem to get there. So so so populism isn't necessarily a uh an ideology as much as it is a um I don't know, a a way of a way of the people moving towards what they desire. See I I always thought populism or I've been hearing populism lumped uh uh linked with nationalism, the idea that it's more about us as us uh our own country, our own whether it's an ethnicity or whether it's a culture or whether it's just a nation, but it's us versus them as in them being people outside the country, not the whole world as one. And so when I hear the term populism it in recent years, most often it's in the same sentence as nationalism. That's the way it has tends to play out or be characterized anyway, uh, from the conservative point of view. But as you rightly mentioned, I mean, Karl Marx was a populist. Right. Right? The proletariat's gonna throw out the bourgeoisie. You know, and so it was uh so the proletariat's the the populace and they have control kind of thing. Uh But to clarify for those who don't pay attention to these things uh in their everyday uh usings, in an ideal situation, if there were no such thing as human sin, then the Marxist ideal could actually happen. The problem is there is such a thing as human sin. We all are bedeviled by it. And so we can't get there. And so it ends up feeling like which your instinct was, David, like is it anarchy? It can kind of feel like anarchy, and so to keep the anarchy from happening, the the the the Marxists are like, you know, we've got to keep uh the lid clamped down pretty tight on this until we get there. And so it it always ends up, I think historically it's always ended up being the a a dictatorial rule, and then they try to s pass it off as yeah, but it's okay because it's your dictator He's gonna be a benevolent dictator. He's on your side. He's the populist. So Bernie Sanders is a good example in America as we all know who Bernie is. So the idea I think for those who supported Bernie is Bernie's gonna come in and he's gonna and he's gonna have a lot of of restrictions on how things are done and the government's going to have a lot of control and tell us how to because we need to, because we have to break down the systems that we don't like that are. And so he's gonna have a lot of control to do that. Is isn't it fascinating how the uh how how Th the most I don't know, throughout history probably one of the most efficient sort of ways to grasp power is to take on the mantle of a messiah figure of sorts. You know, a a savior, you know, someone with the right ideas, right abilities. Antichrist perhaps. That's kind of crazy. A beast in a whore of Babylon thrown in for good measure? Oh I I just mean, you know, like the like there's a longing in in in all of humanity for uh For someone to come along b because I can't do it, I can't accomplish it, I'm not in a position to do it. For someone to come along and and make things right, make things the way that they should be You know. I I think that's almost some part of our nature is be feeling oppressed. Even children that are very privileged and nice homes with lots of money, they still rebel against the authorities and uh the parents and want uh things that they shouldn't want. and uh somebody else has. They could have everything else, but if they don't have this one thing, then they want that. I mean we've had people uh I've had friends say give a a list of is uh uh got a list from their children saying if I had this and this and this and this then everything would be good and they laughed at it and said, No, you're not getting that. But that's kind of who we are as people and when you look at a large group um as a nation that thinks it plays out the same way. And it's not just a large group of nations, because I think that's in my mind that's where the divide happens between the left and the right, and I mean political left and right, not necessarily theological left and right. Um Um what was the word nationalism, that's the word. Uh Daniel mentioned how you know he he thinks populism, he thinks nationalism. Well that's kind of how it plays out, at least in American politics, that's how it plays out from the right. It's about America defending our borders, defending our national sovereignty, that sort of thing. But from the left, a Bernie Sanders point of view, uh, it's about globalism. Right. And so it's it's one nation on the whole earth kind of a thing. And so there's where the political divide happens, and that's why the populists are fighting, because he's like, they're all populists. Why aren't they getting along? But they're not. And and the MATA movement, the Make America Great uh again idea, is so offensive to a globalist because like, no no, you're taking us backwards. We want to go forward to a one-world order and you're trying to take us back to national boundaries and stuff which has led to all these horrible world wars and is there something more biblical about nationalism or more biblical about globalism? I think that um I'm gonna fall back to what I said before and see what you guys think. I think in a perfect world Globalism is the answer, but we won't have a perfect world until Christ returns. And at that point it will be global. And then it will be global. But in the meantime Uh I think there's there are strong biblical arguments in support God chose national uh sovereignty, national borders, people groups making their own rules for their for their own their own selves. I mean God chose the nation of Israel. He didn't choose the whole world at once. I mean he c uh Jesus came and uh and uh died for the sins of the world, but originally God took Israel and made Israel a nation. And it was a nation. It wasn't, oh, you're running things all over the world, you're gonna take over Canaan and you're gonna be the nation there, and I'll be the the head of the n the nation. So it was in God's design there to show the contrast between people that are following God and people that are not, to m to set them apart, to show what it's you know w what it what it is to be a godly people and to you know w what you said Troy that eventually that's what gonna be a global scale. Now did you ask rhetorically or did you have a a a thought? That you you wanted to answer your own question. Oh not usually. Um Yeah I I mean I I I think you could uh make a Uh I think you could I think you could probably make an argument either way. Um I think Uh certainly right Christ returns and and there is one king of all the nations Um and at that point there's even no longer uh uh you know, a nuclear family, like, you know, we we're no longer um you know, married or given in marriage, right, if you will. Like we're we're like the angels in in that sort of sense. And so um So yeah, so I I think uh yeah, I think I I think I'm with you on, you know, w what is the what would the perfect world be? Um I I would think um really biblically we're supposed to be separate nations. Look at the Tower of Babel. We were one world, one nation, one tongue, and God separated and he made them into different nations, different peoples, different tongues. for that purpose. So biblically, if you want to follow that, we are supposed to have nations and separation and not be one world until God comes back. Yeah, I w I mean my my thought on Babel is that it's uh it it sort of is a way of of of crippling mankind for his own good. Um right, sort of this uh this this Because, you know, I uh as as we look through, you know, it when when when God brings the flood in order to sort of put a put a restart on humanity. Um, you know, I I think Babel is humanity just going down that same road all over again and God saying, Okay, I'm gonna I I'm gonna prevent this from happening again. Yeah, until an and you know, until a later date of my choosing when You know, when I will, you know, again bring bring back people from every every tribe and tongue and people and nation and you know, and of my doing, everyone comes together and Right. So exactly. Yeah. That that's why the argument is there that there should be separation and nations until God comes back and brings it all together. So biblically uh we are supposed to be separate nations, we're supposed to have that separation and even throughout um all the history in the Bible and in the Old Testament, God is very clear delineation of where the boundaries are, where the different peoples are, where the different nations are. Even when Israel was inside of Egypt, they were separate, they kept separate in Goshen. They did not mix with the other Egyptians. So he it's been separate the whole time. And there's a there's a passage in, I believe, Deuteronomy that talks about when God made the um the nations and he separated and he actually gave charge of physical locations on earth to each of the different um spiritual entities, many of which are evil, and he kept out Israel for himself. Um he said the the sons of God he appointed for each of their um portions and he c had Jacob for his portion So all those other nations have a demon basically that's running that country, but they are all separate geographic locations. So I think geography is actually very important to God. Uh and in some way it it plays a part in his overall uh plan. So I don't know if this is oversimplifying it, but I wonder if okay on uh on on one hand we've got this group of communist populists Right, the populists pursuing a communist ideal. And then you've got the nationalist uh populists who are uh pursuing some sort of a sovereignty ideal, uh national sovereignty ideal. Um and they're they are it's a tug of war, they're pulling in opposite directions. Right? They're they're th they're populists but they're they're they're they're hoping to go h in different directions on the river, right? Well one is to break down the nation, the other is to build up the nation. And and if you're breaking down the nation, you're just basically building one giant nation. Right. Right. In if you're a globalist, but if you're a nationalist you could be like the you know name drop Hitler here. Hitler supposedly is a nationalist, but also is a socialist. Right. And so he but he wanted to take over the world and expand the borders of Germany, but it would all be one Germany. So I think uh I think what both of those ideologies have um when you start talking about populism as okay here this is the will of the people the will of the people well the people are not uh homogenous they don't all believe the same thing about everything Everybody has their own views and opinions colored by their uh environment and and and uh what um experiences they've had and what teaching they've had and and so on and their own personalities. So not everybody is going to agree on everything. So if the people want X, there will be still be people who want Y and some other people who want Z. And that's the difference with any sort of uh ideology or government or politics that wants that says, look, we're gonna do what the people want. w w what the people want, well there's always going to be people left out. And I think that's where our founders in in America had an interesting idea of we need to have not a true, full, pure democracy, but a representative democracy. such that the minority is also heard. Even if we're not gonna, you know, do what the minority wants all the time, but the minority is heard and has a chance to have their rights not trampled on. And so we don't all have the same opinion. And I think that that's something the Foundry Fathers recognized. Most other cultures and forms of government other than the original founding of of the uh United States, most other f forms of government are all about one person deciding what most people want or what he wants for everybody. Looks like you're going to say something, David. No? The um the I want to make it, we're gonna we have a few minutes left on this episode. We spent more time on this particular topic because we need to clarify our terms than I anticipated. Uh but I think it's all it's all good. It lays a pretty good foundation for us. It's not that populism is necessarily good or bad, but I will say that populism is always dangerous. I don't know if you guys would agree with me because if you've got so from my point of view, the the populist ideal of the communists is incredibly dangerous because you end up with this authoritarian Usually it's an oligarchy. It's not usually a a a a single individual in in t in today's context I don't think it would be. It'd be some sort of an oligarchy. So you got a very small group of people. And they're all going to be sinful, because we're all sinners. And they're going to be power hungry and money hungry and sex crazed and all these other things that people are bedeviled by when they get in positions of power like that. And they're gonna make life miserable on so many people. So that's really dangerous, just ideologically, politically dangerous. But even on the nationalist side, which is where I would If I had to choose a side, I'd be choosing that side. But you uh David, early on when you were trying to clarify the term, so is this democracy, is this anarchy Uh well, pure democracy is nothing but mob rule. Right. And so if a populist rises up and says majority rule 'cause we the people say so, well, that majority are also a bunch of sinners too. So if you got five sinners or five million sinners, you got a bunch of sinners making decisions. Populism can be very dangerous as why the rule of law and the written word becomes so important. Uh you know, which we don't have those uh things in place anymore. We're functioning kind of we're we're we're got our tail hanging out of the wind right now on that front. It's interesting. I I feel like uh like we're saying that in the in the current world that we live in where that's that's broken by sin, um, that it is good to have um a lot a a variety of things that that that slow people down and limit right limit power, whether it's of an individual or of a of a nation, of a group or anything like that. So Yeah. I think we all probably agree on that point. So next week I'm thinking we could talk uh we could we can shift into what the threat of the one meant to the other. So the the progressives in this country had a whole bunch of momentum. And they thought for sure they were going to have the third term of the of the Obama administration with Hillary in in office. And she loses to Make America Great Again and all of what that ends up meaning and how that's still causing problems for us. Yeah, I one one other thought is I don't think uh populism in this situation really is the majority. I think it is what they're told to think and that's what the progressives really felt that that they had told enough people to think. this way and that they would show up. But there was enough of the majority of Americans that still were conservative and still had um the thoughts back into a a national hey, we are America, we uh that's who we are that they came out and voted voted and weren't as quiet. But usually it what's happened I think the term that you really uh what you use for hot populism is whoever's the loudest in pushing their agenda. And that's what's been happening with the riots and and the the protests. It's It's not so much that that's the majority of the people, it's the ones that are who are the loudest and doing the most uh the speaking or changing. Yeah. So with that said, let me you've heard us uh mention how everybody's a sinner. You heard us mention the name of Jesus Christ. Let me just say that uh if if you're not sure that you agree, I can assure you you're a sinner and you have a you have a sin problem. And I've got to ask you, what do you do with your guilt? You know, if if you don't if you don't think you're a sinner, then you're like the only one in the world who's not one. You know, I mean come on, be honest. Whatever your own standards are, you don't live up to those, right? You got the sin problem, you got the guilt problem, we can do with your guilt. Jesus Christ who tells us his kingdom is not of this world, and he will come again to rule and establish a perfect one-world order, one world government, if you will. He he's coming again, and you're going to be ready for that. So if you'd like to know more about what all of that means, what the good news of the gospel is, how Jesus is the solution to your sin problem. uh reach out to me. Uh easiest way is just connect uh through the website for my church, household of faith in Christ dot com. And if you'd rather not talk to me, you'd rather talk to one of these other guys, I can put you in touch with them and you can you can talk to them. uh that way as well. So until next week. Oh, I gotta plug the radio station too, right? You're listening to the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD, uh the Razves, Imran and Daniel, and uh Mr. Forcy, David And me, Troy Skinner, has been our pleasure to talk with you this past half hour or so on News Radio 930 WFMD. Until next week, about 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless.