This is the Fate Debate, a theological round table gab fest, with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Where faith community leaders wrestle over the truth. Yeah, but in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble! Let's get ready to rumble. Yes, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. Ooh, mama. The notorious big bridge builder, John. Sweitzer. No, I'm just getting warmed up. Are you warmed up? I'm warmed up. Jonathan Sweitzer, he's the founder of Cross Bridges, and David Forcey, he's the founder of the Church of Beats at David's house. I'm Troy Skinner and this is the Faith Debate online at You gotta come up with a different name than the church that meets at David's house. Do you just call yourself the church or you know, or doing church or w do you do you give it No, there's no name. Like like when you invite somebody, hey you wanna come with us? Yeah, what do you do? We kinda do this together. It's kinda like a U two song. I think we're so the streets with no name, it's the church with no name. Well, it I I think part of uh part of the whole idea is to help people have what I would say is an accurate understanding of trash. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like we we say we have a a time of worship in our home on Sunday mornings. Yeah. Um but uh you know, a it may maybe even say a a focused time of worship because you know, everything that we do is worship of something. And the the church is made up of all of those people who are in Christ throughout all of history. Yeah. Um and so that that I guess is is um is the way that we're sort of in what we are doing pushing pushing back against some of the false ideas of what is church. It's not it's not a building, it's not a chance to do it. And so what is your standard for defining church. Do you look to church history for definitions or do you primarily look to the New Testament? Uh I would say we look to uh we seek to use all of scripture. Yeah. sort of some some practice. You're not gonna slay a lamb. No. That's already been close. Yeah. Yeah, but um But we will take communion and understand how the slaying of the lamb from the beginning, you know, points to Christ. Would you dance before the tabernacle like David did? Uh well, what's what's the tabernacle now? the church. So would you dance as as the church? Uh I I think it's possible that we could do that. We're probably not set up in a way that promotes that sort of activity. I'm thinking about Old Testament. These are Old Testament things that we did in our circles. that weren't so New Testament, but they were Old Testament and and you know, so our definitions of those came from the Old Testament. So as you think about Old Testament, I'm just like that the Old Testament would define. Yeah, if you're fresh to this conversation, this is round four of us getting together. First time we got together was the I think the f Second Sunday of December. And we were talking about kind of the background that David Forcy has that uh led him to the place where he felt like, yeah, I think we should start a a church that meets in our home. Uh and then the the second week we ended up what did we talk about? Let me look at my notes. I wrote down what we talked about. Oh, I think we talked about some of the reasons for doing home church. I think that was kind of the theme. of that week. And last week we kind of talked about whether or not uh uh the House Church movement is is uh intertwined in some way with the charismatic movement. And not intertwined so much as resembling. Yeah. Anyway. And I think there's some resemblances, but I think that they're not necessarily family resemblances. Yeah, so I don't know that I agree I don't know that I agree with you, but we're gonna debate something else, I think. So and so now what I wanted to try to get to is 'Cause this is the first time we've been doing the show for over fifteen years. I don't think we've had somebody on the show to talk about a house. I mentioned last week we've had a guest on who has a house church But we didn't talk about house churches with him. And you and I have talked about it some but we? Uh we've talked about everything on the air I don't remember. do two, three, four, or five shows on this with somebody who's doing it. Okay. And so you're you're doing it. Yes. And David's had to think through, okay, what's to be gained? Like if we do this You know, we're or now that you've been doing it. Now that we're doing this, we've gained this positive thing, but also maybe we've gained this negative thing that we didn't And then I also want to hear kind of what like you've lost that was negative, you're glad to have lost. Okay. All right. So what's first again? Well the first thing is, you know, what have you uh what have you gained positively by doing house church that's specific to a house church that maybe wasn't there in a non-house church church? I'm with you. That's a hard question. Um I uh what have we gained? I think I think that we have gained a sense of um Of uh that that that to be the people of God is more like everyday life. than a a particular event um once a week Uh so being the church is like everyday life. Yeah, so so to um everything that we do is an act worship. You know, being being a a a believer in in Christ is like uh is like going to work is like So a heightened authenticity eating dinner as a family is um yeah, maybe maybe so. You can you can hide in a big church. Yeah. Uh it's easy to not be authentic. You can put on a m big it's a big problem in a lot of churches. People are wearing masks all the time. But in your context it's less likely that people are gonna wear masks because you're kind of doing life together. You're coming to is is that what you're meaning by that? Um yeah, I I think so. And um Uh you know, and and in in a sense, uh yeah, th that that that that worship of God is uh is something that we are are actively doing all the time. Um So it's an integrated, integrated into your life. Yeah. Which in regular life or deeply integrated. Yeah, I think I think so. And I I mean I think part of it is maybe part of it and and you know, Troy, maybe you can speak to this a little bit, maybe part of it is that it meets at our house and so Our house is where we gather for worship. And so you know, it it's not like we do things very differently on Sunday mornings, um, you know, from from the yeah, we we we prepare like we would any other time for having you know, other people at our house. Yeah, there's a lot to that. Like I've had, you know, uh an experience at these radio stations for years and I go to a place, the radio station building to interact with people and I'm friendly with them and they're friendly with me. Most of the time we're friendly to each other. And uh and and we're doing life together at some level, but we're going to this predetermined artificial place that we gather. And that does feel different than those times when you know I'll invite people from the radio station over to the house. Sometimes a group of people, sometimes ten of us will all get together. And it's the same group But the setting is different and it feels more raw, more real, more gritty, more authentic. Where you've invited them from a very defined business environment into you know across the line into your private life at that point. But I think that's part of what you're saying, because it's like you're going to the business of church. Right? Church Inc. You're going to the big building that's got the big mortgage and the Right you know, and all those sorts of things and a and a and a staff pastor who's, you know, not making big enough money. That's a misnomer. There are some pastors that make a lot of money But the overwhelming majority of pastors do not make a lot of money. So that's a misnomer. But uh in your case, I mean I don't think there's a financial structure in place at all, right? No. There's there's not. So I often thought that you know Take a pr president of the United States or, you know, the mayor of the city of Frederick, you're not gonna find somebody like that going to likely to a home church, you know, there there's a certain amount of formality that um that is valuable when when people that are uh well known public, you know, officials or whatever are coming together to worship that uh that I think is a lot harder to to break into a private kind of interaction. Uh, and so I felt I felt that often about high church. Feels to me like the formalities that come with it um uh benefit high society and people that that play uh well-known roles in a community but they can't interact with everybody about it. That makes me populist? I d it sounds like a populist idea. Yeah. What that I'm not following you. Can you believe that? I believe I'm following you. It is a humble environment to And I was just being playful by the way. But the point is for because I might have confused others besides you. Uh yeah, this idea that there's there's this almost elite structure that the elites are comfortable in that's separate from what the everyday people and the m and the and the populace is is comfortable in. You know, that's populism's all about the the unwashed masses getting their way as opposed to the elites getting their way. So it's so the Anabaptists were certainly uh like less a part of the structure of you know, political high society structure of Germany at the time. So anyways, you know I think those kinds of realities play out. So I don't know if in in that mix, I don't think we really got into what was gained that you think Maybe is negative or you're concerned could become negative if you're not on guard against it? Um I think I guess I I've thought there there's the possibility of of the negatives. Um I don't think we've experienced any of those yet. I mean there there's the possibility of uh of the of people who you uh wouldn't want in your home to be to end up in your home and to right you know, to know where you live and Um totally. Yeah. Valuable, valuable commodities. Um and so uh that I feel like was really insightful. So so there's um but uh I guess one of the things that um that we thought about going into this is that Just because there's the possibility of something of bad happening doesn't mean that that should be a determining factor in whether you act or do. Uh in a particular way. Now uh to pivot onto the other, what is there anything that you can identify that's been lost that's that's bad that it's been lost? Like do you miss the structure? Do you miss the the the the leadership structure maybe the level of accountability that might have been in a more formalized church setting? Do you miss I don't know Do you miss not being able to Maybe you're just too early in that process? Right? You can't skip your it's coming to your house whether you like it or not. Um You know, we we don't really feel that pressure. Um, you know, we feel like we can say, Hey, we're we're not going to meet this week. I think part of I I think actually probably a a larger church has more of that pressure because they have advertised that, you know, to uh to people that they don't know that that this is happening at this time. Um and so that they have to make it happen. Uh but you don't feel like you could just not be there one Sunday. Uh I I do. I feel like we would let everybody know. Um, I feel like it would be okay to, you know, wake up and are you know, everyone in my house is sick and so we call and let everybody know that it's not going it's not a hospitable place to come to right now. And I would not feel bad about that. I wouldn't feel like I was letting anyone down because you know that's That's that's real life. It's not a it's not um uh yeah, re real life is stuff comes up and and the the expected isn't always e able to be expected whereas you know to me one of the negatives is of of of trying to have a a larger gathering of people. There's there's a lot of expectations and a lot of pressure to meet those expectations. whether the resources are there or not, whether the you know, whether the the leadership has energy to do that or not. And so um So so there's there's a tendency to uh there there's a real lack of pressure to to manufacture anything in to to meet people's expectations. Now I'm gonna ask the question and give you a second to think about it 'cause it could be loaded if if you know. So because a lot of people, you know that tell me they have heard the faith debate show, they they talk about it in the context of they listened to it on their way to church, getting ready for church, a lot of people who are church listened to the show. And so my my question is, you know, there's uh at Some level, maybe it's a minuscule level, but at some level starting a house church is in reaction against something that you're glad to have gotten rid of So but before you answer like what you're glad to have gotten away from, I'm gonna read this is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. You're listening to the Faith Debate on nine thirty WFMD online at WFMD. Jonathan Sweitzer is the founder of Crossed Bridges, well co-founder with his beautiful wife. And not too long ago, Jonathan had the privilege, by the way, of baptizing his own daughter. That's a pretty cool thing. That was a great moment for sure. Yeah, very cool. I saw the video and I don't know that I've ever seen you or almost anybody else I know beam quite so much as you were deeming. It was really cool. That was my daughter. Nothing better. Wow. So a anyway, and the the uh the the other guest on this week's show is uh David Forcey. He has begun a house church that meets in his home. And now I just told him to tell the rest of us what's wrong with the way we do church. Alright, so so the actual question is what what uh what were we trying to get away from in a sense? What's been lost, that's a good thing. Um yeah, I don't I don't think I I even answered the question what uh what did we lose that we are sad to have lost, which w I think I would say is the um the joy of of a larger group of believers together. I think the the more the merrier you know, if it if it is sure uh people who are are in Christ. Um and so uh so that certainly is is something that um You know, we we m uh well, I I officiated at a a wedding this last weekend and um And uh and so we really enjoyed uh being with a very large group of those who we know are in Christ and uh Um who would be ten times as large as what used in your home, right? Yeah. Yeah, and so um Uh so so that, you know, to us was a a really beautiful thing. Um and um m you know, not necessarily something that we feel like we uh we need to have every week, but it's it's nice to experience, it really is, 'cause it's a uh a taste of the you know th the the larger and larger. You know, there there's um heaven will be the the largest church, if you will, right? Uh when the the entire bride of Christ is is there. And uh and so so so in that sense it is nice. We we do It we I I wouldn't say we miss it, but we enjoy it when it's there. Um so uh then then going on to what uh Well what don't you have to deal with that that you're glad that you'll deal with because you're not a more traditional looking Yeah. Um expression of the church. Uh I I I guess I'd just go back to um the the pressure of uh of of things to maintain things and to maintain um so so property You know? Right, you don't have to worry about um And and and by that I don't just mean like a morph everything that you have Yeah, you have to you have to mow the lawn of the big church property or clear it of snow or re roof it when it starts to leak or fix the HVAC unit. uh you know, or or argue over what color the new curtains should be. Right. Um, you know, it's it's my house and so my wife picks those things and tells me when we need new chairs and so it It makes, you know, some of those decision making processes a lot a lot easier and um I would say uh you know there uh a lot of those things end up being um distractions. Um so so property and then then programs also um I think can can end up being large distractions. I think they can end up using um I think many, many programs wear out their welcome. and are continued much past the time of effectiveness and usefulness. And many, many programs also are um are born out of a um a felt pressure just to have them uh to meet one person or a few people's particular need, a a whole a whole new program has to be developed and and put out there. So that begs questions like um Do you collect an offering? What do you do with it? Do you do uh do you have like a youth night where where the kids gather together? Do you just tend to do everything as families together, you know, some of those kinds of things. Are there moments where you uh will provide adult interaction that is, you know, away from the kids, you know, some of those kinds of things? Um n no. Uh we we seek to be aware of needs and to meet those particular needs. Um and Yeah and and I you know, I guess some of it is our um I I guess one one important note to make is that we uh we are very connected with other believers that are not just in our in our home that don't just meet in our home on Sundays. Um, you know, partially through the same homeschooling networks uh that you and I are and Jonathan, but um Also um also just with the um the other believers that we that we used to go to church with that are you know, going to various churches um all over Frederick County, you know, we have we have those connections still and so I I do think a critical a critical sort of point that we um sought through um my wife and I before saying let's Let's do this is uh is to say we we need to maintain connections with other churches. Isolation is never a good thing and so Um with other churches or other believers? Uh uh isolation from either one of those is is not good. And so we need to we need to have sort of both of those. Hm. So you have to stop avoiding me, Jonathan. Again, we need to come together. Well well it begs the question how to church, like how do you maintain a connection with a church? from your church, but I don't know that we have time to get into that particular distinction. Yes. Jonathan Sweitzer, thank you my friend. Good to be here. Cross bridges oh what is it again? Crossed bridges, past tense crossed bridges, E R O S S E D. But it's like dot net or something? Dot com. Oh, it is dot com. Okay. You don't have a website for your house church, do you David? David Forcey does your business have a website? Uh it does, yeah. You know what off the top of your head? Dave the treeguy dot com. He's an arborist, Davetree Guy dot com. So give him a buzz. I'm We're online at WFMD. com. Keyword Faith. Thanks so much. Hey, make good choices. Good choices. New Year's Eve just a couple of days away. Good choices. I want to see you around next week, 167. 5 hours from right now. God bless. That was stupid