Broadcasting for the West Side of Big Brother. city in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate brought to us by Putnam in Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com keyword faith. There you find links, all sorts of cool stuff, podcasts of this show, news items, and the Faith Debate blog. Our blog is your blog, so email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. Hi folks, what you send me Eighteen times a day, Monday through Friday, that's ninety a week. That is a lot, isn't it? You don't have to read 'em all. Pick the ones you like and read those Share them with a friend. Encourage you to pop in and see what other people are sending for you to read, even if you don't want to send me something for others to read. On the Faith of It Show in recent weeks, we had our Bjorn Dahl with Youth for Christ of Central Maryland on talking about uh school and youth and educational issues and you know controversies about what can be said and not said at graduations and in the classroom and that was uh really good time Jonathan Schweitzer wasn't able to be a part of that panel discussion, and that's uh unfortunate, but uh he'll be back soon enough. But here I am this week, and Arm Björndal is no longer part of the panel. John Sweitzer still not able to be here for the panel, so you and me, baby. You and me. So figure, you know, happy new year. Out with the old, in with the new, all that sort of stuff, and everybody has New Year's resolutions and stuff. I'm not necessarily huge on New Year's resolutions. What I am uh somewhat uh I don't know, big on, fastidious about maybe is a better way of putting that is to to kind of revisit my my life plan, my life goals and and to put together a a renewed plan for each coming year. We started doing this years ago because my birthday is in January. And so it just seemed like a good time to take stock. You know, the passing of a new calendar year, the passing of a new biological year with my birthday. It just seemed like a good time for me every year to kind of review where I am in life, you know, where my shortcomings are and they're innumerable and strategies for trying to address that. And it always pretty much comes back to the same thing, comes back to finding ways to be more spiritual, but in an authentic Christian biblical kind of a way. So ways to connect with God, to spend more time in prayer, to spend more time reading God's word in the Bible, to spend more time in fellowship with other believers, to spend more time with non-believers so that I can share the reason for the hope that lies within me. commitment to be more involved with my church, to give more freely of my money, all of those sorts of things. And not just to make a commitment uh but to actually have a strategy and say, okay, here's my plan, here's my purpose, here's my strategy for executing it And then part of that process is to write it all down so that you can revisit it the next year and that's what I do, revisit it every year and it it's interesting to me how often if you if you were to look at my list for the last twenty years, there's so many things that are on there every year. I guess that's just part of the sanctification process. It can be a slow process for some of us. But it's amazing how many things come off. And it's also amazing how many things that I add to my plan. I also add a prayer list and the number of things that come off of that prayer list. uh every year that I forget uh would have forgotten. Let me put it that way. Would have forgotten if I hadn't written them down. So I put my annual prayer maybe I should do this on a more regular basis, not just on you know, annual prayer requests, but just an ongoing prayer request list because we forget. It's it's sad but true I uh let's say there's I don't know twenty things on a list. I'm making up a number I didn't count them, but let's just say there's twenty things on a list. By the end of the year you forget what most of those twenty are. Or even if you remember what most of the twenty are, you might forget a significant number. You might forget five or six or eight of them. And it seems ironic, but the five or six or eight of them that you forget are the ones that were answered. So oftentimes. So when you write 'em down and you look back and say, Oh my goodness, look at that. He answered these eight pre prayer requests that I totally forgot I had. Plus God answered four of the remaining twelve. God answered a majority of my prayer requests for the year. Hallelujah. Praise the Lord. Let's pray about that. Praise God for that. It it's it's uh it's convicting though. Because how dare I forget That I put a request before the Lord and he answered it. Depriving God of his due honor, depriving myself of the opportunity to worship him. It's it's it's really sad. That that's the case. But anyway, that's my my advice for you if you care to take it. If you haven't already done so, it's still early enough in the year. Spend some time praying. I do it and here's my my thoughts on this. You can do it your own way. Different people do it different ways. I've had this conversation off-air with some people over the years and different people do similar ideas and they all have their own way. This seems like it works for me. I will sit down and jot down things that occur to me uh to be praying about And I'll enter into into a discussion with my wife and we'll compare notes and we'll have a discussion and we'll jot down things that come to us out of that discussion. And we'll revisit the previous year's list as well and we'll cull things off of that list and add them to the the list if they need to be continue to be prayed about. And then we actually pray. And at the conclusion of the prayer, we try to recall, okay, what were the things we prayed about that weren't all r because sometimes, you know, oftentimes, most of the time. Almost always actually. Uh in the spirit of prayer, if you if you pray long enough, you start with kind of pre-fab list of things you know you want to pray about, but other things will come to mind. The Holy Spirit will prompt you to pray for someone or something. And so at the conclusion of the prayer we try to remember, okay, what were the things that weren't already on our mind before we prayed that came up to m on our mind during our prayer? Let's write those down. and add those to the list. And let's save it and put it in a place where we will not forget where it is so that next year uh in the old days I used to tuck it actually inside of my Bible uh because I always knew where my Bible was and I could always remember, oh my prayer list is in the Bible. That makes sense Now with technology it's so easy just to type it up into a word document and save it in your computer and you know, that's easy enough. So anyway, those are my thoughts for the new year. So with the theory with the theory, the with the prospect of getting out with the old and in with the new We're going to do a little house cleaning. I've mentioned this from time to time. Every once in a while I've run into a problem where we don't have anybody to do the show with me. I want to try to find something interesting to share with you that's related to faith debate matters. And I don't know why I got into this habit a long time ago of I'd noticed something online or in a newspaper. Uh well, I don't know if the last time I actually read uh actual newspaper. Uh a magazine or somebody sends me something and this was really before I started doing the Faith Debate blog with uh much earnestness. So a lot of this stuff would uh I I would save it figuring, oh, we'll talk about this on the air one day and we never get to it and I've got this huge stack of stuff to steal a line from Rush Limbaugh. I got my stack of stuff And I take the stack of stuff and I save it figuring I'm gonna need it someday and then it sits there and it ends up becoming years old. For example, here's something in my hand that's from 2011. So it's almost five years old And it's about are earthquakes really on the increase? Uh it says that uh it seems like there have been more earthquakes in recent years, last twenty or thirty years, but a partial explanation may lie in the fact that in the last twenty years we have seen a number of recorded earthquakes that we can locate each year because of the tremendous increase in the number of seismograph stations in the world. and the many improvements in global communications. For example, in 1931 there were about 350 stations operating in the world and today There are thousands, uh as of two thousand eleven, eight thousand compared to three hundred and fifty earlier in last century So now that we get all this more data comes to us more quickly, we can communicate it through you know electronic mail, the internet, satellite distribution, that sort of thing. So we're hearing about all these earthquakes. So I mentioned this because so many times Christians want to try to look for evidences in the headlines that Christ is about to return any second now and they'll point to, see, there will be earthquakes and the Bible says there's going to be earthquakes and we have all these earthquakes, see Well, maybe. But not necessarily. There might not be actually more earthquakes now. So we got we gotta take it with a grain of salt. There might be something to it, but let's make sure we know what we're talking about, because if not, we're gonna end up looking like fools. to those who know about these sorts of facts and say, you know, Mr. and Mrs. Christian over there, the reason there's so many more reported earthquakes is because We used to have about 300 or so seismograph stations around the world and now we've got close to ten thousand. So they're picking up a lot more earthquakes and they're a lot more sensitive. The equipment's better. And it used to be there might be an earthquake over in Central Asia somewhere. You'd never hear about it, even if they did pick it up on a seismograph, because by the time it got here it was old news. But now it's instantaneous communication, so we hear about it right away. And you have to give pause and give some credence to that kind of argument and say, Yeah, okay, that might be true. So makes what I've been saying about signs Plus the Bible speaks against trying to look for those sorts of signs. Aha, he see this is when Jesus is coming. Just be careful about that. Would ya? Do us all a favor, please. Uh let's see what else we got here. Uh da da Uh talking about somebody coming on the show who is uh always a good guest, winsome, intelligent, and fun to have on. Uh oh, you know who this was we were talking about? Winsome, intelligent, and fun to have on the show. We haven't hit him on in a while, but you'll hear him right after this show is Pastor Robert Quintana from the Seventh-day Adventist Church. This was an exchange that Jonathan and I had that somehow for some reason I printed and saved. Little plug for Robert Quintana. If you've never met Robert, uh Pastor Q Uh he is just uh a ball of energy, exuberance, fun, always a smile on his face, quick with an encouraging word, uh real love, real good man. Big fan of uh of Robert Quintana and and and and what he stands for. Uh here's more stuff about earthquakes. Oh, this is the other thing that I remember when I was saving this and why I was saving it. Um we talk about you know the earthquakes are bigger and worse and more people are dying, there's more destruction and you know that's a sign. Not necessarily so. You know, the worst earthquake uh on record apparently and they didn't you know the records for this sort of thing don't necessarily go back to forever but at least according to this source the worst rec a uh uh earthquake on record happened in Lisbon, Portugal Back in 1755. So think about that. 1755, 1855, 1955, that is two hundred and what, seventy? No. Two hundred and yeah, I think that's right. Two hundred and sixty. I don't know. More than two hundred and fifty years ago. So magnitude eight point six earthquake, sixty thousand people were killed. It didn't happen this year, last year, within the last ten years. It happened hundreds of years ago. So let's just let's be careful about that. Alright, what else we got in the stack of stuff that I got? Oh, by the way, for theater, I'm gonna do a rushism here. I'm gonna trash. Uh well here's something that's marketing advice. The reason that's in here I'm not sure. I mean I know why I would have printed it, but why I stuck it in here, I don't know. I would have printed it because if you don't know what I do as my day job. I give marketing advice. I uh uh sell and develop advertising uh campaigns and strategies for clients of this radio station and our sister station WFRE. So Yeah, this doesn't uh this doesn't belong in the faith of H. Get rid of that. Uh here we are talking about um Well, church talking about a unique Easter service. You know, let me talk about that. I've been doing a lot of reading. If you if you pay attention to what I say at the end of the show. And I'll talk about, hey, here's what I'm reading today. You might notice some themes. There's often times when I'll I'll be reading on the same subject, it seems like, week after week after week, and that's because I am reading on the same subject week after week after week sometimes. Go on these binges. You know the the big thing now is the Get Netflix or something or or get a a DVDs series of a sitcom and just binge watch and watch hours and hours of the same program on your television over like an entire weekend, a lost weekend watching Ep endless episodes of Friends or Twenty-Four or all the Star Trek movies back to back or Star Wars or whatever your your uh your your your your video um addictions are. Um well I do that with my reading. I have these reading addictions and I get interested in a topic and I start reading all sorts of different perspectives on it. And I I spent a time not too long ago, earlier this past year. Uh reading a lot of stuff about worship, worship services, uh what constitutes worship, strategies for conducting a good worship service for Christians from a Christian perspective. And What catches me in this headline, this is an old headline from the Gazette back in 2010, but it's talking about a church offering a unique Easter service. Let's be careful about that. What do we mean by unique? How unique is it exactly? And if it gets to be so unique, does it still constitute a Christian worship service? Does it constitute a worship service at all Or is it merely some sort of religious gathering and event that might not involve any worship whatsoever? We have to think about that not just for our Christmas or Easter or other special holidays, but all of our services throughout the year. Each and every Sunday. I visit a number of churches throughout the year because I do this show and I connect with different people and so I'll play hooky for my church uh on occasion and go visit other churches with friends and pastors that I know and without naming names, I mean some churches you go to is like going to a concert. That's enjoyable, but is it worship? Yeah, well sometimes I wonder, and it's something for the leadership and for the membership of the individual churches to to be thinking about and uh be careful about Sometimes it's it's not a concert, it's very dry and serious, and you know the the tone is one of piety. Is just because it's pious or sounds pious anyway, is that worship? And is that what makes us unique? Well, I like that church because they have great music. That's what's unique about that church. Okay. I like that church because they have an old style liturgy with knots of kneeling and standing and singing the old hymns. Okay. Are either of those examples worship? They could be, but are they? And that should be the gauge by which Christians judge the church they go to. Do they go to a church uh worship service and come away from it saying, you know, we worshiped God And I know we worship God because the way that God instructs us to worship him in the Bible seemed to be pretty well represented by what we just did today. So something to think about. This is the Frederick Faye debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. You can call it a special edition if you like, or a not so special edition, as we're going through our um I don't know, our stacks of stuff and cleaning things up. Alright, here's uh oh we used to do a a biblical like word of the week. Remember that? A couple of years back, for a number of years we we did the the word of the week and sometimes we just kinda come up in uh in discussion. But sometimes I wasn't sure it would, so I had this list of of of words that I would use. Here's a couple of them, for example. Um abrogate. Do you know what abrogate means? To abolish or nullify a law by authoritative action. Abrogate oftentimes will come up in the context of when we have uh Islam uh as a topic on the show with Muslims and the idea of abrogation. Um altruism. What is altruism? The ethical view that one ought to act out of regard for the interests of others. You can be altruistic and not be religious necessarily. You can be real altruistic and certainly not Christian. You can be Christian and not altruistic necessarily. So uh there's a whole bunch of them here, I'm not gonna read them all. Penology, the study of uh or theory of punishment, especially the punishment of criminals by the state Cultural relativism. We know what that is. I'm not sure why I would have needed to share that. Anyway, get yourself educated. Don't need to run through any more of that. You can find your own definitions online. Let's see. Here's a story that uh I stayed thinking we would talk about. It's about a pastor who uh oh was saying, this is the guy down in Florida, Gainesville, uh, Florida. Remember Terry Jones? I think we might have ended up talking about this at some point, but Terry Jones, the guy down in Gainesville who burned the Quran, or was he said he was going to burn the Quran and General Petrae said, hey Pastor uh Jones there. Don't don't do that. And so Jones with uh Dove World Outreach Center in Gainesville, you know, decided should I do that or not to do it? I think he ended up doing it, didn't he? Pretty sure he did. Um and then he became a poster child for all that's wrong within Christianity and Christians are haters and this guy, you know, proves that all Christians are complete idiots and First of all, let's just say for the sake of argument that what he did was wrong. Let's just say that for the sake of argument. He was pastor of a fifty member church, not exactly leading a huge movement within Christianity. Certainly not enough for the world at large to point at him and say, See, all Christians are No, not all Christians, one Christian who happens to be leading a church of about fifty people And I don't even think all fifty people were in in lockstep with them. In fact, if I remember correctly, this is going back a number of years now, but if I remember correctly, most of the people left. So why would we give people ammunition is the first question. So Pastor uh Pastor Jones, do what the Bible tells you to do. And if you get criticized for that Fine. Embrace that. Celebrate it that you get to share Christ's sufferings for being criticized for for being godly. But the Bible does not say to burn Qurans. So what was the point of that exactly? There'll be some other knucklehead that's gonna want to do that in the future or something like that in the future, fl you know, flush the cron down the toilet or or some nonsense. We don't need nonsense Yep, so that's the We'll toss that one out. Let's see, what is this story? Oh, this is back when Sarah Palin was in the news all the time. People Um, making fun of Sarah Palin. Sarah Palin who at the time after she ran for vice president and then she gave up being governor of Alaska, she started working for the Fox News Channel, which by the way, I I run the risk of offending you, I know, if you're a conservative and you like Sarah Palin, but she was not good as a political analyst on Fox News Channel. And I I don't know what it is. When she was running as vice president, running mate with um John McCain I thought she was fascinating. I thought she came a uh came across as uh you know articulate when she would give her stump speeches and uh particularly at the uh Republican convention. She gave an amazing speech. And she was really kind of interesting and fun. Even if even if you were to disagree with her, you had to admit that she did a great job delivering those speeches. Powerful mover of people. And then I don't know what happened. She goes on to Fox News Channel and she started sounding like this whiner. She didn't sound like a whiner when she was doing those stump speeches. What the heck happened? I don't understand. Anyway, Family Guy uh was in the news back then for uh for making fun of uh Sarah Palin and Down syndrome and all that and Uh just another reason for me not to be a fan of the family guy. And another thing by the way, Sarah Pan was in was employed by Fox News Channel. Fox News Channel obviously is well known as a conservative news outlet, although they like to claim to be fair and balanced, and that they're more fair and balanced than some, that's that's to be sure. But to say that all of Fox is guilty of being hyper conservative On their sister network, they have family guy making fun of Sarah Palin. So it's not the whole company. It just happens to be the idea ideology of those who are on on those particular shows, not the whole channel necessarily. That whole channel, you know what they're interested in? Making money. Maybe to a fold, who knows. Alright, so that's the end of that. As we head down the home stretch here. Hopefully this is interesting. Yeah, I don't know if it is or not. This is a kind of stream of consciousness could could be called rambling. Oh I know somebody mentioned to me in the hallways here at work that somebody else had talked to them about uh the story on Lilith, Adam's first wife. Um And they came to me because I do this show and they thought I would know something about that. And you know, Lilith is you know it has to do with has to do with oppressed womanhood. It's you know, it i it's a it's a feminist kind of uh idea It's not the Bible. So I I was saving this figure and we would talk about it someday. It's never come up. Let me just say this. If we were here saying you talk about, oh, you know, Lilith, Adam's first No. Adam's first wife was Eve, not Lilith. All right. Uh I I think it uh where does it come from? Does it come from the alphabet of Ben Sarah? I'm I'm tr I'm really pushing my uh My memory banks on that. But anyway, if everybody starts to attack what you believe and says that Christianity or or even Judaism, anything that believes in the Bible is is um sexist and anti women They don't know what they're talking about because Lilith is not in the Bible and secondly, that couldn't be further from the truth. Could not y you could almost make an argument from a certain point of view that Jesus was the first feminist. a not modern day version of feminism, but I mean, seriously, forget about it. There there's no argument to be had there. Uh maybe we'll do a sh I don't think we've ever done a show specifically on the feminist feminism role of women kind of question. as a specific topic for this show, maybe we'll have to tackle that. I think that would be I'll put that on my to-do list. So in the meantime, we toss that out. What have I been reading lately? Number of things that uh uh I've been reading that are interesting. This is not interesting as far as a sit down and read it cover to cover, but it's uh helpful to understand what what the history of religion in this country Christianity in this country is all about. The Handbook of Denominations in the United in the United States Uh originally by Frank Mead and Samuel Hill, but there's an updated version. That's the one I uh ended up reading the ninth, tenth, eleventh, twelfth. I don't know what edition it is now. uh by Craig Atwood, Handbook of Denominations in the United States. And the thing that will strike you if you pick up that book and start to read it is how many darned denominations there are. I mean Amazing. There are denominations. I do this show, all right? I do the Faith Debate Show. I interact with a lot of people in a variety of contexts. You wouldn't think that somebody like me would get surprised, but I'm surprised at how many darn denominations there are. It's unreal. Why is that? I don't know. Brokenness maybe. Or just openness to different perspectives and we don't need to fight over them. We'll just, you know, okay, you do your thing over there. We can we can be Christian brothers and sisters together, but we'll s you know, slide over there. And I'll slide over here and we'll coexist. Here's something it was it was a marketing newsletter, and this might end up being close to what we end with, I think. It's a marketing newsletter, but it was uh Talking about things of of of of spirituality, belief, religion. In fact, the art the this new letter art newsletter article is called Fortress of Belief. A fortress protects you and makes you feel safe. A strongly held belief is a fortress. It protects your view of reality. You defend your fortress when you feel it's under attack. This is presuppositionalism right here. But is every strongly held belief true? The sincerity of the sincerity of the believer does not determine the truth of the belief. Don't panic. I'm not attacking your fortress. I have no idea what you believe, but I do know you have four categories of beliefs. Beliefs about God, beliefs about self, beliefs about others, beliefs about circumstances. Is there a chance that one of your beliefs is wrong and your fortress has become a prison? Hmm. Something to think about. Is it possible your beliefs about God, about yourself, about others, or about circumstances are wrong? And if so, have they become a prison rather than a fortress? I would argue, hopefully persuasive at least at times, that you will know whether or not your beliefs about God or yourself or others or your circumstances are true or not. Whether they're a prison or a fortress or not, is how your beliefs about those things, about any things, stack up when compared to the revealed word of God in the Bible. If you've got a better sieve through which to run your beliefs than that, whether you think you do, let me know what it is, and if it's an interesting, compelling thought. We'll invite you on the Faith Debate Show and we'll hash it out. So anyway, that was uh Roy H. Williams, by the way. I was reading uh portion of his newsletter article. Sorry Roy to crumble your paper. Anyway, wow, that went way faster. I didn't clean up my stuff as much as I thought I would. I guess I got long-winded on some of them. Well we'll do more house cleaning uh in the future, I'm sure. Uh this is the Frederick Faith Debate was a special edition. I hope you found it reasonably enjoyable. It was vast departure of what we normally do, but Uh thanks for your patience if you didn't enjoy it. Putman Plumbing and Heating, How quick Make You Smile. They're our sponsor. We're online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks so much for listening to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Till next week, 167. Half hours from now, God bless, and Happy New Year