This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putman, Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Visit us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith There you'll find a Monday through Friday updated blog. Just uh send me an email at Troy at WFMB. com and maybe you'll find your email post it up on the blog page because my blog is your blog. What am I reading? Oh I couldn't wait for you to ask. Spiritual Birth Line by Stephen E. Smallman. Interesting read. Chris would like that one. Jonathan, I don't know if he reads anymore, but uh if he does, he might enjoy it too. We're going to try something new this week. If you've been listening the last few weeks, you've heard the same panel that's on this week. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Cross Israeli Chapel, and Chris Jackson, the manager of the day program at the Religious Coalition, an ordained uh Baptist Minister is on the show. We've been talking about whether or not Christians uh should expect to be healed uh when they pray to God asking for healing. Uh Jonathan has I thought been primarily coming. Let me tell you what I'm saying. Hold on a second. Just wait a second. All right. He's been I don't even know. My point of view on h what he's been taking saying has been that yeah, we kind of pr probably should expect to be healed And Chris is then kind of saying, well maybe we should really expect to be a little bit more. I'm going to call Dean and ask her if she feels like you don't understand her at all. So what we're going to try this week, which we fail to do the first by the way, your wife too. Speaking of failures I failed to uh welcome you guys into the Linton season last week, so I hope you're enjoying the the Linton season. What'd you give up? I gave an hour to be here for the show. Hey! Very nice. And and and uh you know what I'm gonna give up for la I'm gonna give up doing these shows in a foreign language. We're actually gonna try to do it in English this week. So Jonathan, if you could try to communicate in English so that Chris and I can know what you're talking about, we would appreciate that very much. I'm calling your wife, I'm sending a text to her right now. Dina, do you feel like Troy listens to you when you talk? Now you, the listener, are at a disadvantage because you don't know what happens between the you know the 167 and a half hours in between shows. But Jonathan, to my ears, completely did a turnabout, 180 degree take on what he's been trying to say since last show and this show. So I don't know what's going on. When I say that I think that they should expect to be healed, right? You don't really mean that they should expect to be healed I mean that the word expect has to do with you have your hope in the promise of God that He heals. But that that healing you should expect that that healing may happen right now or it may happen What does Miriam Webster say the definition of expect is? I expect my wife that sounds negative. My wife expects me to be faithful to our marital vows. Troy, you're being defended. Does that mean that she shouldn't really expect me to be faithful? Like Honey, I know you expected it, but really you shouldn't expect well, what do you mean? What are you saying? Well that's what I'm trying to explain. Okay. Is that yes I'm saying what you guys are saying, but I'm putting the emphasis on the fact that faith is the evidence of things hoped for. That you have a very, very strong hope. That is an expectation that God is going to heal you, but that you recognize that healing may happen now or it may happen When you uh at the redemption of your bodies when you're in in eternity with Christ. But nevertheless, you have that confident expectation, that confident hope. I was using the word expectation in a way that I clear I see now led you guys uh to the to the wrong place. All right? But I'm saying that I recognize that oftentimes the Lord doesn't heal and that our our our our hope is in the Lord, not in our healing. Our hope is in his promises and in his character that he's the one that does these things. And so whenever he he's gonna do it is g is just fine. We'll trust him to do it when he's gonna do it, but we believe that he could do it at any moment. And so we're living in the expectation that he could heal the the diabetic at any moment, my son. Now s the reason I was hearing it differently is because in in my vernacular God forgive him for the time. If anyone fails to meet my expectation, there is a level of disappointment. That person has failed me at a level that is that is difficult to forgive. Right? They you pr like you know, a little kid, you you don't take your son to the ball game. But you promised Sure. You let me down. You've sinned against me. You owe me an apology now. Mm-hmm. That's how I'm understanding the word ex expectation when you're using it. So does this mean we need to like go back and erase the last three shows? Well they go. Maybe we need to put a disclaimer at the beginning of each one of those shows. What you're going to hear is Troy and Chris Not understanding what Jonathan is meaning to say. Jonathan communicating in a poor manner. Now let me say, if it's merely a semantics issue And understanding that what Jonathan is saying that we should pray with a strong sense of hope and a knowledge that God is capable of healing us and he does promise good things to his people and maybe our physical healing will be one of those things and so we should pray with some to use Jonathan's word, level of expectation. Yeah. Um with my word, with some level with some significant level of strong hope. If if we're understanding it that way, are you in disagreement with Jonathan, Chris? Let me put it this way. Uh I know some people who have more fa no more faith in their little finger than I have in my whole body. And then then then there is in this whole entire room. But they suffer with physical illnesses, disabilities, diabetes. Yeah, yeah. other type of maladies. Yeah. Uh but yet they're they're walking with God, they're studying the scriptures. Uh many times they're serving on the mission field. Yeah, didn't I give you guys a story about that with the with the guy that has the the muscle uh uh David multiple cirrhosis, you know, and that that I mean that's my point is that he obviously has faith and I'm not sitting there saying that he doesn't have enough faith. I'm I I I Um in the story there are other people that don't that think he doesn't have enough faith. And that's why that story I guess didn't resonate with me, because it felt like that story wasn't representative of the bigger theological argument you were trying to make Because originally we're talking about Isaiah fifty three. Isaiah fifty three, famous line, by his stripes we are healed. Right? So by by the wounds inflicted on Christ, we are we are healed because he took the the wound for us. Chris Jackson has made the point, you know, over the last three shows, uh at various times that that's primarily talking to our spiritual condition, our spiritual well being. That he took our spiritual punishment so that we wouldn't have to. I think that fits nicely with any larger narrative in the Bible. So I was agreeing with Chris But then it seemed like you wanted to say, no, no, no, it's not I want to I think that those preachers that want to say and and uh per and primarily it's going to be the Pentecostal charismatic school of theology that's gonna go in this direction. They want want uh them and then on an even more hyper level, the prosperity gospel guys, the name it claim it guys um are going to want to take that passage and say, hey, see it says right here, by his stripes you are healed. So you, if you have enough faith, if you believe strongly enough, if you pray with enough fervency, then God's promise to you is you will be healed. You should expect in a sense that if you don't, can't blame God because he is God, so it must be your fault that you're sick. And that will be the danger to that. And it felt like feel you weren't arguing for that practically, I get that, but it felt like theologically you were arguing that that was an appropriate way to understand the passage. And I've been arguing against that because I think the practical and the theological fit together nicely when let's let's let's go back to Isaiah fifty-three. The passage. The passage says that he took up our infirmities. Here I'll do it in New King James. He has borne our griefs, carried our sorrows. We considered him st stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted. That passage is the one that's quoted by Matthew in the context of Jesus healing the sick. The very next verse in Isaiah says he was wounded for our transgressions. bruised for our iniquities, the chastisement for our peace was upon him, and by his stripes we are healed. And that's and that word healing. Right. And that word healing Everywhere that it's used in the Old Testament refers to physical healing. Almost everywhere. Show me where it doesn't. Well I mean I mean the word in the Hebrew. I just I I I I I still have it up here on my computer. And the word for um uh for uh diseases You know, where he heals all our diseases, where it says in Psalm, He heals all my diseases. You know, forgiven all my sins. Crucifixion. Right? Well I quoted. Okay, but please understand what I'm saying. Okay? Because this is a major distinction from what you thought that I was saying. I'm not saying that that means that everybody's gonna be healed right away. Or at all this side of heaven. But like you're saying Is that what you're saying though? Yeah, but remember last la or two two shows ago you threw your hands up in the air, they couldn't see that And you said, I believe I'm healed. I'm already healed. I just haven't seen it yet. Right. Well that's exactly what I'm saying. That's what I agree with, and I'm saying that this passage agrees with that. That where he talks about he was bruised for our iniquities, wounded for our transgressions. Chastisement for our peace was upon him. All of those parts of that verse are referring to the spiritual, but that this part where it says, By his stripes we're healed, is saying the same thing that it just said in the verse before. that he also bears our our griefs and our sorrows, that he heals us physically. But when I And it's already happened. We just haven't seen it yet. When I say that you said when I say that I'm healed now The you know, the I'm I'm saying that with the understanding, uh a theological understanding of already not yet tension. It's already true, not yet fully realized, fully expensive. That's what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying. And I've been s I've been Meaning to say that to the last one. Okay. Okay, well then, if that's what you're saying, then I'm gonna in the, you know, twenty minutes we have left on this show Preachers who want to stand up. Yeah. And if if you're one of those preachers, you know, and you disagree with what I'm about to say, email me, Troy at WFMD. com. We'll have you on the show because I'd love to talk with you about it. Preachers who want to say, look, you got your rheumatoid arthritis acting up. You've got a hip replacement you need to do Yeah, whatever your your you g you got a flu, flu bug, whatever your thing is, you know, Alzheimer's is is starting to rack your mind, whatever. You gotta pray and believe in a miracle. Because God is a God of miracles, and his promise to you is that by his stripes you are healed, so you've got to pray with faith, with fervency. Get your prayer brethren, brothers and sisters together to pray for you, lay hands on you, anoint you with oils, and if you believe and you do that, he will heal you in the here and now, because that is his promise to you. That is not what they should be preaching, right? That's the popular view, right? They should be preaching, look, you've got the rheumatoid arthritis, you got the flu bug, you got the hip knee replacement, you got all those other problems. Despite all of that being true, as a Christian, somebody who is in Christ, bathed white clean, snow white, perfect clean, in the blood of Christ. You are now healed despite evidence to the contrary. Isn't that what they should preach? Yes. And I think that was what Chris was probably reacting against, like, I think you're preaching the wrong message here. The wrong message isn't that God's going to heal you physically now, although he might. The bigger picture, the more important, the infinitely more important picture is that you already are healed. Exactly. Hallelujah. Amen. That is the gospel. The other thing is not the gospel. That's a side benefit, like a corollary to the gospel, but it's not the gospel. And that's what he's reacting to. And that's why I was getting so emotional when I thought you were disagreeing. Like, John, no, that's not so Yeah, I am saying that it's important for us to to uh like Christ does to wash the body, to wash the bride with the Word of God. And uh and that includes passages that talk about the Lord our healer, that as we wash the the the body with the word of God, uh as as like John fifteen that that as his words remain in us. that that we bear much fruit, that we make sure that we're including those passages that deal with faith, that deal with healing, that deal with God's promises to heal, that deal with with the reality that that happened many times uh in i in the bible and many times in history and today even happens where people lay hands on one another and the sick are healed. And I'm saying that that that still happens and that That uh I've even heard it said this way that Jesus laid hands on the sick, he sent out his disciples to lay hands on the sick. You know, he tells us to go in the world uh into all the world and make disciples. I believe that we all should lay hands on the sick, you know, and pray for them. And like it says in James that the pr that that that the prayer offered in faith will make the sick person well that we need to pray believing that God God may just do it. But if He doesn't do it, I'm not going to tell somebody they don't have enough faith. And I'm not going to tell somebody that that that they blew it. You know, in and uh if if they you know, if if they're wondering well why hasn't God done it, then I'll j I'll continue to teach everything that I know in scripture about healing. and what that means. But I'm not going to leave them in a place of somehow being guilty for not having enough faith. But I think it is true that that there are people that that don't walk in faith and they're praying things that they really don't have faith for. And I think it's dangerous for them because those guys end up setting their hope in some kind of a of a um a superstitious prayer. If I just pray this just the right way, then that'll mean that I have faith and therefore I'll be healed. Right. That's not faith. That's like trying to rub a genie bottle and and and have You know, some mysterious guy's not going to be able to do that. But I'm saying just because the faith healers have gone overboard, let's not throw out the baby with the bathwater. I believe God still heals. I still believe that He gives give gives gifts of healings. I still believe that there are times when when when we see an outbreak of the miraculous in our day and age, you know, uh where it happens and it's in direct um uh fulfillment of just people doing what Jesus did and just going out and praying for the sick. And I believe that all that is true for today. But I'm not saying that everybody's gonna get healed. Every single time. I'm just not saying that. And where I got in trouble at the Easter Sunrise service um at the Creek, uh the topic of my sermon was physical healing and the atonement. And I do believe that there's physical healing and the atonement, but not but as you say, but not necessarily not necessarily fully right now. Or you think it could happen right now, you just don't necess you you don't feel like it has to happen right now. It could happen right now. And God has promised us all new bodies, glorified bodies that will never get sick, that will never grow old, that will never die. And uh and getting back to healing in the Old Testament, uh, what I quoted on the first show was Isaiah chapter 6 verse 10. Make the heart of this people dull, and their ears heavy, and shut their eyes, lest they see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart. and return and be healed. Now this is not related to a physical healing, but a spiritual healing. Then that is the only place No, it's not. Hosea six that that you're saying that the word healing, that every other place that it's used in the Bible, including the Torah And the Torah is the place where we go to to find out uh what a word means, what the context is. You don't you don't you don't go to the the prophets and say, Oh, now we know what that word means. You go to the Torah and we say, Oh, that's how that word's used. And then you come back uh to the to the prophets to understand. Yeah the Torah lays the foundation for how we understand all the principles and the Torah when it talks about healing Down to how each how each shade of meaning for every word should be approached. I don't know if I I don't think it's a good idea. So what I'm saying is that all of a sudden in Isaiah The word is no longer being used in the way that it's been used all through the Bible up until then. That just doesn't make sense to me. That would be bad hermeneutics. The word is used every other place up until then to define a physical healing. Why are we all we all of a sudden then gonna say that well Isaiah Clearly he's seeing it different. So we're seeing it different. What do you do with that? No, I'm saying I'm saying that this healing that Isaiah is referring to is referring back to Deuteronomy twenty-eight, where he says very specifically that At the end of your lives, if you return to me, what does it say? It says, if at that point you return to me, I will heal you. And I will restore you even uh even from where you are at that point. The point is that he just described all the sicknesses and all the diseases that he was going to send upon him, and then he says But I'm going to heal you when you return to me. The healing is uh is the context of the spiritual restoration. But the word healing is is directly connected with all the diseases and all the sickness. It is true that there's a metaphor of healing the land as well, uh, that that is applicable, but to To argue that somehow in these passages that that is no longer in purview misses all of Deuteronomy twenty eight Well I think the context will d determine the use of the word healing. But definitely in Isaiah fifty three is related to spiritual healing of a nation. I totally disappeared Isaiah six You're blind. I feel like you're totally not seeing it. The verse right before that is quoted by Matthew and the context of him healing is is uh is about healing. And then in the next passage where it also talks about spiritual healing. Right? The the the you know our iniquities and all that's that's come upon him, he's gonna restore our peace to us. He he then includes the physical healing. I have no problem with that. It doesn't it doesn't mean that he's not talking about spiritual restoration. But my point is is that he doesn't all of a sudden use the word healing in a way that doesn't refer to uh to the physical, he's using it in addition to what he's already saying, that there's spiritual uh restoration that's gonna happen as well. Well I would say that the primary board will strike you with consumption, with fever, with inflammation, with severe burning fever, with mildew. You know, he he he he hits it again and again all through Deuteronomy twenty, uh twenty-six, all these things that are gonna happen to them. And so for us to to take that one passage and to say all of a sudden the word healing um doesn't have a physical connotation, I I I feel like is uh i is unnecessary. Well again, looking back at Isaiah fifty-three, um after verse five, yeah, verse six, all we like sheep have gone astray, we have turned everyone to his own way. And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. I mean that whole context there is talking about iniquities, uh But that verse is directly in the context. Let's not take that verse out of context. The whole context of that passage is the restoration of the whole land. The immediate context, the verse right before is physical healing. And then it refers to more of the of the spiritual restoration, and then it includes, again, physical healing. It's no big deal. Well, I would disagree that Isaiah 53, 4 primarily relates to physical healing. Yes, it's it's quoted in Matthew chapter 8, verses uh 16 and 17. But again The way it's quoted in our Bibles is surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Uh meaning that the physical infirmities that Jesus healed when he walked the earth was directly related to a spiritual condition of the people. I'm in agreement with that. Yeah. So uh the two are closely connected The two are uh you know, inseparable. Yeah. Uh the blindness, the blind people healed because the nation was blind. Yeah. Uh the lame people healed because they were walking crooked. You know, in the ways of the Lord. Uh the deaf people whose ears he unstopped, they were had stopped hearing the word of the Lord. So it was it was directly related. Um And also Hosea has a wonderful rendition of the word Hosea chapter 6, verse 1. About healing. About healing. He says, Come and let us return to the Lord, for he is torn, but he will heal us. He has stricken, but he will bind us up. Right, which to me is referring directly to Deuteronomy twenty-eight, the blessings and the curses. And he does strike But he also heals. He does tear us, but he also heals. And in the context of Deuteronomy 28, uh uh a big part of the the context is physical illness and physical healing and restoration. Well as I said, like you're saying, it's closely connected to the spiritual healing. The two the two go hand in hand. Which is why I argue that there's still times today and I've I've seen 'em Where many people get healed in the context of large groups of people that have been far from God coming to God. That there's healing that happens in the context of that. And I would say that that's the primary meaning of these passages, Isaiah 53, Hosea 6, Isaiah 6, that he's referring to spiritual healing. Um but again, uh Isaiah and Hosea here, um you say that they're referencing Deuteronomy twenty eight, but again I'm believing that they're referencing actually what's going to take place under the new covenant. when uh the law will be written on people's minds and on their hearts and they will receive the Holy Spirit Yeah, but none of that's out of the context of Deuteronomy twenty eight. Because it is the laws of of works. Paul says that there's two kinds of faith. I mean there's two kinds of of uh of approaches to uh to God. One is uh uh a law of works, and then Paul quotes from Deuteronomy twenty eight uh d uh from from other passages of Deuteronomy twenty uh Deuteronomy rather to argue that see so there's a faith There's people that come to God by faith and there's those that come by works. And in both situations he refers to the Old Testament law to prove his point. And so you can you can point to the Old Testament law and show a salvation by faith. And Paul does it. He does it very directly. And so for us to somehow say that the that the Old Testament law only gives us an example of of a law of works is in disagreement with Paul. Paul says that the law's primary message was those who do these things shall live by them. That's the message of the law. That's the message of Deuteronomy, uh, Numbers, Leviticus, Exodus, even Genesis. Okay, so when Paul says that those the man who does these things shall live by them, he quotes from Leviticus eighteen five. And then he says, But the righteousness that speaks by faith says this, do not say in your heart, who will ascend into heaven, uh or who will descend into the abyss, but the word is near you in your mouth and in your heart And that's the word of faith that he's contrasting against law of works. And where is he quoting from? Deuteronomy chapter 30, verse 12. Both of those are referring to the old to the writings of Moses. And so for us to say that that that the writings of Moses only reveal to us uh a law of works is to be in disagreement with Paul. Well recognized. Some other time. Jonathan Swanson, Senior Pastor Cross of Zoe Chapel, Chris Jackson, the uh manager of the day program at the Religious Coalition. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks to Putman, Fleming and Heating for sponsoring our show. Thank you for listening. Till next week, God bless.