Broadcasting from us. I'm gonna try to stop in this, broadcasting from the glorious police state of Frederick City in the beautiful county that is Gridlock, Frederick. Hallelujah, brother. In the uh once Christianized, now socialist state of Maryland. Just Catholic. I should say Catholic. Catholic was Catholic. Catholic Yeah. The once Catholic state of Maryland. But there's also the Christian remember we had a lot of people who have to do that. Your tithes were tithes were collected through taxes in Maryland to pay the Catholic Church to do their to do their work. My introduction. No, you screwed it up. I just followed along with you. Broadcasting just outside the uh nation's capital of the former Republic of the United States. Nobody can screw up what you're doing. You're too good. This is the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930. WFMD is brought to us by Putman, Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? And would invite you again to visit us online at WFMD. com. Keyword Faith. That's WFMD. dot com, keyword faith. There you'll find the faith debate blog every day, Monday through Friday. Update it nine times. Nine times a day. How do I do that? You help me do that. Email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. What you send me, I post As simple as that. My blog is your blog. Alright. We've got some good stuff going on. Lastly we want to include my Twitter thing. Oh yeah, Jonathan Sweitzer's now a twit. Tell us all about it. Now a Twit. At Sweitzer Jonathan, S-W-I-T-Z-E-R, Jonathan, no H at the beginning, J-O-N-A-T-H-A-N, Sweitzer Jonathan, and you can follow my tweets. Is that the right word? Tweet. You would know. You're on you're on the thing. I have no idea. I'm just doing it. I'm not learning the lingo. I'm doing it. I am not getting the bubblegum illusion whatsoever. I can. I can but I I just can't drive. Do not drive in Twitter at the same time. There you go. But we got ourselves into some physicus last week because I mentioned what I've been reading. That's right. For example, I uh recently read Pierre Marcel's The Relevance of Preaching. The relevance. I've been reading a lot 'cause I'm I'm you know I'm I'm discouraged by a lot of the preaching I hear. So I've been reading a lot of stuff about people that are good preachers or have good thoughts and thinking about preachers to see You know, what good good biblical preaching should be, and the more I read, the more discouraged I get I get because the state of preaching is not good. And Jonathan thinks I'm picking on 'em or something. I don't know what that means. No, not necessarily. I'm just trying to get my head around. You you've been saying something for a while that I I agree with generally, but that um that I think I in terms of my discussion with you, and this this is just part of the way that we are here on the Frederick Faith Debate, you know, that that if we think about something long enough we can find hairs to split. you know, about it. It's just the way that we are. And so sure enough, you've been saying that that's the same thing. Did I introduce you guys? Did you? I don't know if I did. I don't know. That's Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Cross Israelite Chapel. And the guy that hasn't spoken so much yet is uh The pastor at Are you senior pastor? Can I call you senior pastor? Uh yeah, look at my age. Senior pastor of Brunswick First Church of God. I'm Troy Skinner, and now you know our names, so you can know where to send a hate mail All right, Jonathan, uh that's how you spell your name again, so you know how to address the hate mail? So that so what you've been saying is that when you preach Even when you're preaching a passage that that primarily uh comes from the Old Testament, that you have to preach Christ, that not that that it's vital. that you preach Christ. You can't let your m a message end brother without making sure that the that the that the message of the gospel has been woven through it in in in a key climax of the s of of of the message. Maybe that's what I've been hearing. Yeah, I mean you're adding different kinds of nuanced words there. Like I don't know that it has to climax in it. Yeah. My point is the central point of the text That's not the climax, the center point of the climax is center. Yeah. No, the climax is like you're you're building, building, building, and then almost like you're unveiling this the surprise ending like and now BA boom. Yeah Surprise, gospel. So you're not saying that that should be the gospel. Sometimes that's the case. Sometimes it's uh you're you're going along, going along, going along. And by the way, in case you missed it, this story about last week we were talking about Joseph in the book of Genesis. But any of these stories. David, whatever story you pick your favorite story. Right. Right. Pick your favorite story. You can say, surprise, you might not realize what this story is telling us about Jesus and our relationship to the Father through him. You know, you can do it that way, or you can be right up front at the beginning and say, by the way, what you're going to hear today is a story about Jesus. Yes, it's it's the story about Noah and his ark, but it's a story about Jesus. And we're going to walk through and step by step and show you how So it doesn't have to be a big surprise climactic thing. I'm just saying the central point of the Bible is Jesus, and I say that with confidence because Jesus says so. That's why I say it. And so I'm confident that you're able to do that without turning Jesus or the Old Testament story into a caricature. But But some people recently that I've seen that that I thought to myself, huh, he's doing what Troy says And so this is where I've had to come back. You know Surprise. I have great influence apparently. Yeah. That guy's doing what I say. That's right. I mean that's what that's that's the power of the things that we say, that we end up influencing one another And that's always the case. That's why preaching is so important, because because words have a tendency to hang in the memory, and then especially if they hit you a certain way, and then they'll end up sinking down. You have to grapple with whether or not you agree with it Well that's that's one of the huge benefits of quality preaching. Well, so anyways, I uh I realized that some people that that do what I've heard you saying end up uh applying a caricature of the gospel to the Old Testament in a way that it minimizes the old test. Can you think of any example or could you make up an example of the other thing? um the message of the judges in particular. Okay. And the in and so basically he just says the judges are an example that we can't get to God in our own strength. Right? And and there is so much nuance in the book of Judges from Samson to uh to Gideon, you know, to Ehud, the left-handed man uh to the whole story of the of the Benjamites and how they uh they fell into sin and they almost were destroyed as uh as a nation that that if you apply a caricature of the gospel that see this is just an example of how we just can't get to God. You miss the nuance that the point is that God Doesn't just love us, but that he wants to give us a future and a hope that he you know in in but that's part of preaching Christ. Right. That's why it was important for me to talk to you about it because because I know you and I know I know what you've been saying, but I'm realizing that that less mature people or less thoughtful people could take what you're saying and apply it in a way that that ends up being uh that ends up minimizing so much of the message. I would rather have uh a pastor who's not doing his job when he's preaching as well as he might end up doing that than not mention Jesus at all. I'd rather him s have this relatively trite w uh analogy, this very simple analogy at the end of the message saying, by the way, this is you know just really kind of an example of how we can't do it on our own Right, so you're saying my problem isn't with what you've been saying, my problem is with the fact that some people are just not very That's a person that doesn't know how to do very well what I'm advocating for. But at least they're trying. That's my point. Other pastors won't even try they don't even add that. As weak as it is, they're not even adding that. So you don't even have the gospel even in a trite form mentioned in the right. Because a lot of them, as with a lot of services as you'll see today It's entertainment. Sure. They're try they're preaching entertainment. But you can be entertained to preach the gospel. Well yes you can. But trying to reach some other people uh or maybe even a different age group, they're they're not First of all, they're not preaching the Old Testament. They're in the New Testament where they can show. No, no, no, no, no, no. First of all, they're not in any testament All right. Well that's true too. The ones that are all about the entertainment value, they pick a topic and and then they ha they have this big, you know, thirty or forty minute thing about the topic. And then you've said this on the show before, Jonathan. At the end they'll say, by the way, the Bible agrees. Yeah. Yeah. Don't forget the flashing lights. But what? The text was just the problems that we're dealing with. Most most lives. Most Christians aren't studying They may read parts of the Old Testament, but they're not studying the Old Testament. And that's where the pastors aren't either. Well that that may well be. But that's the job of the pastor. And the pastor is held to a higher accountability so in the end he's gonna wish that he'd been studying more. But if he gets into the Old Testament and studies it and sees where the Christology is, he needs to he needs to bring that out. Christ, if you're preaching the old uh New Testament Christ is in every passage. I mean, there there's just no way you can not put him into your sermon. When you're in the Old Testament, if you don't understand it, if you're not studying it enough, if you're not Forming a relationship with it, you're going to miss the whole picture. And there are a lot of them that do. You know, they totally miss the word. In fact. This is precisely the thing about the Old Testament. The revelation of God's love was lost because of sin. And so So as we come through Abraham, that there's there's a restoration of of of part of that revelation. And the key central part of that is that Abraham believed God and it was credited to him as righteousness, that God blessed Abraham, and all nations on earth would be blessed through him. Then in the context of promise, the promise of God that Abraham trusted those promises and it made a change. And then we move on to his son, Isaac, and God says all the same things to Isaac except one thing that I that I can see that's that's added. He says, I will be with you. God says to Isaac. He says it in uh the two times that he speaks to Isaac personally. He says, I will be with you. It's the only thing that's added. But that is a significant addition to our understanding of of God and what he's doing in Christ. And and I feel like when I preach the Old Testament, I don't want to preach see it just proves that, you know, we couldn't get to God. I want to preach see see back then All the revelation that they had was was Abraham, was Moses, whatever it is. And in the context of that revelation They had discovered Christ. And they didn't know everything about Christ that we know today, but what they knew they held on to and it was adequate enough for them to completely put their faith in God and and as a result then to be justified. And here's just an example of And that expanded with David with Isaiah. And it's not a big enough example because it's just gonna fall into the in the bucket of tritness. By itself. Uh oh. But this is what I'm warning you about. Right. But i so this this wouldn't be the entirety of the message, but an example we just talked about. Isaac, uh God says, God will be with him. I will be with him. Right? I will be with you. What's the well how is Jesus translated? What does it mean? The point for Christmas. God with us. Yeah. Right? So Emmanuel. Emmanuel. Right, Emmanuel, his name God with us. So we've got this direct connection to Jesus, Emmanuel, God with us. So there you can see you have a natural if you're looking for it, a natural opportunity. But in that situation Christ is not illuminating the Old Testament. The Old Testament is illuminating illuminating Christ. Absolutely. And it it's the Holy Spirit's illuminating it. Well, amen Amen. Always. Which is which is yeah, I mean, we'll go back to that. But that's my point is that is that I'm realizing that that as I've heard you say that phrase that we need to come back to Christ, we need to come back to Christ, that that there's more to it than just that because because if we just take our understanding of Christ and apply it to the Old Testament, it's it's going to it's gonna hinder our ability to understand you know what it's all about. But if we're looking to the Old Testament to illuminate Christ and the New Testament and what we know about Christ to illuminate the Old Testament, then what happens is is there there's you know, by the Holy Spirit, there's this revelation that comes forth that comes alive in our soul, you know, that we're like, yeah, that's what's going on. Wow, God is so amazing. You know, like it just You know, it explodes in our you know in our spirit and in our soul and it begins to be transfer transformational. And so that's where I feel like I'm just splitting hairs that I think you probably already split, but I'm just realizing that that phrase I think is inadequate for all of this. That's John Sweitzer, Senior Pastor at Crossworth Chapel. We're joined this week by Tom Weill, who is the senior pastor at Brunswick First Church of God. I'm Troy Sierra, this is the Faith Debate on Fred Rosie's Radio 930 WFMD. Yeah, see I don't the idea of coming back to Christ, coming back to Christ, uh if I've said it that way, then that's an unfortunate because I wouldn't say it that way. This is not coming back to Christ. And and finding him throughout. And seeking to recognize where he is in the scripture throughout without losing sight of what it meant at the time for those people, the pip for the person who wrote it, the initial the original readers, all that's part of that. But even that context is understood as pointing to Christ. You know, it it's so that's what I'm saying. Yeah. So my point is you know if the only light that we had was Genesis And we didn't have the gospel, all we had was Genesis. There's enough in Genesis, not that we would know the fullness that Christ represented, but that would that that if we heard the message, believed the message, uh you know, meditated on it and studied it, that it would create in us a desire for what ultimately would be the full revelation of Christ. Absolutely. And and and we might even we might even have glimpses of of what that is as we study Genesis, and we wouldn't have needed to read the the the New Testament to get that. If we're really saying, wow God, this is for real. It was sufficient what Abraham knew, all Abraham didn't even have, you know, half of Genesis. Abraham only had, you know, the the stories passed down from Noah if if you subscribe the idea that Moses wrote it, Abraham didn't have any of Genesis. He had the the he knew the history perhaps, but he didn't have any of the actual book. Yeah. Right? So we didn't have the book. But we do have the sense that he had the the oral tradition that had been passed down from Noah. In fact, Noah was still alive while until Abraham was seventy-five. Uh not that I think they talked with each other, but but all of that was still there. And my point is is that is that that would have been adequate For our salvation. The revelation that was there was adequate for us to be made righteous. Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness. And we're told that that's the start of the gospel when God says to Abraham, I will bless you, you will be a blessing to the nations, I will make you into a great nation, everyone who curses you will be cursed, everyone who blesses you will be blessed. You know, and in in your seat all nations on earth will be blessed. You know, that that encapsulates the gospel, and it's sufficient for salvation. Amen. No no argument. I was gonna jump back to the that example that either either you made up or it was one that you actually read about the the judges. Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, it's one that that I read. Okay. So he's trying to go through quick But I feel like what it uh i the the the the method that he approached and it's a book that that comes pretty highly recommended, um, uh he ends up in the name of trying to fit it all into the gospel, he ends up caricaturing some things that Right. And I don't know how he would end up doing that, but yes if If you take the the text, the original you know you're reading Judges. Yeah. And you and you go straight to some sort of application. Yeah. Like you're not looking for the you're not looking for Christ. You don't identi you don't see Christ in it for some reason. You're going straight to some sort of application. This means we can't do it on our own. Right? The message of judges is we can't do it on our own. Meaning we need other people in our lives. We need other people in our lives. Or we need God, but we don't we don't get into the details of unpacking that. It's just a straight line across from the from here to here. Um they Donna You've got to have a transition. You've got to have a transition. Pure allegory and allegory can mean almost anything, which is what your s your frustration is. He just picked that out of the out of the thin air and applied it. Yeah. Right? It doesn't feel I could p pluck it out of the thin air and apply it some different way. It doesn't feel like it's legit. Yeah. So a lot of times you'll take the text and you'll apply it to some sort of a moral lesson and then apply that. Right? So we can't do it on our own would be the idea. So that means don't trust in yourself. Trust in other people. So you so you give yourself a rule to live by. Yeah. So that was just moralism. So that was just moralism. Yeah, yeah. Right either so if you But those are the two directions you're going to go. You're either going to have some sort of rule that comes out of it and you're going to apply that and you have moralism. Or you're going to try to apply it directly and have allegory The way to avoid uh avoid moralism and to avoid allegory is to preach Christ and say, we can't do it on our own, so we shouldn't trust in ourselves, moralism. Good news is we don't have to you don't have to. See but if Jesus came in and this is what throws me off the And then that applies. You chose the story of Joseph to describe that And and that Joseph just shows us that we need to have faith, and if we have faith, then everything's gonna be okay. And it and and I would say that that's a great message provided you say we have to have faith in God. And that that if that's the case, that that message, that that is the gospel. But you can only have faith in God through Christ. Abraham did not know the fullness of the message that we know today, but he still had faith through Christ Paul tells us in Romans that that's true. Yeah. Let's boil down what what his faith seemed to be at the end of the year. Okay, Christ is a New Testament. Let me change this. Christ is a New Testament term. Maybe that makes it more confusing than he used to be the Messiah. He knew there was he knew God was going to provide through the seed of the woman, the Genesis III promise. Right? Genesis 1 and 2 creation, and there's the fall in Genesis 3, and immediately after the fall there's the promise. Where the seed of the woman will be the one who's the the way back. And Abraham's key phrase is God himself will provide the sacrifice. Right. In fact, we're told in Hebrews eleven Isaac uh sacrifice or almost sacrifice. We're told in Hebrews eleven that that by faith Abraham believed that God could raise Isaac from the dead. Right? Well that faith doesn't refer to Christ, except that now we understand that Christ includes all that, but that faith faith represents a part of God's character that God had made him the promise and God was going to follow through in his promise. So God is trustworthy. So Abraham could place his faith in God, and God had told him, Abraham, I'm going to bless you. He didn't say Abraham, I'm going to bless you because you're so righteous. He said, I'm going to bless you. Right? In fact I don't see anywhere where God deals with Abraham's sin whatsoever. He was just saying But Abraham was trusting in God's provision and now because Christ Jesus of Nazareth has come. Now we understand. But you know, when God was saying he's gonna bless Abraham because of his faith, well, it's not by works. And we are saved by grace, not by works on our own, so that we could boast about ourselves, but it's all about Jesus So even back then in Abraham's time it had to be about faith. And we can we can bring that forward to two thousand and twelve when we preach that By faith we are saved. And if you believe in God, God will keep his promises. Somebody, for example, who is out of work But has faith that God will provide because God says he will provide and believes that in his heart, 100% is gonna have a job. God is not gonna let that person go by the wayside and and and shrivel up like an old dead flower. It isn't gonna happen. And you know, it's the hardest time right then, right there to to believe that and be able to say it to somebody. You come to a Bible study class or Sunday school in church and and people know you you don't have a job But you've got the attitude that says, that's okay. God is going to provide. I know it, he said it, and I believe it, and it's gonna happen. And when it does It's a witness unto its own to everybody else. We can preach this stuff or teach this stuff, but if we don't believe it We don't have the faith. Foibles, right? You know God does provide. Not only will he provide, God is right now providing. Right? He's He's providing the air we breathe right now. He's providing things we don't even know about. Yeah, he's providing in ways that we can't even imagine. So he's not only that he will, he is. And that's why Paul, he's in jail. He's been beaten to a you know to a hair Well, hair's breath of his life, how many times? And yet he can be imprisoned and say, Hey, I've learned how to maintain my joy and be content in all circumstances, no matter what. Now and but now you're also thinking probably, oh God will provide a way for me out of jail But ultimately that wasn't true. Ultimately he was martyred. And yet God was providing in that moment too. Right? So we have to be careful about not buying into Paul wasn't expecting for God to lead him out That was the furthest thing from Paul's mind. Paul's mind was just to to get the word out to to the world, to the to the other people. Peter was in jail also. And he he sent letters out, his letters first second peace. Really important. I mean I mean this understanding about Christ is is the righteous suffering servant. Right. You know that that what you're talking about that Christ calls us to take up our cross daily That revelation about about the suffering is something that it's there in seed form way back where it says that that we will crush the serpent's head, but he will bite our heel. But it was not well understood. You know, uh David began to grapple with it, you know, where where in some of the Psalms he's like, oh God Why do you let this happen, you know, where the righteous seem to you know, and Job is big chunks of suffering in the old tests. Right. Well even Elijah. Elijah was confused at at at the persecution that he was facing and he had to go to God. So I think it's I think it's a good thing. It wasn't there. Suffering in Egypt, glory and the province. I'm saying that that part of the revelation of Christ r uh where where Christ puts all that together wasn't there in the Old Testament. They saw glimpses of it and and they caught this glimpse that okay I just need to keep trusting in the Lord, you know, because he's made me these promises and I'm I'm gonna trust that he's gonna come through. But that that full revelation, it just simply wasn't there uh in a full way in the Old Testament. And so that that's part of what faith is all about. Faith is the evidence of things hoped for, the essence of things not seen. There's a hope that has been birthed into our heart that all through the Old Testament, this is the message of the Old Testament, that even though we don't see it all super clear, and this is the thing, Troy, is that I feel like it needs to be said that um there's many times in the Old Testament just about every time in the Old Testament that their trust in God led to immediate physical blessing. But not every time. We got to wrap it up there. Uh Tom Weil from uh Brunswick First Church of God. I'm Froy Skinners, the Faith the Faith Debate. Thanks for listening and thanks for our sponsor, Putman, Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, Honest answers an amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Put in plumbing, how can we make you smile?