Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week again, if you listen last week, by Dr. Russell T. Fuller online at RussellTfuller. com. I encourage you to visit him there and to visit me at household of faithinchrist. com and of course to visit the radio station you're listening to at WFMD. com. And if you're listening live on the radio right now, thank you for spending part of your Sunday morning with us. And I appreciate if you're listening to the podcast as well. I understand if you share and like and give positive reviews on your podcast platforms at Health the Algorithm. I have never once before in my life promoted that, but I hear other people doing it all the time, so I'm going to start to try to remember to do that on occasion. listening last week just to recap Dr. Fuller is uh he's been a seminary professor for now over a quarter century, coming up on close to 30 years at this point He was given the background of some more than creep, it was almost it began to feel maybe the way he was describing the story anyway, began to feel to me like a dead sprint towards liberalism a a a very prominent Southern Baptist Convention Seminary and he had a moment of decision and he gave us all that background leading up to that moment. He kind of began to make it clear what his decision was in that moment, but he didn't completely finish. So he's in a room with all these muckety mucks, people that can destroy his career are in the room. And he's got a couple of allies One of them went first, which broke the ice a little bit, but now he's like, Okay, the ice have been broken. Somebody already said all the things that maybe need to be said, so I can just be quiet and live to fight another day, or I can realize that no this is the day to fight and I need to throw in with my fellow theologically biblical friends on all of this. And so now we're at that moment, you're in the meeting and you do like a five-minute spiel, which apparently is available online. Somebody can try to find it if they want to see exactly what you said. But what But in in in the five minutes, in other words, I have it in a manuscript form. Okay, gotcha. But but in three, because quite frank I was too afraid to speak extemporaneously. I needed to read it because my language had to be precise. Were you shaking? Were you nervous? Yeah. And and I thought I knew for sure Moeller was gonna come after me very strong after this speech. So I knew my words had to be completely spot on. If I misspeak in any way, I was gonna a hammer was coming down on me. And so I had to make sure every word I said was precise and accurate and so forth. So has anybody ever challenged you on the merits of what you wrote and then therefore spoke? Your concern was they would take something, twist your words, make it mean something else. Has that happened? Or like, you know what, he did such a a good job nailing this down that we don't like him But we can't tear down his argument. We're just gonna maybe ignore his argument or uh how does that hold up? Okay tell the story. I'll I'll tell you the response. Okay. So anyway, I I give this speech and as I'm speaking it's um uh you you could I mean you could hear a pen drop in the room and it had a carpeted floor by the way. So you can I mean and when I looked up I think one time I looked up from my notes And people were looking at me with and their eyes seemed like saucers, you know. Did that throw you at all? Uh no, but I I wouldn't look at Moeller, I was too scared to look at him. I was looking at my paper uh one time I dipped up, said something, and then went right back down to it again. So at the very end, uh what I said was and I said a couple of things. Let me tell you a couple of things. I I first of all, uh uh just to give you just a summary of what I said. I talked about how a a c i in Matt Hall's own words How he started to accept critical race theory. He said he was never taught that in seminaries and Christian schools. And of course not. I mean, why why shouldn't that be taught? And then he went to the University of Kentucky, and there he said for the first time he really learned about race. And what he meant of course was critical race theory. And then he felt like he needed to connect the dots between what he was taught as a Christian and then this new philosophy, critical race, and he wanted to put those together. And what I said is, these things cannot be put together. One is divine revelation, it is God's word, the other is an anti-Christian worldview. It comes from really a form of Marxism. And so you couldn't hardly find another philosophy more hostile to the Christian faith than where this comes from. And so Um I talked about that. Then I then I said, you know, a lot of people will say he just takes the good things from critical race theory. And of course what I said is there is nothing good in critical rest theory. It's rotten to the core is what I said. And anything that might accidentally seem good or you could try to force to be is the kind of good that you would find right in the actual gospel from the actual Bible, without all this other nut you don't need it. That's correct. Whatever kernel of truth might be in it, you didn't need critical race theory to get that kernel of truth that was readily available without it. So the thing is a Trojan horse. The little bit of a kernel yeah there's there's hardly a view that's just 100% wrong. Who's going to accept that? So you try to make it look as truthful as you can and these false views of course. Can you change it Definitions of words, and people get onto you, you shift really quick and say, Oh, it has nothing to do with liberation theology, it has nothing to do with ethnic Gnosticism, it has nothing to do with Neo-Marxism, it has nothing to do with any of that sort of stuff. What are you talking about? When it has everything to do with all of those things. So at the end of it, and again I gave some of his quotes. He was talking uh about how the the uh the Billy Graham uh w uh ministry and all that was was just full of uh um white privilege he was using all the buzzwords you know white privilege um Did he use intersectionality? Oh well no, well that's a fun word to say intersectionality. I mean he he believes in intersectionality. So again, you know, white privilege was used. Uh all all the buzzwords. Um uh hegemony, right? He would use terms like that as well. And again, he would look back at you know the Billy Graham ministry as uh marked by racism uh and so forth. Was he advocating for representation? You know, I didn't hear I don't know if I ever heard him uh do that, but it would be consistent with sure. Yeah. So this is all part of what you shared in five minutes. Yeah, yeah, that's right. And so I said, look, you know, um he uses all the buzz uh buzzwords of critical race theory. And then I said it's not just that though But he was using the concepts. So clearly he was teaching the stuff. There's there's no denying that. And then at the very end, I I summed it up by saying this will be the most important vote that I've taken in, you know, twenty-one years being at Southern Seminary. This will tell us where we are theologically and where we are going. And then I finished. And then Uh as I said, um Jim Warwick spoke up and again was arguing we should not promote him. After that, we had a series of people who, of course, you know, was no, we need Matt Hall. Matt Hall is a good guy, uh, and so we need to promote him. Uh and then all of a sudden As one guy who was in the room and who was watching Muller the whole time I was speaking, he goes, I could tell he was becoming angrier and angrier as I spoke. And so when I got done And after a few other people spoke, Moeller finally spoke. And the first thing he said was, Russell, you're an idiot. And and he set up a great uh you know emphasis like I just did. So the first thing he did is he name called. And then he started to def that hominem is always a a sign of a successful argument. So the first thing he did is call me an idiot. But then he started defending critical race theory. And he started saying there is white privilege. This is a problem. And he's again he started defending all the tenets of critical race theory. And then he made this astounding statement. He goes, Marxism has insights. And I'm one who um you know I I'm I'm that's Resolution nine from the Southern Baptist Convention a few years ago. It's actually the exact same idea. It's it's a useful tool because it provides insights. He believes Marxism. That Marxism has insights. And Marxism, any again, any insights that it ever demonstrated was something that was insights that was not it's not unique to Marxism Okay? So some of its criticisms of let's say capitalism or free markets. You didn't need Marxism to see some of the flaws of any, you know, capitalism or whatever. And so really The only thing Marxism, I think, has ever contributed is to the absolute misery of mankind. So if you want to say it has a contribution, it can turn this world into a living hell. You can see the millions and millions of people that have done died under Marxism, whether it's a Stalinist, whether it's a Mao, whether it's Paul Pot, uh it has been nothing but a blight and a curse. And I know this runs a risk for someone who's hearing what you're saying and I'm agreeing with everything you're saying, uh, of thinking, okay, this is politics, what does it have to do with a seminary in theology? But it needs to be understood This whole CRT critical race theory kind of thing, the social justice sort of thing, it is a religion. It's a religious movement gets rooted in some sort of a neo-Marxism. It's a it's a modern day variant of ancient Gnosticism in many ways. It's religious. And so at a religious institution that would have the reputation of being a biblical uh tied to in a strict manner to what the Bible teaches and stands for. In that milieu it'd be the same. Again I want to make this point for anybody who might be a little bit confused by well these are political categories Yes, they are, because they're worldview categories, which affects politics and religion. But the religious aspect of it, it'd be like Matt Hall saying, you know, Buddhism has a lot of really good insights, and we should incorporate that into our teaching here at this Christian institution, or Hinduism does, or Zoroastrianism does, or Islam does. somebody like Al Moller you would expect that well this is a Christian institution. It is not a Buddhist institution. That should be his instinct because this secular humanist thing that is of what the Apostle Paul would call another gospel is not the gospel and he should have identified it as such because he's well you'd he's the main protector in his role in that institution and he failed and you're calling to account and so his response is I call you an idiot. At that point you know the game's lost. Right? He calls you an idiot. Everything else he says after that is just window dressing because he's gunning for you. He doesn't like you anymore now. If he ever did, who knows? But he doesn't anymore. And so you're thinking What have I just done? Are you thinking I'm sunk or you're thinking I I knew before I gave the speech that this would probably be the end of my career there. I mean to go after Matt Hall who was like almost Molar's son of faith. I I knew what I was doing. It wasn't like I hit a line landmine and didn't know oh I didn't know there was a landmine there. I was walking right into the cannon, basically. So it was a kamikaze mission Yeah, it was a suicide. It was. But yet I felt for the sake of the students and to be faithful to the Lord. I had to speak up. And again, he starts defending things like uh systemic racism. What was the vote, the final vote? When it finally came to a vote, I was really surprised Let me give you some context to the vote, so you'll understand the voting at the Southern Seminary. In all of my years that I voted on this committee If you added up all the votes, it would probably be something like two hundred and fifty to one. And now when I say that, it doesn't mean that one person didn't get elected. Because Normally normally for one candidate you get like thirty votes. And so if it's thirty versus one, you're in. You matter either defined job. So in other words, most of the votes He was unanimous. It was 100% promote the guy. Promote the guy. And here's Matt Hall. And remember, you know what you're voting for. He's going to be your boss And therefore, with a lot of folks So if you vote no and you swing and miss on that, your boss now doesn't like you. You are a target now. Just think about where you work and you're gonna vote a vote of no confidence in your boss. And it's not a secret vote. Well, it technically it is a secret vote, but yet they can figure out pretty quick Uh who votes. They really can't. Well, because you spent five minutes trash the whole idea of of promoting him. You know, when when you work with people for uh you know many, many years, you get to know them a little bit. And so He they really could figure out who was who was who pretty much. And is it simple majority wins the day or is it a supermajority needed or how does that work? There's really not a so i to Moeller the way he would view it is I've got to have enough votes to bring it to my trustee board that they will not have to be. The vote's not even binding really. It's just a recommendation really that that the the guy who's in charge gets to go to the trustees and say He could inform them, hey, my guys all voted no but I still want you to push this through, he could do that. He could do that. But he didn't a couple of uh uh years earlier when we went against one of his candidates, which was surprised us that that happened. So anyway, the final vote It was basically uh and again I'm rounding the figures a little bit, one-third voted against him, which was amazing. That one-third. And again, they're voting against their their boss to be And so it was how many of those third are still there? Uh I would imagine one person. So all but one gone. I think so. And you were one of the higher profile people to be gone. Yes. Correct? Why is that? Why did you become such a a a target for notoriety. Was it because certain people like John Harris who's been on the Faith Debate Show and uh and has been a guest speaker at House of the Faith in Christ, uh people kind of who listen to uh my show and what I'm about. They know who he is. He interviewed you a few times and they was was that part of what launched you or was it The the attacks that were 'cause they were circling the wagons maybe and coming after you and and that gave you some notoriety or like No, I had no r notoriety for what I did in the room other than the people in the room. I had notoriety with them, obviously. Of course they already knew me and so forth. So after I did this, um it would be another year before Mueller would fire me, and he would use the COVID thing. Because with COVID, that gave him an excuse. We've got to let go of some faculty. And of course, normally you would let go of the the the the Latest faculty you hired, you would get rid of them. And I'm not an expert on these things, Foncas. I'm going off of my memories we faulty, but I feel like he let some people go You being one of them because of COVID. But didn't he then hire some other people almost like right after that? Pretty short after? Within a few months. He uh I I'm talking about probably four or five months, he's hiring new faculty. And that makes it he could have hired you back. Oh sure. Theoretically. Theoretically. And matter of fact it upset Tom Rush, who's one of the trustees at the school, and so technically one of Moeller's bosses, let's say. And then you're going to be able to do that. If you're not Southern Baptist, I just need to clue you in, uh, listener to the Faith Debate Show. That's a big deal. Southern Baptists do not publicly criticize Southern Baptists. No. It's sometimes called the eleventh commandment, but it's almost treated as though it's the first commandment. don't do it. So that's a big, big, big deal. That's a that's a huge deal. And so Tom Rush was so infuriated when he hired people back within months that he went public and basically said, you know, the way he treated Russell Fuller Jim Orric in particular was terribly wrong. And of course, what they wanted me to do, think about as listeners, I hope you'll think about this. In order for let me just say, let me give you a little better background. After he fires me, and what they want me to do. is sign a non-disclosure agreement. So I would never discuss this like with you and you know on this program. And Look, you I can understand if I worked for a company uh that uh let's say we made computer chips or something, and I knew proprietary information about how we produce it, I can understand you So there's certain context. Or if I had these and the A's are just a version of cancel culture. And even if I looked at Southern in the sense that I had the donor list. And you said you need to sign a statement, you will not share that donor list. That's fair. That's right. I have no business sharing their donor list if I had such a thing. But all I was was a seminary professor. And to get me to be quiet. Now, at that time, I had fulfilled all my academic requirements. for the year. But yet Mueller said if you want to get paid, if you want your insurance to go another three months, even though I've already completed everything required of me, he said you'll need to sign this non-disclosure agreement. Which is as you can tell by my talking to you today, I did not sign that agreement. So you lost those benefits for the three months. I lost benefits, I lost money on that as well. And uh but hey the Do you think that was him thinking you would sign it and he'd get it off scot-free on this ever becoming public knowledge? Or do you think he kinda knew you weren't going to sign it and it was a spiteful thing? What do you think It's speculation might not be fair, so you don't have to answer that. I'm just it's a five top of my question top of my head. Jim Warwick and I did not sign it. say this, and I don't think I've ever said this publicly before, but the day they fired me, they wanted me to sign that thing immediately. And they said, if we do that we'll help you get your unemployment going, you know. And And uh I look over it very quickly and I know is this a non-disclosure agreement? No That's the what they call it. Oh non-disparagement. But at first they denied it. Well, well, well It's a non-disparagement agreement. So at first they said no, and when I pressed them more, oh it's a non-disparagement agreement, you know. But it's an it's still a form of nondisclosure for the rest of my life. I could never criticize Southern Seminary, even the janitor of Southern Seminary. Could you imagine if such a thing, a non-disparagement disclosure, or whatever that's supposed to mean, were in effect when the uh when the the record of biblical history was recorded for us? Yeah, the prophets taking the non-disclosure. They can no longer tell the say the truth. So this is a this in itself is a scandal. You see that that they wanted me to uh sign that agreement. And again, I I never had uh but in but really outside of the the very narrow circle of Southern seminary and a little bit of evangelicalism, but just in in a sort of an academic environment. I I was not that well known. But then after this happened, um I already had some contact with John Harris, he and I had had some contact and so forth. So I called him I said I think it's time for you and me to have an interview and he was excited about it. And so it was in the midst of again the COVID thing, so we had to it was a little more complicated. And knowing John, I think he's particularly excited because he's the kind of guy that he He's become a trusted voice in battling for biblical truth and a lot of people will I think reach out to him with information so that he's like in the loop But they won't go on record. Correct. And so he's the kind of guy that he tries as much as possible to deal in primary sources and if he can't source it, if he can't say, This is where I got the information, he won't run with it. And I thought it's got to be frustrating for him because he knows so much more than we can even imagine that he knows, but he can't say anything so I can imagine, You're actually gonna go on the record? That's so exciting. He was he was thrilled because you know he'd been saying these things, but yet no one was backing him up so to speak. And so I said, John, I think it's time for you and I to have a conversation. And so and again I was still I haven't signed the agreement yet. And then when when his uh interviews of mine, and you can see those on YouTube of course, and Well when those things dropped, I think they finally knew yeah, Fuller's not going to sign a state. They're not going to sign a non-disclosure agreement. Even if you do it's finally too late, right? Or you couldn't continue to talk about it. In the meantime, yeah, but so I mean look While I was a professor there, I f fought within the the confines of the institution. I tried to do things on the inside. Once they threw me to the outside, I wasn't about to stop. And so I wanted to and I was getting calls from parents at Southern Seminary. One called me you know not long after John's interviews broke and said I called you and the parrot said, and within 24 hours I'm talking to you. I tried to call Al Moller, he will not talk to me on the phone. And what she wanted to tell me is how uh Jarvis Williams, one of the big pushers of critical race theory, helped. He destroyed the faith of his son. And so the parents started calling me because they couldn't talk to Al Moller. Moller wouldn't talk to him about the the problems going on. So we're gonna pause there because we're running out of time for this episode of of faith debate next week. If there's any final details on this uh to flesh out, we can go there. But I think you, if you've listened to last week's show and this week's show, The Faith Debate, you've got an understanding of the dynamic that's in place. It's a highly charged situation, somebody's career is on the line, he makes the hard decision. And now I want to next week transition into talking about the immediate aftermath, but quickly try to then get back into what gave you the spine to do this. Informative thing. I don't think I've ever heard that story and I'm curious to to venture into that area. Anyway, thank you for listening to Faith Debate today. Thank you. Uh Dr. Russell T. Fuller, finding me online at RussellT Fuller. com. I'm Troy Skinner, pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of Faith in Christ. com and of course the radio station is WFMB online at WFMB. com. Tell next week, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from right about now. God bless.