Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Great Block County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement and people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com keywordface. There you'll find links to podcasts, news items, and the Faith Debate blog. Bye blog is your blog. So email me Troiskinner at Clearchannel. com. I post whatever you send me after I remove all your curse words. Actually that that happens almost never. Every once in a while, but almost never. Ninety blog updates go up every week 18 per day, every weekday, that's Monday through Friday. Uh I encourage you to pop in, see what people are saying. I encourage you to send me an email and dare me to post it, huh? And then if you're not already on the uh WFMD Facebook, if if you are part of if you become part of that, every time the Faith Debate uh page is updated, a little notice goes up and says, Hey, today's eighteen posts are now there for your viewing pleasure, so check that out. On the show this week, Richard Fredericks, the founding pastor and senior pastor of Damascus Road Community Church, and of course my longtime friend and buddy, co-founder of this show and Hey Buddy. Hey Buddy. I feel warm and I'm not sure. Buddy, that's like a that's like a reference to the elf movie. Anyway, Jonathan is uh pastor at uh Crossroads Valley Church uh here in Frederick, so Um what have I been reading? I'm gonna do it now because I might forget at the end of the show like I did a couple of weeks ago. Uh this this has kind of a Really good faith-debat sounding title has nothing to do with religion. The Bible of unspeakable truths by Greg Gutfeld. Greg is a comedian type of talk show host guy on the Fox News Channel. And I gotta tell ya, I I don't think I've ever done this before. All the years you're doing the show, all the years I've been mentioning, here's what I'm reading. I don't think I've ever said, don't read a book. Don't read this book. Oh no. Don't read this book. Totally set me up. I thought you were gonna go a different direction. Horrible. Horrible book. I guess so, right yeah. Reverse psychology. Well, if you're going to read that book because I told you not to read it, then listen to this. Don't read your Bible either. Uh oh. We've got damage over here. What happened? Richard just whacked his hand. So fan apparently and he'll be awake for this uh this debate this time. Anyway, we've been talking about I don't even know what we've been talking about. We we started with kind of with ki we this is our fourth go round. Very first go round, Richard was kind of explaining his perspective and then Jonathan heard something in that perspective that had him uh jump in It reminded me of a question I've been wanting to ask him jump into a question about Israel as it relates to the church and fulfillment of prophecy and those sorts of things. We spent the last couple of weeks talking about that and we're going to continue along those veins uh now. And Last week we didn't have time to get into them. Goodness, you got me nervous. Are you okay? Is your finger okay? I'm I'm Really? Okay. I'm not going to mention it again. If you pass out though, it's just Jonathan and I'm sorry. And nobody will know. Why wouldn't the guests talk? Oh, it's just Jonathan gets on and on again. Oh man. Okay. Anyway, so um we ran out of time before we could get through a list. I don't want a full list, 'cause I'm sure there's a lengthy, like, you know, big, long list of things. But what are some key promises that people who believe that you know God will have failed somehow to fulfill his promise to his people if he doesn't in some literal, you know, physical, uh geo geographical way. Answer this prom fulfill this promise to Israel. What are some examples of those promises that if God doesn't fulfill them We're gonna have to say, yeah, well uh God I hate to say this, but you know yeah, you you kinda lied on that one. You y y y y you let us down. What are those? Amos chapter one verse fifteen. I will plant Israel. in their own land, never again to be uprooted from the land I have given them, says the Lord your God. Joel 320. Judah will be inhabited forever And Jerusalem through all generations. Their blood guilt which I have not pardoned, I will pardon. Isaiah sixty. Uh there's a couple selections from uh this particular section but uh it ends with Um no longer will violence be heard in your land, nor rule or destruction within your borders, but you will call your walls salvation or gates praise. Then will all your people be righteous, and they will possess the land forever. Now I'm I'm okay with all these passages, meaning that Um, you know, and you and you look at some uh some other prophecies that talk about that all the nations gather against Jerusalem, you know, and uh Two thirds are destroyed and then the Lord returns. Meaning like that maybe maybe there there'll be a a moment of uh those that are Jews that are not believers in Christ coming under, you know, a significant destruction. so that what's left is those that that trust in Christ. Like I'm okay with that. I don't I uh but the the prophecies give the the impression that there's going to be this future time frame that all of Israel is going to be saved. And the question that has to be asked is if you're a Jew living at those times, And the prophecy really meant, oh, it doesn't it really doesn't mean that Israel is going to be saved, but it means that people from all the rul uh rest of the world are going to be saved, but not really your children. It just doesn't carry the same comforting punch that it clearly seems to be in it seems to intend in the passages where they're given. Which means that the people of Israel, if they're paying attention, obviously there's many that we're not paying attention. We the church in the last two thousand years are just as guilty of that, right? So we're no better. I I don't want to claim that that we've we've done a much better job necessarily. However, those that were paying attention to Moses and were keeping their hearts soft before the Lord and were hearing these prophecies, they were envisioning something that comforted their souls. And for Isaiah in the midst of the the northern ten tribes had just been taken into captivity and a s uh Assyria was at their their their gates, about ready to take them as well. Uh with the anticipation that in another hundred and fifty years Azea and different ones were already prophesying Babylon was going to come, you know, and take them into captivity. All of that being the case, they needed comfort And the comfort that they're being given is pretty precise and pretty clear. And I think there's reason to believe that in Christ those are still going to be fulfilled. Well, I'm uh I'm gonna uh throw out some thoughts and then you guys can bounce off of those a little bit. Uh one I would want I I I I find myself uh pulling a Richard here. Um I I affirm what you say. I agree uh with almost everything that you've said. Yeah. Uh and uh particularly the part that they uh either will be or are fulfilled in Christ. So we're uh obviously on the same page there. Um but and but speaking of common ground, uh I would I would want to telescope out a little bit and look broad more broadly at the question of the land. Yeah. Uh 'cause I think what's happening with the promised land, the people, you know, Abraham uh being promised this land and his people they'll wander the wilderness, they enter the promised land. Uh there's a picture there that looks not only forward but also looks back Yeah, amen. I think to the land of creation, to Eden. Yeah, amen. Right? And so there's there's a renewal that's going to take place at the very end that's going to bring back uh for lack of a better way of saying is going to bring back Edom only better. This is why eschatology got me thinking about it originally because I think it's ultimately an an eschatology question. What is the end result going to be? So Eden is this wonderful place. Yes. And a and that wonderful place is pictured in God's temple. There's all this garden imagery and stuff that's built into the design of the temple and that sort of thing. I think it's uh it's a bit of a picture of Eden. The temple is in Jerusalem. So Jerusalem by extension becomes an example, the center of of of Eden, if you will. Okay. And so we're talking about a new Jerusalem coming in Revelation. And the whole earth is renewed. All of creation is is renewed in Christ. So When we look if we look at it that way, I mean the Jerusalem that's described in Revelation is the size of a continent. So it can't be it can't be talking about, you know, the Jerusalem that we know today that's, you know, so many square miles large. It can't possibly be a literal fulfillment in that way. Um so I think the the land, the promise of the land is the way that Revelation describes it. But Revelation seems to present itself to us uh in more allegorical language than these passages. But I think the reason everything is so big, th the city of Jerusalem is so big, the New Jerusalem, the heavenly Jerusalem is so big, is is to drive home the point that it's all of creation. Well and you know the thing that's fascinating about that picture is and and by the way, I just want to very much affirm what you two just did. I'm not just trying to make this a sort of a deal, but Um I really appreciate that you understand, and I believe this is absolutely true in scripture, that Christianity is not get i Christianity is not Get Jesus, hang on, die, and get out of here. Right. Amen. As soon as it was thin, from that moment on, the whole story of the Bible is God breaking back into his creation. Whether it's the incarnation, whether it's the coming of the Holy Spirit, when you get to the end of Revelation We don't go to heaven. Heaven comes to us. God comes down to dwell with us. That's the climactic moment of scripture. And when that Jerusalem, that huge Jerusalem is described, it's actually described as a perfect cube And the only perfect cube in the Old Testament was the most holy place. And so the New Jerusalem is saying that now the whole earth is the most holy place because that was the place in the old covenant. where man and God could meet. Well now that's everywhere. This whole city is the most holy place. So I you know I I guess My response to some of the questions about land, I would let me just read a few verses from Ephesians 3. And I'm I because I told Jonathan before we went on the air, I It's not so much for me a a a sort of a tit for tat, you know, your text, my text, is it is an understanding. And in Ephesians 3, Paul says that he's been given by God this mystery to share. And then he says, this mystery is that through the gospel, the Gentiles are heirs together with Israel, members together of one body, and sharers together in the promise in Christ Jesus and the promise would be the promise of Abraham. And then he d if you go to ten, he says God's intent was that now through the church The manifold wisdom of God should be made known. So you the focus here twice is the church, and he ends that passage in verse 20. By saying, Now to him who is able to do immeasurably more than all we asked or imagined according to his power that is at work within us, to him be glory in the church. And in Christ Jesus. So for me, the my concern is not so much maybe God will do something with some geographic places. But the the the danger is deflecting to that and deflecting people's interest to that when what's so clearly taught in the New Testament is that the primary arena of God's agenda is his church, and he wants to break down all the dividing walls of humanity. and make us one, make us equal in Christ within the church. And any time we form a theology that starts to set those walls back up or those distinctions back up again, I think it diminishes the potency I think I think you don't really believe that. I really do. And I'll tell you why. Sure. When I go to to work out reconciliation with My brothers. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Both physical and or other people in the body of Christ are or other people. One of the central most important par components of that is my accepting who they are in their history as unique in something that is not mine. Right? The difference is are a significant, vital part of the unity. Of the dialogue. And of the reconciliation. Of the dialogue and the reconciliation. In fact that's true male and female as well. And so so And so when I go to build that back up with somebody with whom I'm reconciling, it strengthens our respect for one another. When I when I first got really interested in philosophy, you know, and started paying attention to, you know, to to um you know, Nietzsche and and and different uh authors, it became clear to me that everybody has a significant part of their philosophy where they deal with the Jew question. Everybody does it. They come back to the Jew question and and and they do it because there's this unique thing that everywhere you go on the face of the earth continues all through history, all through the the the since Christ has been here and even previous to that they got Uh Jews got kicked out of Rome on several occasions before uh Christ had anything to do with it just because, you know, the Romans didn't like them there just like uh Pharaoh kicked them out, you know, they were getting too many and and too powerful and right there's something that God has done with them that is unique and that makes a difference. And my point is just that that for the Jew, if we're gonna reach them for Christ as the older brother Asking them to step away from these promises. You know, and I and I wanted to read so uh some more of those promises, like where it says this That before you read your list real quick, this is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. He's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor at Crossroads Valley Church We're joined this week by Richard Fredericks, Senior Pastor of Damascus Road Community Church. I'm Froy Skinner. And did I say this is WFMD? If not, I just did. So your list includes In Jeremiah 23. Jeremiah. I mean the fall to Babylon, the great final destruction of the temple, he says, as surely as the Lord lives, who brought descendants of Israel up out of the land of the north. And out of all of the countries where it banished them, he says, As surely as the Lord lives who brought the Israelites up out of Egypt, now they're going to say, one day, That the Lord brought the descendants of Israel out of the the land of the north and all the countries where they banished them, and they will live in their own land. I mean can that be the church? If you were Israel at that time and you're thinking, Oh, it just means that one day all people on the earth are going to be saved, is that really going to give you the impression that it's comforting the people that are going into captivity? People would say, Jonathan, thank God that was fulfilled. We came back after the Babylonian captivity. We had our own empire. But Jews did, but not the not all the tribes. Well I think Yeah, the Ten Tribes are are gone. They're gone. They're they're not out there, they're gone. They were intermingled. So I don't I don't think the ten northern tribes we can say But he says the descendants of Israel doesn't say the Jews I'm just saying that it seems i i it's uh the the prophecy that is being given to Jeremiah Well whether maybe probably where I was going with that. Let me just try to I mean first you talked about dialoguing with Jewish people or anybody and I think that um the beautiful thing about Jesus is he accepts us where we are, but he doesn't want to leave us where we are, right? Amen. So we need to be that way. When we start a dialogue, we need to really listen and accept where each other is, but know that in Jesus we're all going to be doing some growing and changing. So I I don't think ex Accepting someone to get a dialogue going for the sake of reconciliation means you know. So that's a good idea. No, I I think it is an important distinction that that that really if we can't embrace where someone is then forget ju then then it's more than a Jewish question. We can't embrace the person walking through the door of our church and accept him as God does where he is, but know that if he's in Christ, he won't stay there. He'll grow. So we want to we some in agreement with that, yeah. Yeah, we want to grow people. But again, coming back to this issue, I'm I'm simply saying that it is I think it's a derailment of something bigger and more beautiful that the promises in the Old Testament to Israel did receive fulfillments in history, but they were all, all of them, whether it's the land, the temple the Moses' prophecy about a prophet to come, they were all leading to an ultimate fulfillment in Jesus Christ. And in him, the fullness of all that happened. Even the fullness of final judgment happened on the cross. Even the resurrection of the dead happened in him. So it's happened in him And now it's gonna be played out through his people. You know, th this is interesting the way that you put that and I think it it brings an important um idea in my mind. Clearly everything is fulfilled in Christ. But there's things about Christ, the the things that are fulfilled in Christ that are not yet fulfilled. Right. I mean we're yearning for the day, you know, and so the kingdom's already come. And and yeah, and so when I'm dealing with these things, I'm in agreement that it all comes to Christ and that that All things again, we've said this again and again the last couple of days are fulfilled in Christ. The question is In the interim between his first and the second and what the final is going to look like, it's going to be immeasurably more. than all we ask or imagine in that my sense for the Jewish is that is that this is that this is a key element of that uh of that fulfillment that is something that is not so important to us Gentiles. But when we were at the y the um the forum that you put together that brought some thought leaders together, you you mentioned this in an earlier show and I think it's important I believe that our Jewish brethren or our Palestinian brethren have to move beyond those kind of distinctions and come together in a full unity before the work is going to be done in that area fully. If the Jew if the Messianic Jews say, you know, really a huge part of who God is and is faithful to us, is faithfulness to us is rooted in us getting to be a Jewish, you know, nation again according to the old covenant promises, then I I think you you know, you actually gave the illustration. Well, the Palestinian Christians are saying So where's the good news for that in us? But if the good news is, as Jesus says in Matthew 19, I think it's verse 28, he says that the renewal of all things when the Son of Man sits on his throne, you will be with me. That's a promise that's equally open. And and and and it is a promise so much bigger than one tribe getting their what they were promised Because actually I'd say it to you again, there are a lot of promises made about a lot of people in the Old Testament that haven't been fulfilled. And I think Amen. Yeah. And I think they're going to. And I think they have been And we'll you know there's an even now and a not yet. And the even now is that in Jesus Christ, you look at it, in Jesus Christ The resurrection of the dead has happened, the final judgment of sin has happened, the justification of the believer has happened, the establishment of Israel has happened, all that in Christ, and someday it will be in us in its fullness at the end. But I don't think the key is geographic boundaries between the yeah. And are we coming up on the end of the show here? No, we have a few minutes. Um I wanted to come back to to a question that we were kinda hitting in between the shows that that I feel like is is a part of this discussion in terms of understanding the role of the Jewish people um in the body of Christ in like their their relationship to the Old Testament promises, their relation to promises, their relationship to the law. And that is where we talked in between the shows specifically about Paul when he comes back. No, Peter Sorry, Paul, when he comes back to Jerusalem and uh the brothers, the Christians there tell him, look, everybody thinks that you're teaching the Jew the Jews to no longer follow the law. Do these things. And in doing these things you will show them that you're not teaching the Jews to not follow the law. Which is okay for uh to me, and the reason why is because Paul's very clear everywhere through the New Testament that the that righteousness comes only through Christ. And that nobody, no Jews should have ever tried to come to God on the basis of their own righteousness, but they should always should have always come by faith. But that when it comes to the the cultural fulfillment in in and living by the Old Testament law, that Paul doesn't seem to indicate that the jet that he's he's very clear that the Gentiles aren't supposed to do that. In fact in Acts 15, he's very clear Gentiles Don't need to do all this, but there's nothing said about the Jews stopping from doing that. Well there you know, there is a historical flow to the story of Christianity. And in the early days as the church was emerging, a lot of these issues need to be worked out. And I think probably Paul's best statement on that is 1 Corinthians 9, where he says Though I am free and I belong to no man, I make myself a slave to everyone. Now catch these words, this is so key, to win as many as possible To the Jews I become like a Jew to win the Jews. To those under the law, I become like one under the law, though I myself am no longer under the law so as to win those under the law. To those who not having the law, I can become like one not having the law, though I am not free from God's law, but under the law of Christ And then he says it again, so as to win those who not having the law. To the weak, I become weak, I become all things to all men, so that by all possible means I might save some. I do all this for the sake of the gospel. So, yes, I think when Paul went to Jerusalem, he said, you know, they will never hear what I need to tell them about Jesus. if I go in there and just d diss basically all their traditions and their habits. So I'm happy to do this, but I'm doing it with a bigger goal. I'm not doing it because I think This is some continuity thing that cannot be violated. I'm doing it because I want to win. And I think that flow is all through the New Testament. Okay, but again there's an integrity question there for Paul Because if he is claiming by his actions in Jerusalem that that he's not preaching uh that the Jews uh no longer uh uh do the law, which is different from being s being righteous by the law. Right. Um then he has an integrity problem. There's a there's a sincerity issue there that I've always thought about that that passage in uh Corinthians, you know, because I try to be all things to all men and sometimes it comes across really insincere, meaning that that I'm trying to be something that I'm not. Well, but uh there there's an issue there for Paul that if he's claiming to all of Jerusalem that he is not teaching people to not follow the law and to prove it he's gonna do these things but in reality he's just doing it just to win them to Christ I I I think then he has a major sincerity problem. No, I don't think he does. I think what the issue is is he's saying there's really one big central issue and it's the main thing And all these other issues are peripheral. And if I need to go and be this kind of, you know, do do these kind of traditions with these people But the thing that keeps him absolutely sincere, more sincere than them, is he saying, But I know where I'm going, and I know what matters, and what matters is their unity and oneness with Jesus Christ. So if they want me to cut my hair, or they want me to do certain rituals in the temple, fine. When I'm somewhere else, I don't worry about those things, fine. You know, if these people want me to eat this way, the Romans 14 thing, or go on this day, fine But there's a thing here that has to be, and it has to be that I need to bring Jew and Gentile to an absolute trust in Jesus Christ. And so to me it's not an integrity issue. It's an it's a focus issue for him. And we're going to end on that note, which I think is a pretty good note to end on. Jonathan Sweiser, Senior Pastor of Cross Valley Chapel. Thank you, my friend Richard Fredericks, Senior Pastor of Damascus Road Community Church, thank you for being with us. This has been very enjoyable. Thanks for our sponsor, Putman Fleming and Heating. Help we make you smile. Until next week. God bless.