This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Kua! We're Faith Community Leaders. Wrestle over the truth. Yeah, but that'll do in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Oh, how convenient. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble. Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a Master Debate for Form Theological Seminary, the fake debate master of ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of Bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder John Swayther. I'm just getting warmed up. Craig Lancourt is a Christian who went to eight years of Catholic school As such, he says he has a foundation of the teachings about Christ that many don't. And yet Craig says he doesn't know all that much about the prophecies pointing to Christ, and he assumes he's not alone So he's hoping that Jonathan Schweitzer can help to fill in some gaps in his knowledge base and at the same time perhaps fill in some gaps in your knowledge base. And this is of particular personal importance to Craig because his wife has we've been talking about in recent weeks is Jewish and she's got some questions about Craig and his renewed commitment to Miss Christian and she's like, so what's going on here? And He seems pretty motivated to try to get me to maybe agree with you on some of this stuff. Like, why should I? I'm Jewish. I'm good. So You said something that struck me at the very beginning, or not the very beginning, but very early on in last week's show, Craig, that um I think the way your f your wife put it or the way you s you you presented how she put it was, why do I need Jesus? I'm Jewish You know, I'm Jewish, why do I need Jesus? Right. Uh was there something about her Jewishness that was at stake in that conversation, or uh somebody could have said, I'm Buddhist, why do I need Jesus? I'm Muslim, what So was it specific to her d her? I think it was more specific to Jesus. I think it was more specific to what Jesus offers um each and every one of us. What Jesus shed his blood for each and every one of us for is forgiveness of our sins and redemption and righteousness in heaven. And um It's more of I I think she sees something in me that has changed since I was baptized last summer and since I've gotten more involved in the the church and more committed to my faith and I really uh believe it's more of an interest in what's changing in me. then you know um it's more of a inquisitive thing like well what's going on there? Well that's like the common question. Yeah, why why do I need Jesus? I'm a good person. Why do we need Jesus? I'm religious. Why do we need Jesus? I go to temple for for so many people I run into on on the street um when I talk about Jesus. It's amazing how many people talk about their spiritual and not religious. And um those are the type of things that my wife has questions about is, you know what's organi with organized religion and Christianity and all these other things that have gone on. Um through the history obviously of our well, my recent Catholic faith has struggled obviously. Um and it it's kind of um a question of yearning, I think, of of what what's out there. And I have the same question too. You know, I'm being drawn into Jesus with this kind of diving into the Bible and and the more I dive in, the more questions come and the more questions come, the more um it's amazing how I'll find passage to answer one side of my question and I could argue it one way and I'll find a passage to answer the other side of my question and I could argue it another way. And then I pray about it and he shows me a third passage that draws me deeper into the Bible. And it is just such an awesome relationship I'm finding with God, I think It's almost my wife is looking at it almost a bit jealously. And your wife, in in her, you know, Jewish perspective, i it is uh it's true with Christians, it's true it's true with uh Jews, it's true with every religious uh uh identity that's out there. Some are more rooted in the teaching, some are more committed to the teaching, some have a greater, some have a lesser understanding. So so where is she on that? Like is she committed to her Judaism, she knows a lot about it. She's expecting the Messiah. Uh um no, she was raised reformed. Um and we would go to temple on High Holy Days and stuff and we'd have Satyrs and um but And we'd, you know, at Christmas we'd have the menorah and our Christmas tree and um it was more of Kind of who she was more than her faith, if that's okay. The reason I asked so she's not looking for how Christ fits into her Judaism so much. She doesn't have a really strongly formulated Judaism that's influencing her in her core, maybe like an Orthodox Jew, Havey Wood. Right. So So really it's it's like talking to anybody on the street who's not a Christian would have the same kinds of questions your your wife is asking of you. Is that right? Pretty much a fair approximation of what's going on? My ignorance of my own faith, I'm embarrassed to say I don't know, sometimes to her. And I go to my Bible in the Spirit Well I I fear for your soul because if you don't know everything and have it totally nailed down Well that's why I came to YouTube. That's why YouTube, you got the certificate of authenticity. Oh the learning never ends. And uh and and those who think they have everything perfectly nailed down, um they get a little pharisaical in gratitude a little too often, it seems to me, and uh th they're not open to the move of the spirit, they're not they're not teachable. Right. And that's that's not healthy. So But what's been so reassuring for me is the more I dive into the Bible, the more the Bible shows me that it has the knowledge that I am seeking. You know, the book just continues to reveal things to me about you know, um, God and and how I need to change my life to better serve him and it is just an amazing living book that has just come to life in my hands. Can you call to mind a specific kind uh a specific question that she's asked you and you're like, boy, I don't know. And I I think I should try to find out and you ha and you haven't found out the answer yet. One of the major questions, you know, um was about the Bible and how the Bible has persisted over all these years and how we can trust that it is the true word of God after it's been interpreted, after it's been edited, after it's been and I started to do some research on that. And you know, I I I watched a program on the Dead Sea Scrolls and and I was amazed at, you know, um some of the comparisons and some of the authenticity in today's Bible as compared to the Bible you know, thousands of years ago. So the more I dive into it, the more reassuring it is to find out that There was foreknowledge of Christ. I mean there was all of these examples that line up to show us that, you know, God has a plan, people. If we just put a little faith in him, God has a plan. And it proves it in his book, in his word that he has a plan. If we're just willing to trust him. And so I think a lot of tension and fear and is driving a lot in our nation. And I see a lot of my fellow Christians with a lot of fear. And I think um we can look to the book to show us that there is knowledge, that there is truth, that there is Um God has a plan and it it was prophesied through two thousand years and Jesus came and hallelujah. So I I I think I'll be honest that that first and foremost, I don't know that it's easy to just go back and convince um a Jewish person that the Old Testament can be trusted. Right? Like the and the reason it's easier for Christians is because Because we're dealing with Christ and how Christ fulfills the Old Testament, right, then then we're already kind of moving from a place of accepting Christ. Right, and then tying him into what what the Old Testament represents. But this question of of like doubting all of Scripture uh moves us into a space where We're dealing with archaeology, right? We're dealing with uh with really it's uh Reformed Judaism was uh was um founded as a branch of Judaism in the mid-1800s, right at the same time that Darwinism uh was rising in the Enlightenment uh when when there was a broad skepticism towards any of the miracles of the Bible and a sense that all of the um the stories of the Bible are just myth and they can't be trusted. And so interestingly enough, between then and now, a strange thing has happened. Archaeology uh has has in every place where they have unearthed something that refers to the nation of Israel or or refers to things that were happening throughout history. The Hittites, uh the the kingdom of David was considered a myth. Um and I said the Hittites the Hittites were considered to not have existed uh previously. There was a uh they didn't believe that the exodus had ever happened. uh or the flood, like all these all these historical events were considered uh to not be true uh and in the intervening time archaeology which is um At the very least it's it's something that we can put our hands on and say, well somebody that lived in that time frame is referring to the kingdom of David. Right. So there's a Babylonian steel that is a that is a um It's a uh a writing, you know, a clay tablet uh that has well no uh steel is a monument that where there were um uh praising uh the Nebuchadnezzar's great you know uh exploits and it refers to the kingdom of David Right, and there's other places that refer to the Hittites and there's other places that then refer to, you know, the the the the um Jewish they they called them Hebrew people, but there's different terms that that came out of Egypt and and moved into the the the area. of Canaan, right? And so so all of these archaeology has has in place after place has backed up It's never contradicted Scripture. It's backed up what we know to be true in Scripture. And so uh so I mean that's one direction to go in terms of can can the Old Testament scriptures be trusted? At this is the Faith Debate. That's Jonathan Sweitzer. I'm Troy Skinner. Craig Blonde, who are also on the show. You're listening to us at a. m. 930 and online at WFMD. com. And also as as far as like do we even have, you know, trustworthy text to look at, and there are just thousands upon thousands of ancient manuscripts and fragments and stuff and There is no document in human history that has ever been subject to the kind of scrutiny that the Old and New Testaments have been subjected to and it has withstood a firestorm of of attack for centuries and centuries and centuries. So we have all of that. And I would even go this, I mean it Let's look at it this way. If I handed you a history book, you know, let's say uh you know uh eighth grader's history book and you read the history in there and you you know, you would read it with kind of an assumption that this is a generally trustworthy history book. There might be some political bias in it, might be a few factual errors or typos that I don't that I'm not sure about or whatever, but I'm thinking this is generally a reliable book. And if we look at the Bible with that and give it the same benefit of the doubt, just for the sake of argument, and approach it and say, this is a generally reliable book. Let me read it. and and take it for what it's really trying to say and what it's communicating. And then you say, you know, it's got some moral teachings in here that are pretty good. It's got some philosophical understandings about the way the world works that are mind blowing and it's And it seems they have a pretty good s handle on ancient Near Eastern history. And, you know, there's a lot here that I like, and this book that now we feel generally good about. says some very specific things about a man who lived two thousand years ago, and that man has some of his sayings recorded for us. And again, we're going to generally trust that they're at least good paraphrases if not exact quotes, they're probably accurately capturing capturing the gist of what this ancient teacher had to say. And this ancient teacher said, I'm someone unique. Right. And then we have to grapple with, okay, this generally trustworthy book now says has this guy that says he is more than just generally trustworthy. Right. He's saying he is the trustworthy one. He is the truth. What do I do with that? Do I now discount the general trustworthiness of the book completely, or do I grapple with it and dive a little deeper and say Okay, I'm still not 100% convinced about this book, but if it's right, I have to grapple not with the book anymore. I have to grapple with the man And what he said. And by the way, one of the things that man said, he quoted from the Old Testament repeatedly over and over. He treats it as scripture. And the Bible that Jesus used was the Greek Septuagint. That's the that was a Greek translation of the Hebrew Scriptures. And so we don't have the Hebrew scriptures from 7,000 years ago available to us, but we do have ancient the uh remains and stuff of the Septuagint. And so we can compare the quotes that Jesus uses with the Septuagint to see if he was actually You know, if his quotes were accurate and also if the Septuagint that has made its way to us is accurate. Oh yeah. And so this is kind of a shortcut, almost cheesy way to put it, but I I've said it many times and I don't mind being cheesy. I say look If the Old Testament was good enough for Jesus, it's good enough for me. Hallelujah. And Jesus puts his stamp of approval on the Old Testament books. And so again, but it comes with you deal with the man. And if you respect where the man's coming from, you're gonna respect what he says and he respects those writings. And so for me That's enough for me to move forward. I can get enough cognitive rest that I don't have to be arm wrestling against what I'm reading all the time. I can start to process what is trying to teach. That's the difference that has taken place in my life um since I was baptized and and born again is that I used to read the book mind, you know, trigger cocked for skepticism and just looking for any place to point out you know, hypocrisies and contradictions. And now I go in reading it with an open mind and an open heart, and it's amazing how I can read the same passage four days in a row and get something completely different out of the same passage and each one of those days it speaks to me in different ways. And That I think is the definitive change is that I instead of going into it with the skepticism and the goal of proving that this book isn't real and ha ha ha, I went into it with an open mind and an open heart and I said, okay. Let's start to read a little bit and dive in. And the more I dove, the more like my mind was blown away at how it was speaking directly to things going on in my life. And it was amazing I could just throw out the book open and read a passage and it would speak to things going on in my life at that time. And the more I read it and relied on it, the more um the more I trusted it. So so this question that that Troy's getting at, and I really like the way that Troy uh is is um drawing our attention then here back to christ. Right there's over fifty five hundred manuscripts, some of which were written within forty years of the time of Christ. uh that are spread out all over Europe, Africa and India, all of which, you know, are uh uh were written or copied over, you know, four hundred year period of time. And they all agree with one another about what they say and they all agree, uh, in terms of the Old Testament with the Dead Sea Scrolls. Right? So so we know that the sh that that the Bible as it's come down to us is the same thing that was being used forty years after the time of Christ. Right. That is unprecedented in human history. Right? Uh question is often asked, do you believe that that the Roman Emperor Caesar existed? Most people say, absolutely, we we absolutely know that it exists. Well, how do you know it? Because the closest uh history that we have written about Caesar's life and what he did uh is s is several hundred years after the time that he lived. Meaning that that the separation between the time that he lived and the the copy of the history talking about his life is is hundred times bigger than the amount of t uh well ten times bigger than than the amount of time that is between when Christ lived in in uh the documentation about his life. And so, do we believe what was written about Caesar to be true? Then for sure we should believe what was written about Christ. And the life of Christ is recorded by Josephus. who was a Jewish historian that may or may not have been a Christian, but he wrote about Christ, that he was a good man that went about doing miracles. and his followers believe that he rose from the dead. Tacitus, a Roman historian, also writes about Christ uh that in in similar language, right, so it's not just the the biblical um uh documents that that come into play. Well once you establish that Christ lived, did miracles, died, and that his disciples say that he rose from the dead, then you move into this question as to uh can we trust that he actually rose from the dead? And in order to follow that, you you start asking certain questions about, well, why would his disciples be so willing to die for him. Right? If they knew that none of it was true, why would they be so willing to die for him? And and and the the right contrast for that is what it was like when he was crucified. When he was crucified, every single one of his disciples was in total despair. They were they were they they were confused they were they were depressed They were hiding they were hiding They were lost it was clear that they knew that that in order for this guy that they were following to really be who he said that he was, that him dying and continuing to be dead was not an option. Right. Right? Meaning that the very fact that he had died took all of their thunder away, all of the wind out of their sails, and they had nothing. Everything they believed, everything they worked towards, everything Yeah. And that's the point is that everything that Jesus said about himself about being the Messiah, about, you know, uh uh setting things right and and and and and bringing in peace on earth, none of it makes any sense if he dies. It means that everything that he said is is a fluke and uh the guy that said that so well is uh Josh McDowell, that either he was who he claimed to be, that he was Lord of all the earth, or he's a liar, or he's a lunatic. Well C. S. Lewis might have started with it, but Josh McDowell wrote a book, More Than a Carpenter, where he where he kind of popularized it for a next generation. So you're probably right that C. S. Lewis said that first. But the but the point is is that um is that when he died, his disciples were like, Wow, man Thank good boys. He's a liar or he was a lunatic, but he wasn't what we thought that he was. But then something happened that changed their perspective and so changed their perspective that they not only went around telling everybody about it, but they went around giving everything in their lives to tell everybody about it, including being willing to die and those after them that heard the message being willing to die for the thing. Finding joy being and so so we got to deal with the fact not just that that we have this amazing testimony and manuscripts that talk about his life. Uh and this probably brings us back to, you know, because of how much then Jesus uh fits the old testament model. But then but but so it's not how much the manuscripts say about his life, but it's also the fact that his disciples clearly understood what he was saying that unless unless he's alive, this means absolutely nothing. Interesting how, you know, for a long time science tried to prove you know, all the stuff in the Bible was a lie and now we can use science to prove that, you know, the Bible of today is the same Well, and that's why for the last hundred and fifty years s much of the the discussion Uh and the argument has been around these questions of can you trust the Bible? You know, or has science somehow shown us that the Bible can't be trusted anymore? And it's actually given given rise to a whole line of um study in our universities that claim that you can't trust any history whatsoever, you know, that that that all history is written by the those that w that that uh that won. You know. Uh and arguably much of what uh of what the Bible represents was written by people that didn't win. Like certainly in ancient Israel the the the prophets were prophesying to rulers that were the winners that were rejecting the message of the prophets. Right. And so the Old Testament was written in many places by the losers. Right. And certainly in the New Testament, the first several hundred years. Christianity was was written and established among those that were the losers, not the winners. And that's going to be the last word for tonight's Or tonight. This morning's what what what century are we in? I have virus of the brain, huh? Anyway, till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now, thanks for listening to the Faith Debate on WFMD. God bless