The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. We affirm the harmony of special with general revelation and therefore of biblical teaching. With the facts of nature. We deny that any genuine scientific facts are inconsistent with the true meaning of any passage of Scripture. We affirm that Genesis one through eleven is factual, as is the rest of the book. We deny that the teachings of Genesis one through eleven are mythical and that scientific hypotheses about earth history or the origin of humanity may be invoked to overthrow what scripture teaches about creation. Those are Articles twenty-one and twenty-two of the Chicago Statement on Inerrancy as we continue our series of Looking at this historic document from 1978. Welcome to the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. You're listening to us on 930 A. M. on your uh transistor radio or perhaps you're listening to us uh at 99. 9 HD2 or perhaps you're listening to us on the the live stream or you're listening to us later. Not live, you're listening to the podcast. However you're listening Welcome. We appreciate you uh taking time out of your your busy schedule to um to pay any attention at all to what we have to say. I'm Troy Skinner and uh been hosting the Faith Debate Show for a long time and now as the regular panelists for a pretty long time. We've got Imran Razby, also known as Raz. We've got Daniel Razby, uh also known as Daniel. And David Forcy, also known as David. Um so I'm not sure if you guys took the time between the last show and this show to uh freshen up on on these uh statements on inerrancy. So Hopefully you guys did because I I did not, so I'm I'm kinda doing this a little bit cold. But it's interesting as we read these it's touching on some things we've talked about in recent weeks on the show. Well this is the hermeneutics statement. We did the inerrancy statement completely. Right? There were two statements. What wasn't the original one in aircraft? Oh did I just read the hermeneutics one? Yeah. You did. You read the hermeneutics one, that's what we're on. Oh, is that what we're on now? Correct. Oh all right, we'll finish in ARNC. We did. We finished in ARNC a few weeks ago. I definitely should have brushed up when we started hermenitics. This reminds me of a story when I was uh in in high school, it was my biology class And uh we were gonna be doing a test on like chapter thirty one of our biology textbook or something. And I studied hard and I was ready for this test and then the the the test comes out and I realize as I look at the first couple of questions I have no idea What the questions are talking about. I studied chapter like thirty-three with the test was on chapter thirty-one or something. Oh man. And so fortunately it was one of those fill in the oval with your uh number two pencil kind of thing And apparently I'm a pretty good guesser. Because I was like, I I don't know, I'm gonna go with A on this one kind of thing and it wa I think there were like thirty five or forty questions. Uh I got a ninety plus score, highest score in the class. And the guy that was my kind of my biology partner on all the little you know, slicing up the the frogs and all that you had to do, um, he uh didn't study at all. And so he decided to take the high road and says, you know what? I'm not ta he told the teacher, I'm not taking the quiz. I didn't study. I don't deserve a grade on this test. So he took a zero He he took a zero. Yeah, like what do you have to lose? So I uh I didn't take uh take the zero. I ended up getting the highest c grade in the class, and he was so mad Well, there's no grave giving out today, right? Uh well, you know I don't know why you should be mad. You worked really hard. Just on the wrong sub. Yeah. I did, I'm telling you. They should have given the everybody a fifty because you know, that way everybody w is fair. And and to be honest, I wonder I mean I I really didn't know what I was doing, but having studied material somewhat related to it, I think gave me some clue as to how to try to guess. So I didn't know what I was doing, but Well you had you had studied into the future and so Yeah, exactly. And it and it explains my life, right? Because I never really know exactly what's going on because I've I've I've been focusing on the wrong things, but those wrong things give me some insight into the right things on rare occasions. So we are onto hermeneutics. So all right. Anything in uh this that we take issue with? Um not not that I take issue with. Um I would just clarify, right? I mean I think it's really important in twenty-one it says we deny that any genuine scientific facts are inconsistent with the true meaning of any passage of scripture. There are plenty of quote unquote facts of science that are inconsistent with the Bible. Um we would just say if if that can be shown, then those are not actually facts, right? Any true fact would it would be consistent with the Bible. Now in the next part where it says Genesis one to eleven is factual and there any scientific hypotheses about Earth's history or origin of humanity, um, they have to kind of mesh with what scripture says meaning that they had to follow what scripture says and not the other way around. Um and so I I would I would say that I I would go go so far as to say be specific about which theories, that the theory of evolution would be not consistent with scripture at all. I think we all agree on that. And I personally would be on the side of you know, I I think a a a very old earth would also not be in the language scripture at all. But I think we ha we had some disagreement on that th last time. Yeah, I I I don't think that somebody that holds to a young earth is is anti-biblical at all. Order if you mean. But I well I was I was starting there. Clearly th there's an argument made for that. But I don't know that the text demands that of the reader. And so if somebody wants to go with a day-age theory in the earliest part of Genesis. uh they they wouldn't be making that decision based on any sort of a commitment to evolution, Darwinian or otherwise. Uh they're just saying, well, the text doesn't explicitly say and I'm gonna leave room for the possibility I think that they could still be an inerrantist and they could be faithful in in the in how their their hermeneutical approach. We probably should define that. That's just a fancy word for how you interpret. things. So they could be faithful interpreters of the Bible and they're just not trying to press the text any further than they in in their good conscience feels like it could go. I don't think so. I think they would not even come to that conclusion without outside information. Without somebody from science, somebody from evolution saying it took millions or billions of years of doing this, th that would not even come into their mind if they just read the Bible. If they just read the Bible, that long period of time would never have existed. But if somebody asks the qu here we we're we're we're covering some ground we cover I covered a couple of shows ago, I don't know. So um if somebody has a question posed to them by a skeptic or a scoffer that gets them thinking, huh, that's an interesting question. Let me re-examine the text and see, you know, if your scoffing or your skepticism is warranted and because of that challenge to their view, you know what? I don't agree with your evolution. I don't agree with the premise from which your question is coming or a or other attitude behind your question. But now that I've examined this in light of your question I think it's fair to say that the text maybe isn't quite as explicit on that point, and so I'm going to allow a w wider birth berth on that. That we can't do. I think there are plenty of places where the text is not quite that explicit. I would say Genesis just isn't one of them. And if you're gonna be consistent and logical about the way that you apply the Hermen Indics and and if you really do believe in an error scripture, there's no other way to read that text other than it's It it's it's a young earth. Yeah. But uh and we probably aren't gonna come to a uh total agreement on that in this show. But yeah, because we f almost probably need to do a genesis creations narrative kind of maybe even a series of shows on that and go through the text Right. That might be an interesting show to do at some point. So this that this show isn't that. Anything you wanted to add though on these points, David? Um No, I I again I I agree with Daniel in the sense of I think um I I think that if uh that that if somebody is making allowances for that then they're um But we would have to do a show on those passages to At the very least I think that this statement leaves that open. Somebody could subscribe to this statement, sign off and say, I agree this hundred percent, and be uh really older. I think I think it's I think it's vague enough that that's true. And I think that's on purpose. I think we can all be categorically c emphatic about evolution is not a biblical concept though And so we do want to make that distinction. And I think I said this uh one or two shows ago. It I I would also emphatically say it's not even scientific. Uh I wish we don't mean microevolution. We mean the one kind of animal changes into another kind of animal. Yeah, your dog isn't gonna turn into a p pigeon. That's just you know, or vice versa, that's not gonna happen So all right. Article um twenty three. We affirm the clarity of Scripture and specifically of its message about salvation from sin. We deny that all passages of Scripture are equally clear or have equal bearing on the message of I'll do the next one too. Article 24. We affirm that a person is not dependent for understanding of scripture on the expertise of biblical scholars. We deny that a person should ignore the fruits of the technical study of scripture by biblical scholars. So these aren't exactly related, so we might need to take them one at a time. Well scripture is clear about salvation, but not all parts of scripture are equally easy to understand. That that kind of makes sense. I think a lot of that has to do with his style of writing, right? 'Cause some passages are very clearly historical in nature, like it's it's a reads like a textbook or a history book rather than a, you know, much more uh vague or prophetic type of uh of book that can be uh a lot of head scratchers sometimes. So I I I don't think that's a And also your your your position in in history, I think. There are certain things that we're at a disadvantage when we read uh something that was written thousands of years ago, there was some assumed knowledge that they just knew. You know, imagine talking about, you know, Frederick County and uh today we just take things for granted and somebody has a recording of that discussion two thousand, five four thousand years from now, are like, okay, I don't n I I don't know what a Fitzgerald Automall is. Like what are you talking about? Right. You know what I mean? So that's which which does connect to the the next point here, which is essentially the the article is saying and you know, any normal reader can understand scripture, but uh there are some who have uh devoted a lot of time to you trying figure out some of those those historical contexts and things like we're talking about. Absolutely. And th and those are of value and those should not be, you know, set aside. Yeah, and I think that's important in today's day and age. Uh so many people, it's me and my Bible. I don't need to go to church. I don't need to listen to any of m any pastors or any scholars or whatever. I uh you know, the the Bible's perfectly clear and I can g and there's a truth to that and that's what makes it But you can you can easily go to one extreme or the other, right? 'Cause then you get a lot of Catholics that are like, Well, I don't need my Bible. True or my priest will tell me what to do or what to believe. And a lot of um you know uh Muslims will say something similar depending on what sect of of of Islam they're in, but oh I don't need my uh Quran reading I I I I mean I I should do it but really I get from the Milana what what tells what. So in a lot of religions and a lot of cults of Christianity um it's really the local leader or the the overall leader that that tells you what to believe. So I think either extreme is a bad thing choice. So you you wanna mention the other extreme where you could say, Oh, I don't eat any pasture at all. Well they're both very important. And so we want to have a balance. Yeah. By the way the hist the the history point I was making before I realize that works in the reverse too. People from thousands of years ago don't have the advantage that we have because they were pre-cross. and a lot of things that we're pointing to in the future, they might not have fully understood what that was pointing to. We can now to the benefit of hindsight, look back two thousand years and be like, okay, and now I know what that passage in Isaiah is really talking about. So that works both ways. Article twenty-five is the last one. Let's see if they save the best for last. We affirm that the only type of preaching which sufficiently conveys the divine revelation and its proper application to life is that which faithfully expounds the text of Scripture as the Word of God. We deny that the preacher has any message from God apart from the text of Scripture. I I'd have to have some clarification of what they meant by this the last phrase. We deny that the preacher has any message from God apart from the text of scripture. I don't think that's that's all necessarily true if it's as so w what I understand that to say is that there's not going to be any other message or word from God outside of what Scripture has already said And I don't think that's correct. If it's if they're saying we deny that the preacher is going to contradict scripture or give something that's completely against scripture in the message Okay, yeah, that that's that I can be on board with. But I am not a cessationist. I believe that the gift of prophecy never went away and there are people that do give prophecies or or may let's let's say may give prophecies. uh or or a word from god, direct word from God for a congregation, a person, uh a nation, whatever reason, in the future, it will match with scripture, so it will not contradict Scripture. if and when that happens, but I want to leave room for the possibility that that would happen. And I think that talking about the charismatic uh movement in the church is possibly part of what's being said here, but The way I'm mostly thinking they might mean it is that when you're preaching the word of God that you should be preaching the word of God. You should be preaching the text of Scripture. It shouldn't be some sort of uh, you know, uh Tony Robbins feel good, how to be successful in life kind of a message. It should be uh a message that is not apart from the text of scripture. The preaching is rooted in scripture. That's how I'm mainly meaning uh thinking they're meaningless, but it I think also, yeah, it could be something about uh charismatic or relationship. And it may be distinguishing between uh preaching in particular and you know other other times in which um you know, people are are interacting um with one another about, you know, maybe what God would have them to do right in their lives. Uh which you know uh where you bring biblical principles to bear. Um but uh Yeah, so does that does that line up with what you're you're saying, Daniel? Yeah, I mean I d I just would w would want to clarify because if what they're saying is that you cannot given a new revelation and that no new revelation would ever exist, then I I would say I disagree with that. I don't think scripture supports that. Um Yeah, I don't think that there's I don't know that they're saying that because I think again this is talking about uh interpretive principles uh as you're preparing for and presenting a sermon. This is this is meant for preach this particular article anyway is is specifically talking about preaching. Right. So I don't yes I think I would that's if that's the case as long as they're not prohibiting any idea of uh additional revelation that may come in the future, uh, then then I I don't have a problem with saying that I agree with it. I think yes, you need to be based in scripture and expanding scripture. uh really expositorily is is really the only right way to be preaching. You need to go through scripture and consider all the context and and go through in order Yeah, and expositorily that's a a fancy word. You want to uh provide some definition for that? The two main methods of preaching are topical versus expository, right? Where topical we mean I pick a topic, I have the theme, and my theme might be um God's love And we might want to go and look through all the verses about God's love and pull them out one by one and put them all in a row and then read them all and say, here's all the t teaching about God's love. versus just reading a passage of scripture and saying, okay, verse number one says this. Okay, what are all the contexts? Are there similar passages that talk about the same thing? Bring those in. Okay, now go to verse number two. So It you may deal with a specific topic, but you are going through in context rather than just pulling verses out of your hat in different spots to fit in narrative that you've made up to to do And so that's why uh a lot of times if you look at like you know, um some list of of what to look for in a church or in a preacher, you want a preacher that's expository rather than topical. And sometimes i it's not immediately apparent because somebody can be presenting an expositional message that sounds topical because the passage You know, the paragraph of the Bible they're preaching on is basically there's one main topic and point to that and so it's like, Oh, this must be a bad preacher. He's doing a topical message. Well no, was it Was it the topic from the text that was that day's you know was being examined that day? And I don't think that there's no place ever for a topical, you know I mean you might have an event that you're speaking at and you want to bring what does the Bible have to say about this event? You know, marriage would be a very good thing. You know, your pastor's gonna s speak at a marriage, um, then you might want to bring in verses about marriage specifically. But they should still be in context if if that's going to be the case. And I think that should be limited in in nature. In general, when you have preaching it should be expository. through the Bible kind of in order, you're picking different books of the Bible and working through that book in order is you can't skip the hard controversial passages. You're kind of forced to deal with them. You can't cherry pick. So now this uh International Council on Biblical Inerrancy, uh and I said nineteen seventy eight earlier, uh that was the uh the original statement on biblical inerrancy is nineteen seventy eight. The uh Chicago statement on biblical hermeneutics came out in the uh nineteen eighties, uh about four years later, nineteen eighty two, so I misspoke earlier, so just a correct the record because I know there are some fastidious types that would give me a hard time on social media when I I flub. And unfortunately I give them opportunities almost every show. So I wanted to get ahead of that one So they also include though an uh uh a portion that's called exposition. And I'm not going to read this whole thing, but there are some parts that jumped out at me I thought would be interesting flatter for conversation. So Uh the second paragraph of their exposition, it starts and ends this way. The living God, Creator and Redeemer, is a communicator, and the inspired and inerrant scriptures which set before us his saving revelation and history are his means of communicating with us today. So it is of vital importance to do to detect and dismiss defective ways of interpreting what is written and to replace them with faithful interpretation of God's infallible word. I don't think any of us disagree with that, but I'm wondering um is there a practical application point as pastors, preachers yourself, uh is there is there anything in this Particularly, you know, the importance of detecting and dis dismissing uh defective ways of interpreting. What are some ways that you guard against these defective ways? Uh um things that are tied to emotion. I think uh especially in today's modern church, there's a lot of emotional um experiences that they're trying to prove the Bible through emotion, feel a burning in your chest or or you have some kind of emotional testimonies. And I think that is taking away from the God's word. So you're saying as you're looking at the text and you you as the as the person who's going to be preaching it might have something burning in your belly or burning in your bosom to quote our uh LDS friends. Uh and and so you want to Not just run with that. You want to test that and make sure that you're you're you're you're you're you're also being in uh intellectual, not just emotional. Right. But I mean I've I've uh heard of churches also uh saying um that, you know, you're not saved unless uh you're speaking in tongues. You know. That's not biblical. But they're using extra biblical things to try to get you had to have an emotional experience and uh try to tie you that church and that preaching, I think that's not correct. You were gonna say something too, Daniel? Yeah, I was just on a different note of You know, what things do you look at? What are some examples of of a defective way of interpreting what's written? One uh easy track that people fall into is taking a single verse. uh either out of context or having an entire doctrine that either stands or falls on a single verse. Um God I I I was just telling somebody the other uh day about how There's a verse famous verse in First John about the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. These three are one, right? And there's it's famous be not because it qu it accurately describes the Trinity, but it's famous because many people have claimed well there's not good manuscript support for that verse and some manuscripts don't include it, so maybe it was added by a copyist and it really isn't part of the Bible. And the point my uh I was making with my um my my friend brought up, he said it's um it doesn't matter because the doctrine of the Trinity doesn't need that verse, right? If you get rid of the verse There's so many other passages that deal with the Trinity. Yeah, it'd be nice to have that verse too, but you can't have a doctrine that stands or falls on one verse. So I think that's a really important point when you're interpreting scripture. If you're reading through your Bible and you see this one verse that stands out and you're like, Oh, that's weird. Hey, you know what? I'm gonna build a whole philosophy around this idea that just came to me after reading this one verse. But make sure it's supported by the rest of the scripture. And it weaves throughout all the re the rest of the the you know the context of the where you found the verse and also other passages. So that that's just uh one trap that you can fall into. Yeah, do you have any uh thoughts you'd like to share about your your preparation of of uh making sure that as you're teaching your congregation things that you're not falling prey to some of these uh defective ways of interpreting the world. Some of the unlisted defective ways or are they they might be in there somewhere. I I think one I mean we've sort of said this already, I think one thing that's super important is to to seek to become as as familiar with all of scripture as possible. Uh I think that helps to to guard against um you know reading a small portion and uh interpreting it in light of um my own personal experience rather than uh you know the whole council of scripture Yeah, and it's not and not just our own personal experience as as as one person, but our own personal experience as a collective of persons. Sometimes our traditions can get in the way. You know, you grew up in a particular denomination or f or or uh school of thought within the faith and you become blinded to other things and sometimes it's good to test yourself against other traditions that are also trying to argue from the Bible and say, you know what I think that's good to to allow ourselves to be exposed to some of the giants that came before us that are biblically faithful but outside of the the tradition that we most often find ourselves uh subscribing to. Well that's gonna do it for this week's uh edition of the Faith Debate. I wanna thank uh David Forcy and Daniel Razvi and Imran Raz Razvi for uh again being on the panel with me, Troy Skinner. You can find us online at WFMD. com. Go to the Faith Debate page. You can also find uh us through the Household of Faith in Christ website. That's Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Household of Faith in Christ dot com. All the contact information is there and information about uh the church and and uh my church specifically and uh pictures actually a couple of these guys in addition to mine. So if you're curious what we look like, it really is it's not all that much. Anyway, till next time, one hundred sixty seven and a half hours from right now. God bless