Broadcasting from the West Side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County we're preaching with impact. It's like plowing pavements I gotta say that again. I messed it up. Where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement. That was better. You know why? The people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith debate. Sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating, how can we make you smile? Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. There you'll find all sorts of great stuff, including your blog. Why do I call it your blog? It's just a faith debate blog. It's Not really my blog. My blog is your blog. Email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com and what you send me, I post eighteen of them a day Monday through Friday. It's 90 a week. Do the math. 18 times five. Ninety a week I can only say that like you have no teeth in your mouth or something. The only way I can do that is you keep sending me stuff and usually you guys are taking the easy way out, which I I get it. I'm taking the easy way out You find an email you think is interesting and you forward it to me. That's fine. I'm totally fine with that. You're like the Facebook of blog pages. Yeah. By the way we're now putting it all up there. We're now having well every time the faith debate page is updated, a little no notice goes up on the WFMD um um Facebook page saying, hey everybody, the Facebook page has been updated. And so it's constantly every day. Do you have a Facebook and all sorts of weird here we go I think the Martians are playing the uh uh the the the the Venus team in basketball or something. That was weird what we were just hearing. Oh nice. Anyway. So that's Jonathan Sweitzer, he's senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church Yep. Uh formerly Crosswell Jelly Chapel. That's right. Now he's fully uh emerged out of adolescence as a church and he's he's no longer a chapel, he's a church. And uh Richard Fredericks joins us this week. He is the uh founding pastor and senior pastor at Damascus uh Road Community Church. Um Jonathan and Richard know each other, I guess through the Ministerial Association uh in town and and maybe through some different A weekly Bible study. Okay. And then I think probably maybe Jonathan rope Jen Richard and to help in uh his uh his own. When I first came into the area I went to Richard's church on Saturday evenings with my wife. because we were doing a Sunday morning service as a place for us to just kind of get filled up and uh built up in the Lord. And so uh I felt like uh his teaching and the quality of uh what was going on there was just a real encouragement to my wife and I. So We actually met once or twice, I think we had we had lunch a couple times. And uh so he was there kind of there at the start just to encourage me and So all those years ago he was encouragement and now here you are, ready to pick a fight with him about eschatology and the role of Israel. That's right. You can do that. I I often say the path to true intimacy is through conflict handled well. Wow. Yeah. So last week we were ending the show. Jonathan's ready to dive in, but I warned him it was shallow waters. We're running out of time. I didn't want to see him break his neck. But now we have plenty with the the water's deep. Okay, so this is the question. Is there a unique role for Israel in history that are a part of God's plans that that does not um conflict? with his major purpose of of working with the church to bring in the kingdom of God on the earth? This is the question. And I'm going to argue that that there is. I don't know how well I'm gonna argue that, um but my concern is that there are a ton of prophetic words to the nation of Israel in the Old Testament that look to be very clear that that God is going to restore Israel to being at the head of the nations as a physical uh uh um entity Thank you. And that in the process of that, that Christ will be on the throne, that he'll rule from Jerusalem over the whole earth, that like it says at the end of Ezekiel, that all the nations will come up to Jerusalem. you know, each year to worship and if they don't, then there'll be famine in their lands uh if they don't do that. Uh not to mention all of the prophecies that that that God is going to give you know, a specific place to Israel that seems to fit with to uh s fit in my understanding of scripture that God intends to redeem the whole earth. And that that the promises that he made to Israel uh that are not yet fulfilled, promises uh that say things like you know, that all Israel is going to be saved, that that they're all going to, you know, worship before me, that those promises uh have not yet been fulfilled in a in a full And I guess I'm going to say literal manner, because it looks to me like like there's passages where where in the Old Testament where those prophecies are given. uh they look like they're not in a um metaphorical or or uh spiritualized part of of scripture and so if that's the case then than the promises that we live in that one day there's going to be a new heavens and a new earth and all the earth is going to worship the Lord that that if we believe that his character and his integrity is true, then those promises to Israel are also going to be fulfilled along with the promises that it's not a either or, but it's a both and. And that maybe we just don't know how it's all gonna work out yet. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Wow. Do you have a response to that? Yeah, I I do. Um the Actually let me let me start with a little preface and say that I think when you look at the the Bible and you look at how the New Testament interprets the old What what you said, Jonathan, I absolutely agree with that the prophecies in the Old Testament were not symbolic or metaphorical. They were literal and they were to a literal people, and that people was the covenant people of God, the Israelites. Which I think you're gonna see as you move into the New Testament, the New Testament makes a distinction between Israelites and Jews But but let's hold that. Interesting, yeah. Yeah, let's hold that. Dig into that. So but but what you have in the Old Testament is you have everything in the Old Testament under the Old Covenant was indeed literal and local. I mean if you think about it, there was a literal nation of Israel with a literal king and they had a literal temple made out of stone and they had literal priests and literal white robes and they sacrificed a literal lamb on a literal altar. And then when you move into the New Testament and Jesus comes, what I see there is You see, d through Jesus that which was literal and local to one group, ethnic group by blood, became universally offered and spiritually discerned to all. So You know, is there still a temple of God now? Oh yes there is. We are the temple of God. You know, w w where are those priests in white robes? Well, we believe in the priesthood of all believers. You know, we don't need to sacrifice the lamb because Christ is so so I think this movement of the New Testament from a literal local fulfillment through Christ to a universal and spiritually discerned fulfillment, just to start this off, that that keeps me from ever saying like any nation, whether it's Israel or the United States is an irrevocably chosen nation. What I w I love the way our our Pledge of Allegiance says it, that we're a great nation as long as we're one nation under God. True. Not the one nation of God. And I think Israel and the Jews have a very significant part to play but I'll add one more thing. I do think that there is a huge distinction in the New Testament between those who are Israelites according to the faith and those who are just born Jewish. Like give me an example of what passages uh in the New Testament make that distinction. um who are of Abraham are Israelites. Right. And so he and that's really Romans you know, nine to eleven of course is a unit that's been debated and discussed a lot. But uh it's uh Romans 9. 6. It is not as though God's word had failed, for not all who are descended from Israel are Israel. nor because there is descendants are they all Abraham's children. So he says here not all Jews are God's definition of Israel and just because they're born descendants of Abraham doesn't make them a part of this Israel that God's forming. And he carries it on in the next chapter. Where he talks about the his brethren and says, you know, I I bear them witness, they have a zeal, but not according to knowledge, because they they want to establish their own righteousness But they won't submit to the righteousness that comes from Christ, who is the end of the law for righteousness. I mean we can keep going if you want me to, but there's a lot of verses. I'd like to touch on some of those verses because Um the specifically the one there, not all who are descended from Israel are Israel. Right. You went on from that and you said You said so not all that are Jews are Jews. No, no. I said not all that are Jews are a part of what God considers Israel, which is the the Right. So so it's so it's that distinction that uh that I feel like is not borne out by that passage. That passage says not all who are descended from Israel are Israel, and clearly that was the case that um that Jacob had I'm thinking Jacob. I was thinking Abraham. So my argument's gonna fall apart right in front of me. That's right. I love when that happens. Not all of our descended from Israel. 'Cause that's Jacob. And not all Abraham's children are Israel. Yeah, so we already know that that's the case, that you know, he has Hagar and Ishmael, but not all who are descended from Israel Who were all of his children were the twelve tribes of Israel? And he's saying not all who are descended from Israel Well but Jonathan I said in the last program and I think it's important for me to reaffirm it here is that we have to bring all things back to Jesus as the center. So when we do, what Jesus says and then Paul so well articulates in Ephesians 2 and Galatians 3 and 4 He says, um, now in Christ we have become Abraham's seed. And that is the issue. Anyone that is by faith living in Christ as Lord and Savior, we are now heirs of the promise. We're the seed of Abraham, and those who are not in Christ are not. That it's just that simple. There's there's an Israel of God And it now centers in the true Israelite of God, Jesus. Yeah. Okay, so I'm with you on that. It took me a second to work that through because I've always worked in that passage off of Abraham and clearly Uh when he's talking about Israel, he's talking about the physical descendants of the twelve tribes of Israel. Right. However, that being the case, uh what he's what he seems to be describing to m uh there is not that the Gentiles of the New Israel, but that those people that are descendants of Israel, that are the true descendants of Israel are the ones that come to God by faith, and that there are many throughout history of the Old Testament that did not do that. That are descendants of Israel, but that walked away from uh faith in God uh and that came to uh that that either they they worshipped other gods or they chose to to not worship God according to faith, according to the faith of Abraham. And so for example in Romans chapter two, where he says that that the true descendants of of the true the the one that is the true Jew is the one that's circumcised at the heart. It's true also that we as Gentiles are circumcised at the heart, but my impression is that Paul is not referring to a spiritual Israel that means the church, but he's referring to those that are the physical descendants of Israel that either have approached God by faith or have not approached God by faith. and that he's pretty consistent in all the places where he deals with that throughout the New Testament, that he's dealing with the physical descendants of Israel. And that that he's recognizing that there's something unique that's going on there. And I don't see a passage where where it includes me with being Israel. It clearly includes me as being a child of God. And it says that there's no longer any Jew or Gentile, male or female, slave or free. However, we all seem to recognize that there's still roles that that men and women play that are unique. You know, even Paul, you know, recognized that there's roles that are unique. I don't have any problem with there being unique roles that maybe Israel has a unique role in history that God's gonna use them for. You're talking about the the the people physical Israel. The nation. The geographic spot over it right now. No, I'm talking about the people. the people Israel, the descendants of Jacob, that there's a unique role that God uses them for in history, uh both When they're in the church and when they're outside of the church that I'm okay with because God is sovereignly moving all of history towards his purposes. And so when there's neither Jew nor Gentile, male nor free I'm okay with with Israel having unique role, but but there's still being unity between us. This is the Fred of Faith Debate. That's Jonathan Sweitzer. He's the founding and senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Church. We're joined this week by Richard Fredericks, who is the founding and senior pastor at Damascus Road Community Church. I'm Troy Skinner. You're listening to us on 930 WFMD and uh in response to what Jonathan just had to say. I could tell Richard you're getting ready to say something, but I cut you off because I wanted to reintroduce to a listener what's going on. So you're digging into this with me because I I've been grappling with this for a while and I don't know that I'm fully settled anywhere. I mean maybe h hopefully I'll never be, that I'm always open to scripture challenge me. And I feel like you're gonna be able to bring some you almost did it right there at the beginning with your with the first passage that that were really, you know, challenged me on this. So I'm hoping to you know, the thing I I Jonathan, the things you believe about Israel to me will ultimately be worked out, right, by the sovereign lord in history. But the the thing that concerns me about what you believe is I think there's always a tendency of the church to want to get preoccupied with something other than Jesus and his church. And you you mentioned you don't see any verses. I actually see many verses that say There is now no you there's just absolutely let me in that same passage, Romans 9 to 11, and Romans 10, verse 12, Paul says For there is no difference between Jew and Gentile. There is no difference between Jew and Gentile in Christ The same Lord is Lord of all and richly blesses all who call on him, for everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. Now to me, the i i in, you know, I I'd love to go to Galatians 3 because you mentioned one verse, but look at it in its context, in the context of Galatians 3. is Paul saying, All these promises that God made to Israel, they're going to come true, but you, Gentiles, you need to know now that you're a part of that. You are an equal part that You are as much Abraham's seed now as they are. So it's not so much I'm trying to diminish the role of the Jewish people in history as I'm just trying to say that in Christ All people have an equal place and value in the church of God, and the church of God is where God's action is. It's not in it's not in a nation. I mean, what would happen to your whole view? If something happened to the nation of Israel, would that undo your faith? I don't think so. I don't think it would undo mine, because um You just use a lot of big words, but I am too, by the way. Yeah. I thought so. Um uh and so I'm more grappling with the question, like for example The beasts, you know, whether of Daniel uh or Revelation Um were clearly given the sense in Scripture that God is still superintending whatever's going on. Right? And uh and that uh like it says in Job, you know, can Job can you put a hook in the mouth of the beast of of Leviathan? Can you tame him? No, we can't, God can. And ultimately Christ is the one that that puts the hook in the mouth of the beast, you know, and throws him into the into the lake of the fi lake of fire. And so I'm o I'm okay with I'm okay with that. And if that's the case, then I'm okay with God having a role for Israel, and even for that matter, a role for the Japhethites and the Hamites, you know, and and all the other Semites, you know, for for all the different different uh uh groups of people that that is unique that when we you know when we see this in in uh Revelation that every tribe, language and tongue will be represented. Right? There's a sense that that whatever those original peoples were, that that they're gonna be there and they're gonna be in a fulfilled, glorified place where God always intended us to be together. And so when I when I say that that these passages are are uh are still leaving a distinction uh in different places, you know, that the Jew is still a descendant of Israel that that that Israel is still the descendants of Israel, but that we're all one in Christ, just like male and female are all one in Christ, like like that doesn't that doesn't undermine the unity of what Christ has done in my mind. For example, the supremacy of the church and his plan. Yeah. Yeah. I have older brothers. I'm not a firstborn. But he says again, again, first for the Jew, then for the Gentile. Right? And he's and and and it stands out to me because I'm a Gentile. That means I don't get the first. And maybe it's because I'm a third, you know, that I've kind of grown up with this awareness that I'm not the first. But there's something, you know, and Christ, of course, is the firstborn. But we're told in the Old Testament that Israel is the firstborn, you know, of of God's love and his redemption. You know, th Israel is my firstborn son. And so there's a sense that that first for the Jew, then for the Gentile, and so My question is, is whether or not it's okay, biblically, from what we see, for us to say, uh, maybe Maybe there's a unique role that God's going to use for the Jews, first for the Jew, then for the Gentile, that doesn't make them better than us, and it doesn't in any way make them uh d different from us when it comes to Christ. Like even that passage, there's no difference between Jew and Gentile. The same Lord is Lord of all and richly blesses all who call on him. Right, the the difference that he's referring to there I believe, that plays out all through scripture is on what basis are we saved and brought into the inner circle of God's love. The kingdom of God. In in that that's consistent, that he's not it's not describing some some there's no difference meaning Jews and and we're all the same and and our blood's all the same like like like it's it it doesn't minimize the fact of historical you know differences but what it's right what what it's speaking to is salvation in Christ in the full m being a full member of the body of Christ. In fact I I'm thankful that you believe that I would take it one step further and say, you know, in the ancient world there were really three great entities that define people. There was the Greek culture, there was the Roman Empire, and there was the Jewish faith, which was controversial but very respected. And really what you have in the story of Jesus and in the unfolding of the church is that God's calling people out of any other identity as a primary identity into a whole new reality, the kingdom of God, which is the Church of Jesus Christ. So as he calls them out, he doesn't deny that some were Romans or that the Greeks were Greeks or that the Jews were Jews. He doesn't deny that, but he says those things I'm gonna merge those distinctive identities into one new community which is the n it It's the wisdom of God. It's the glory of God. Jesus is very poignant when he s th he knows that they're about to reject him as the Messiah, they being the Jewish people of his time, and he gives them that wonderful parable, that that kind of dramatic parable about the vineyard and the tenants. And he ends it this way, he says, Therefore I tell you that the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people who will produce its fruit. But then he says And, you know, all who fall on the stone, he's the stone, will be broken, but he on whom it falls, if he comes in judgment, will be crushed Yeah. And it says they knew he was talking about them. So I I I think you have this unfolding of Jesus where he's saying You know, your your whole identity and security is in your bloodline to Abraham, but I'm telling you, that kingdom is going to be given to the people. Who will bear its fruit. And so for me again as I look at you know, I believe God has a special work to do in Israel, I believe God has a special work to do in America, I believe God has a special work to do in China. I was just My son's a pastor in Hong Kong. We were just there, and while we were there, the editor of the largest Chinese newspaper spoke for him at his church And the guy said, you know, the biggest story in China today is not a story about economics or politics. It's that over 30,000 Chinese a week are becoming Christians. That's a dramatic unfolding, you know. So I hate to have us all focused on Israel as in an exclusive way. I think we need to say, God, what part do you want me to play there with both Palestinians and Jews? But we need to be as open to what God's spirit is doing in China or anywhere else in the world. That would be more my perspective. Yeah, and so I'm in agreement with that. Okay. Though I guess because I take the time to split the hair on the particular is particular issue it might appear that that's not the case, but the question still comes back to whether or not we can trust God to fulfill the promises. than he made to the nation of Israel in in uh you know, even even having to do with geography, having to do with the land, you know, as a uh I don't know if the Bible puts it this way, as a deposit that that that guarantees that he's gonna do that with the whole earth. Well but do you need to We're gonna jump is a mic on? Here. Here we go. I didn't hear myself in my headphones. We're I'm gonna have to jump in because we're gonna wrap up, but maybe next week we can start with the question of uh can we count on God to fulfill those promises because uh I I have a feeling I uh where Richard's qu uh answer to that is gonna go because I'm probably in alignment with with where he's coming from. So I have a sense of what my answer might be, so I think I know where your answer might come. So uh so we'll start there nice And uh and uh we'll see where we end up on this Odyssey that is the faith debate, brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Our guest this week is Richard Fredericks the founding and senior pastor of Damascus Road Community Church. Jonathan Sweitzer, co-founder of the Faith Debate Show and founder and senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks so much for listening. Again I encourage you to visit us online. Wfmd. com keyword faith. There you find links to podcasts, news items, the faith debate blog, and you'll uh be able to uh if you give us a couple of days, about two days from now If you go check it out, you'll find a link to this show. So you could listen back to it or you could send a link to a friend who might uh be blessed by it or learn something from it or be enraged by it, and you can start your own faith debate. Huh? How about that? Till one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from now, thanks for listening. God bless.