Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. We make you smile. And Deer Valley Construction, hardcape, softscape, masonry, they do it all. They do a good job. They've done work. at my house a couple of different times. Um anyway, Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel on the show again today. Thank you, my friend, for being here. And senior pastor at uh Frederick Church of the Brethren, Paul Monday. who I think you actually heard his voice like five minutes ago. Yes, right. Right? Yeah, we dominate the airwaves uh first thing in the morning. So Paul was heading to the restroom and Jonathan and I grabbed and said, No no no no way wait wait wait wait wait wait don't don't you I know they just I know you gotta go preach and stuff for your eight thirty service, which has now just begun. Exactly. So if you're listening to this and you're heading to hear Paul preach, you're running late, but don't worry because he's not there yet. And if you believe that, we got some land. But we grabbed him by the collar and said, no, no, you get in here and you're gonna open this show with prayer All right. Because that's apparently what we do now in Frederick County. Uh anything we do in the public, we begin with prayers by Paul Monday. Yes. Why the army happened, huh? I don't know whether it's ever been done in recent years. My uh my recollection I guess um is that it hasn't been at least since I've lived in the county for the last fifteen years, but uh prayer uh uh county commissioner meetings, uh uh once a week uh we'll be opened uh with prayer and uh I had the privilege of giving the very first uh two prayers uh in terms of inaugurating this. Now uh depending on when this program's aired, uh you know, we'll be at kind of at one place or the other in terms of it, yeah. Yeah, yeah, it's kind of the regular routine of all that. But already it's been kind of stirring the pot because uh you know in our day and age uh which is increasingly becoming secular and uh kind of more uh distant from the church and uh Judeo-Christian values of our country. Uh prayer is controversial in in the public square. Uh so we're bumping into some of that. And it's controversial because it's important. It matters. Right. Things that really matter are controversial. Things that don't really matter, we don't fight over that That's a fact. What's your favorite color? Red. No, it's not. How dare you say red we don't really care? That's right, exactly. But if you say something's important, it's like, oh wait a minute, that that cuts it to quick here. Now uh we had um uh Paul Smith on this show is it a year ago probably. Yeah. Yeah. And we were talking about his experience. Maybe six months ago, yeah. When he when he was an alderman. Yeah. And there was prayer. at the city meetings. That's right. And he uh prayed in the name of Jesus Christ and called all sorts of hubbub. Yeah, they were angry. And then just recently I was watching not watching, I heard in the background as my son was watching a NASCAR race on television and they opened apparently and they broadcast Huh. I didn't know that. Which I guess makes sense because I mean their lives are in jeopardy every race. But they had the prayer on television, which I thought was interesting. And the key is always Exactly. So I'm listening. The guy's praying a really lengthy, flowery, lots of verbs, verbiage kind of prayer. Right, okay. He's getting there, he's getting out of the way. Is he going to? Is he going to? Is he going to? It's like a three-minute prayer And at the end he says, In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. And I was like, wow. So you'll be interested to know that the uh the hospital, Frederick Memorial Hospital, uh, the new chaplain has just declared that any official public events when they go to pray, they will never pray in the name of Jesus. Oh she's on record in terms of saying that. Yes. kind of you know talk about how she's gonna facilitate it. It doesn't mean that you can't pray, you know, if somebody's asking for prayer you know, uh and it's not a Muslim or it's not a Jew, but you're you know talking to somebody that uh is a believer or is a c of a Christian cultural background you can pray in the name of Jesus. But uh at if it's at an official event in any kind of official capacity She said they will not pray in the name of Jesus. And you said, sure, I'll I'll I'll complain. Exactly. Did you pray in Jesus' name? Well didn't no in the in these two occasions I didn't, and I did it intentionally. Because what we're doing is we're we're we're you know ramping up to this thing, we're we're moving into it because uh again, I don't know when the last time, if ever there were meetings that were uh uh opened in that way and and with prayer at all. And so what I was trying to do is find a precedent and the precedent is indeed uh that the new mayor or the the most recent mayor, the current mayor of Frederick, uh Randy uh uh McClement uh started prayer back up uh at City Hall and they've actually developed so-called guidelines for public prayer that have been adopted across the country. So at least to get started, uh you know, I suggested that we go in the direction of using these guidelines which the city is using and indeed to try to uh ramp up to the whole prayer experience uh in a way that is not for me you know eliminating the possibility of praying in Jesus name but but but basically trying to say that uh you know that you can pray uh you know in in a public sphere and and have certainly uh you know uh I think an authentic prayer without necessarily in all cases uh naming the name of Christ. Now, of course, as a Christian, I'm not in any way denying the fact that Christ for me is my you know Savior and Lord, etc. etc. But What we're doing in a public setting is that we are trying to include as many uh persons uh in the experience uh as as we can And so you can go too far with being a you know had being inclusive in that way to the place that you just sort of have the lowest common denominator. But uh I mean for me I guess I'm just sort of um uh uh trying to find my own way in this in this in this way because I've also had the occasion of praying in Annapolis with the Maryland uh House of Delegates. They actually stopped inviting in pastors from the outside to pray because it actually it went beyond a prayer to almost like a preaching mission almost and and in b i you know it i it it major too much on how the prayer was was ended. So I I want to be clear, I'm not opposed and I'm not saying I would never pray publicly uh you know, uh not pray using Jesus' name, but at least initially as we were trying to get this thing inaugurated You know, I went the route of basically uh what some are considered NIB guidelines for public prayers. Should I put you on the spot and ask you for your take on Paul's decision? Um The uh purpose driven life is written by Rick Warren. Rick Warren's pastor apparently when he prayed at Obama's inauguration. What did he pray in Jesus' name? Well what he did was he went into the Lord's Prayer, I believe, and I forget exactly how he ended it, but he he didn't end it with a clear in Jesus' name, but he ended it with almost an explanation. Like in the name of the one that you sent Yeah, right. And I toyed with that because I I've looked at a couple different models for doing this. To me, that kind of thing, when you have to go into that level of elaboration and that type of almost um you know almost apology almost, then that really is distracting in that way. Uh yeah, but is it is it any less distracting for all those that don't want you to pray in the name of Jesus? I mean all you're doing is you're making it distracting for everybody, uh including the Christians, instead of just those that don't want you to pray in the name of Jesus Right? Yeah, well I think I mean why not make it distracting for everybody? Equal opportunity. You know, including, you know, a major theme in terms of what we believe. Are you allowed to pray in the name of uh of the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob? But that's But see that what what Troy's asking is really the key. What is the purpose of all this? I think a lot of it is just somehow trying to get for for starters, getting God into the into the equation. I think that's a lot of what I'm picking up that somehow it in other words, what I did the very first prayer, I invoked the so-called national motto, In God We Trust. So I think is I'm kind of recollecting here, uh it's been a while since I did the first prayer, you know, why I went the route I did. I guess I was trying to play off of the I was trying to find sort of some some some uh themes that everybody relates to by being a patriot or being a citizen of this country. So in the in in the Declaration of Independence it says in the name of the Creator, I think I referred to the Creator. And then of course the national motto is not in Jesus we trust, but in God that we trust. So I think I as I'm kind of sitting here recollecting why I went the direction I did, that that was part of the rationale for that. But I want to be very clear. I'm not I'm not precluding the possibility of praying in Jesus' name. I guess I was just trying to get this thing started off in a way Because for for for uh Commissioner Young, I mean this was a you know, this was a kind of a gutsy move. Uh and and I'm not uh I'm not quite sure what the level of of controversy has been on it. I haven't followed all of that. So let me weigh in officially what I would say is I think that whoever's invited to pray should be free to pray according to their conscience. I would agree with that. Absolutely. So Bob Miller asked the question of uh of Commissioner Young. uh on on the morning show uh um during the midst of this big uh you know well the debate was probably at its at its highest volume Um well doesn't mean you know pagans can come and you know uh you know devil worshippers or whatever the the examples were? And and Blaine didn't really have a good answer. Uh I think Bob caught him on uh Well that's what they always throw in our face is is uh if if you're gonna do it in Jesus' name then why can't somebody else do it and then In the name of the right. Right, right, right. And that's why that that's another reason why I took the approach I did, trying to find some common understanding. And I don't know what company or not company, what organization puts out these guidelines But they seem to work fairly well at at least uh getting prayer uh before a public forum. In other words that in other words they've been successful in that way. I love you guys And I you know, uh I say this with all humility and and and and and as much grace as I'm possible to boy, oh boy, I couldn't disagree more. I really couldn't disagree more. I think that um If the purpose is to ask God's blessing on the meeting and if they would have wisdom to execute their offices properly to bring the best blessing to the community or whatever, that you really want to pray an effective prayer. And if you want God to hear the prayer, the New Testament instructs us that we pray in Jesus' name and God will hear that prayer. So otherwise it's just noise. You might as well be a banging-gong and symbol, it seems to me. It's either a prayer to the one true absolute, powerful, personal, sovereign God or its words. And I'm concerned this you know we're we're we run the risk of training people up, Christians or otherwise, that it's okay to pray any way you want, not the way God has instructed us to pray. And they're gonna think, Well, I don't really pray in Jesus' name, but that's okay. There the way is narrow Few travel that way. I I feel like we're we're going to be able to do that. You don't think the public sector should ever open up for somebody that is not a Christian to pray. Like a Jewish person should have to be able to do that. Right. But I'm saying that Paul as a as a Christian leader in the community, one of the most high profile pastors in Frederick Um people are paying attention. Yes. Rightly or wrongly, they're paying really close attention to what Paul does. And I think that, you know, I would encourage you to just prayerfully consider the the weight of that and and what people hear in your silence. You didn't you didn't uh you didn't deny Christ with what you said, but some might argue that there was a denial of Christ in what you didn't say. And I think that it's it's more important to to win souls and to convert people to an understanding of the truth than it is to try to allow for a sense of religion and a sense of prayer do you think how do we how do we how do we address then the fact that that uh you know you know other persons of other faiths and and other persuasions, which sadly today go beyond uh, you know, even Muslims or Jews or Christians, etcetera, th that it it's a whole gamut now. Uh I mean th the concern would be if there's no uh you know, certain parameters I guess or understandings of what is you know, s uh civil prayer, d public prayer, whatever, that uh you need to basically open the invitation, I guess, to a variety of different faith traditions and so almost anything then could be pronounced or prayed to in that way. And I guess I I guess what I was trying to what I'm trying to argue is I think that if you you know if you have some sort of common denominator or some kind of guidelines that that uh just by big by your inner duct being being or being introduced as a Christian pastor that people make the connection in terms of the Christian faith and And then y you know, you're basically trying I mean, for lack of a better term, you're kind of corralling in, you know, other faith traditions so that pure blasphemy or whatever isn't proclaimed. So Yeah, well that could be put be a potential argument for not having any prayer at all in a public meeting like that would be a different kind of a meeting. And to be honest, I'd be okay with that. I've uh no prayer or a false prayer are the same. In fact no prayers might be worse than a false prayer. I'm not sure. And I don't uh uh and this isn't an attack, hopefully. I'm thinking through this now, maybe for the first time in this way. But we're the bright Uh everybody if if you're listening to the show for the very first time, Jonathan Sweitzer, pastor of a Christian church, Paul, pastor of a Christian church. I am a Christian host of this show. So we've got a a Christian perspective here. And all of us would consider ourselves uh evangelical Bible believing Christians, you know, if you want to put a a narrower label on that. So that's kind of the perspective we're coming from. So from that perspective, we are the bride of Christ. Now imagine I go to John Schweitzer and I say, hey John, you're married, right? What's your wife's name? Oh, my wife is beautiful. She's the daughter of two wonderful parents who cared for her deeply. In fact, she's a wonderful mother to my children. She keeps house great She cooks for me, cleans for me, she hugs me when I need a hug. She rebukes me when I need a rebuke. Yeah, well that's okay, but what's her name? You know, I'll gotta get around to that someday maybe, but not in this public setting, so it doesn't feel right to me. How would his wife feel about that? Right? Wouldn't she feel denied by his silence? That I don't know, that bothers me. Uh-huh. Yeah, this is a whole bigger question though. I'm not quite sure that we're wanting to get into it right now. But the but the question is what exactly is the role of religion in the United States? And there's a whole di uh bunch of different ways that we can go with that. You know, there's this convoy of hope thing that is that is uh the whole community joining together here on June eighteenth. Christianity is not about religion. It's about a person. Yes. It's about the person of Jesus Christ and what He's done to save us from our own sin. It's not about religion. That's the difference You were talking about all these other faith traditions. They're basically not coming from a Christian perspective. There are two faith traditions, the true one and the false one. And there are a lot of incarnations of the false one. Right, right. But you're either the truth or you're the lie. So, well you know, I've argued plenty of times on this show for that for that very uh uh truth. You know, I'm I'm very comfortable with with living in that kind of place. But the reality is that is that our nation was not formed on a Christian foundation, but it was formed, I believe, on two foundations. One was a Judeo-Christian worldview, uh government uh uh law, justice orientation, uh, and uh on the other hand with a scientific political uh orientation. You know, Ben Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, even even George Washington. No, no, no, I'm not saying deism. I'm saying that their orientation was 'cause it wasn't founded on deism, it was founded on this idea that we can experiment socially and come up with the best way to run a nation. Right, but that's what our government is. It was political science. But all that being the case, if we have freedom of religion in the United States then freedom of religion means that that there's not one that is imposed on everybody. And so if we believe in in what our nation was founded on, then then and we feel like it's the best government that we've seen maybe ever on the face of the planet outside of the nation of Israel when there was bureaucracy. But we've got to fight for those principles as well. as fighting for the principles that we have no chance to talk about. That is Christ. But see the point of timing things that I was very uh very much aware that I was not walking into my sanctuary, into a Christian worship space. I was walking into Winchester Hall, a seat of government. But you shouldn't have to leave your conscience at the door. No. You shouldn't have to be muzzled when you walk into the window. And I didn't feel that I was muzzled at all. What I was trying to do is connect to self-muzzled. I was trying to connect to uh governmental themes. Yeah, in other words, I was trying to connect to the national model and God we trust Not in Jesus that we trust, and I was trying to connect to the dec the declaration of independence in terms of, you know, nail rights, you know, given to us by our Creator. In other words, I was trying to find some kind of way to connect to the so-called common good in in that way. Uh but certainly if I was in a religious sanctuary, in a in a religious worship service, it would totally be inappropriate to be that you know, that uh genetic or uh generic rather in terms of those things. and what the expectations of those around me and those in the audience w what my decision might be. I'm not saying I wouldn't make the same decision, but I'll be honest, I would hope I wouldn't make the same decision because of the things I've said before. I think that um It's important for us to keep in and you see if you agree with this. I'm looking at the two gentlemen here. Okay, okay. I think it's important to keep in mind when we ent when we pray, we're entering a prayer closet in a sense, even if we're in a public setting We're communing with God, we're speaking to God. We're praying to God, right? We're not praying to the audience. You know, many names. You're not praying You're not praying to the commissioners. You're not praying to the to the to the news media that might be there and wonder right, you're praying to God. So it I don't know, it seems to me that when you're entering into a place of prayer, it is religious service. There's something there is there's a there's a communion going on there that Um I just don't think it should be not careful to protect that bad things happen. Yeah, I agree with that. I just don't think it should be an either or either we pray with a good prayer of this Jesus' name or no prayer at all. I just I I I don't feel like that fits. If we don't go this other route, then there probably would be no prayer at all. I mean I I'm just guessing that if if if we uh if we you know re if we required every prayer to be and uh uh pe to be authentic prayer in any way, shape or form would have to be uh ended in the in the name of Jesus as c as a requirement or whatever, uh then I'm guessing that it would be totally eliminated. And and you could make the case, uh as many do for prayer in public schools, for example, that You know, that's not appropriate for prayer to be in public schools for the very same reason because of the fact that that's not you know, that's not a reality is that at the founding of our nation, the different religions that they were promoting Uh the only one that was not Christian was Judaism. All the rest, Catholicism, Lutheran, Methodist You know, all the rest were Christian denominations. And even what uh what Thomas Jefferson said that we did not, you know, create a Christian nation, but a nation that that includes Christians, Muslims, Jews, even when he said it, well it's kind of okay for him to say it, but there's uh prayer was a unifying thing for them because even those that didn't pray in the name of Jesus still thought that he was a really good guy, you know, and so they weren't offended by those that prayed in the name of Jesus. And so uh so we do find ourselves in a totally different uh religious environment in the United States now right that I'm not so sure that the forefathers had really forethought adequately through uh through those issues. And I appreciate where you're coming from too, John, but I I still I think that I'm less concerned about what happened a little over two hundred years ago and more concerned about what happened about two thousand years ago. You know, I'm worried about what the foundation that took place in the ten. You know, not not what happened with the foundation of our nation, but what happened with the foundation of our faith, of our faith tradition, of of of the church. You know, and that trumps to me the nation. You know, a parti you know if somebody who's not a Christian say a prayer and it's not gonna be a good question. Well, it's not gonna be in the name of Jesus. That's a prayer that's not heard. Let me ask you this question. Do you think Or do you think the liberal democracy that we have with the freedom of religion and the in and the the uh the no government establishment of religion, uh do you think that that was wise More Christian in the sense of having uh uh a a better moral structure so that blacks weren't two thirds of a person and things like that. If that's the a question. Okay, well fine. I'm with you on that. But that's not what I'm asking. But if it's it should have been something closer to a theocracy, then my answer is no. Okay, so with that being the case, then if that's the case, then is there a way for us to be American in that context dealing with government that doesn't that that uh that allows us the freedom to do like Paul did to not pray in Jesus' name in that context because we think that this government style is the most godly, the most righteous that we could provide so that people have a freedom of conscience to choose Christ or to not choose Christ. I and in supporting that then the gospel has the most freedom then to be priests and people can choose it. Or reject it. Well I agree with you that Paul has the freedom, anybody has the freedom who's asked to pray there to pray however they're gonna pray. He he certainly should be able to do it. Uh, particularly one who carries the extra weight of having a spotlight shined on them 'cause they are pastor from a big church. Right. I don't think should make that I think the wrong choice was made. To put it bluntly. Paul, just for the record, I'm not so sure that that's the case. I I I I think that that in lieu of what you're looking to help get us get re-established here in Frederick, maybe that was the right case. You know, you'll have future opportunities to work out uh, you know, how you're gonna pray and what you pray. But I'm not so sure that in that situation it wouldn't have been healthy to do. All right. Well, we're just about wrapping up time. We have a few minutes though. And we're gonna have uh uh some fun next week too, I think. And I got a feeling Jonathan will be the one who's giving Paul a bigger more hard. Yeah, well let me first of all I didn't do this Five minutes ago, like I would like to. But Jonathan Sweitzer is the one that wants to make the transition for me. He's senior pastor of Cross High Chapel. And Paul Monday, who's been very gracious as I've been taking the task. Good stuff though. Uh so transition us if you will. We've got you know two minutes or so. Well, we've been called Lots of things. To love our enemies, to pray for those who persecute you and do good to those who don't do good to you, right? It's very clear that that's the case. And we're told in Scripture that the Lord will cause our enemies to be at peace with us. And what we're going to get into next week is peacemaking. And it seems to me that even this question of prayer has to do with how is it that the Lord goes about causing us to live at peace with our enemies. What are the issues of wisdom where where without compromising and without lowering our convictions we can find a way to live at peace with those who maybe even are our cultural enemies. Yes. You know, over issue over all the hot topics, you know, abortion, you know, homosexual marriage. You know, w w uh Republican, Democrat, you know, socialistic versus Tea Party, you know, all those kinds of things. How do we live at peace? with those people and uh Paul's um uh heritage in his denomination has a well developed uh theology and practice of uh working to do that. And so I'm hoping to really get into that in a big way next week. Very good. So that was a nice transition. Put more simply, next week we're gonna talk about whether it's okay if I punch Jonathan in the nose or not. Simple question. We'll have an answer by the end of next week's show. I'm glad. Thank you. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Light Chapel, Paul Monday, Senior Pastor at uh Frederick Church of the Brethren. I'm Troy Skinner. Again, thanks to our sponsor. Uh sponsors now. Sponsors. Footman Plumbing and Heating, how can we make you smile? And Deer Valley, who does hardscape, landscape and masonry work. And uh if you do decide to give them a call and say, hey, I hear you do good work Tell Shane that Troy says hi. And Jonathan. I'm Jonathan. Do you know him? Yeah. Do you? Okay, cool. All right. Anyway, till next week, visit us online, WFMD. com keyword faith Card was