Good morning. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WF MD, we are so grateful you decided to pass our way today and spend part of your beautiful Sunday morning. I'm assuming it's a beautiful Sunday. It might be gray, dreary, rainy, windy, who know who knows. What's what's that, I'm sorry? Still beautiful of your lives. That is true, right? Yeah. My grandmother before she passed, you know, she's having all sorts of medical issues and you know, was feeling weak in the knees and having some real hard times and she said, Uh I'll I'll I'll clean up a little bit for a Sunday morning audience. It's heck's grown old, but it sure beats the alternative. Anyway, this is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. You heard Imran Razby chime in. He's the pastor of the Church of East in Imran's house and also the founder of Conquered by Love Ministries online at conquered by love dot org. We're joined this week again by Elijah Dirksen. This has got to be, I don't know, how many times have you been on the show now? You do you know? Have you been keeping counts? Haven't kept a county times. Eight yeah. Eight, ten times, something like that? Wow. He's a veteran. All right. They can start coming after him now. Get the claws out. Uh actually speaking about getting the claws out. So about getting the claws out. All right. So we spent the last three weeks uh you know alienating a huge portion of the uh of of of our listener base. Um I don't know if it's true anymore. Once upon a time I had access to the to the the data who listens to WFMD And it was surprising actually at the time. It was uh less than half of the audience was registered Republican, at least at the time. And um Something like forty percent maybe I wanna say. And then uh the rest were pretty evenly split between registered Democrat and uh unaffiliated. So I feel like the last few weeks we've probably alien alienated all of the unaffiliated and registered Democrat. So this week we're gonna Complete the project and we're gonna alienate all the registered Republicans. Well maybe Troy, your audience may be a little more intelligent than the average Democrat and average uh unaffiliated. They might actually They they clearly must be to be able to decipher my nonsense. You have to be very intelligent week after week to know what I'm talking about. So yes, kudos to you for listening. to the phase debate. And uh of course the the the guest panelists they help to make sense of of my nonsense. So let's start with the the the big one first. The convention was in Milwaukee this year, the GOP convention, and uh they had the perfect opportunity to just go all in on conservative values because If memory serves, it was only days before the convention that Donald Trump nearly lost his life at the hands of an assailant's bullet that hit him in the ear. He has all the wind at his back, he's got all this momentum, he could do no wrong, he was walking on water for crying out loud, and in that moment The RNC decides that they are going to gut from their platform everything that Christians most hold dear. What is going on? Well, I think they felt that they already had the Christian vote and the Christians had no place else to go. So they weren't going after the independents and the Democrats because they're trying to get them to vote for to vote there. That's all it is. It's all politics. Yeah, politics says abortion's a losing issue now. More people want to keep abortion and so go with the flow, we gotta dump that. And even those people that say, Well I wouldn't have an abortion, but I don't want to stop you from having an abortion. We we talked about the power hungry Democrats last week, uh maybe even the week before that. Um Reb Republicans are the same way. It's not a one party's good, the other party's uh bad. It's one party's bad, the other party's maybe even worse. So they had the you know, the uh abolish abortion language taken out of the platform. Uh they had a a prayer to a demon basically featured on the opening night and they welcomed a rather Well known public figure who's only well known as a public figure because she takes her clothes off for public viewing She's basically a you know, the equivalent of a porn star. She's a stripper, she's an internet stripper. They have her give one of the uh major speeches. Uh from the platform. Oh, what's her name? Do you remember her name? Rose something. I don't remember her name. I don't even want to remember her name because I don't want to give her a plug and have you go look her up. But What are they thinking at the RNC? They're ta you're right, they're taking us for granted. But can they sh Have they? Have they lost Christian votes? That's what they're trying to be like the Democrats. And uh, you know, let's Kamala Harris has this b big, you know, like what, Megan the Stallion or whatever. I wonder how a stupid name is that, but she fills stadiums And uh so uh sh what does that even mean? Tomorrow I didn't have to s what I've heard somebody else talk about what is this Megan the Stallion thing? This is news to me. Everything. It's not even innuendo. It's actual sexual scene. It is. And so Kamala Harris, uh she was for Kamala Harris, so they had a stadium full and as soon as Megan D. Stallion left, most of the people left Kamala left are like ten thousand people out of seventy. So It was it was it was crazy. It's uh but that's what the Republicans are trying to do. They're trying to mimic the Democrats. Bringing in these you know, like w we just had a stripper on there. They're they're doing exactly what the Democrats do. They're abandoning principles to go after votes. Popularity. And then I think what, once they get elected, if they can even be allowed to be elected fairly anyway. That then they will govern conservatively? No. And get away with it? But this is this is why we need to cling to those founding principles. We need to cling to principles, and I would say biblically based principles, because those don't change. But neither party's left. doing that and there's no chance of a third party, so I'm not sure what the political uh arena is gonna be in the future, but neither party has any principles left. Well, America has become post French Revolution France. I mean that's kinda what it is. That's the end of all. What is truth? What is right? We don't know anymore because now we're left with what's popular. Yeah, you know, there's a c I've heard it in church circles, but it applies in this circle uh in the political sphere too it seems to me. You know, that which it takes to bring 'em is that which it takes to keep 'em You know, if you're gonna try to attract people into your church by becoming like the world, they're gonna leave as soon as your church starts to not share mm worldly messages. Or you ever give them the biblical truth like, oh I'm outta here. So if he's and that's a great point. It doesn't it isn't just limited to uh political parties, it's the church too The church wants to be popular and so they're abandoning biblical principles. They want to go with the flow and homosexuality is okay now, abortion's okay now, divorce is okay now. And I'd go so far. We want to be popular with an audience of one, right? We want God to smile down on us. We want him to to say, Well done, my good and faithful servant. What happened to that? If my people's hearts were humbled. But they're not We have no f we it's all about pride, it's all about who who's there. There's no uh no humility here left. And there's no nobody shining the light anymore. It's gone. And I would say you ask that question, have they lost Christians? I would say yes Um, my son, m myself, my wife, my other kids, uh we we uh we I have a I have thirteen kids, so I vote, right? But none of them are gonna be voting for Trump this year. I just The Rasley family is a precinct. Maybe maybe one or two uh we're not trying to not do one or One or two might vote for Trump. But I certainly cannot vote for Trump. And I my my son is not w the my eldest son is not voting for Trump. And my wife definitely is not voting for anybody. She's like, I'm done. I'm not voting Well, yeah, and it's probably part of it is the uh the stances taken on issues and part of it is does your vote even matter anymore, right? I mean Well he he completely lost my vote and any support that I had for him when he said after he lost the twenty twenty election, well it it's all your fault, conservative Christians, because you wanted Roe v. Way overturned. How many babies are alive because of that And he throws a tantrum because he lost an election. Yeah, I don't think the to the change in Roby Wade really saved a lot of babies. I but I know it saved some. And if it saved one I I don't even know if it did I think all those people that want to have abortions want to cross the state line abortions. I can't believe that I've come to this point of view because I wouldn't have thought so a few years ago. The whole Roe v. Wade thing was a canard. It was actually worse. It was a canard from the start. Yeah. Yeah. It turned into something awful. It was worse. What do you mean? I I think uh when Robey Wade was pulled back there was actually more abortions that happened. Oh. There was m people rushing to get abortions because they were so afraid they couldn't have an abortion. There were people that were on the on the on the line when I mean there's Several studies showing that there actually the abortion rate went up after a weight was taken out. I'm I'm not a hundred percent sure on that 'cause a lot of the people who are having abortions are more poor. They they can't just take off a weekend and drive to But there was multiple millions of dollars coming in for those poor people to drive them across borders. Do that. Search it whatever you want But the abortion rate actually went up after Oli Wade was two. And the stats that are shared with us and you know, you can't trust uh I would say if anything, they minimize the numbers probably, but the the numbers say that last year the fourth leading cause of death in the United States was planned parenthood abortions. Not all abortions, just the abortions in the place of Planned Parenthood were the fourth leading cause of death in the United States. And if you add in all the other clinics that f or hospitals that that uh that murder children or all of the at home Uh uh murder m uh uh child sacrifices are taking place through like ingested drugs and that sort of thing, 'cause that's the the that's the future now. It's all you know, it's gonna be over the counter. Oh yeah. You know the ten dollar copay, go kill your baby. That drug was actually made by the Nazis. It was made by the Nazis and and it was re-resurrected and brought to the surface. I'm sorry, you can't talk about Nazis, you'll be canceled The mean German people from It was a drug that killed And that and The Nazis, the people that uh fraudulently perpetrated the uh Holocaust, those people though. We might. I mean, come on. Nothing's real anymore. Not that n-word, but the N word. Seriously. Well uh or nationalist, that one? We'll get to that in a minute. Uh so For years we are told and is a and and uh up until recent years, like the last few years, it was we gotta defeat Roe v. Wade because that'll be the game changer. And then as soon as Roe v. Wade gets defeated, it's not, well well no no, it's really about the states. It's it the it's not about the federal level, it's about the state level. That's where okay, so let's turn to the states Let's go to our vaunted conservative Bible Belt States and see what they're up to. Can you think of a Bible belt state that comes to mind that maybe had a resolution of any sort this past summer? It was so exciting for all these Christians to hear A month of fasting and praying. What state was that again? That sounds so good. Tennessee, let's see. Oh yeah, here it is. Joint Health Resolution 803 I'm not sure. Maybe they're running around really fast. I had a dachshund named Fritz once, I went hurt by my dog. Uh so a resolution to seek God so far, right? To seek God's hand of mercy healing on Tennessee. Yes, the state's stepping up with a resolution Not the same as a law, but okay, we'll take it. Whereas our state and nation suffer from violence committed upon our citizens by our citizens and I'm not gonna read everywhere as, I'm just gonna do one big long run on sentence here. And our state and nation suffer from violence committed upon on our citizens by non-citizens, and acts of violent crime in our schools are unacceptable. And human trafficking is an unacceptable and violent evil in our state, enslaving lives and violating the core values of our Creator endowed rights To life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, I let me pause there. Anything you don't like about that? I kinda like all that so far. Yeah, okay. So let me continue Whereas drug addiction overwhelms our families, our government finances, our workforce productivity, as well as our health care and our law enforcement resources, and deadly fentanyl flows uncontrollably across our Southern U. S. border resulting in the deaths of Tennesseans and driving under the influence and drunk driving results in great pain and injury for Tennessean families. And we have a properly nine thousand children in need of foster care, indicating a brokenness in many Tennessee homes. Okay, so far they were as is tracking with all of this. I'm waiting for them to get to the big ones. But these are I mean they're pretty big, but they did big ones, right? Uh evidence of whereas evidence of corruption in our federal government stands to impact every Tennesseean and our national and state founders trusted in the omnipotent hand of Providence to guide and bless our land and and then there's this big long paragraph uh that quotes uh John Adams. I'm not going to read all of that. Uh but John Adams, okay, one of the founders, we like that, and they acknowledge truth. We acknowledge the truth in these founders' words. And we hold that except the Lord keep the city The watchman waketh but in vain, so they're quoting scripture. You gotta like that. Psalm one twenty seven. I mean, you know what, this is the kind of thing that if I saw this, I'd be tempted to share it with everybody I knew. 'Cause it goes on then to end Be it resolved because of all these whereas is resolved by the House of Representatives of the one hundred thirteenth General Assembly of the State of Tennessee, the Senate concurring that The period of July first, twenty twenty four, through July thirty-first, twenty twenty-four, be recognized as a time of prayer and fasting in Tennessee. And then They recognize God as King and Creator and uh God's mercy upon our hand. We beseech him. Uh recognize our sins and shortcomings. I'm not trying to diminish any of this, but there's some good language in here. Lord Jesus is mentioned by name and he can heal our land and remove this. I wanted to focus on this one. We ask the Lord Jesus to heal our land and remove the violence, human trafficking, addiction, and corruption. And we asked the Holy Spirit basically to be involved in helping all this. So they're asking for all those things, those are all things they should be asking for. I'm on board a hundred percent. However, I when I first saw this, I read it out loud like I just did to my wife, and my wife doesn't pay a lot of attention to the cultural things like I do. She pays attention, but not like I do. Who does? I'm insane. But I read this to her and I said, Honey, anything missing? Do you think And she said, well, they didn't say anything about abortion. Yes. And anything else missing My dear beloved wife, who I adore so fervently, please please notice the second one that's also missing 'cause I noticed it right away. And she said, Well, I don't see anything but the whole trans nonsense Those are the issues of our generation. Those are the issues of the moment. We're murdering our children and if they survive the abortion mills, We're butchering them and uh and uh emasculating them if they're men or or chopping off their uh their hoo-haws if they're women. I mean we're mutilating our children if we can't kill them. These are the big issues and they don't The big three. I I loved a lot of language in there. I think it's the right thing to do is fast and pray and have God directed. But it for me it's a situation of yes and it's virtue signaling. It's it's mere virtue signaling. These they didn't touch the third rail. Mm-hmm. They went where I mean seriously, what leftist is going to disagree with viol violence? And traffic trafficking and right. They didn't talk about anything that somebody would push back on. And and how is God gonna bless us? How are we gonna say God bless this country when we're allowing the murder of millions upon millions of children? And and I apologize, I'm getting amped up and my voice is becoming very elevated. Let me just let me calm down for a second. I I'm as incensed and animated and irate about this because it's cowardly. They're cowards. And these are our leaders. It's Trying to do the right thing, quote unquote, for Ms. Howard. It's frustrating because they almost got it right. They got it wrong on purpose is my point. Yeah. They forgot about abortion? Oh, should have had a V eight. Come on! They purposely left it out. The whole trans thing? That's not top of mind? Are you kidding me? Because it's not popular anymore. We've lost that battle against Homosexuality and even trans they don't want to fight it. DEI trans is not whether you should do that. It's whether you shouldn't do it to kids or whether you should we've lost even trafficking battle too, let's not get ourselves. Nothing serious has been done about that. We kept giving ground over and over again. And I think the church has led the way in that retreat. And there was a recent Democrat on the floor, a black lady that actually went against it. stand with my fellow Democrats who and they're not fighting this h human trafficking that's happening. So I I was in uh impressed she's she's a Very far left liberal to actually come so I'm I'm done. I I yeah I gotta stand up for this human trafficking. We gotta stop this. So Maybe there's some hope and light someplace, but you're right. They came up with this and sound so good on the surface. It got so got me so excited. In fact Troy, I'm the one sent it to you. And then and then I get this negative thing back from you and I'm like, yeah, you're right. I didn't I missed the entire thing. I'm sorry, my My jadedness might be infectious if I'm not careful. You ruined my good moment. Yeah, right. I I I get it, but I you know I get the instinct. I would want to share it too. But I'm so tired of being played. I shared this with you uh after we had some conversation. You you shared with me earlier how, yeah, you kinda ruined my moment. The uh kind of an uh it was a gradual awakening for me. It didn't happen all overnight. And it you know, I was all in on the uh the Evangelical W campaign, right? George W. Bush, he's one of us. Sarah Palin, she's one of us. You know, this is gonna make all the difference 'cause one of us is gonna be, you know, running for office, making a big deal. And boy, W Sure campaigned like a biblical conservative, but he sure didn't govern like one. He I guess he suspended uh biblical governing principles in order to preserve biblical governing principles, if you know what I'm saying. I mean it's it's unbelievable. And I thought I felt snookered the first time in in two thousand. But I gave him the benefit of the doubt and got snookered again in two thousand and four. And I was like I'm not doing this anymore. And so I refuse to to to buy into the whole McCain campaign, the whole uh the Romney campaign. uh n all all of the nonsense ever since. I just I I won't buy into it anymore. And I've been so um focused on looking for The lies of omission. Right? The the Yes. The things that they they they you don't notice because they're not out front. And it's like that was that's a lie of omission. We need to be praying and down on our knees Fasting and praying before God because we're slaughtering our children. And this is what I was talking about. And mutilating them. This is what I was talking about earlier about the church being more brave. If the church was out there in the face of these politicians and saying this is unacceptable You need to include the big the big ticket items. Things would change. They don't respect the church. Chris Platt says, you know, the the biggest the la the greatest power the media has is to omit things, to not report on stuff And you're seeing it. The problem is uh yeah, th the the the church, but I will say I I I I I really don't feel like the problem is those who are actual Christians who are reading their Bible, who know what's going on, being cowardly for the most part. I think there's some of that. I don't think that I think the main problem is we have so many people who are professing Christians, maybe even in fact saved, I mean God can only know the heart I I know They're all about abortion. It's okay. I I know a lot of genuine Christians who don't like abortion. They don't like any of this stuff, but they just kinda sit on their hands. What what can we possibly do? I I know a lot of people like that who I would consider My brothers in Christ. They're just they don't have that fire in their bellies to go and make things change in society. It reminds me in the in the Old Testament, you know, you hear these the uh the chronology of the kings and and talks about they did this, they did that and you know, they're almost all bad, right? But even the good ones almost every time it's did a lot of good This good, this good, this good, this good. But they didn't remove the high places. There's always something a Christian can get better at. And we refuse we refuse to remove them. Yeah. So until we label abortion as a murderer, not abortion. It's not gonna change. We have to say it is murder. It is premeditated first degree murder and anybody that is complicit with it is The conspiracy no murder. Absolutely. Now the we only got a couple of minutes, which is fine because I'm not sure there's a whole lot to be said about this. We've done a whole series of series on Christian nationalism, but it's just a a warning shot. Like like I've just got done saying, I've been looking for okay, where are the lies of omission? Where are the the sneaky deceptions? And I'm telling ya, it's more of an intuition and a sense. I can't point to a whole lot of specific like I can't bring a lot of receipts, I could bring a few, but they would be just anecdotal. I'm telling you, I'm getting a sense of a grifter problem in the Christian nationalist movement. I think a lot of people are gloming on to the whole movement and calling themselves a Christian nationalist. And a nationalist dressed in Christian clothes, that's it. Because they want to make money. They're trying to sell books, they're trying to get a lot of views on their videos, they're trying to have a popular podcast, they're trying to game evangelical votes. Trying to get yeah, trying to get votes, they're trying to get invited to big speakers conventions. I'm telling you, a lot of it's smell and I'm not if you've listened to the show this past year, I'm not on board the Christian nationalist train. I'm not like a never Christian nationalist, like a never Trumper. I'm not on that train either Uh I I you know, I'm trying to play it kinda out in the middle 'cause I think there's some validity in trying to play it that way. So I'm not a hater. But I'm telling ya, if I were in the movement So if you're let me put it this way, if you're in the movement, if you are a an avowed Christian nationalist and you're all about that, you gotta start paying attention And be willing to root some people out and clean some house, 'cause it's an emerging problem, I'm telling you. I think where you run into problems is you have more nationalists than Christian. So you have someone who wants to be active politically but they want to use Christianity to get Ahead in that. That's the crutch. I I don't think that's even a proper understanding of Christian nationalism. That's I think that's something that's a good thing. But there's some people I have every reason to believe. I think they're actual Christians. And yet their their baser instincts just can't help but rise up and they're trying to take advantage and hopefully they'll repent. 'Cause yeah, what what I would label as a a Christian nation and Christian nationalism is us saying we are a nation based on biblical principles. We need to act like that We need to use the Bible as our our guidebook on how to govern it sort of reminds me when I was growing up, you know, I was uh all these Catholics they're saying that Catholics uh they're for mass, but they're in the culture they're for business. And they wouldn't bring their their God into their business. And I couldn't I can reconcile that as a Muslim when I was growing up. I said, No, that's who you are, it's your identity. Why how can you separate that out? But I think that's more and more what all Christians are doing. That there may be Christians in the in the closet, closet Christians. They're Christians at home in the closet, but when they are exposed to anybody else in the culture They're like, uh I really don't want to push my biblical views on everybody else, you know. But the thing is if you're not pushing your biblical views, you're accepting their pagan views. Absolutely But I think that's what this nation is coming to. It's not this nation, it's the world has come to. You know, it's it has nothing to do with anything other than you mentioned uh these Roman Catholics you knew years ago. Years ago the old Roman Catholic joke was, Well is the Pope Catholic That joke doesn't work anymore. Anyway. So laughing along with me, thank goodness, because it's it's it's it's always uh a a a dud when you tell a joke and nobody laughs. Uh Elijah Dirksen and um Imron Thank you so much for being on the on the show these past several weeks. I'm Troy Skinner. Thank you for listening and for putting up with uh my nonsense and the brilliant insights of the guest panelists. You can follow us online at WFMD. com. You can find Imran's organization online at Conquered by love dot org. I don't think that Elijah has a uh a website, but someday he might have a website. So you can find me online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Until next week, one hundred sixty seven and a half hours from let me check. Yep, right about now. God bless.