Good morning. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Find us online at WFMD. com, also at Household of Faith in Christ. Last week we were talking about the Olympics and we had a couple of things left uh that we didn't get to last week, so we're gonna bring those up this week. And um two weeks ago we were talking about the aftermath of the Trump assassination, and there was one thing uh in particular I wanted to bring up. And we never got there, so we'll bring that up and then we'll switch it gears and get into what the scheduled topic for today was going to be. And here to do that with us is Elijah Dirksen. He's a Um seminary student presuming his masters of divinity. That's right, Master of Divinity. And uh Imran Raz, he's the master of his own domain. Uh he is the pastor of the Church of Misa Imran's and uh Imran's house and he He's also the founder of Concord by Love Ministries online at ConcordBylove. org. And so let's pick up where we left off last week with the uh the Olympics, because there were there was more. We talked about the the whole Last Supper thing, the the boxing fiasco, um the accusations of the uh Christian church being toothless and need to be ki be tougher and and be more culturally uh engaged and and that sort of thing. I even jokingly talked about the blackout uh which is funny because uh i in one video of the blackout In the background you can see a a Christian structure fully illuminated while the city surrounding it is in the dark, so that just adds more gris for the mill uh uh on on that one. But you were mentioning as we were wrapping up last week show, Imran, that there's so much more about the globalist anti-God, anti-Bible agenda that was pushed during the Olympics. Do you want to talk about what some of those things were? I don't remember what we were talking about. Oh well one had to do with the food. Yeah the food. Right. So these are athletes Right? They need high protein, they need meat to be able to compete and to be at the top level. And they get there to the to the Olympic Village and it's vegan food. In fact they passed a law specifically that they're not allowed to source any eggs from outside of France and somehow they didn't have enough eggs. That I would think France had enough eggs for these athletes, but they didn't have enough eggs Uh so these athletes are expected to compete at their peak level on vegetables. And the rich countries brought their own chefs and food in. Australia, England, uh US Um but what about these other countries that th didn't have the resources and funds to be able to support their their athletes? I think it's just pushing their agenda on that. And then they got rid of all the A C units. You know If you want an AC if you do if you want to be in the heat, turn the AC off. But why push your agenda on other people? Yeah, so the United States apparently um shipped over their own uh air conditioning units so the American athletes could have air conditioning. Same with Australia. I mean I'm I've never been to to France, much less in the summer, but I can't imagine their climate is a whole lot different in Paris than it is around here. It's almost a hundred degrees. So That's brutal. Yeah. Well think about it. I would say France is a godless nation, especially based on their performance at the the opening ceremonies. So what do you do when you don't have God? Well, the next best thing is nature. Nature sustains us. It's idolatry. You're worshiping this the this God of nature. And you do it to the detriment of these people. So they're proselytizing. Yeah. What but ironically they they wanted to worship well go ahead. What happens when you worship? You give up of yourselves You give things up to the thingy that you worship. And right now you worship the climate, you worship the the government, all these things. They're idols And ironically it's just not working. Because I mean he had uh triathletes retching after swimming in uh toxic soup that they call Maybe they could have fixed fixed that first. You know, the river that runs through the city is like, you know, they got like fish with four heads and seventeen eyes swimming around and But that's just it. It's a contradiction. You you virtue signal signal in one area, but then the other areas are just they fall to a pieces because there's no foundation for it. There's no foundation for idolatry Now if you try to research the facts that we're throwing out here, you might not have success because uh things being retconned left and right. And two weeks ago we were talking about the the attempt on um Donald Trump's life in Pennsylvania, which by the way Uh y you almost want to be able to say it was just gross incompetence. But nobody is that grossly incompetent. I mean, come on. But if you try to look into it and you start to go into the search engines and you type in assassination attempt of, you can put in the T and the R and the U and in my case the M and the P and still not get any because you know it starts to auto-populate and it suggests what you're looking for. Nothing. Nothing. What what shows up is the assassination attempt on Truman, which was over what, six, seventy years ago? Oh, they'd be incredibly f famous uh Truman assassination attempt that we all think about and talk about first, right? Yeah, I mean Lincoln's assassination would come up, Kennedy's, Ford. I mean, you know, all and Trump has had other assassinations attempts on his life, by the way, that we don't hear a whole lot about. During his first presidency they they snuffed out some s some stuff before it got as bad as what happened in Pennsylvania But s they're they're censoring all of this stuff in order to uh mask the fact that their their gen agenda and their nature w nature nature worship isn't working, I guess. Well they don't they don't want people focusing on it because it's so obvious for anybody that looks at any That this was a hit by the Biden administration, by the Justice Department, or by somebody because they were told to stand down at twenty six minutes I mean I at this at this stage in in in uh at uh day and time we might already pass that, they might have already come to that, but uh when we're recording this It's still everything's being hidden and denied. It doesn't even need to be that. It just the assassinations have made Trump look good. It made him look strong and powerful. That that image of him standing up after the attempt Yeah. That's that should go on Time magazine and we should remember that for hundreds of years. It was remembered for about ten minutes. In fact the me the media had uh petitioned Congress to make that photo illegal because it was uh may cause violence. And the uh Associated Press pulled it and uh said that their uh media stations were not allowed to use it for a while. I mean the iconic picture like that and that's what they did. So the the media actually petitioned the Congress to make it make it banned. Now in fairness, it's not like Donald went out of his way and his and his talking heads that on his team went out of their way to draw a lot of attention to it in the aftermath. got bogged down at a whole bunch of nonsense that has nothing to do with his his what should be his talking points and Parford of course for Trump. He's all over the place Every once in a while that cannonball hits the target, but sometimes it's a little off target. This is idolatry of the state, idolatry of power. And guess what gets sacrificed when you worship power and what you when you worship The authority that the government gives. Well, let's throw truth on there. No one no one needs truth. We can sacrifice that to our God of power Now while all of this is going on that we're talking about, you know, the the Trump assassination attempt, the the Olympics nonsense uh followed by more Olympics nonsense There's uh it almost got lost in the shuffle uh i in in large measure, it seems to me. Uh Bibi Netanyahu comes to to the United States to address Congress And while he's here, there's all these protests and the defacing of monuments and stuff and there's spray painting on them and and and uh they're basically S uh it it's basically death to the Jew kind of mostly peaceful. Because of the Democrats, they're mostly peaceful. They don't mean any harm. But I mean it's pro Hamas This isn't like speculation. There's spray painting. Hamas is coming. Right? We're all about Hamas and Hamas is all about death to the Jew. And and also lost in the shuffle on all of this is, you know, the mastermind of nine eleven cops a plea deal. Mm-hmm So it doesn't even have to face the death penalty, which would be the biblical uh prescription. Which I guess Biden knew nothing about until they said, Ah, it's a done deal. Yeah, well that's believable. Yeah. His entire administration. Either he's lying or he's the he's the most incompetent president Ever. Well, I've said this before, maybe even on this show. If I'm being repetitive, I apologize, but for years. I mean, before he was even vice president. You know, when I started paying attention to politics uh was in the seventies, when I started paying attention to the politics seriously was in the eighties. So my whole life, Joe Biden's been in the public eye. And for my money, until recent years, Joe Biden was the least intelligent senator in the United States And he was known for being a liar so much so that Robin Williams did a whole skit on him being li a liar. He he was never a smart guy He had to plagiarize and lie and scovers trash because he couldn't get by on his own merits. He was just dumb as about a box as a box of rocks, right? So that's That's Joe Biden. I think he's only been superseded in uh in ineptitude and stupidity by his yeah, by his number two. Stupidity loves number one. I will challenge anybody. I would like to see proof that she actually passed the bar. I think she either slept with somebody that that passed the bar for her or or did something. There's no way somebody this stupid, this dumb, that can't put a sentence together could pass the bar The bar is not an easy thing. Elijah here pass the bar. My son Daniel, pass the bar. It's not that easy to pass. And Ben Shapiro got on the show and said, Oh it's you know, yeah, it's it it was easy to pass. Not for most people, it's not easy to pass. I don't know what he's talking about. Well it's Ben Shapiro we're talking about. Yeah, so he's a really smart dude. I understand that. It was easier for him. But for most people and for somebody to talk like Kamala, there's no way she Well and the other thing is, you know, Ben, he is smart, so don't get me wrong. Ben is a very, very smart guy. But he's also Also somebody that wants to signal to the world how smart he is. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So he's annoying a little bit. He might have been sweating his brains out during that test. But then when it's over, he's like, Oh that was a piece of cake. That was easy, 'cause that's how smart I am. So, you know, I think that with a grain of salt. Considering the source. So, um some people have talk we're pivoting now into the the Kamala Harris thing. Some people have talked about uh Kamala being a a D E I diversity, equity, inclusion hire by the Biden administration. They chose her merely because she's a woman who has Non-white skin, right? She's a woman of color. Biden said that on several occasions that he is going to find a woman of color to be his running mate. Yep. So then people push back and they're oh so you're saying that uh you know she's a DEI hire? Now help me understand is DEI A good thing or not? Absolutely not. In fact most of the top companies have already started getting rid of the DEI programs. But the leftists want to say that it's a good thing. Right. Obviously twenty twenty. That was okay to be DEI hire. They they that was out and proud. That was uh what they wanted. They wanted to know, hey, I have this black woman or this Indian American woman as my vice president. You know, Matt Chandler is a relatively well known name in Christian circles, particularly Protestant uh Reformed circles. He was a part of the young wrestlers and reforms movement of like twenty years ago or whatever, and so he made a big name for himself. He's got a rather large church in the Dallas area. And uh you know, a lot of his sermons have been very popular in podcasts over the years and that sort of thing. He's he was the up and comer. He was gonna be the next John MacArthur, you know what I mean? Next RC sproll uh that sort of thing What a disappointment that generation of uh reformed guys have turned out to be. Anyway, about five, six years ago, uh at um at a big major conference, Matt Chandler stands up and says, look, the church has to do better And so like I tell my people, my team, you know, when we're bringing in associate pastors, assistant pastors and stuff, is that bring me the candidates, you know, and if one guy's you know, basically the the one guy is white and he's an eight on a scale of one to ten And another guy, he's a seven but he's black, you know, we're gonna take the seven. Now if he's a six, we don't want to take the six because then that would basically seem like, you know, we're we're not playing fair and it would look bad, and you seem like he's a token higher But if he's a seven, that's close enough. It's still a token higher. So this whole DEI diversity, equity, inclusion thing, um and last thing, we have a diversity, equity, and inclusion officer in the city of Frederick. was hired back in the in uh twenty twenty. And uh I said at the time there's a tape of it somewhere, I said at the time said, look Whether or not Frederick City has a problem with hiring and firing people who aren't, you know, Northern European Whether or not that's a problem or not, this guy is going to find that problem because he's been hired to do exactly that, and if he doesn't find that problem, he's out of a job. And sure enough he's found all sorts of evidence of this sort of problem. So it's not biblical you're saying. DEI is the same thing. We all come from the same beginning, Adam and Eve. So there's no inherent there's no more recently Noah. And more recently Noah. But there's no more value to w to one person than there is to another based on their race, their ethnicity Now, with racism the the trend is to look at it badly and th because of your race. But with DEI, and I would still consider it racism because it's making a value determination based on someone's ethnicity, it's just doing that but in a positive way. This race is more valuable than the others, and so we want more of this race. Yeah, it's um I I I think we should rearrange the letters. It should be you know D I E. It's it's about yeah, it's about death. It's about killing a culture, killing things off and you know, it's it's It it's a it's a well that that is actually what you said is actually true. They were they were trying to kill the successful w quote unquote white culture of being on time, getting your answers right being respectful, uh being honorable, they're trying to kill all that. And uh because you know, those uh things that said these are all racists, th those are things that You sound like an Oreo right now, Emran. Because you're a person of color and yet you're talking like a white man. You know, I've had people be racist towards me. Uh I am uh brown, right? But that doesn't change what is right and what is ro not. If somebody wants to be an idiot, they're an idiot. They want to be racist. Yeah, they're an idiot. They're racist. But that doesn't mean that the system is racist. In fact I had that same problem with uh colonial life. They they took uh an agency away from me because I stood up and said, No, there's not systemic racism and some you know, lady over there who was black and and decided, oh, th he doesn't believe in systemic relations, we can't hire him. So they actually canceled my contract over that. So it's just there's so touchy about that. It's ridiculous. This is I mean I would venture to say that yes, this country was much more racist a hundred years ago. It's not so racist now except when you try to make it racist, try to divide everybody up and go after each other. And that's D E I does that, uh would it's a death to the Cultural success and and that's what they're trying to kill. And this uh sinful ethno ethnocentrism 'cause I don't like using the word uh racism 'cause there's there's Biologically speaking, there's one human race. If you want to add the spiritual component, there are two races. Uh, you know, there uh but we've talked about that before in the faith debate. But it takes on these bizarre forms There's n uh a controversy this election cycle now is whether or not Kamala Harris, you know, is black or Asian or Indian. And apparently there's all sorts of stuff on tape. You know, Trump got in trouble for saying something about it, but there's now there's a whole bunch of tapes that come out that uh you know Tamala's basically bragging and talking up how she's the first Indian woman who's done this and the first Indian woman who's done that. And even calling yourself an Indian woman is offensive, right? 'Cause you know, uh Um because it's like calling something Mexican is is right, you you you heard that? There's there's a there's a a a comedian waiting in the wings that the t to to come out on the stage and he's a Mexican comedian And the guy introduced him and said, Now my good friend, you funniest Mexican in the world, blah blah blah And he comes off the stage and the Mexican guy goes out and uh the the the the the MC comes off the stage and behind there's a guy waiting for him like his his face is ashen he's like panicking. You can't say that. You can't say what? You can't call him a Mexican? What he's from Mexico, he's a Mexican. That's that's racist. You can't call him a Mexican. You can't call Kamala an Indian, that's racist Right? You can't call people what they are. But it's interesting, you know, well and then Native American, uh they have the other senator from uh Massachusetts. They put so much value in things that don't really matter. She wants to call herself a different kind of an Indian Yeah, so but you get value points for what color your skin is. And you're you're elevated to a higher position because of that particular thing that you had no control over. That doesn't make you a better or worse. Okay. So all of you guys listening, whenever you go fill out any government forms that ask for race or ethnicity or whatever Make your own box and fill in human. I've been doing that for uh decades. I've had the MBA get very mad at me and uh said we don't have a place for this, we can't do this well this is against my religion It's one race, it's a human race, and if you make me do anything else I will sue you. And they backed down. They actually put human, they typed in a human on the form. Okay. Um at least they said they did. I couldn't see the computer. But I've done that on the passports, I've done that on every e every place I can. I always make my own box and put in a human. And if it challenges me, I always come back to it. That's a that's against my religion. So I would challenge you guys to do that And that's that's a good place to start, at least it's some place, something we can do. Now that doesn't sound very toothless, so you must not be a real Christian. So all the stuff we're talking about, the DEI stuff, somebody's an Indian or Mexican or what have you, or You know, forcing the the Olympic athletes to eat vegan food and go without air conditioning. That all strikes us as very strange, going completely against any sort of common sense, very weird. And yet And Kamala has been called weird for as long as she's been in public office. Until they want to call JD Vance. And yet yeah. Talk about projection. See, the thing is they're truth. They're right though. uh uh family values, Christian values are weird now. They want to make anything that is right to be weird. Not uh right wing. I'm I'm just talking right and good and natural and and godly to be weird because they don't want that They want all the abominations to be natural, to be re ready and to be uh wholesome. They're and they want the wholesome stuff that is Christ centered to be weird. I I don't really know JD Nance's uh uh Christianity or not 'cause he's married to a Hindu and they had a Hindu prayer at the at the uh um uh uh Republican National Convention which was kind of really gagging there. But so I don't know what what he comes up. I don't know. I don't think he converted to Roman Catholicism you know as an adult. Yeah. I don't think I I don't know what his I don't think either him or Trump are saved. I I I am extremely disappointed with the Republican platform. Uh you know, but I understand what they're doing. Wait till you see the light of their eyes, because with Pulsar Flyer, that's going to be the main topic for the first time. They know that all these crazy Christians have nobody else to vote for, they're not gonna go anywhere. So now they can go after the independents and Democrats by saying, Oh, we're pro-choice and come on over, come on over to our side, vote for us. That's all it is. It's all about power. It's just so sickening But it's also about confusion and flipping ethics. and and choose what's evil over what's good. Make what's evil normal and what's good weird. So what is whatever is strange. Biblical values is now weird. Mm-hmm. And I I'm okay to be weird. I but I I want it to be more normal and I want my friends and associates and neighbors and to understand this is the real normal. What they're saying is is not. And make no mistake, this is a spiritual battle. This isn't a battle that Kamala Harris and Joe Biden. They're not masterminds They it's not even the the establishment behind them. It's the demons that are working through these people. And I know I I have people, you know, that I've known for years and so I'm still connected with them on social media. I used to work with them in other radio markets and that sort of thing and You know, they would count me as a friend, I'd count them as a friend, but man, they they they don't get it and I think it's 'cause they can't get it, right? The gospel is a mystery. The definition of the biblical definition of a mystery is it's impossible, it's unfathomable for the human mind without God. opening your eyes to see. It's impossible to understand without God making it clear to you. So they can't see it. But it's still frustrating that they can't see it. You know, we're talking a lot of politics today, for example, even the last couple of weeks You should understand everything's theology. Mm-hmm. Yes. Right? And so you can say it's about what's right versus left, right versus wrong. There's some truth to that. And this whole Marxist ideology, this leftist ideology It's what do you say, demonic or absolutely canonic. It's it really is. Now why do you s why do you say so? I agree with you, but why do you say so Because it espouses those ideals that Antichrist. Yeah. Or anti Christ ide ideals. I w I wanna bring up I had my daughter go to Portugal for a study um for surgery for medical school and it was gonna be good on resume, so he went there for three weeks and there were students mostly from America. Because you can't do that here in America 'cause you uh patients have rights and Portugal they don't. They so they don't have to get permission to have students watch and and and and do that. But she was so frustrated. All these super smart kids that were in in pre med that and they had uh there was a couple of Christians there, a couple of uh Musl uh there was a Muslim there Yet all of them were pro choice, pro transgender, pro evil, and they called themselves Christian and Muslim and like What's wrong? It's because the school system has totally corrupt to them. They have absolutely no idea what they're espousing and my daughter was was very put off and saying, I can't talk to them because I'm surrounded by them all day. It's just th they're so ingr it's so ingrained in them that they become violent if you say anything else. And that's becoming a third rail issue even in insider baseball talks. I was having a conversation earlier today actually with somebody. Uh today as we record, not today as this broadcast. And uh A lot of the same kinds of cultural top of mind issues we're talking about. Full agreement. We're you know, preaching to the choir. We're just you know Scratching each other's itches kind of thing. And then I mentioned the schools. And I said, you know, the problem is we c you know at at this stage of the game, the um the the the government run schools are basically burning buildings. Ideologically, we're sending our children into burning buildings day after day after day. And at that point I could tell a lost of he's like, uh it's a bridge too far because he you know, he sent his kids to public school and you don't we don't want to own our own mistakes and our own. And they they wonder why their kids are are changing, they're becoming w you know, more like the culture and less like less godly. But I I want to give one more reason why I think it's demonic. It's because the policies that come out of it aren't good for people. They're not they're not interested in the self the self interest of the preservation of the human race. Transgenderism, homosexuality, abortion All these things don't provide for the next year. Yeah, no no. By stealing from somebody to have equity to f quote unquote equity so that it's an even plank. If you steal from one to give to the other, that's the thing. Yeah, and again they're not they're really g giving up their money. They want to take other people's money and give it to the poor. All of these policies hate people. And they can only be demonic. A regular person couldn't have come up with an idea that's worse for humanity. It's not an accident that I think it's something like ninety percent of the abortion clinics are in brown communities, mostly black and some Hispanic communities. That's not an accident. It's not an accident that the the marriage rate among the African American population in this country has plunged since the advent of the Great Society in the nineteen sixties. And and it was like eighty percent or ninety percent back in nineteen sixty. I mean it's like polar opposites flipped. And during that time you could walk in a black neighborhood without any fear of anything 'cause the both uh mother and father were there and they were they were uh it was safe neighborhoods. And the percentage of uh young people, the children who were growing up in a family led by a mother and a father was almost all of 'em. Now it's almost none of them. Add on to the the destruction of the traditional family. Tradition traditional family is the best way to raise kids, but I think There's plenty of studies that show that, but that's the main target. And it's not that people on the political right get everything correct, in fact we're gonna set our sights there next week, but the the the political left I'm not exaggerating. They get every single issue wrong. I can't be opposite of the truth. Every single one N there's not one. So what does that tell you? That sounds demonic to me. I'm I'm gonna amend that one, Elijah. So that was the uh I'm amenning Elijah Dirksen. He's a seminary student who's pursuing his MDiv Imran Razby on the show again this week. He pastors the Church of Beast at Imran's house. Also is the founder of Conquered by Love Ministries. Conquered by Love. org is their website. Uh I'm Troy Skinner. You can find me at WFMD. com and also at householdfaith in Christ dot com. Yeah, as promised, next week we're going to set our sights on The right, or are they even right anymore? The GOP and all that nonsense as our focus on next week's faith debate So we'll get started about, let's see, let me check my watch. Yep, 167 and a half hours from right about now. God bless.