Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County, where preaching with impact Ask Jonathan, he'll tell you. It's like flowering pavement. Why is that, John? It's really hard on the back. No, no, no. Because people continue to break their health and fun things. Yeah. This is the Frederick Fate Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Our sponsor is Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? You can visit us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. We're on Facebook as well. Go to the WFMD Facebook page. And we actually have the video camera, so we'll see if we get any videos this week We didn't have him the last couple of weeks, but maybe we will this week. On our uh show this week they already mentioned Jonathan Swiss the senior pastor of Cross Valley Church. You did because we were talking about uh pavement. So now twice twice as nice. Uh so now you know who he is And uh our guests again, twice as nice. We have two guests in the studio uh this week, uh uh for the third go round. So I I did my best to scare 'em away, John. I really did in the first two weeks, but they keep coming back. Uh Doctor Harpo uh Mangot and his uh daughter. I was calling her your sister this time. Last week she was your wife, this week she's your sister. Who knows? Anyway, uh Hannah Manget is uh here as well. And we've been talking about I don't know Islamophobia and terrorism and Christian roots in this nation and secular roots in this nation. We touched a little bit on immigration. I'm not exactly sure we ever really got anywhere with that, but we touched on it. But we haven't gotten in the in those places because we've had such phenomenal discussions. And a note that I made myself was I was thinking with all this going on that we probably would end up talking about political correctness at some level and we haven't talked about that either, but we've had some really fruitful discussions. questions. And we go off on these little rabbit trails and then Jonathan says something, he times it just right, so that at the very end of the show he says something really provocative. And then our guests like sit up straight in their chair and like I want to say something and then I say we're out of time and we end it. So Um can you I'm gonna trust you, John. Can I trust you in like twenty two seconds or less to recap the main point? What did I say? I'm forgetting what I said. You said something about I trust Hannah. Hannah, you represent what your actual point was, but I remember what my I remember you were you were saying um about Christians and Muslims being oppressed basically in India because they have abs Absolute, you know, beliefs that the the point is is that in India the the reigning ideology is Hinduism or Buddhism, and in both of those belief systems uh the belief is that All religions are different roads to the same ultimate spiritual being. And Islam and Christianity are the two in that context that don't believe that and and that that argue that their God is the only God and that all other gods are demons. And so as a result there seems to be a lot of conflict that arises between Buddhists and Hindus as they reject and you know push Christians or uh Muslims out. Would you agree with that or no? Well yeah, well the point that we wanted to strongly like make and just to educate whoever's listening is um Sikhs are also majorly oppressed in India, which is seems surprising because it's where our birthplace. Yeah, why is that? Um it's because well one thing is just different ideology. There's so many different routes but starting from like nineteen forty seven when the um partition of Punjab, you know, with um Pakistan and India Um the Sikh people were divided in nineteen eighty four. There's um this um Indian military attacks, the Sikh um homeland, our shrine, um, the Golden Temple. um the military major military operation, hundreds and thousands of people killed. Um and it's just a long route of just oppression that's still occurring today. I just went to Punjab this summer actually and it's very evident. And who's doing the oppressing? Um is it Muslims or is it Buddhists or Hindus or I mean I would say it's the government. I don't think you can label a religion. I'd say m India is a majority Hindu country, but it would it would be mostly like government officials. And what is it about uh Sikhism that they consider a threat? Um I would say that I do that 'cause you wear the swords? No. Um I could let my dad answer this one if he'd like to do that. Yeah, yeah. Though I must say that her response to that last question is clearly a response from the daughter of Dr. Harpal Mangan. I mean she was in the history, you know, and she was swimming in it. And uh it's clear that uh you have raised her in that. Anyways, go ahead Why is it that the Sikhs are uh considered a threat by the government? There are a number of things here, and to understand what's going on you have to go reflect back at the history. And uh No really. No, go ahead. It it I'll be very brief and concise. In forty seven the Punjab was divided into two. West Punjab went to Pakistan. and East Punjab went into India. And in nineteen sixty six it was the East Punjab was divided again into three different states. But it's also socioeconomic. In the eighties um there was a uh A f the Punjab, like a lot of the US, is an agricultural basin. It's uh it's very fertile, uh four crops a year and uh irrigated. And um there's a movement to divert the waters from the Punjab elsewhere, it's a political movement. And that spearheaded this um movement in in in Punjab which took on a more religious uh fever. And subsequent to that there were you know, um The Indian government came in and uh basically is one of those three that the Punjab was split into last was one of those seek Yes. Well the the the Punjab means five rivers, so the whole point was our holy our our our Rome for the Roman Catholic Church uh would be the uh Amrit Sarah. And if you look at uh our our faith, the most important part of the shrine is the Golden Temple and the Kaltact. And the Kaltact is where the order comes from. In nineteen eighty four the Indian government came in and demolished it and uh supposed it raid against uh the Sikhs. Uh terrorism. That was the so called wording for it. Whether the terrorism or the the government being terrorist was a a different issue, but the whole point is It would be like uh going into say simple basilica in Rome and demolishing it. And so that's what happened. So s so let me ask just directly, do Hindus consider Sikhs to be a threat to Hinduism. I wouldn't say that. I think the this is a political movement because And so it's different like Hindus would see Islam as a threat to Hinduism and they would see Christianity as a threat to Hinduism. But but it's not your theological tenets so much as there's just a political and economic threat that really is at play there It's a good thing. weren't allowed to sell our products at world market prices to the world. We had to sell it to the central government. There was no freedom. Now the farmers here have the right to do that. We couldn't do that. Yeah. And uh the net result there was an uprising from Jonathan and there was order with that list. Do you feel like there's anything in You said the government is is, you know, Hindu based. Do you feel like there are there are blocks in a Hindu approach to like when I look at India, I see a caste system that you know, okay, I look at England and there there definitely were different economic levels, you know, and some people are nobility and some people are royal and some people are peasants, right? I I I see breakouts But but when I look at the caste system of India, it is shocking to me how severe the uh the different castes are rejected by one another and how how divided it is, you know, that that the untouchables are so untouchable, you know, and that other groups, you know, I I I just pick up in India something that that when I look at it and then I see that it's that it's Hindu and or Buddhist in its in its ideology, I say to myself, man, if that's what Hinduism produces, let's get away from that. Um, I actually would just like to so um as we mentioned in our show like a year and a half ago, we do teacher training in which we So I just want to make a point that I'm Sikh, I'm not Hindu, so I can't say that I um you know I'm well versed in Hindu scriptures or the religion, but just from talk working with other Hindu organizations Um we've had in depth in depth um discussions about the caste system and um they always make the point in saying that that you have to separate Hinduism from the caste system and the culture of India because um if you read the Vedas, the um Hindu scriptures and from the religion itself they have a distinct belief that every person was born to do something, that every person was born for a specific job. Maybe they were born to teach people, maybe they were born to um feed people, maybe they were born for different things. But there was there's no hierarchical system there. There's no one job that's better than another. That was the Hindu belief that's in the scriptures. And if you follow that Um but then around the in the times if you look at the social, like the culture, the economic um circumstances, that's when the caste system that we know today is really emerged that it's um very rigid and you know the where you see the untouchables and you see that these one person being better than another. And how old is that? Um how long ago did it get rigid like it is now? Like we're talking a couple thousand years. Oh so it's not we're not talking about it's recent times. So the consistent we know now. So I w I want to make this point real quick and then I would want to hear your thought, but uh it occurs to me that If it's true that Hinduism doesn't stand behind the caste system, after thousands of years it does see that Hinduism has been completely ineffective in wiping it out. And I wanna say this. When when I when I think of the caste system you're taking his turn by the way. I am. So I'm going to uh there's no uh willingness to wipe out the caste system because uh those in power. It serves us. I mean if you look at the a classical example, India has independence since forty seven. One family, Nehru Raj, has ruled it until recently Is that not a class system in itself? My maintenance of power? I mean democracy uh supposed to democracy you should have dissent and you should have uh varying opinions like we have in this country. In fact my sense is that that's exactly what the Judeo-Christian scriptures show us that I don't see in other scriptures. We see Elijah, a prophet, rising up against the powers that be, with the power of God behind him to speak to the powers and say you are not following God. And we see Isaiah and Jeremiah, these guys that were thrown in prison and were beaten, many of whom lost their lives because they because God had sent them to speak to the powers that be in Christianity that builds on that background has at its root a prophetic um obligation. In fact I'm constantly preaching to my congregation that we not be those kinds of people that are afraid to speak up. in the public square like I'm doing now, but that are people that are prophetically speaking to the powers that we need to change. This is not okay. That happens. That happens in the Punjab. This happened uh if you look at the history of the Punjab from eighteen forty six onwards, eighteen forty eight, Punjab was a hot spot to the British. and there was rebellions. Even my own great grandfather ended up being a lumberjack in Vancouver because he was plotting against the British. It's been going on for generations. And more importantly the the Hannah's point. uh of w what's happened more recently. After nineteen eighty four many people served sentences in prison in India for various s uh political crimes. They're beyond their sentences, but the government has not released them. So you know, there is a whole uh lot of people who are protesting against this. Matter of fact, I mean one of the questions you should ask Hannah is about of the things her group and groupings have been doing as young Sikhs in this country to uh bring that out uh more so people come aware of it. Because it's something which is uh which is critical in the in the y just human rights. You know, I I I meant to take a video of you while you're doing this because you look good while you were doing it. No. Uh yeah. Oh I knew you weren't talking about me. I don't think you've ever told me I look good before. So that would have been a first right there. I'd be happy to take it back. W uh this would be the the the equivalent of rapid fire. As rapid fire as this show ever gets. Alright, so I want to touch on some of the things we thought we were gonna be talking about and just get some some quick takes meaning. Sixty or ninety seconds. You had a response to that? Oh totally. Are you kidding? All right, well that'll be the end of the show by time you're done. Once again All right, V response and then we'll do uh like ninety seconds on a couple of different feet of the Okay, so my my point is is this is is when I think about a worldview that says that that some people have reincarnated as a cow, some people have reincarnated as a rock, some people have reincarnated as angels, some people have reincarnated as the poor Some people have reincarnated as the rich and it's all because they're paying for something that they did in a previous life. That feels to me like a rigid worldview that does not encourage the kind of hope Where a prophet comes along and says, you as a nation need to repent. And if you repent, then God will cause all of you. to be kings together on the earth. But if you do not repent, then the Lord is going to cause your enemies to come against you, and you will all be the poorest on the earth, which is the essence of uh Deuteronomy twenty eight in in uh Leviticus uh fourteen that that that is the the prophetic call. And when I look at at a a worldview that that enshrines a reincarnation uh worldview, that is a hopeless world view to me. It doesn't seem to me that it encourages people to rise up and to make a difference because I'm looking at the poor guy and She had a rough life. I need to have compassion on him because he's paying for something that happened b before, but um, you know, i it it takes the motivation away for me to speak something that's going to cause him to to say, your life can be different. So I spend a significant amount of time at prison in working with poor people to help them to get an education and to change because at the root of my worldview is repentance, conversion, that now you can convert and all of your sins can be paid for. You don't have to pay for it through a reincarnation, but all your sins will be paid for by the death of Jesus Christ on the cross And you can be redeemed and walk in the f in the favor and the blessing of the Lord and have strength to face everything that you face today. Which to me sounds like a worldview. that is po it's dynamic. It's it's it's calling for a change right now that I think I see in a liberal democratic worldview that says that we can't shut down the voice of those that disagree with us because they're probably the voice of God speaking to us because we're stuck in our positions of power. and our greed and our pride, and if we don't listen to the prophets, then we are going to become the Nazi oppressor. Jonathan got his preach on there. I told you. Yeah. Got a little excited. He's Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. You can hear the continuation of that message later this morning, Addison. That's right. Just come to Crossroads Valley Church. I'm Troy Skidder. This is the Frederick's Fate Debate on Frederick's News Radio. Radio 930 WFMD. Uh Harpel uh Mangit and Hannah Mangett, his daughter, are with us. All right, so some of the topics we thought when we started this series of shows a couple of weeks back Uh this is gonna be hard, so I'm gonna lay the groundwork here and see how well we can do with this. I don't want us to address these questions as our ethnicities, as our genders, as our age bracket. as our political worldview as Americans, I want us to try to think through as fast as we can, you know, see how quick we are on our feet, think through these issues What is a good Sikh response on the issue for Jonathan and I? What is a good Christian response on the issue? that you know we sometimes it certainly influence their thinking and it's there, but as best as we can, as much discipline as we can muster up, let's try to hold that stuff at bay and get to the what does my faith tell me I should think about this. Even if you end up And as a result, 'cause I'm wondering if we might all four of us might have a moment like this where we start saying something and say, Yeah, but I don't believe that Or I don't want to believe that. I don't like that But it's what my faith tells me. All right. So we touched on immigration in the very first show. We touched on it. Yeah. So a specific question. Syrian refugees running for their lives, some of them running for their lives, some of them maybe not. Some of them maybe are sneaking across to do evil to us under the guise of running for their lives. So that's the that's the situation. What does Christianity, what does Sikhism say we should do? And let's not make it a government thing, so let's make it your home. Should you invite them into your home? Yes. And you should feed them and you should preach the gospel to them and you should love them. Yes, you must always help those in need and less fortunate than you and share everything you have with them. And are you you agree with your daughter's answer on that? One hundred percent. And the ex when we get up and pray we say uh expression called Sarvatapala, do good to all. And that's important thing. And don't expect anything else in return. Well that actually Sabatabla actually means um we pray for the well being of all of humanity. Now what if that that because this is the com this is where the complexity of the issue comes in. What if in an effort to try to do good to all, you end up doing good to one who has intent on doing evil to your neighbor. To my neighbor. You let somebody into your home, give him comfort, food, rest, hide out, whatever. And he's it's all a ruse. He's tricking you into thinking he needs a place to stay when really what he wants to do is go assassinate your neighbor. And you've now aided and abetted an assassin. Where does discernment fit into our worldviews on this? Because this is really what the issue is nationally, too. Americans, we want to let people in. We've been doing that for hundreds of years. But we're concerned, some people are irrationally afraid, but those who aren't irrationally afraid are just merely concerned about the wisdom. Where does discernment fit into our what our faith tells us? As a Christian, say, you know what? Uh discernment be damned. We're gonna we're gonna we're gonna err on the side of of of uh of mercy and generosity and Is that what the Christian worldview is? So the Christian worldview would say two things. Jesus said, be shrewd as a serpent and harmless as a dove. uh which would apply to a situation like this that we would that we use discernment and that we are to uh speak the truth in love. And so uh we use our discernment, we uh we look to p to discern what the spirit is of the of the person and of the man. and in in discerning what the spirit of the person is, if they're uh intent to do wrong, that we would speak about it and that we would warn our neighbor about it, and uh ultimately that we would lay down our life in an effort to win that individual to do what is right as opposed to uh murder someone. Similar answer with Sikhism or Um, I I would just like to point out that I am not a pastor, so that I can't exactly quote um you know our scriptures and I wanna represent things as best I can. Um and I want to try and take out my bias that I may not be able to do as great of a job as he did. Oh he didn't do a great job at all. Don't be intimidated by that. You were impressed by that? I would say that um a major safe belief or my understanding of it would be that you can't that you can't fight um bad intentions by like abandoning someone that you f like love is the like love is the conqueror of all. So that um If you're in a if the person has intentions to harm your neighbor, um love both your neighbor and the person and hopefully this it would change. How'd she do? Did she nail it? She nailed it. I mean, as Sikhs, we definitely have You've lived a lot of this. The whole point is uh we also have to, you know be able to Know when the limit is and where and where to draw the line for a matter. I mean for for for example, throughout our history uh w whether it be in eighty four or earlier. We w we've always loved our neighbour and given, always given and championed other causes. Our last our ninth guru gave us a life for the uh the Hindus and uh lost it. But the whole point is that is when the c uh the call to arm and the Saint Warrior aspect for six came into face. So the whole point is yes, uh uh in your situation we should help everything else. But if we feel that they are doing things which are not correct or which is gonna be affecting which are not just then we have the option to uh to you know to to to go into battle for the right course. Right, because that's the picture of the Sikh with the sword. He's a saint soldier. Correct. And so his his goal is to be the essence of what a saint soldier looks like. So we talked about refugee immigration or just refugee things. We talked about terrorism connected to that. Um what should the Christian response be to Black Lives Matter? What do you say in response to somebody holding up a protest tonight and saying black lives matter? I would say your faith says and and that we need to go out of our way to help them to know in fact I would say what my faith says is their lives mattered so much that God sent his own son to die so that they could live for eternity Okay. You were very uh you were very wise in how you it took me a moment chose not to answer that. I didn't answer it? No you did, but you didn't answer it oh. Yeah, I was gonna answer it a different way, more politically. Yeah. Yeah, so Um, I I agree, black lives definitely matter and Sikhism would definitely um teach that and preach that. Um and I want to try my best to take the political views out of this, but also that um Sikhs are do we call ourselves, you know, the protectors of all faiths and all races. Um and the way to protect a race and to the way to protect of religion um is to ensure that there's a system um whether it's government, whether it's a social, you know, system that um protects all lives. I wish we had better language, right? 'Cause you as a Sikh you would appreciate this. I I I don't like the language and I'm not criticizing your use of it. We all use it, I use it. this idea of the different races. There's one race, the human race. Ethnicities. You know, different yeah, I wish we had better language for that. I think race is an evolutionary term that gave the impression that we're all somehow uh racing to evolve more faster, more rapidly than others. The Christian term was uh the biblical term was tribe and language and tongue, which doesn't give the impression that we're in some kind of a competition, but just that there's different parts of the I like tribe. I'm gonna use I'm gonna try to get into the habit of trying to use tribe if I can. Your daughter will think you're but it's interesting though, unintentionally I think those who are holding those protest signs, not so much John because he didn't use the word all in his answer at all. He but he caught himself. Yeah. But you talk about how, you know, y all religions, all races, all whatever and that is incendiary for some reason. They get offended by irritates them. So it's a thing. Sure. No, let's let her literally matter and all lives matter, of course all lives matter But right now we live in I would say our system, our judicial system, um, it's it's a in a point where black lives seem like they don't matter. And that's why it's important for us to focus Well I mean because you because you brought up the all lives matter and I have to do it. Yeah, it's not everyone deserves justice, but when a specific group has been oppressed for so long and we have a system in which they are oppressed, it's important to focus on them and we can't take their attention away. All right, well we've got thirty seconds left just enough for me to wrap up the show. Jonathan Schweitzer coughing in the background. Senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church Uh Dr. Harpo Mangut and uh Hannah Mangutt are on the show. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? So what have I been reading? I read uh Seeking the Face of God by Gary Thomas, good, and uh Pray with Your Eyes Open by Richard Pratt Excellence. My parents one of the best books I've read in all year. Richard Pratt, Pray with Your Eyes Open. Till next week. God bless.