This is the Face Debate, a theological round table grab bag, with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the good doctor. Is there a doctor in the house? In my travels, I made an extraordinary discovery. You know, from the beginning of time, man has looked at the heavens and truly believed that the universe ends out in space. Well, that's not true. The faith debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com, keyword faith. Sponsored by High Low Auto Sales and Tire Pros of Frederick. I've seen the end of the universe. And it happens to be in the United States. And oddly enough, it's in used infection. I know. I was shocked too. In this corner, weighing in with a Master of Divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, makes Master Troy Skinner. In this corner, weighing in with a PhD from Westminster Theological Seminary. The good doctor, J Sbroadhurst. Imagine my surprise when I left the comedy club one day and walked to the end of the block, and there on one corner was a Starbucks. And across the street from that Starbucks, in the exact same building. There was a Starbucks. I looked back and forth thinking the sun was playing tricks with my eyes. But there was a Starbucks across the And that, my friends, is the end of the unit. In case you're not recognizing some of the the voices have used in recent weeks. A few weeks ago you heard the voice of Ben Carson, then last week you heard Steve Harvey, and this week the voice of Lewis Black as we open up the faith debate. Here are some theological buzzwords for you. Partial preterists, consistent preterists, almost Post-millenalism, post-millennialism, covenant theology, dispensationalism, hermeneutic, pre-trib, mid-trib, post-trib, Armageddon These words most often come up in the discussion of last things, end time, the end of the world, in other words, eschatology, when study of the Bible for answers to these sorts of questions uh come up, is it okay to allegorize biblical prophecies or should things be understood more literally? How literally? How allegorically and why And how should this be done to remain within the scope of orthodoxy? Participating in this discussion with Jace and me this week is Truck Driving Blogger. Uh who attended Reform Theological Seminary has his MDiv from there and he hosts a podcast called Rethinking Revelation, uh Travis Finley. And he's said some things that were rather striking. And yet I'm not sure why he feels the need to say things in such dramatic, controversial ways, because so far other than the the rhetorical shock factor, which I like I'm like, well I can't agree with that because that's just too rhetorically shocking. But when he gets into explaining what he's trying to mean by those rhetorically shocking statements, so far I'm like I agree with all of that so far. So I think that that's fantastic. Yeah. So I don't I don't think it's I think it actually is kind of shocking if we I mean not for perhaps the people in this room, but some of the things that he's been saying are Are uh very strange. I'm sure your listeners are saying, how can you agree with the things that he's been talking about? Some of them are gonna be like that, yeah. Well I can't agree that Jesus isn't coming back. So but can you but you might be able to agree with the way he said Like he he might still I mean we haven't found out. I can't wait to find out the big reveal here, the big apocalypsis, right? Um he he was saying Jesus came back then That's what he was referring to. He came back in 70 AD. So you might be able to say to some sense that you would agree with that statement, but you are hoping for more. you would say, I okay, if that's the case, if that's what he was referring to by those sentences, by those, you know, verses and things like that, then yeah, but still Aren't we still waiting for something else? Isn't there gonna be like you know, aren't aren't the isn't the child gonna play by the snake's hole? Isn't there gonna be a peaceable kingdom? Isn't Isn't all aren't all the tears going to be removed from our eyes? Isn't there going to be a tree of life for the healing of the nations? Aren't these all futuristic? Isn't there something else? And now I won't speak again and Travis will speak for the rest of the year. Like what do you do with those last couple chapters of Revelation at least? That's that's the kingdom. That's the kingdom. And so y you have Revelation twenty-one that says, Behold I saw a new heavens and a new earth for the first Former heavens and the former earth has passed away. Again, that goes straight back to Isaiah 65. Same stuff. Former things. God says, the former things will not be remembered. Okay? What follow what falls underneath that umbrella of former things? I'm gonna say Torah. Everything that Torah produces is the former things. Categories. themes, ideas, so that when we are looking at Revelation 21 and we see that there is no more C If we don't understand uniformity of language, and we don't understand what the sea represents in the Old Testament, what is it, Chase? Um chaos or and Um and donations would I mean that's yeah you and I have talked about that before. Okay, yes kiss key coin. Okay. All right. So we we see that I think in the in the in the Old Testament that the sea is differentiated from the land. The land is representative of Israel, and the sea are the nations. Okay? That consistency, when we go into Revelation 21 after the end of it all, there are no more Gentile-Jew distinctions. Because that's Torah. Torah introduced those categories. Torah has come to an end. Therefore, those categories are over with. If death is interpreted in the category or in the under the umbrella of Torah, then what Torah teaches about death has come to an end. What do you mean? We still die, right, because that's not what Torah is about. There's and and you look if you look at uh Psalm 102, I think Psalm 102 is a personification of the temple. And the temple is bemoaning its experience under Torah. And guess what it's doing? It's crying. It's weeping. under the constraints of Torah. And that's what Revelation says is gone. I'm not sure what I think about that. So if somebody doesn't uh um equate the sea with the nations, then that would kind of unravel some of th that's a pretty important uh presupposition to having a consistent uh view on scripture. So yeah, but it's it's it's a predominant view that is out there. Okay, I'm not familiar with that, so I'll have to do some study on that. But anyway, the temple imagery is important. I think this 'cause I I agree there's the temple imagery throughout. I mean you've got the What's happening in Eden, I think, is temple imagery. And then you can see that play out and the construction of the temple with all of the garden imagery and stuff. So there's a there's a there's a temple theme there and the temple continues and in Revelation lots of temple imagery. So from beginning to end and all throughout the middle, lots of temple imagery. But the temple is a type uh it it's not about the temple, it's about what the temple represents, about getting back to what was available in Eden, at least this is how I've understood it. Right. And this is a and this is another huge jump that that I'm gonna try to jump in real quick and and just throw out again. I the the opening chapters of Genesis are eschatological. They are talking about Torah. They're talking about Israel under Torah. The temple is a depiction of God's plan in history. Only be true if Torah was written late. So you must be s believing the Torah was written late. Uh w we when when was the last time the Old Testament was edited? Uh well I wasn't there, so I don't know. Yeah, you don't you don't know. Yeah. I I would put I would put I would put the context of under well of understanding the the Old Testament in the exilic period. I if you listen to my podcast, I've talked about the the crux of interpretation being the prophets. We need to understand the language of the prophets because the prophets are talking about Genesis 1 and they are talking about Revelation 22. It's the same thing. Right. I think the prophets can be talking about Genesis without Genesis necessarily being like Second Temple literature. For example. If I thought it's a good thing. And if that's the case, then that predates the temple. The construction of the temple. Yeah, well you're holding to a mosaic mosaic authorship, or at least a fundamental mosaic authorship. If the temple represents what does the temple represent? The Torah? It represents No the well the temple is a is a const the temple is a construct under Torah. It's a part of the yellow brick road that is being Used by God to move humanity into the future. Keep entiright. Keep all of Entiright But talking about fourth flatterist in the on the Bible being topology and symbol and stuff, what is the temple meant to symbolize? Because I take it to symbolize Eden. Uh it's the temple is meant to represent God's Plan to glorify, exalt, and transfigure humanity into his divine counsel. This world is not our home. We are destined for heaven. But we couldn't get there. There was no human being in heaven until the ascension. Torah is ascension. Torah is all about ascension. Torah was about moving humanity into the future. And God set up, for whatever reason, Torah, and you have the temple, the Holy of Holies, right? The ascension makes no sense. Christ's ascension into the heavens. In terms of what Hebrews tells us, he goes into the actual place, not one made with human hands. Why? Why would he go there? as a man, unless that's where we're supposed to go. That's what the entire Yeah now that's where you begin to lose it, I guess, because he goes there to intercede on behalf of those who are his and then it seems like there's this idea At least I've always understood this idea that we're not gonna go there. He's gonna bring it here. Yeah. That's that's post millennial, all millennial theology that I don't think is valid. What that's the you you so you're you're working out. What does the New Jerusalem or heavenly Jerusalem mean? That's it's people. It's covenant people. Right. So when you say isn't he gonna bring us back here, why would he do that? Well because the new heavens and the new earth. And that's talking about people. That's not talking about the physical orb. And So that's the construct that you would be operating under. That's where you and I are talking about it. Everybody ends up in heaven in the divine council with God is is in this view that you're talking about. I didn't hear you. I'm sorry. The everybody ends up in heaven is i in the divine council with God in the end and what we just we abandon the the planet Earth, we abandon the physical universe? I this is where I don't have all of the answers and I'm okay with that. I'm okay with that. But I I believe to a certain extent I have a friend who's a full threatist And he has gone farther than I have in this discussion with an Eastern Orthodox flavor And that is that he believes that the saints that have gone before us are actually participating in this world somehow in the unseen realm. That is in in his mind, there is an aspect of this world becoming more heavenized in God's plan, and that's part of it. Okay. That's where he's at, that's farther than where I'm at. I don't know, but I know enough to where I'm saying after we die, that's not the end. And The r and what most people talk about when they talk about the resurrection, you know, is you can't you are you're a full predator, it means you don't believe in the resurrection. Uh no, I believe in the resurrection, but I believe that was under Torah And has to do with what happened to Israel under Torah. What you're talking about is the ascension, which is what I believe, which is what I'm holding on to. The reason why I have a future hope of life with God in heaven is because of the ascension. He's Travis Finley, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD, and hopefully about to speak, because we haven't heard much from him, is Dr. Chase Broadhirs for Poolsville Baptist Church. It looks like you're ready to kind of chime in and I tried to interrupt you, but that was my fault. Um yeah the problem with all of this is I keep finding all these little things that I want to nitpick on and then I realize okay that's not that big of a deal I w I want to keep moving, but then I'm still stuck on those things. But we don't have to do that. Right, but with only a few minutes left. So the kingdom is an aspect, okay? The kingdom is still here. Everything that you want to do in the kingdom, do it. Redeem culture. Transform this world. We we talk about that anyway as post millennials and all the let's see if 'cause we I mean this is going to be I think our last show in this ARP. We will have you on again, we can pick back up some at some point, but we've got about you know less than ten minutes now. So let But I can't figure out if I wanted to agree with you. I'm not saying that I do or don't. I mean, right now I'm not persuaded that I need to, but if I wanted to agree with you, I would feel like I need to have a reason. Like there needs to be some necessary reason to throw out all of my uh training and learning and study and understanding and all these paradigms and these apps that you uh that you referenced in the past about, you know, we all have these operating system apps rolling in our heads to to replace all of that, I'm just not seeing the reason. Because was was there judgment on Jerusalem uh with the destruction of the temple in eighty seventy? Yes, and I can say that without being a full preterist. So what what is it what is it that makes you feel compelled that you have to take on the mantle of full protism. I haven't heard that yet. Like I said, maybe you've said it, I'm just not hearing it. Because what you would understand and anticipate is the second coming is not It's the coming on and in judgment on Jerusalem to end the old world. Everything that you say is going to happen in the future has already happened. Okay. Well that's a pronouncement of an opinion, but it's not an argument to persuade me. So however, I have to be general to a certain extent. But why should I expect that it's not going to happen? Because the New Testament is not about that The New Testament is uniformly about the end of Torah. Okay, so all so as we're reading Revelation, we're generally looking at Revelation as something that's going to be futuristic, or many people are, or at least some parts of Revelation are the future. What you're arguing is we're we're misreading Revelation. If we should rethink Revelation, for instance, we should say the things that Jesus said, the things that John said those have been fulfilled. Those already took place. So the questions that we have let me I'm just a maybe I'm asking this question. The questions that we have about the future are still very up in the air. Like we don't have to because revelation isn't answering those questions or these these texts aren't. So when I ask that people ask questions like, well, was it evolution or was you know, was there original Adam or anything like that? I'm thinking I I don't know the answers to all of those things. All I'm trying to say is that's not what the text is talking about. The text is that's not its issue. It's it's dealing with something else. So anytime that we come up with things like, well, it says that Jesus is coming back, you think, well yes, but that's referring to something different. So anything that we're going to talk about from scripture is is ending, culminating in seventy AD. So we could still have could we still have questions about a return of Jesus, but it just we wouldn't be talking about the biblical return of Jesus. We'd be talking about And I would ask you where are you getting this? Right, we'd be totally speculating. We'd just be making stuff up like we're just hoping something like that is going to happen. So we could believe it, but you're just saying, yeah, okay, fine, believe it, but it's not based on the Bible. That's not what the Bible's trying to do. Okay. Right? Yep. I mean, yeah. So uh one of the reactions too is is okay, you guys so so what now? I mean what what now? That is a non sequitur. That doesn't follow. Is Exodus in the past? The book of Exodus and what happened? Yeah. Does it have any relevance for us? Sure. There you go. There's your answer. Just because the New Testament is closed. Just because well it has relevance because it points to our eschatological hope. No, we're living in the result of the eschatological hope. Oh I hope not. Well that's that's why that that's where again the presupposition is your operating system. Do you watch cable news? But you know think about it if you if you were to a few generations after the exodus from Israel or from Egypt. All right. And you look at what God did It's the same idea to think, well, that's gonna happen again. That's what we're doing with the New Testament. Why are you saying this has to happen again? This is about an event that happened in the past. Yeah, but Exodus actually gives us a pretty good the Exodus event gives us a pretty good example of this because you kind of wanted to toss out the already not yet thing. But I think there's an example of that for us right there in the Old Testament. When the people uh When the Israelites were delivered from Egypt, they were already delivered. They were already free. And yet They were not in the promised land for another forty years. They're already free, and yet so I think there's there's it's right there, and there's an echo of that where we're living out right now, where we're already free. Christ has already died on the cross for us, and yet From my point of view, he hasn't returned yet. So we're living to do what? So we're we're still living in that forty year to br to usher us into the promised land, the new Jerusalem. That's where we are. We're in the kingdom. The kingdom came. That's so that's the whole language. That's where you've got your operating system giving you categories that conflict with what I'm saying. It's established, but it's not f Fully consummated. That's your operating system. But you said keep you said keep Tom Wright. Right, but you have to go past Tom Wright. You have to heat Yeah, but I I can only say so much. Right. But I'm saying yes, Tom Wright is is right. But he hasn't gone far enough. And w which is what I it's crazy. I'm like looking at this. Why I which is like me. I'm like, who am I? He's anti-right. Right, right. Who am I to say he's not gone far enough? But But that's where you're at. That's where I'm at. That's where I'm at. But that's it. So the tree of life, you bring up the tree of life. Okay. The tree of life is the kingdom. It's the king. That's why I'm saying to you that Genesis 2 is eschatological. Genesis 2 is Torah leading to the tree of life. The tree of the knowledge of good and evil is Torah. It's if read Deuteronomy thirty and read um J Luke fifteen with the the parable of the lost son. The parable of the lost son Is Jesus' midrash commentary interpretation of Deuteronomy 30? Deuteronomy 30 is the context to understand Genesis 2. Moses says, I've set before you the law. I've given you the law. I have set before you life and I've set before you death. Therefore, choose life. Okay. The law is all about leading up to life. They didn't have it. They cried out for it. They were under anguish for it over and over and over again. They did not have life. until Christ. Christ brought the end of the law and he brought the kingdom. He brought the tree of life He brought that which is healing for the nations. Because we don't see this world transformed, guess whose fault that is. Maybe it's ours. Maybe it's just uh you know uh uh uh a hair split on a word choice or something, but um I don't understand The Bible in Matthew Jesus doesn't say that he came to end the law. In fact, he goes out of his way to say, I have not come to end the law, I've come to fulfill it And he goes on to amplify the requirements of the law, making it even harder. See, I disagree with that. You have to listen to my podcast on Matthew five. Jesus doesn't say he didn't come to end the law, I come to fulfill it? That's a quote, I think. Okay. I don't know what he's having a problem with. Fulfillment is ending. It's bringing it to its its completion. That's the it's the yellow brick road. The yellow brick road is fulfilled when you cross the threshold and walk into the kingdom, into the Emerald City. That's fulfillment. Christ comes to bring it to an end. So if you want to quibble about why I'm about my saying end, the telos is all throughout the New Testament. The telos, the telos, the telos. Maturity. In the Old Testament we were children. Now we are mature. I'm good with that for the same thing. And we're being made into the image of Christ. And that is what is eschatological. Genesis 1, 2, and 3 begin the story of what God is doing in humanity through Israel. He chooses Israel. depicts to them what history should look like, and they refused to move into the future when Christ came. But the future came anyway, and they lost out. I feel like we have another cliffhanger, but we have no more shows So anyway, thank you Travis Finley for being on. Jace Broadhurst, thank you again, my friend. Thank you to our sponsors, Hilo Auto Sales and Tire Pros of Frederick, and thank you for listening. Again, visit us online, WFMD. com Keyword Faith. I'm Troy Skinner and this is the Faith Debate. God bless