This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Treble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all form. Hua! We're Faith Community Leaders. Wrestle over the truth. Yaba do in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Let's get ready to run ball Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the faith debate, master of ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. And in this corner, weighing in. How have different cultures understood scriptures throughout the years? Different cultures understand the scriptures today in our country. For example, African Americans, Asian Americans, Latin Americans might come at the Bible from different angles. So too Pentecostals, Presbyterians, Postmodernists. Here to pick up where we left off with last week's show, Jonathan's Schweitzer, founder of Bridges, a not for profit parishurch organization in Frederick County, and Michelle Rader, lead elder at Damascus Community Church and a student pursuing a master of arts and theology degree from St. Mary's College. So last week we were uh sending a lot of time talking about what it was like for the uh ancient Jews, uh ancient Israel, as they grappled with what their scriptures were and the different uh interpretive challenges they might have had to to uh to to stare down just like we do today. And I kinda asked the question of, well, were they worrying about studying and geography and history and and uh archaeological digs back then? Like Probably not exactly the same way, but some of those principles probably are universal throughout the ages. I mentioned a few. I think you're right. What are some other things that we need to think of? I think I mentioned genre last week too as something we need to be conscious of. Are there other things that you know if somebody's reading the Bible seriously, they're trying to really grapple with, okay, how do I do this rightly. How do I tr how do I attempt to go about this rightly? Uh I would argue they need to think about these things, right? What was the what was in the mind of the author at the time? What wa how would the original audience have received it? Uh how is God intending it for his people throughout all of time? So therefore how does it apply to the situation today? How does it apply to me personally? All those grids have to kind of be run through, right? And then and is that the historical critical method in the the um the emphasis on the literal moving to the moral Um no, the historical critical method is a particular way of um looking at the Bible and saying, okay, we can't necessarily take this on faith as God's word. We need to make sure that we're going back and seeing w which pieces of this actually happened? Um do we have historical proof outside of the biblical text to you know give us assurance that this event actually happened? Can we trust um the gospel writers that they were honest or did they maybe have an ulterior motive behind their writings. The historical critical method is more of that hermeneutic of suspicion. Yeah, and I kind of think about it, you know, it's very common in in uh today's culture to for people to uh particularly those who maybe don't have a strong faith or uh or any faith at all to challenge what the Bible says through a scientific grid. And I feel like you know th th through the grid of a scientist. Um and I think that the historical critical method is they're they're they're looking at the Bible through the grid of a historian You know, so what other sorts of supports do we have that this actually happened? Are we gonna take one one writer's word for it? Like what are the supporting evidence, archaeological digs, that sort of thing? So I have in the back of my mind that there's a uh that there's an aspect of the historical critical method though that that isn't uh so cynical or or automatically critical. But that is is tools for um understanding the history and understanding the background of of uh certain passages in order to pull out of them like like a more accurate sense of what was going on, for example, the Hittites, you know, that lived in the area and and so what did they represent or or um you know uh geography or archaeology that that uh ties you know the interactions between the Davidic kingdom in Babylon. You know, those kinds of things that that kinda open up. Uh am I right in thinking that that there's an aspect of that that isn't the grid of suspicion but but is is used by uh theologians to Yeah absolutely there's a lot of good tools and approaches that have come out of the historical critical method to give insight into you know what was the world of of the text that the text came out of and you know, whether it's the archaeology or um the history that we know from other sources at the time or um you know various uh various other um methods have come out that are I think are very helpful for helping give context to the Bible. way of looking at scripture if you're gonna be a serious, you know, accommodation. And if you also have faith, you know, commitments, you need to sort of keep those private. And I starts thinking about like the Jesus Seminar stuff, you know, where it they they it gets to the point where, you know, they take the words of Jesus, if you have a red letter Bible. And uh when they're done with it, you have like four words in red letters left. Like the Jesus didn't really say that and he couldn't have possibly said that and he might have said something like this, but not with exactly those words. And they start to whittle it down to where you you're you're left with Like nothing if you're not careful, right? And so so am I right in tracing that back that that process really began pre-Christ, pre-Jesus, in the Jewish community where um post Plato and Aristotle, they were trying to say, let's approach the scriptures, uh, I don't know if they use this language, but but using reason as a key uh tool for understanding the scriptures. And so in those passages that seem unreasonable You know, we we need to use our reason then to to kind of find different ways to interpret that. And so we run into it today with science that, you know, how does how does our reason put the miracles together with science y like the Jesus seminar like you're describing, or how does you know, how does um our reason put together uh our understanding of Jesus, you know, in the context of love instead of in the context of uh of just dividing people. And so so there there's a a rich struggle in history between reason uh as a tool in when reason is helpful as opposed to when it begins to you know undermine you know our confidence in the right. I mean it's hard to talk in these broad generalities. I mean there are some that are s so uh uh the the critical part of their higher criticism is so critical that they're they're left with almost no Bible at all. Right. And but then there are others who will say, no, no, it's the Bible. It's even it's even inspired of God and uh there's it's a good book and I have great value for it. I take it seriously. I just don't think it's all true. I'm not putting words in their mouth. I've heard people say things like that. So and then you have other people that are going to say, no no no, every little shot and tittle has to be exactly so and you know and that's the other side of the spectrum. And they and sometimes it gets to be so hyper crazy that they you know only the authorized version, the King James is the only Bible that you can do. Exactly. So it so both you know all parts of the spectrum can have their their their flaws. But it does get down to the question of Uh for those higher critics that are whittling away what the words of Jesus were, what parts of the Bible are actual history and which parts aren't. That strikes a canon. Because if they're taking it out, like Jonathan said, No, no, no, you can't take that out, that's part of the canon and they say, Canon Schmannon, get her So let's let's transition a little bit and talk about how how have we arrived over the ages uh with the canon that we now have as we're all Protestants in this room, so we'll use the Protestant canon as for the for the formation of our uh dis foundation of our discussion here. So how do how what other kinds of things? You know the history. You're you're studying all this stuff right now, right? So what's some of the history of the canon formation? Well it's not as um scientific as people would imagine. Uh you know, I think some people think well there was a point at some time in history, I'm sure, where God just said, Here's the book That would be Mormonism. Yeah. That's right. But there was actually um you know, centuries and d during which the church doesn't even really appear to have been that worried about defining the canon. The first several hundred years it doesn't appear to have really been a topic of discussion. They you know churches used and read um the Jewish scriptures as well as various other um books and letters that were um gospels and letters that were written um of the first hundred years or so. And there there didn't seem to be a a big drive to say, okay, we've got to figure out which ones are in and which ones are out. Um as time went on, you know, different groups, you know, they they sort of developed their own lists. But we don't necessarily know when all of those started. I mean nothing it's not like everything gets saved, so we just have a few lists here and there that start to pop up. And yes, it's well into the three, four hundreds before um really start to clearly define, okay, this is the you know authoritative scripture that counts Well oftentimes what you'll hear is that it's like a negative charge and they wag their finger at Christians say, you know, after Constantine, you know, and he called together all these guys and they voted and they decided what was in the Bible and what was out. And it That's not even close to exactly how it went down, right? Yeah, it's sometimes portrayed as this power struggle and so you know the powerful people got to decide what was in and they left out some really good stuff. That's You know, that's behind some of like the Dan Brown Da Vinci Code. You know, some really good Gnostic gospels got left out in that power struggle. But it really wasn't like that. You know, what what finally got, you know, officially decided as the canon was a set of books that had really been accepted and used by a large variety of Christians and groups for a long time. And there wasn't really that much, you know, at the end of of that process. Uh th there wasn't some, you know, okay, let's just start from scratch and see what we like and don't like. And not to get too bogged down, but I mean they've a lot of people now looking back at old documents, finding the old parchments and the fragments and that sort of thing, are really pieced together um evidence that would support what you just said, which is the they weren't taking a vote on this is at and this is out and it's a power struggle. It's more of a of they were coming together with a spirit of of acknowledging what had already been received as the word of God. And you know, we we're already using all of these things as the Word of God. Let's just kind of put our stamp on it and and and get assent to, yes, we're all in agreement, this is our canon. Uh and so you can look at these fragments you can see that the the works that we now call our Bible, you know, before the canonization process was fulfilled, they were those were the books they were referencing. Those are the ones they gave authority to Already before the so I don't know if we had ever i if we had never had a canonization process we would probably still end up with pretty much the same Bible we have the collection of works that we have now, I I would think. Yeah, yeah, I mean uh I think it's helpful to recognize in terms of like authority that the early church looked to the Old Testament, you know, as uh as its main authority you know, ever since the uh the the walk to uh Emmaus, you know, that that Jesus had shown how the Old Testament scriptures pointed to him and so so Like in that moment, you could argue, uh I would have loved to have been there. You know, I just read it recently with a with a bunch of friends of mine, you know, just uh again reading it more devotionally together. But Jesus had a uh a uh way of exegeting the scriptures. He had a hermeneutic at that moment that he was uh walking them through. I would have loved to have tried to grapple, you know, with what that was. And so the early you know, the extent to which the gospels, Paul's letters, you know, the the other epistles, you know, for that matter, Revelation uh ended up being uh credible seemed to be some kind of a combination of the Old Testament scriptures and Christ and kind of the the connection between those two uh at some level and and and so uh even though we could i that it's clear that they that many groups uh had more books and other groups had less books, you know, in their canon, there still seemed to be like a sense in the early church. Even Paul saying to Timothy to watch your life and doctrine closely. Right, so there's still an authority there. The question is, uh we you know, two thousand years later we have we have a lot. of history of grappling with how people have tried to add or subtract to that canon. So we're, you know, definitely a lot more sophisticated in our approach. But it still seems to me that there was a a clear sense of authority there. He's John Sweitzer. I'm Troy Skinner. We're joined this week by Michelle Rader. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. You talked about the way Jesus would exegete the you know what we call the Old Testament. And think about all the questions that get raised by the way Matthew exegetes the Old Testament and all the questions that that has raised for people in the church over the years. And so it raises another question about the role of our interpretive approaches uh in the church in the uh in the transmission and translation of our bibles. So I don't know if that's something that you've spoken I think that's touched on in the book that you recommended last week. That book again was uh interpreting the script uh scripture and its interpretation. Scripture and its interpretation by By Dr. Michael Gorman. And it's not light reading. Actually edited by Dr. Michael Gorman. It's a number of different authors. So if you're you know, if you want to take uh a deep dive into some stuff and read the kinds of things that seminary students might read or or those who are a little bit further along in their Christian education would read. That might be a good book for you. If you're brand new to the whole thing, it might be overwhelming, so just you know, fair warning. Uh so anyway, what what can you add about the the trans the transmission and translational issues that interpretation Well it's often said that um every translation is an interpretation and that's because when you're going from um a source language to a target language, there's never a one-to-one correspondence for every word. And there are semantic ranges that are overlapping but not identical. So um just to you know for a real easy um example you know the word for snow, like your your sin though your sins be a scarlet they shall be white as snow. Well, how do you translate that for Bushmen and the Kalahari who've never seen snow and don't have a word in their language for snow. Um how do you translate it for the Inuit who have sixty words for snow because that's all they see? Um so those present interesting just in that one little example, interesting translation choices. Um but there's lots of those kinds of examples. And so whenever somebody is translating the Bible from the original, either Hebrew for the Old Testament, maybe a little bit of Aramaic or Greek for the New Testament. There's many, many of these um the interpretive choices that have to be made just in terms of what English word or or you know Africans word or Spanish word you're going to use to translate. And and that's why um if you have the ability to read the Bible in its original languages, you can gain so much interesting insight and meaning because you see things that just don't come through in English. And it's it's Um it's even driven home even further to my way of thinking, 'cause somebody once told me and I think it's so true, that no word by itself means anything. You know, words only uh glean you can only glean the meaning of a word through its context. How is that word used in a sentence? How is that sentence used in a paragraph? How is that paragraph used in a chapter? How is that how is that chapter used in book. I all of that influences what is meant by that Yeah, that's how you you know, back in the seventies it was a you know, very uh maybe it was probably the eighties I guess. It was kind of a hip thing to say, Oh, that was bad. And that meant it was really good. Right, but joining into the context Totally wicked. Right, exactly. Yeah, totally. Yeah, completely, without fail, wicked in every possible sense of the word, right? That's what we mean. No, it's not supposed to be that hyperliteral, but it could mean be that hyperliteral. Kind of depends on And so yeah, and so then you're taking so somebody's understanding what the whole Bible is trying to convey and deciding how to translate a word, they're gonna translate it maybe a little bit differently sometimes. And if you don't believe how truth can be Go to the store, you don't have to buy them, just look at the store or the library, and grab a half a dozen different English translations of the Bible and turn to you know the same chapter and verse and you'll see differences In some cases they feel noteworthy until you realize okay they're they use c a completely different word there, but it means kind of the same thing. Uh but it's amazing how different they can be. And that actually can be a helpful way to read the Bible. Try to read multiple versions at the same time. The interlinear is that what it called the the uh parallel parallel. Parallel Bible or something. Well now on new version you can you compare eight or ten at a time. You can I think the parallel one's usually like three or four. Right, right. Yeah. And if you can learn Greek and Hebrew and Aramaic, go for it. And it feels to me like the denominations um at the end of the day formed in different cultures. uh in that that it's likely that that even distinctions between the various denominations, even though they do uh end up having uh real hard theological differences, that uh that they still developed, you know, in these unique contexts that uh people I think need to have the freedom to develop in different contexts, you know, that that we're not forced to all have a, you know, Roman Empire perspective on the world, you know, and so once the Roman Empire breaks up. In fact I was even wondering as we were uh talking about this, uh is it true that that the main punctuated moments of of intensive discussion about how to interpret the scriptures seems to arise like when the time is comes in history to translate from Greek to Latin. Right. And so then you have the Latin vulgate, which I think means vulgar, right? I mean the point is it was supposed to be in the language of the people. Well it comes the Latin word vulgaris just means common. So yeah, what the majority of people would be familiar with so so when is it Jerome? Mm-hmm. Translates into the v the v you know, vulgar language of the common people. Well, that's all, you know, uh we were looking to do when when we moved into English. You know, and then for that matter into German and other languages in the U. The word vulgar. Yeah. What what does that mean? Yeah, now that means obscene. Right, exactly. So and that's not Yeah, even as I said it, I didn't mean to go obscene, I was meaning common language. And so I'm glad you even within our own language. When I was a little kid show how old I am now, I guess. When I was a little kid, uh The word gay meant happy. Yeah, right. Yeah. When I was a little kid. It didn't mean what it now means. But somewhere nothing to do with sexuality. Yeah. Yeah. Somewhere during the seventies maybe. I'm not sure except we have to do a uh a a word study and figure out when it entered pop culture and all that. But that's within my lifetime. Yeah. And that's an important word in our culture today. So an important word like that uh has changed. So think about we're talking about things that were written hundreds of years ago, thousands of years ago, and then you're trying to interpret acco across cultures. Yeah, think about um the th I wonder how different our understanding of certain ideas within Scripture, how different they would be if the translational uh trans uh the transmission of the Bible translationally over time well that it was hard for me to figure out what to say went Eastward instead of westward. Instead of coming through Europe with Latin and the influence of Rome and uh and German and those sorts of things, if it had gone through the Middle East through China and India and come out the other side on Japan, how it would feel, you know, the message would be the same, I would argue. But some of our the nuances of how we think about it or understand it would probably be a little bit different. So there's a there's a moment when Paul is looking to go to Asia. He's on his second missionary journey. And it says that the Holy Spirit would not let him enter Bithnea And it's when he receives the Macedonian call and he heads over towards Philippi in in uh Thessalonica in I've felt often that God made a decision in that moment. And so I'm reading into it, right? This is my own interpretation. This isn't like the scripture says it that that God decided that it wasn't going to go to the East uh in terms of Paul's ministry and all of his his uh translating of scripture into the vernacular that it was going into the Roman Empire, which meant that it was going to find its initial growth you know, in a Greco Roman environment, which is very distinctive, you know, that's the fullness of time. God seemed to have chosen that environment as what, the least likely to corrupt his scriptures, you know, in his history? Well I'm we're gonna uh wrap because we're we're gonna have to maybe think up this thought Yeah, so hold hang on to the thought. Save it for a whole week and then we'll come back and we'll we'll talk about that. 167. You're adding time. You have like a leap hour in there or something. Leaf hours instead of leaf years. That's that'd be an idea. Right? Your language is very good. That'd be a cool cool concept. Anyway, uh that's Jonathan Sweitzer, I'm Troy Skinner, Michelle Rader. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD online at WFMD. com. Keyword Faith. You can also find some things about the uh the show updates and stuff on the WFMD Facebook page as well. Sorry for talking so fast, but I'm running out of time. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless