Yes, it's true. We once again brave. the streets of the lockdown police state that is Frederick City. Either one of you guys get a little flashing light in your back mirror on the way here today? Not yet. Those little sentries that say you're not welcome here, getcha? No, I've never seen the flashing light. Oh, wow, good charismatic like you haven't seen the light. I have not seen the light in my rearview mirror. Anyway, I'm Troy Skinner. He's Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. We're joined this week by Fahim Yunus, who is Secretary of Education for the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community USA, also Associate Professor of Medicine at the Uh University of Maryland School of Medicine. So I don't know. I guess he's reasonably smart or something like that. Um our show is brought to us by Putmaster than we are, that's for sure. Well yeah. That's what makes us so every guest. We bring everybody up. He's not distinctive in that one. People like us. It's Frederick, you know? Anyway. Did I just say that? Yeah, the police state of Frederick, yeah. Uh Plumma Plumbing and Eating, Help We Make You Smile. And Deer Valley, Heartscape, Landscape And masonry, all three right there. Yeah. And I'm I'm afraid I'm gonna run. Yeah, we're uh we're we're breathing down the the neck of uh Christmas here. Is Putnam plumbing and heating still heating? Because recently I've just heard him say Putman Plumbing. in something else. Oh well, uh I think that they're primarily plumbing. Yeah. But uh like a lot of plumbers, they can also handle some H VAC stuff and so the I don't know if they're a full scale H VAC company exactly. Gotcha, right. But I think they're Right on the edge of being a full scale. If I'm wrong, Marlena Patrick, call me, correct me. So if you want to get a toilet for Christmas, put me in plumbing and heating. Yeah, and it's ex You know It's a little early in the show to be punched trunk, don't you think? We lost control. Yeah, well we ended last week's show uh w kind of in a frenzy and I guess we're picking up this show where we left off. Uh well we must be tired. We got off into kind of a a frenzy. It was fun, I think, because we were talking about uh the actual scriptures. And it's interesting how well specifically our approach to Christianity. But what the Quran says about the b about the Christian scriptures as well. So it's interesting to me when you start talking about the scriptures You know, the the passion and the energy and the and the dynamic just it elevates. It's it's it's pretty cool. So anyway, basically Jonathan was saying uh that You're ugly and your mother dresses you funny. And uh Fahim's response was, uh how a very astute of you. I'm sure we're gonna have to discuss that some more 'cause I think I might disagree. So uh but the real point was uh Jonathan Foy. The real point is that it's it appears to me that Muhammad in at least four different places gives the impression that Christians Should trust the gospel as they had it in his day, and they should go to it to study it in order to know how they should be before God, and that Muslims on occasion should go to the Christians if they're confused about what to believe and ask the Christians what the angel or the gospel teaches. And he says this on several occasions, which leaves me the impression that Muhammad is was of the opinion in his day and age that the gospel as it was written could be trusted. However, he says in other places, he goes after some of the doctrines that seem to be clear in the Bible. And the question is, why does he do that? But the one specific one that you shared with us was a place where he's claiming that Christians believe that Jesus and Mary and God are the Trinity. Which concerns me deeply. That's not what it says. Well, he's arguing that there are some Christians that apparently on the final day are gonna claim that Mary is divine, that Mary is a part of the Godhead. No, not at all. I think all I'm saying is that we're going to be able to do this. And when Allah will say on the day of resurrection to Isa, Jesus, son of Mary, did you say unto men And now it's courts. Worship me and my mother as two gods besides Allah. Now I understand. I completely see your point. He's including Mary in it. Right, but it does not say Trinity, it's not defining Trinity Let me ask you a question. But he's going after the question whether or not Christianity believes in three gods or one God. That's what he's going after. No, no, no, no. It's basically going after He's not? He's going after the divinity of Jesus here Basically. The question is But the problem is that he included Mary. I understand. Are there Christians who would pray to Mary? Uh there are Christians. uh being an important part of the process of prayer is that I go to Troy who is alive right now and I say, Troy, would you pray with me? My son is sick, and uh we just want to pray that God would heal him. And so I'll go to Troy and ask him to do that. And their point is that when the saints die and go to heaven, they haven't really died. And so I can say, Mary, I know you're still alive, just like I say, Troy, you're alive, and I say, Mary, would you pray with me for my son to be healed? So they're not praying to Mary. They're asking Mary to pray for them to Jesus as they're going to Jesus themselves. And so my understanding of that doctrine and Catholicism, now I don't encourage that as a Protestant, uh, and there are those certainly that um that abuse the doctrine of praying to the saints and it's turned into something of a uh superstitious thing. Um but the doctrine as it is written uh nowhere gives any kind of divinity either to Mary or to uh the um the saints But and but it does go so far as to say that Mary was born um immaculately, meaning that when she was born, she too was born without sin. But that's not divinity. And so there's nothing in official Catholic doctrine that goes anywhere close to saying that Mary is divine. But my point to you, the point that we were discussing, that Qur'an In fact, it's very interesting that you take a strength of the Quran and to try to turn it into a weakness. Because I will say Oh certainly because I'm trying to understand what it teaches. Sure, but uh there appears to be a head. Major myth. No, no, but here is a book that validates a prior teaching. that exhorts its followers to not only respect. Okay, I disagree with that, but I understand that that's what you think. Okay, I'm with you. Not only respect but believe in the truth of the prior prophets. You know, can you imagine that that's invalidates? Let me tell you one thing. My own gospel and invalidates the the Torah in many places. My my own personal experience Once I was driving down to Florida, you know, think of someone who's come from a large Muslim majority country for the first time in America and I'm driving down a church. And it's it pains me to even repeat the words but just to make it clear as to what as a Muslim I go through, I'm driving past a church and outside on that church on the sign it says Muhammad was a pedophile. That's what the church sign says about someone I believe to be my prophet. Which by the way, I struggle with the fact that that he married some people that were very young. I I too have a hard time with that. I'll come I'll I'll come back to that. I'll come back to that. You know, I'm happy to go down that that path. But here is my point. Okay. So here here is a Muslim who's passing by a church who reads this. Yeah. But his book says that you believe in the truth of Jesus, peace be upon him. Yeah. Don't you see a pat you know don't see you don't you see a contrast there? Yeah, but totally you gotta understand that with teachings the way that you claim that Christ is not God That is the core of Christianity. If Christ is not God, I'm telling you that Christianity is a total fraud. There's nothing I I would leave Christianity if you could somehow prove to me that Christ was not God. I would leave it, I'd become an atheist, I'd be an evolutionist, and would be of the opinion that uh that only the strong survive. I'm telling you that that is that is the linchpin doctrine of all Christianity. And so when you claimed in the last show that you're a lot like Christians in the first century Uh it's shocking to me because I do believe that there were those that claimed to be Christian in the first century, but that were anti Christ and as a result were enemies of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Paul called them enemies of the gospel. Jesus called them enemies of the gospel. I think that's a whole separate show in itself, but here's my point. You know, we that's how we got to the right. I'm happy to go to a topic, but you know, there are just too many tangents and otherwise the point will never be clarified. Right, but this is how we got to this topic. This topic that we're dealing with is what do you believe about Christ? What do you believe the Quran teaches about Christ in the gospel? And and what are you doing? See you said something very profound and I'll have to just say very respectfully, because this is my prophet, you know You g you can say anything about Prophet Muhammad without feeling a guilt. I have to be very careful when I say something about Jesus, peace be upon him, because he's part of my faith. He's mentioned twenty-eight times in this Holy Quran. There's a chapter by the name of Neri. So I have things that you say would make me feel guilty. No, but but here's my point. You're being sincere. You know, this this is this is part of my this is my heart. So I'm just I'm just not faking something. But I think you said that if you take something you know, if you take this doctrine out Christianity is a fraud and whatnot, do recognize There are millions of people, there are millions of young men and women who are ha who are struggling with that. What do you think is the reason that atheism and you basically gave that as your second choice, that I'll become an atheist and evolution or so What do you think is the reason why atheism is probably the most not probably is the most fastest spreading uh faith or ideology in America today. What do you think is the reason behind the thing? Um uh no well Troy hardened hearts. Yeah I'm with you. And I would say I would say what is hardening people's hearts is the claim that science has somehow disproved the miracles of the Bible. And it's a lie. And it is a fraud that is perpetrated. This is this is what you said. You said if somebody could prove to me. What I'm saying is forget about me. There are millions of young people out there who are struggling with that very question And they don't find proof and they basically go to your what your second. And and right, but faith is always based in reality. Faith is not like just some Some leap of faith. So that being the case, um uh that that's a large part of what the show is all about. Uh the the world is teaching an aggressive secularism uh that is that they claim is rooted in science and that you uh in believing in God whatsoever are inherently in sci uh unscientific that you believing that God reveals things to humans are inherently unscientific. That's what that secular world believes. And so they're leaving Ahmadian Islam, they're leading leaving Islam and they're leaving Christianity precisely because they have arrogantly claimed that there is no way that we can know anything outside of our five senses. that there is no such thing as spiritual truth that we can discern spiritually, but that we can really discern things. It has to do with a naturalistic worldview as opposed to a spiritual worldview. Believe me. I think let uh bring them into this rooms. They're not allowed to believe in cre that God created the world. They're not allowed to if we bring them into the room they tell us what? What will they tell us? Bring them into the room and ask them their reasons They'll and you know you can find those reasons. But let me go back to something I just went to something this summer that that that had done a study of w uh those that are leaving the faith. that the number one people why reason why young people leave the faith has nothing to do with Christ. It has everything to do with whether or not they can believe Genesis chapter one. And that they leave because evo uh science in the name of evolution has convinced them that we cannot believe Genesis chapter one And that's the reason why they're leaving the faith. And I the study has been done. You're right. That that is a big reason, by the way. A lot of the doctors that I meet too the a lot of doctors that I meet at the hospital, that's exactly what they say that, you know, th they'll talk about Darwin and whatnot. But you have to understand the dominoes effect after that. Oh well I know. You know live it. We all live it. Nothing, nothing Nothing is is immune from the demise of the Western civilization. Everything goes down once you once you allow that. But you said something how much time we have? I want to make sure that we have to do that. Secretary of Education for the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community USA, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Cross Rosalie Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Baith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. And you were saying Yeah, I was saying something which I think is a is uh again I don't know how such an intelligent country, such such a developed civilized society can allow a sign like that outside of church. And you said something that you have problem with that as well. How we can allow it? That is the basis of a liberal democracy, though there's freedom of speech. That's the essence of liberal democracy. prefer to call this my country over any other country. I love this that exact same freedom. Okay. But we you know, we find certain things morally repugnant as a society. Yeah, certainly. You know, we don't we don't kill people for that. But we find them morally repugnant. And I would I would say that a time has to come and you know again that burden is on me. You know, once I bring that peaceful face of Islam. I'm not blaming anybody, but like, you know, you would not go and say something as anti-Semitic on a sign on a church today. We find that, you know, you would not mock Holocaust. See the thing. And I agree with that by the way. I don't have a problem with that. Do you not see Jesus Christ m mocked? uh with the uh the national endowment for the arts when they have crucifixes and urine you know and this kind of thing when when they have on uh and television shows all the time where they mock And I don't try to happens everywhere. And I don't understand why every Christian will not stop subscribing to that channel. Why would they not pull their money out of that? that T V station next to I I'm dumbfounded when that does not happen because I think they have a right to do that. That the most important that that a that that freedom of speech is vital to people making decisions according to conscience. But that's your choice. My point No does it not force. You know this is a conscious decision. You know what? You're gonna mock my prophet or my God in your case. I mock Buddha, I mock uh uh the the Zidhart you know Okay let's go back to the the issue of that sign. So let me ask you this question Smith when did the and the reason I mock see this is the thing. I have I have no respect for the things that I that I call false ideas. I have respect for you and I'll endeavor, and I'm I don't know that I'm doing so well today, I admit it, to listen respectfully to those as they share their ideas, but I do not feel like I have an obligation to respect an idea that I disagree with. Now I will openly Share my disrespect about those ideas. Which is fairly. Will you will you allow me to respond to it? Please When Muhammad Prophet Muhammad married the for the first time, right? How many you know, how old was he? When he married. I I think like twenty five maybe and she was her two or something. He was twenty five. Yeah. And how m how old was she? Forty or forty two maybe? Right. Yeah. So he when he's twenty five and he's at the top of his youth, he marries someone who's fifteen years older than him. Right who's a widow who's had children. Which I'm totally comfortable with. I have no problem with any of that. No, that's not just being comfortable. Yeah. He's breaking a huge taboo at that age. Because when when people implied that he married some young girl, what that sign implied was lust. And I'm trying to make a point. The age of lust. I asked a pediatrician once, I said, What do you think is the age of lust? She said in Baltimore City. I don't know that I'm calling it lust. But that's what that that's what the media is calling. But let me respond to that. How long did that marriage last? The first one? Yeah. Uh till she died. Which was how many years? I don't know, maybe thirty, forty, I don't know. No Prophet Muhammad lived up till the age of sixty three. He's twenty five and he No he died before she died? I'm asking you. People should know this question before they go and, you know, throw throw dirt at someone. Twenty-five years that marriage lasted till she died, till the age of fifty. Prophet died at the age of sixty three. Till the age of fifty, he never married anyone. Okay. Right. Just the one. Just the one. Okay. After that, of course, he did marry a lot of other women. None of them were younger than him, they were either divorced, these were either political alliances or he was breaking taboos where he's marrying ex-slaves, he's marrying ex-Jews, he's marrying Prisoners of war. He's basic but here's the point. But he did marry Aisha, right. Okay. Ayesha. Who how old was she? I'm I'm coming to that, absolutely. So now he's in his fifties. Yeah The purpose of the marriage is because in Islam there is segregation of sexes. Uhhuh. So who is going to educate the other fifty percent of the population where men don't have access to, those women. Uh-huh. So he marries a young girl called Aisha who is the daughter of his best friend Abu Bakr, whose consent was included. Okay. And she lives he outlives him another thirty or some odd years. Sure. And is He basically says anyone who wants to learn Islam, they can learn fifty percent of Islam from Aisha. Mm-hmm. He turns out to be a jurist. And once again breaking paddies, that what's their age? What do you mean by jurist? He turns out to be someone that people go to to see You know, to seek knowledge and to seek uh decisions on certain, you know, religious aspects. No. She did not marry anybody. Oh. She, Aisha herself. Oh, became a jurist. Sure. Different narrations put her age at different. Some some people say eleven, some people say sixteen. Now that's something which is dif difficult for the society today to to swallow. Let me ask you a question once again, very respectfully, because this is this is my heart. Mary is very dear to us as Muslims. How old was Mary? When she married Joseph. I've heard anything from nine to sixteen. And majority of the people agree on thirteen. Majority of the people. I've done quite a bit of research on this. I don't say this in a derogatory fashion, Jonathan. I say this in a cultural construct. Sure. In a cultural construct, and how old was Joseph? Uh he was older, certainly. I don't think we really know, but ninety years old. Where do we majority the people say we we we can we can how old Ninety. Some you know. And again, so there are two points in. I've never heard that, never come anywhere close to here. Just Google it. Joseph being ninety years old? Here is the point I'm making. I will Google it. I want to see the birth certificate. So why don't you want to see the birth certificate of Aisha? Prophet's wife. Why why everyone believes that she was, you know, somehow that that was a birth certificate which was very valid. No, how are we saying we don't want to see that? We do want to know what's going on. That's my point. And the same benefit of doubt, why it does not go to Orisha, because it's ahead of a difference, whether it was nine or if it was fifteen, that's a huge difference. And that to me is when the media does not talk about that. I think what that does is it just divides us. as people. If that guy that day who passed through that church never did his search, never went home and did charity, never prayed to his God, he'd probably have animosity against Christianity for all his life. But he tried to rise above that. And his friends like you who are giving him a gory shake hand right now gave him that opportunity to rise above that and say, you know what, that was one bigoted person who's not I'm not gonna let him define Christianity I'm not going to let that one church define Christendom and I'm not going to snare as being Christian in that process. Uh I can't say that that um that I'm comfortable either with the polygamy or with uh him marrying somebody so young. But you're comfortable with both the families? Yeah, 'cause I don't have the impression that he was uh the question is what is the what is an age of accountability in nine, ten, eleven Uh I do not believe it's an original. Well you just said that that's eleven to three. Eleven to eighteen by the way. In the state of Vermont today, if you're eleven years old and you're pregnant, with your parents' consent you can get married. In the state of Georgia, you can have that. Here in America. Okay, I'll give you this. If she's fourteen and above then then I would say that that I'm not concerned about him marrying. Nobody knows. That's the real point. Okay, but I'm telling you nobody knows. If it's younger than that I got a problem with it. But nobody knows Okay. So it's how how people want to look at it. Sure. And you know, when someone says, you know, Mary, peace be upon her her, was eleven year old, then you know you can generate a lot of negative emotion, but that is not the point. The point is what is her contribution to what's the church. But regardless it is church, that it's exacerbated it's exacerbated by the polygamy element, which for Christians again is verbotent. Well absolutely, but you know, polygamy is not a polygamy. That's a whole different discussion. Polygamy is an exception in Islam. And it's not an order, it's not a practice. When you have fifty percent population of men and women, there's no way polygamy can sustain. Where are the women gonna come from if everybody starts practicing polygamy? So this is once again, in my opinion, a totally flawed And I would go as far as I understand because your founding like like the same thing is true about about Muhammad and the sword and being a leader. Your founding um uh prophet was a polygamist And, you know, whether he married somebody young or not, and somebody that that uh that was a uh uh a a political figure that wielded the sword to ex extend his rule Uh, no, that's that's that's inaccurate. That's completely inaccurate. And I think the last point, you know, yes he meant inaccurate? Yeah, he never he never spread s Islam by sword. I didn't say that. I said he extended his reign. No, he didn't clearly reigned in those you just told me or not from a couple of shows ago that that he was showing us how a king should reign You just told us none of political leader should do that. So clearly the places that he took away from the water. Right, but not by sword. You know, he's not converting any anyone by sword. The impression is a very important thing. Oh absolutely he did, but the then was extended that's the defense war extended by the sword in that context. No, peace was established by sword His instinct influence was not. That's what we do today. But I think the point here once again is that he's walking through those steps to show people that when that exceptional situation comes to your your life, how do you carry yourself? Okay, well these are the issues that that separate Islam and Christianity. Absolutely. But there are many more that unite us. And I think these are the issues when I ask people, uh you know, I get called about this question a lot and I tell them look, I think there are many Muslim women. Why don't you invite a Muslim woman and h let her tell you about women's rights and polygamy and all that? Because then wha what is the reason that Musl m women are the largest group converting to Islam in Britain today? What is the reason I'm not sure? I don't know. So much so that Christians are are targeting Muslim women. Intentionally because there are so many of them that are converting over. I'm just in Britain? Uh around the world. No, no, I said Britain, very specifically. I don't know around the world, but Britain, which is a Western civilized open society Why would a woman convert to Islam? We're gonna end with dueling statistics. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, excuse me, and uh Fahim Yunus, Secretary of Education for the Albadian Muslim Community USA. I'm Troy Skinner. Shows and brought to us by Putman Pungman Heating. How can we make you smile? And Deer Valley, Heartscape, Landscape, and Masonry. By the way, another Ted Decker book made its way into my hands. Recently read The Drummer Boy. Yes, it's true. It was good. I think that one drummer boy had pictures. Yeah, it's a Christmas one. Yeah. Oh, okay. Until next week. God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, Honest answers an amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Pub and plumbing, how can we make you smile