Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Grid Lock County. Where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith debate brought to us by Putin Plum and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith debate is online, WFMD. com, keyword faith, also on Facebook, and if you go to the FMD Facebook page or the WFMD website and Go to the Faith Bay page, you'll see a video that I think Jonathan Sweites is shooting right now. Jonathan Sweitzer is a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. I'm Froid Skinner and Our guest this week is Dr. Pamela Blake, who is an elder or minister. You take your choice of which label you like the best. Speaking of labels last week at the Strong Tower in Frederick. We've been talking broadly about race relations, but very broadly. Uh the first show that we did this is our fourth show now with this panel, and the first show that we did was primarily focusing on uh the the the life experiences in a most general way of of Dr. Blake and we wanted to spend a little bit of time there because it's it's significantly different than the life exp well, all of our life experiences are different, right? But there are some commonalities between mine and Jonathan Schweitzer's that are absent in Pamelas and vice versa. So we want to spend a little bit of time trying to come to understand that a little bit and to help you, our listener, to understand that as well. And then we started talking about um diversity within the church, uh understanding uh people who are different than ourselves, having a generous uh attitude towards those who are different to If we're going to use labels to at least at least use them in a friendly manner and to not use them as weapons, uh there was a time when you know Christian was a pejorative, I think, right? You know, oh you're just one of those Christians And then we say, yes, we are. Um and then we got into how to understand and and label things. Uh uh if it's okay to label things and and and who does the labeling. I think we came to a place finally where we all agreed that okay labels have their place. And we have so does attitude. Yeah, and attitude. And but we ha uh we all agree that a good attitude is the only attitude to have. Uh but we seem to have some disagreement about Where the labeling can come from. What's a what's an appropriate source for labeling? The question of defining oneself. Who defines particularly when somebody uh uh labels themselves differently than the the vast majority of people around them might label them. But we were having a misunderstanding and I think this is going to be helpful I think what Dr. Blake, what you're trying to get at, that I was too dense to figure out, and therefore I I I I led Jonathan down my path of destruction, so I apologize. Uh I think you're trying to say that if someone says, stands up and says, Look I'm an African American, and we as African Americans have this issue going on that we need to have addressed or need to address ourselves or whatever, that it's not fair for somebody outside of that community to say, Y'all aren't African American, who are you kidding? If they as a community want to identify that way, then they have the right to do that. You weren't saying that if a particular individual who has distinctly pink skin wants to say that they are a black African American person, anybody who's has eyes can say, well, okay, you're deluded. No, you're right. That's not what you're saying. What you're saying is if if this community, this entity within our culture says we as this group identify in this way and this is our plight or this is our contribution to the world or whatever. that everyone else needs to say, well, you know what? Uh that many people might not all be wrong, so maybe we need to hear what they're saying. Is that kind of what you're trying to Yes. Okay. I would agree with that. But that community then has a right to set limits on how they self identify and self express, which goes back to the point which this is where I'm a little confused, because I was using in a distinctly religious cultural context, and I was saying Christians have a right to define for themselves what Christianity is and what it means to be a Christian. Muslims, it seems to me, should be willing to say this is what Islam is and what a good Muslim looks like, even though the guests we've had on the show for the most part have been unwilling to do that, to my great frustration. Uh so and it seemed like you were not a hundred percent agreeing with that. Well here's the where the difference is. You all were talking about um religious groups and Christians Mm, I'll give you an example of where I was coming from. You have a group of people in Baltimore who say we're protesters. They say we are protesters. You have a group of people in Ferguson, Missouri that say we are protesters. You have a group of people all over, but then some outsider says, You're not a protester, you're a thug. Why does that person's labeling you a thug now make you a thug when if you were in another context, your definition of yourself as a protester would be enough. Right, okay, so I think this that this does drive to the heart of the Rorschach test. Right. You you ha uh uh taught this class and I was one of the students and you you led us into a discussion about how the same event can be viewed so differently by by people depending on their cultural background. And um when I think of a protester, uh there's a pretty broad spectrum in my mind. You could be a protester in the um in the lineage of Martin Luther King Jr. , in the lineage of Gandhi Or in the lineage of um say um Nation of Islam, who's the guy? Uh the head of the Nation of Islam uh here in the United States, Black Islam. Farrakhan, Louise Farrakhan. Uh or that you're a protester in the um Germany. Yeah. In Germany, Russia, Crimea, uh or uh France for that matter, the French Revolution, right? They're revolutionaries. But that whole spectrum includes people, some people that are handling their protesting in a uh uh a righteous manner, meaning that that they're they're they're uh at every step of the ball game trying to handle things in a righteous way. And I think actually the French Revolution versus the American Revolution is a good example. 'Cause the French Revolution was all about kicking God out of the country and killing off all the the rich that that were in the name of God. That's why, you know, the the term Dicati uh uh where we get f the the decadent French. Decadent French Dicati comes from the fact that they were trying to get rid of a seven day biblical week instead of a ten day week, right? They were there it was revolution, they were protesting but they were decidedly doing it to kick God out. Whereas in the United States it was Christians that were driving the whole thing and they were aggressively attempting to root everything that they did in a biblical perspective and orientation. I'm just using that as one example that we have two different kinds of protests and I personally would say that the French Revolution was thugs. But that the American Revolution was not and that the reason why I define those differently is because because by their own definition, by their own self definition One group was throwing God in in biblical morality out and the other group, by their own self-definition, was doing everything that they could to root everything that they did. So a thug in my mind is somebody that that is handling everything that he does in a way that says, who cares about right and wrong? I'm gonna do whatever I please right now. meaning we're gonna go rob stores and we're going to uh in the context of our uh of our um protesting we're going to uh choose to uh to violate laws. Right? So for example, the Tea Party, the original Boston Tea Party, was uh resisted by George Washington and Ben Franklin as being thuggery as being inappropriate. And if I lived back then I think I would have been on the side that said, look, we don't want to go that way. We want to handle things at a higher level. And so a thug in my mind is somebody that's gonna that that's going to go violent Uh and and is gonna gonna cross boundaries of right and wrong. Now how do you So now if that's your case, how do you define the group in Waycoat, Texas? Are they thugs or are they motorcycle gangs? Oh oh. Are they thugs or are they motorcycle gangs? Well so my impression that the either or is that Some motorcycle gangs are thugs. I I have an uncle that left home, son of a pastor. and went and joined motorcycle games and the way he put it is that, man, if you don't get in line they're gonna put the boots on you. That's thuggery. I mean he's saying that they're gonna come and they're gonna beat him up. if he's not doing what they want him to do. Let me ask you how that's huggery. How do you define thugs? I don't use the term. I d Do not use the definition of the Okay. When someone else uses it, how do you understand it? When someone else uses it, it's in a pejorative manner. And so if you were I would venture to say ask the typical African American we will um risk against using the word though because it's always it's been used against African Americans and our acts. It absolutely does. So what would be uh a better term for us to to to use that would that would be accurate but not pejorative. That would describe protesters that are handling things in a in a self-described non Christian way. Well see I don't think most protesters are I don't un I don't believe I don't believe in using terms like the I do believe that people have the right to protest. But the people that burned down the store in Baltimore and looted and stole all the pharmaceutical products and all that sort of stuff Th that's something beyond mere protest, right? So what's a good term to use that's not racially charged? But why are we using terms? Why do we not focus on the underlying issues? That's part of the Rorschach test. When you look at the Rorschach test, you see the obvious avatar or the obvious picture. But the challenge The underlying issues for what? the underlying issues for why they were protesting anyway. The underlying issues But what about the underlying issues for the way in which they chose the protest? I'm not I I I'm not arguing on their way they chose, but again, I'm arguing on why are we not looking at why they even had the need Two. Okay, c can I try an oversimplification of the metaphor. I have two sons. Sorry. I just want to clarify. You you you are pushing back on the use of of the the the labeling only when it's got a racially charged pejorative meaning? Like if somebody protests by participating in a march and we were to say the marchers MARCH is not a priority term used used to denigrate a group of people. Back when we talked about legend, I don't believe in using words that would denigrate anybody. Okay. And and and in words. Okay, so for example Um Stalin, Mao Seitung, Pol Pot, um for that matter, um uh Cesar uh what's the guy's name? Che. uh down in Cuba, right? When I look at the way that these guys handle things, um Hitler, like to my mind, that's thuggery. Right? Because of the way they went about doing it, They lost the right. They lost their moral authority. But let me let me ask you. So Martin Luther King Jr. , I don't feel like he lost his moral authority. But let me let me he retained it. It I don't I still go back to you know, when you read about all those names you just talked about, I've yet to read any of those and the word thug is in the sentence. Meaning you're reading of them. Right. I mean that when I go and when I look up there is not anything that talks about Hitler's behavior and then says Hitler was a thug. Sure. There's not anything that says start staying. Do you read about those guys and hear that they handled things in a um in a violent tyrannical manner. There's one thing to say violent than tyrannical or tyrannical as you pronounce it. There's a difference though when you throw the word thug in what about the word evil in in in any of those his historical documents the prejorative term thug has not been used. I'm okay with that. Do they use the term evil? I think with Hitler m more than some of the others. I wanna I wanna 'cause I've read several books about Stalin and Pol Pot And and the genoc have you have you heard the term genocide with those characters? Absolutely. Right? And so so in my mind, the term thug Uh and again this is a different in de difference in definition goes along with with people that that are using uh clearly inhumane uh and immoral means to promote their agenda. Right? And so genocide is you know, and that's that's the big one for me when I think of Stalin, Pol Pot and these other guys, that they just mowed down anybody that disagreed with them and just killed them. Meaning that there is no f freedom of of thought whatsoever. And so when I'm thinking thug, that's what I'm thinking. I'm thinking people that that are willing to use immoral means to promote their agenda as opposed to saying we have an agenda, we're gonna we're gonna promote it with righteousness. Both our agenda and how we promote our agenda needs to be right. So is what a moral means to get what you want? Oftentimes. I'm okay with war being a mor being a moral means to get to the Jonathan Sweiser, the senior pastor across the street. 930 WFMD Dr. Pamela Blake is our esteemed guest, a minister at Strong Tower in Frederick. And Uh I don't want you to forget your metaphor that had to do with your nephew or something I think it was My kids. Oh okay Well in how I handle it. There are people that uh protest uh I've I've been involved in protests before, you know, where you're you're you're marching in front of an abortion clinic or you're holding up a sign for something you believe in or the something that you're hoping culture will change its mind about. Yeah. Or something like that. And so if you call me a protester and I'm on T V and then somebody else is burning down a building and looting and and creating all sorts of havoc and they're also called a protester I want a differentiation in language. And so if we're not gonna and I'll I'll f I'll grant the point that maybe there's a racially charged uh element to the word thug that as a as a white American I haven't had an experience with, so you know what, if that's a sensitive word, I don't want to use it. But I need another word besides protester. Because protester is way too generic. So what would be a better word other than thug, but that is a little more specific and on point than mere protester Why do we have to have a word? Why can we not focus on the issues though? When you say you're protesting, what are you protesting and why is there a need for protesting? So this this brings it b back to the metaphor. All right, so I have uh I have four sons. So let's say two of 'em come to me and uh and um it's clear to me that both of them uh are are asking for justice, right? But one of them, and the way that he's going about it, let's say the older one, is that he's beating the other one down. and he's hitting him and he's using his his extra strength to to get his way. Right? Well in that situation, even though what he you know, let's say what that what they wanted was just to make sure that that each one had uh you know, their uh an equal amount of potato chips, you know, or whatever it was. They they they wanted something that that was objective and, you know, want wanted to be treated equally on it. But one of them chose to to be violent about it and the other one didn't. Well, in that situation, I'm gonna look at them and I'm gonna say, Well, you know what? Um, it is right for you guys to both split those equally. But Older brother, because you chose to be violent about it, you're gonna lose your right to get any chips at all. And what if he says, I learned that from you? Well, that happens often, just to let you know. No, I'm saying in the negative context because I learnt that from D. And I'm telling you that that that happens often. In that situation, I look at him and I say, You know what, you're right So I'll let you have your chips, but I'm gonna I'm gonna take responsibility for me being wrong. And that's what protesters want is for Whatever the injustice is. No, but he said he learnt it from you. So you have to ask yourself, what have I done that has Taught my son this behavior. I'm not gonna let him go on being that way. I'm gonna take responsibility and change and then I'm gonna require him to do the same if I love him If I don't love him, then or or I'm I'm just selfish then I'll go on being violent, telling him that he shouldn't be violent and making him bitter and angry and frustrated. Right? But if I'm handling it righteously, I'm gonna call him on it and I'm gonna say, look, I shouldn't be doing that, neither should you. So I tell you what, how about you don't get your chips and I'm gonna go without dinner tonight? Meaning that I take responsibility for my action, but I handle it with him in such a way that I'm not letting him think that violence is the right way to get what he wants. I can give you that. But I I'm And so my question then with him is I'll tell him, Look, you're being a bully. And you need to stop it. And see that's where some people will say this country has been a bully and it needs to stop it. Sure. And so that's why you have a lot of protests going. It was the same in the sixties when there were protesting. People felt that the country wasn't doing certain things, that certain rights were not there. And now we've come back here in in two thousand and fifteen And people I stand the country is broken. Yeah. And so this drives us then to the question, right? I was using the word thug. I appreciate that that that is unhelpful. My discussion with you a bully seems to be one that that you're a little bit more comfortable with in terms of recognizing that that yes, maybe some of the protesters do that, but the point is is that maybe the country has done that as well. Which drives us back to then where do we get our definition of what's right and what's wrong? Where do we get our definition of who's being a bully and who's not being a bully? I think this what drives us back to the scriptures, you know, to try to define those things. And and I feel like this is this is where the the discussion I think gets most difficult. How do we define who's a bully and who's not? Like, for example, uh my older brother is uh a businessman and he's very good at business. Every business thing he touches, he just does good at it and and uh he makes way more money than I do. Right? And as a result He gets to go on vacations that I don't get to go on. He drives cars that I don't get to drive. He gets to go to restaurants that I don't get to go to. His kids uh have uh better uh college uh uh opportunity than my kids will have and uh Is that inherently oppressive for him and his kids to have more opportunity than I do? Right? That's a question that we don't necessarily need to answer right now, but gets to the heart of what is bully and what is not bully Right. I made a choice early on in my life that I'm called to ministry. And when I talk to my kids, I let them know I made that choice and I'm okay with it. I'm okay with us not having the nicest car, not having the nicest clothes Uh I'm happy with what God has given us. I'm happy with the with the beautiful sunsets and the opportunity to walk, you know, with my wife holding hands. You know, I'm I'm happy with these simple pleasures. Uh however Son, you might be one of those that God has gifted in the business world, but you might not be. And so it's important for you to think through what's most important. And even if you are a businessman, And my brother is. He's very generous. He gives very generously in his church and to various charities. I don't even know how much he gives. But my question is that that what is the definition of a bully, and my impression is that there are definitions out there of what is a bully that don't come from scripture that that muddy our ability to define what is a bully and what is not. And uh that that there's an effort by people on a regular basis, Christians in particular, to try to drive back to well what is the teaching of scripture about what is a bully and what is not a bully and how do we uh how do we define that? And my sense is that a lot of the definitions that are in the context of Ferguson and the current racial debates have t are are are at root a money defined um uh uh definition of bully. And I feel like it's a poor definition. I feel like we need a more accurate definition uh than uh than a financial um uh evaluation of what's a bully and what's not. How do we get our definition for bully? Well here's where we well, one of the areas we differ on is one of the things I've noticed is You tend to start with needing a definition for a hot button uh a hot button definition. You want uh to define a hot button topic or hot button behavior. Sure. I come my background is as a prejudice reduction trainer. As a uh uh a a ra ra racial understanding trainer. Okay. So I did that for five, six years And your training came from the university setting? Well, I did some through the National Coalition Building Institute and some uh through other professional organizations for train. And would you say that there's a worldview that underlines your training? Well well let me say what I'm getting at is When we're talking to people and we're talking about wanting to to come together, we don't start with defining hot button terms. We start with behaviors and I said that back a few shows ago while I don't use labeling. I prefer we talk about the behaviors that are occurring And that way I believe you get to the heart of people. And I think that's where we even in the church have to go. Well I have to jump in because uh sadly we're out of time. Believe it or not. This is the Frederick Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMV. Jonathan Schweitzer is rich. No, his brother is rich. I think the conversation is rich. He's a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. Dr. Pamela Blake is uh minister elder, you take your pick on which title you like best at Strong Tower, our sponsors, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? There's something that occurred to me, and I hadn't wish I thought of it earlier, but when my uh daughter was much younger um I was very careful to not use labels as as a um as an identifier. Like I wouldn't say to her, Go away, you are annoying. Yeah. What I would say is, honey, you're behaving in a way that is annoying. And so maybe there's a lesson in that for this. So rather than saying you are a thug They start to identify as, oh, everybody's calling me a thug, maybe I am and say, You are behaving as though you're a thug. You are behaving uh by using thuggery. uh would be uh maybe a better way of trying to if you were to use that word at all. Maybe it's best in in a racial context, I've learned, to maybe not use that word at all. And it is important to listen. and try to figure out what where somebody's coming from, what their story is. But on the same side, the African American community in Baltimore should look at the white bred suburbanite white guys and understand why they are using words like thug and why it bothers them so much. I think that mutual understanding goes both ways. Sure. And labeling is an unfortunate necessity in language, I think. I wish we could get around it, but I don't see how we communicate without it. But anyway, that's my two cents. Thanks for listening. What have I been reading? According to Plan by Graham Goldsworthy. Another recommend. Four weeks in a row, I can recommend what I've been reading. Thanks for listening. God bless.