The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. Would you like to emotionally connect with your children and help them to grow up to be well-adjusted emotionally healthy adults? We've got the show for you. This is a face to fate on 930 WFMD on the FM at 99. 9 HD two and On the World Wide Web at WFMD. com. Just click the listen live button if you're helping down or catch the podcast later on by going there. You can also connect to uh the faith debate and all the things that are related to the faith debate by going to my church's website. My name by the way is Troy Skinner. I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. And as you might imagine our website is Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Last couple of weeks and now Now again this week we're talking about uh relational, familial, uh relational issues, marriage, uh parenting, things like that. And uh doing so with the uh the Razbeys, Imron and Daniel Razby. They're they they pastor a house church up in the northern part of Berger County, but they also, uh, for years now have been involved with um helping families to talk talk to uh talk through and talk to these issues. Um and their organization is called Concord by Love Ministries and their website is conquered by Love dot org. And this week uh we're they've got a number of books uh and booklets out that uh that they use as resources for people and um There are some that are uh that are under the category of getting to uh your children's heart. So how to connect to your children's heart, emotionally healthy children, uh perseverance, finding desire for Children and parents, these are all the books that seem like they fit in that category. aspect. So and just to tie it into last week, right, where we talked about training for the long term when you see a bad behavior or a behavior you don't want to encourage in your child And your instinct is to say, Oh that's a sin issue Well step back first because first of all maybe it's something we didn't train for we talked about that last week Well step two. Step two is is it an emotional need? And we'll talk about that. And step three then would be, oh okay, it's a sin issue. If it's not a training that you didn't do and it's not an emotional need, then the third option is a sin So the again, second option is what emotional needs maybe are not being met and make sure we are meeting all the needs. What so what are the five there's five different emotional needs. So first the child must be wanted, then secure, then approved, then capable, then needed. And these are all the emotional needs that God meets in us. So for example God wanted us before we even knew about him. Right? He wanted us. And as the baby is born, we want the baby. And the baby feels that want. We want them. They haven't done anything to deserve that want, but we want them. Okay? And while we were getting sinners, God wanted us. We had we didn't do it, we didn't come to God. God loved us and wanted us right there, right? And then we become secure. God is all powerful and he uh he can overcome an anything. And he overcomes our sin and we become secure in God and in Jesus' blood. He's gonna protect us, he's gonna care for us. And the baby after the initial okay I'm wanted then they they're craving protection. They want to feel secure, they want to feel safe. That's why cuddling a baby very tight is is going to make them calm. because they feel like they're they're safe. They're not gonna fall. If your child is feels secure, they're not gonna have that need to act out because they don't feel secure. Security is a very big issue And we feel secure in Christ. We know that, hey, our destination is is done, we're secure in Christ. And then he must approve us, right? How do we get approved in Christ? By his blood. And how do your child get approved? We talk about approval for the with our children often, just really talking to them about That what a wonderful thing, great, and they're seeking your approval on all things. Don't give them false praise, right? But the things that they do that you like, praise them for that. They say, Good job, we I I really appreciate what you're doing. Show appreciation. Again, these are all things we do before we even expect anything from them 'cause you you they should be doing this from infancy, right? And then they get to the point where now there's You know, as they're toddling and they've stopped becoming capable and they're saying, No, I do this, I do this, I do this, well they're becoming capable. You want to support that. They w we want them to be capable And we can do all things through him. So we help our children do the things that they need to do, they become capable and they start doing those things. And then lastly As a child is is doing that and has become capable, now they want to feel needed as part of the family. Just as we as Christians, as we become more mature, we're needed in the body of Christ. And the and every member is different. We're all tasked with different things, but we're all important. And one member can't say that another member you're not important. So the child must feel needed. be involved in what's going on. And yes, I know, I know, I know it takes a lot longer to do the dishes with the child doing it with you. But you know what? They feel needed, they feel blessed and they and you will save Tons of therapy and time in the future when they're being needed and used and they're feeling that need. I don't want to turn this into a different issue, but in like thirty seconds, uh just to clarify If some because one of the big arguments on the uh uh abortion pro-life abolitionist thing is, you know, you don't want to punish someone with an unwanted child. The child desires to be wanted, they should be wanted. Mm-hmm. But just because somebody doesn't want uh preeminent above all of this, I think you would concur, right, is they they should be alive. Well, sure, sure. They should be allowed to live. We're talking about the born children right now. That's also a choice It's also a choice that we make, right? We talked about marriage a f a few weeks ago is we're choosing to love. Uh you may or may not be falling in love, but you're also choosing to love. That's the most important thing. You choose to want your children to love them, to protect them to you know approve of them. Those are choices you make. You can be lazy and just not bother to tell your kid when you see that he's he's doing something you like. That's the approval part. Or you can actually intentionally go do it. So the same thing with wanted Whether or not you feel all the wanting, you know, and uh uh probably many parents or most parents a at at some point feel like, Oh, I really don't like my kid today, or whatever. I've heard people say that a lot Um I haven't uh uh yet had that with my baby. She's only thirteen months old so far. But uh um but there's probably times you know everybody feels, oh, I don't feel like this today. But you make a choice. That's what you do as a parent is you choose to want them to k protect them, to care for them. Now the way you framed it at the beginning, talking about the three different categories of how to assign their behavior and so the second one is okay w You know, the first one was uh were they properly trained? Sh sh should we be expecting better for we have reason to expect better from them. Do we tell them t what better looks like and show them? Uh And the second thing is what we're talking about now. So if their behavior isn't where we would desire it to be, where it should be Uh we should go through this checklist. Are they feeling wanted, secure, approved, capable need like we should be going through this list basically? Which which what are these emotional needs? Are they are they feeling missed and that's causing the behavior So let's say you're going to check these boxes in your head, maybe. Or maybe husband and wife are going to say, okay, we're going to have a real problem with Daniel here. Let's let's see if it's if we're not meeting his need here, wanted. Does he feel wanted? How how do I as a father or how did you let's let's make this about you guys. How did you as a father in Ron make Daniel feel needed or uh uh wanted? So we uh ask that question, why did you do that Why are you doing this? You know, what is causing you to behave this way? You know, as as we uh went over last week and we have to actually to ask those questions and discover the answer. And you want a detailed answer. You don't want the kid to say, Oh, because Yeah, and really ask the answer. Not not what were you thinking? But really what was going to be on the other thing? The answer to that question will determine if there's an emotional need, any of them, you know, any of the five Right. So you if you're asking and and you get an honest answer, right and and parents you can usually tell when your kids being honest with you as far as giving you an answer, but when The the answer to that question, it might be one of these emotional needs. Oh well I you know, I I I felt like you you weren't listening to me to to me or you know, I I whatever that could be the wanted or I that was given the dog ra uh ras told that uh Yeah. I mean to give you a good example, one one one of my daughters, um, she was very quiet and when she was young and sh and she came up next to my wife and was was trying to get her my wife's attention. My wife was busy counseling or talking to somebody, to to see somebody. And my daughter walked away and and was very upset and crying. And we f w what's going on? And mommy pushed me away Well m my wife never touched her, never pushed her away, but she did not take the time to find out. So we do a lot of uh cues. I mean we can do hand signals. you know, across the room we just had I love you or, you know, um different things that are th that we can continue to affirm and and make sure the child is getting that attention that they need because that's really what they need. And they and they rightfully should be jealous of that attention. If you're giving that attention, if I'm giving that attention to somebody that it's not my family but I'm ministering to them or or doing something and my child needs attention and love, they're rightfully jealous. My my first attention should be to him, right? Should be to my family. And so I should be able to take the time to say, excuse me one second, let me answer this question, this is this thing, and we can train that children to wait. And many parents have. Just s stand here and wait patiently until I have a break and my talk and I'll talk to you. And uh but we should be positive that don't wait to wait that long either. So another another good example is I have a baby right now and she walks around the room and I I work from home and I I do virtual work so it's all on the computer and uh I'm sometimes I'm making phone calls, a lot of times I'm just typing emails and things. And so my my baby might be walking around the room playing with things and then she'll come to my desk and she'll say, Up, up, she wants me to pick her up. Why am I in the middle of an email? If I pick her up now she's I'm gonna have to play with her for a while and I'm in the middle of something, sh can't she just go play? Go pull a play. Push her away, she's gonna start crying. But what I what I found is I can actually say, okay Um I'll pick you up, I'll give you a hug, and then you can go play. And I explain that to her, and I give her a nice big hug, she gives me a nice big hug, and then she goes halfway off and both plays for a while. She doesn't need me to actually hold her that long. She but she wanted to know, do I care about her? Well I give her attention when she needs it. And she comes up and says, Uh, I gave her a hug. She goes back in place. That's the the the the type of thing for as far as the the the wanted. Yeah, and that's uh those are really good positive affirming things and I'm sure that all of us Uh we should be doing better in all of those things for all of our relationships with our spouses, with our co-workers, our colleagues, our church m fellow church members, right? We should make everybody we should be affirming everybody, but particularly with our kids in their formative years But also there's a negative and one of the things I learned as a as as a parent, um, not so much I learned it because of a bad thing, uh somebody who knows more about parenting or at least back then Maybe they still do, but back then they certainly knew more about parenting than I did. They gave me really good advice and that was be careful in the language you use. So if your child is behaving in a way that's very annoying You can label it and call you can be honest and say, hey, don't do that because that annoys people is fine, but we um but you don't want to say stop doing that, you're annoying. 'Cause you've just given them like an identity. You've labeled th they are annoying. You know. Um, you're a bad boy. You know. Like you don't don't say you behaved badly. What you did was wrong. Like those things but don't say that you are this bad thing because like Well they don't even need me around. They don't want me. Right, exactly. Who wants an annoying person around? So they don't want me here. And and also explain to them. That that was bad behavior. Why was it bad? That was annoying behavior. Why was it annoying? You know what caused it to be annoying Okay, what can we do instead? You have to replace what they're doing with something else, something positive. If you're not doing that then there's a vacuum and they'll and they're still gonna have problems. So the whole idea is to find out, you know, what what is it that they're doing, what kind of emotional need is not being met. And sometimes it may be, hey, they don't feel needed anymore. You know? If they don't feel needed, they're gonna act out. If they don't feel loved, they're gonna act out. They don't feel secure, they're gonna act out And so you have to f look at those things and see what is it that the emotionally that they're missing and you have to be this detective. The child can't tell you that But they can answer questions, they can tell you what they're feeling, what what's going on, what's what's happening, and through that you have to determine what is it that they're missing and then you have to spend time giving filling them up in there in that area. Because if you spend the time filling them up in that area when they're young, then you have a much more secure adult when they grow up. Can you talk a little bit about Um how the focus maybe shifts over time because you've got a thirteen month old that you're gonna be making different parenting decisions now than you will be when you got a four year old and different when we got an eight year old and a twelve year old and so forth. Um Because that was something that I learned, you know, made some mistakes along the way and realized, wow, I'm treating my fourteen year old daughter like she's ten. And, you know, that was setting us up for failure in our relationship. Uh the way I was treating her was perfect, of course it was, for a ten year old. But not for fourteen year olds. So talk about you know how this all fits. What are some different things you might do for a um a young teen, a twelve, thirteen, fourteen-year-old child versus a two, three, four, five year old child as far as the kinds of meeting their needs here and making them feel secure, approved, capable, needed, that sort of thing. So again we start with the training. You gotta do make sure that the train in everything that you could possibly think their interaction with somebody else will be, train them. You know, what if somebody does this, sa says this or and you think uh you know you're hurt by this? What do you do? How do you react? That's a that's important. But then as they become uh older and more capable, you make sure they understand that they're capable. You trust them that you're capable. You can do this. I'm with you, but you can do this. You're capable through my strength. I'm gonna back you up. So you can do this, you can handle it. And as they get you get more responsibility, but you're the backup. And I depend on you now. I'm I I you I need you for this and this and this. There's and that's where you get into chores responsibilities. But the the chores and responsibilities are not because oh this is you just gotta do that 'cause I said so. Well no, we need you. This is uh you're very important. Without you're without this this cog in the in the machine and the machine doesn't turn, we need everybody. Now ideally somebody gets on this track early with their child or children and uh everything goes hunky dory and they're You know, they're twenty years old and they're off d living their own life, getting married, raising their own families, job well done, no hiccups anywhere along the line, because we were following the conqueredbylove. org resource guides. But Not everybody's gonna start out of the gate. And they might not realize they need help and they're having problems until their child is five or you you said it fifteen. You said it well last week where you said you have these kids that on the soccer team that need to know all the different skills. Break it down, do one at a time, do baby steps It's that's important. Do a little bit at a time, little changes. Just whatever you do as a parent and whenever you're starting, be consistent. That's the most important thing as any parent is consistency. And that's one of the things to make them feel secure and and protected. A lot of this came a lot of this uh research and and books that came out of our adopting children because they came with a lot of emotional needs, a lot of challenges that were not met at the early age. And so a lot of parents were asking us, How did you handle this? How did you handle that? and that's when we came up with some of the stuff that we were doing. I'll give you an example. One uh lady came to us and she had adopted a daughter when she was um like sixteen years old she was adopted from uh Russia uh and uh the relationship was not very good and uh this now this daughter was twenty seven years old. and living away from the house and just, you know, messed up life and just it was never a good thing. It was a really bad relationship and they didn't get along. And the mother was like, How can I help her? She's in a bad psi place and, you know, we've tried, we've loved her, we've done all this, we've done this. What can we do? And one of the things we we talked about is, you know, in the beginning, what happens first when you have a baby? The baby is loved unconditionally, right? That's what we talk about. So have you loved it unconditionally? Oh yes, yes, we've done that. And how did you do that? And one of the things is when you have a baby, where do you love them? Do you love them on the floor? You lie down on the floor with them, you crawl with them, you you you push trucks or play baby dolls with them, you do those things that a baby does And she'd never done this is this was a sixteen year old. How would I do that? Um I can tell you why I adopted one uh one of the children was twelve years old and He he loved to be in my lap and reading board books. At twelve years old reading board books. You know, those you know, three or four words on a on a page and flipping it over. If I'd read it to one of my younger babies, they'd immediately come and crowd into my lap and on the sofa and listen rapidly while I'm reading these board books. So it was by accident. We didn't know this, but they needed that. And so we it counseled this uh this mom to just hey next time she comes over, just sit on the floor with with her and uh you know play something, you whatever you can just play with her on the floor and or play with something and let her play join in in the play. And little by little, that little act started connecting, that girl started connecting. At twenty seven years old, she um she really became a baby and started cuddling with her mother. Started lying on her lap. Started just hugging and and and being with her And that's something she never got because when she was came, she was a teenager, sixteen years old. She didn't need all that. But she did. She never got it. You assume, oh well they know their stuff. They know the you talked about last week this uh kid joins the team uh you know a and uh the rest of the team already knows what to do. Oh of course they must have earned too where they were. And we'll talk about adoption more I think in the f in the next week or something. But then and then she went through, you know, you're security. I'm your mom, I'm always gonna be mom. No matter what happens, you're always gonna be my daughter. Just like the part of the So we had her go through all these different steps, emotional steps with her. And it didn't take as long, but their relationship is is beautiful now. And it was just the taking the time to meet those emotional needs. One step at a time. And they do come in order, just like God does that for us. We have to do that for our children. Sometimes we have to take a step back You go back to baby steps as Daniel said. Go back to stand things that you think that's babyish. But you know what? Sometimes that's what it is. And you may do it For example, I read the the board books to my baby, but my other kids sat with me while I read it. So it wasn't I wasn't reading to my other kids that I was, but they didn't say that they were being belittled, but they were enjoying it with my baby Hmm. So find group activities you can do as a family that the little kids can enjoy and then the older kids can do that too. Now one of your books I slotted into the seven I don't know if I slotted it properly or not, but um If we can in the final few you know five minutes or so we have with the show, perseverance, finding desire for children and parents. What do you mean, finding desire? Like w w what do we talk about there? Like like things that they're interested in, active interest or a desire that the children and parents would have for one another? Wha wha what's what's that issue with perseverance It's it's important when you uh uh start a project to continue with it and persevere with it and and I think um You want to find things that you can do with the children that they're going to enjoy and that they're going to continue with. Um so it's not just what you want them to do, but it's the things that they are also gonna enjoy. I I teach um because my background is in piano performance before I went to law school, so I teach piano and uh you know, I d it's it's always much nicer to have parents bring their kids who w want to learn piano rather than the standard oh well you need to learn a year of piano because uh every good kid should learn some music you know. A lot of times as parents we project things onto our kids and we want them to do this because of um whatever reason, but we need to to build that desire and teach them what they should desire, you know, is and why and and help help build that desire and foster it. How concerned do you think Karen should be with particularly what's going on in the world today with um uh girl things for girl children and boy things for boy children. Is that something we should be worried about? Or if if the if the boy likes playing with dolls, hey you know what, that's what his interest is. Let's let him play with dolls and figure out how to turn that into a constructive thing for him. If the girl likes to play with trucks, let her play with trucks and or I mean 'cause I don't know if I would have worried about this that much ten years ago, but I'm I d I do sometimes get concerned about playing into the uh Playing with dolls doesn't make a boy a girl Okay. It just means that they have different desires and cares and they may be more emp uh, they may have more empathy, they may have more concern for other people. And uh playing with trucks doesn't make a girl boyish. It just means that that's uh something that they a are attracted to. They're still what God made them. They're still a girl, they're still a boy. And what Daniel is saying is, you know, when they pick something Let's say it's piano. Let's say they w they really want to play violin. Okay. Well, have a talk with us. We're gonna help you play violin. We're gonna do that, but you you're gonna persevere over a certain period of time, let's say six months or a year and even if you decide you don't like it after a few months, we're gonna continue for the year because we've we've picked this together, you want to do it, we're gonna do this for a year and then we'll make a decision. Okay? And you don't pick things for the children. I mean it's you as a parent should guide them and and and expose them to a lot of things. But it should be something that they want to do. And God has different different gifts for different things. One of the things that we didn't uh talk about here but it kinda fits in is What is your gift as a father, as a leader of the household? What is God calling you as a mission f in the mission field? What are you doing? And have you identified that and are you doing that? And then how is your family your help meet? Your wife is how's she helping you in your ministry that God has put on your heart? And how are the kids helping? Because now you're teaching the kids how to minister to others through what you're doing. Now they may have different gifts they may have different purpose as they get older, but during that in former years, they're supporting your gift and your mission and their learning skills and things to care for other people through that And that's very important because they're needed in your ministry, but they ha but you have a purpose. If you don't have a purpose in life, your kids are not gonna have a purpose in life. Okay, what has God got for you? You've got to identify that. What you he's giving you specific gifts and and a calling, you have to do that And you have to get your children involved and teach them how they can support you in that and girls will support their husbands as they go, but th God may have some girls that have that without husbands and have a desire, have a missionary field and go in that direction. But that's Part of the training that they should be and they're they're needed in the kingdom of God also, not just in your family, but in the kingdom of God, in your ministry. How can they make an impact for God? That's very important. And as they learn that and they grow that, that's gonna encompass all their emotional needs that are gonna be met through that, through Christ, through the ministry. And they're needed in that whatever that miss mission field is for you. And I think that's important. They learn how to serve others through that and you teach them by example Yeah, and I appreciate what you said about the um the the potential for any sort of gender confusion or gender concern, because I agree a hundred percent, you know. Um Uh if if a boy, uh young boy, puts on his his mom's shoes and uh one of her blouses or something and runs around the house, that doesn't mean that he all of a sudden thinks he's a girl. He just thinks it's fun and funny to put on something that's mom's or whatever and Yeah, we don't have to be overreactive to those sorts of things. And so we don't be like hyper concerned about that sort of thing. So I'm I appreciate the way. And they'll get over it. You don't wanna you don't wanna make them into a opposite set because they're just experimenting. I mean you may s smell a spice, doesn't mean you're gonna turn into a spice. You're just experimenting and and learning about the spice. Yeah. Well good good stuff. Uh next week we're gonna talk we've touched on it a couple of times uh very briefly questions that have to do with adoption. We're gonna focus more specifically on adoption next week. Uh the last voice you heard before in mind was Imran Razby, the other voice on this show is Daniel Razby, they've got a ministry You can check them out at conquered by love. org. Visit uh the show and me and my church and everything else we're involved with here at household of faith in Christ dot com. Of course you can go to WFFD. com too. We'll penalize you for that. Till next week. Thanks for listening to the Faith and Baby with Baptist. One hundred and sixty seven and a thousand right now.