This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. Less than one half hour learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The faith debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with a master of divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Fate Debate Master of Ceremonies. Oh, yeah. Troy Skinner. In the day on a faith a based show I used to share, you know, a book of the week what I was reading kind of thing. You know, here's what I'm reading lately. Uh and we have a word of the day or a weird word of the week and that sort of stuff. And we don't do that anymore, but This past year, back in twenty nineteen, I uh made it an aim to post about what I was reading and to post uh kind of a mini review um of of what I was reading on Facebook. One book every week. So the goal was fifty-two books in fifty-two weeks. And I've already actually shared A few of those. And so now I'm going to share number five. And I I can't this idea of reading a multitude of books averaging one a week uh hit me a little bit after the year started, so I had to play a little catch up early on. And so Uh I think I make note in some of what I'm going to read here in a second to that, so I don't want you to be thoroughly confused, just partially confused to be okay. So anyway, this is uh book number five. Eighteen years ago, Randy Alcorn published a bite-sized gem, The Treasure Principle, Discovering the Secret of Joyful Giving, is chocked full of scripture references and beautiful analogies and illustrations. It is pocket-sized and contains fewer than 100 pages, so this book can be easily read cover to cover in a single sitting. Is the Treasure Principle a Must Read? Won't go that far. However, I strongly commend this book to you. There's a smattering of 14 bumper sticker style quotes from the book. God wants us to live to His glory, but what is to His glory is always to our good. Present joy comes from anticipating future joy. Anything we try to hang on to here will be lost, but anything we put into God's hands will be ours for eternity. Don't wait until you feel like giving. It could be a long wait. Giving isn't a luxury of the rich, it's a privilege of the poor. As thunder follows lightning, giving follows grace. Many people can't afford to give precisely because they're not giving. Some of these are profound, some of these are funny. It's much easier to live on 90% or 50% or 10% of your income inside the will of God than it is to live on 100% outside it. Giving is a skill. With practice, we get better at it. If you procrastinate, the same heart that's prompting you to give today may later persuade you not to. Any gospel that is more true in America than China is not the true gospel When God provides more money, we often think this is a blessing. Well, yes, but it would be just as scriptural to think this is a test. God prospers me not to raise my standard of living, but to raise my standard of giving. And the last of the bumper sticker quotes from Randy Elkorn's book, The Treasure Principle. Boldly, or rather, let me get it right at least, Randy wouldn't be happy with me. Giving boldly affirms Christ's Lordship. So now on to number six. This is book number six in week number seven, so I'm almost caught up and being on pace. Yay! This book is the first one that I'm mentioning on this list of 52 that I'm recommending against. Do not read this book. Well, you can read it if you want to, but in my opinion, it would be a poor use of your time. Not only will this book likely bring confusion to those hoping to gain insight into the life of Jesus, but as literature it's not even all that compelling. The Liar's Gospel by Naomi Elderman is a novel that presents an alternative picture of Jesus. uh who in the book is called um Yehoshua of Nazareth Through the eyes of four main characters, Mary, Miriam in the book, Judas, Yehuda of Kiryat in the book. Caiaphas, Caiaphiz also in the book, and Barabbas, Baravo in the book The shadows of the characters will be familiar to Bible readers, but the identities in sharper focus will be significantly unrecognizable. For example, Miriam In the book, the mother of Jesus is not a virgin, is completely unaware that her son might be the son of God and carries with her a bitter despair. Actually, none of the four main characters ever pause to consider that Jesus is the Christ. This might be because, according to Alderman, the author, Jesus is the natural-born son of Joseph. Other noteworthy deviations from the New Testament narrative include Judas not committing suicide, Baradas gathering the disciples rather than Jesus doing the gathering. And Caiaphas maintaining a vague cluelessness about Jesus having ever been an individual of significance. In the end, the book puts forth a Jewish Jesus Jesus, which is what fans of the book will like. This is fine as far as it goes, because Jesus was, in fact, Jewish. However, this book presents Jesus as merely Jewish and not as the Alpha and Omega, not the way, the truth, and the life, nor the Lamb of God. In comparison to the biblical four gospels, the liar's gospel is revisionist history that inverts and turns on its head much of what Scripture records is actual history, and therefore The Liar's Gospel is ironically an appropriate title for this work of fiction. 52 books in 52 weeks. Next entry. After getting a late start and posting at the start of the year, it is now book number seven and week number seven. So starting next week, it'll be one book per week for the remainder of the year. Dr. Jan Allender and Dr. Tremper Longman are two of my favorites. They collaborated on bold love, and the collaboration does not disappoint. The book is insightful, challenging, encouraging, honest and full of truth that's counterintuitive to our present day politically correct culture of pretense. Bad love confronts the reality of hatred and also what passes for love in our society. It penetrates to the heart of vengeance and to the heart of true forgiveness in Christ. It presents well-formulated advice that is both practical and scary. This is a very, very good book. In the author's own words, quote, bold love is anything but passive. It is unpredictable, cunning, and creative. It is a violation of the natural order of things In many cases it will unnerve, offend, disturb, or even hurt those who are being loved. But in the end It will also compel them to deal with the internal disease that is robbing them and others of true beauty. End quote. If I had three thumbs, then I would give this book three thumbs up. 52 books in 52 weeks, number eight. Jenny Allen surprised me with her little gem Anything, the prayer that unlocked my God and my soul. I had never heard of Mrs. Allen before and purchased the book only because it cost but a few bucks at a discount bookseller. Thumbing through the pages, I could see that anything, sites and even quotes scripture throughout, this is always appreciated. So I figured for such a limited investment, how bad could it be? Not bad at all, turns out. Anything encourages Christians to embrace what it calls a reckless faith. By this the author means a faith where I knew God was real because I needed him, she writes. Faith where I lived surrendered, obedient, a faith where I sacrificed something, comfort or safety or practicality, something. She illustrates what she's teaching by using a large variety of anecdotal stories throughout the book. Some of these stories are her own, some are stories that are those of her friends. Alan is a excellent storyteller. The narrative fortunes of the book are well told, and even the rest of the book flows much like one would expect of a novel, which this book is not. Incidentally, much of the content is shared from a feminine perspective, so women might especially enjoy the book. Anything does a tremendous job capturing the reality that is experienced by too many Christians The reality of very often feeling that faith is plastic. The cure, says Alan, is praying to God that you will do anything for him, and then seeking to discover what anything it is that he's calling you to do. Here's where I must add a word of caution. The author's advice seems sound to me because the advice seems biblical. However The stories used to support the advice tend to illustrate only positive outcomes. In fairness to the book, it does mention struggles, doubts, fears, and so forth. However, nearly each story struck me as having a happily ever end uh happily ever after ending. This doesn't mean that the book shouldn't be read. In fact, I'm strongly commending this book to you. However, be reminded that the Apostle Paul essentially prayed anything to God. And as a result, he was repeatedly beaten, left for dead, imprisoned, shipwrecked, and eventually executed. Yet it is good that he prayed anything, because his ultimate end is one of eternal blessing in the favorable presence of his Lord. All I'm meaning to say here is that praying anything could and likely will bring persecution and other significant hardships, and therefore be prepared for that bumpy road and pray anything anyway. 52 books in 52 weeks, number nine. I typically find it edifying to read books that offer four reviews or five views on a specific topic. The book edited by Donald L. Alexander, titled Christian Spirituality, Five Views of Sanctification, is no exception. Gerhart O'Ford's chapter on the Lutheran view is unfortunately not as helpful as it might have been. The arguments are too often of the straw man variety, or they strike me as mere assertions, and or they're inconsistently formulated. Some interesting points are made, but on the whole, not the book's best chapter. Sinclair Ferguson's chapter on the reformed view contains several nice analogies and incorporates more thoughts on the human experience than does Ford. At least one point the chapter slips into mere assertion rather than building a case for the view. But on the whole, this is not a problem for the chapter. Lawrence W. Wood's chapter on the Wesleyan View now has numerous comments written by me in the margins of my copy of the book. Several of these are question marks, sad faces, and dissatisfied exclamation marks. In fairness, I also commented good, yes, and true on several pages. So overall, I give a hm to this chapter. Russell P. Spittler's chapter on the Pentecostal view provides a history lesson and drifts into equating spirituality with sanctification. All five sections of the book also offer direct responses by each author to each of the main chapters. This strength of the book as a whole is also a strength with regard to this chapter. E. Glenn Hinson's chapter on the contemplative view offers much that seems a bit esoteric, even a tad Buddhist, in a couple of places. The chapter outlines four stages of prayer, mental exercise, meditation and imagination, sleep of the faculties, and finally contemplation. This is easily the most abstract chapter This series of essays, all contained within one volume, provides a wonderfully easy way to take a quick survey of many competing contemporary views of sanctification within the Protestant world. If you like that sort of thing. Definitely give this book a reading. It will cause you to think and likely will help you to clarify your own view, whatever that view might be. This is the Faith Debate, and we're going through book reviews that I posted in 2019. I did one a week for a whole year. And right now we're up to, and you're listening to the Faith Debate on 930 WFMB. My name is Croy Skinner. So now we're up to 52 books in 52 weeks. Number 10. The Contemporaries Meet the Classics on Prayer is a vast collection of essays assembled by Dr. Leonard Allen. The book is organized under ten alliterative categories. Those are Purpose of Prayer, Psalms of Prayer, Patterns for Prayer, Passion for Prayer, Posture for Prayer. problems with prayer, powerlessness in prayer, public and private prayer, pastoral prayer, and power of prayer. Each section contains an average of about ten essays. Contributors include some uh names that not everyone will immediately recognize and some names that nearly everyone will surely recognize from John Bunyan, Martin Luther, and John Calvin. To Bill Heibels and Tony Evans and Eugene Peterson. From John Edwards and Dietrich Bonhoeffer and Oswald Chambers to Charles Sinney, Jim Cimbala, and Max Locato. Or do you say Lakato? Depends on who I talk to. I think he actually I think Max actually says Lacado. From Isaac Watts, Charles Wesley, and Joni Erickson Tata to C. S. Lewis, Charles Spurgeon, and Mother Teresa. So you can see there's some big names. contributing in this book. The book was published sixteen years ago, but it's still available online and can be stumbled upon at discount bookstores, which is how I found it. 52 Books in 52 Weeks, Number 11. To Be Told is one of the most surprising books I've read. I expected this effort from Dr. B. Allender to be a helpful guide for examining one's life and mapping one's future. It does this most excellently, encouraging the reader to examine their life story, even digging deeper than the moment of their conception in the womb. Who are your parents and grandparents and great-grandparents? What are their stories? How has this affected the shaping of your story? What is your cultural context, your ethnicity, your religious heritage? How have these affected the shaping of your story? Which memories do you recall most readily? Which memories do you avoid? Which memories are buried so deep that you can almost not access them? How have these things affected the shaping of your story? This book is penetrating and impactful, and this is not what surprised me. I was surprised by the number of almost accidental insights I gained from reading the book. The main thesis revolves around the idea that people co-author their stories with the author of the universe, the biblical God. As they grew to increasingly appreciate this concept, they ended up with what feels like a stronger sense of biblical inspiration, given that Scripture is written by both God and humans at the same time. To be told, this is a book I highly recommend, To Be Told. Dan Alander. 52 Books in 52 Weeks, number 12. Last week I made a recommendation for you to read, To Be Told, by Dr. Dan B. Allender. I feel that a shout out is owed to Lisa K. Fawn as well. She did excellent work in writing the workbook for To Be Told. The main points of the book are recapitulated in a way that strengthens these points. The stories from the full book are cast with additional context. The assigned exercises bring accountability and require much personal reflection. The probing questions encourage a fruitful dialogue if one should happen to work through the book with a spouse, a friend, or even as part of a group. What's so great is that the book and the work book are not intended to be mere navel-gazing treatises. The purpose or the pursuit is after knowing God better by knowing oneself better in order to serve God and others better. A quick note for writers, if you enjoy writing in a journal, a diary, a personal blog, etc. , you will really enjoy this workbook. If you'd rather not write the workbook and still be a productive aid, but it will be more productive if you actually make the effort to put pen to paper. So that's the workbook that Delisa Fon wrote to go along with To Be Told, Dan Ellinger's book. 52 books in 52 weeks. Number 13. Sexual intimacy, the name of the book. Sexual intimacy is a study guide. While it can be used for group discussion, it might best be used by married couples in a rather private setting. Authors Dan Elender and Trempor Longman have structured the contents to facilitate six discussion sessions of about one hour each. This booklet could be read from cover to cover in less than two hours, by the way. Most of the biblical material is from Song of Songs, although there is some use of Genesis, 2 Samuel, and Psalms. The authors have purposely selected the New Living Translation for their Bible quotes. Many people are not huge fans of the New Living Translation, charging it with having a lack of veracity. However, in this context, the New Living Translation does seem to be a strong choice. Particular strengths of sexual intimacy would include several keen insights into the interpretation of highly symbolic scriptural language and especially helpful leaders' notes that span nearly 20 pages. Twenty pages of leaders notes. Fifty-two books in fifty-two weeks, number fourteen. Admittedly, I've been on a bit of a Alan Der Longman kick lately. I find it helpful at times to really dig into someone's thinking by reading a series of their books in a row. However, after this week, I'll move on to something different, I promise. Intimate Allies has the subtitle, Rediscovering God's Design for Marriage and Becoming Soulmates for Life. If you read other works by Dan Elender and Tremper Longman, then you'll quickly recognize several themes in their council If you haven't read other books by these authors, this one is a pretty good source for getting the big picture of what they teach and why. Through the use of real-life case studies. points from scripture and uh practical pedagogy, the reader is darn near forced to examine their own psyche and the effect that this has on their relationships. The material is not even close to being described as dense But the reading is also not as breezy as some of the other books that these two men have written together. If you and your spouse are looking for a book to read together, this one is a strong option to consider. Intimate Allies by Elander and Longman. 52 books in 52 weeks, number 15. A few years ago I discovered the best author I'd never heard of. It was twenty years ago that Ted Decker wrote his first novel titled Heaven's Wager. Since then he has written more than fifty additional books, ranging in genre from mystery, thriller, fantasy, and horror to nonfiction. Despite turning out an average of one new book every four months, Decker has been lauded for the quality of his writing and storytelling, evidenced by the numerous awards that his works have won. Heaven's Wager creates a contemporary narrative of the story of Job with a twist. In the Old Testament, Job is a man who worships God, and the devil works to undermine his faith by taking everything away from him, his family, his wealth, his health. In the novel, the main character, whose name is Kent, works, uh worships the things of this world, and the devil works to undermine any chance of religious conversion by taking everything away from him, his family, his wealth, his reputation. Ted Decker has masterfully turned a number of his books into franchises, having developed approximately ten series. Each book in a series can generally stand on its own, but there is a connected story arc that brings marketing muscle to book sales. This novel fits that template as one of four books in what has been dubbed the Martyr Song series. These four titles are Heaven's Wager, When Heaven Weeps, Thunder of Heaven and the Martyrs Song. Be warned, Ted Decker books can become addictive. 52 books in 52 weeks, number sixteen. Last week I highlighted Ted Decker's novel Heaven's Wager, mentioning that it was part of a four-part series called Martyrs the Martyrs Song Series. Well Three of those four books were published in one volume and marketed as the Heaven Trilogy. This book includes three novels: Heaven's Wager, When Heaven Weeps, and The Thunder of Heaven. If you're thinking about owning the full series, this is a cost-conscious way to buy the three books. Heaven's Wager is the lightest of the three stories. When heaven's heaven weeps is much, much darker and thunder of heaven is kind of kind of sort of splits the difference. Let me do one more before I have to wrap up today's show. Harry Blemeyers was a pretty big name in evangelical circles, despite not really being an evangelical himself, back in the 1960s and 70s. I was reminded of this C. S. Lewis protege when he died a little over a year ago, just weeks before the death of R. C. Sprohl, uh, at the age of 101. When I saw New Town, a fable, unless you believe, on sale for just one dollar, I grabbed it. This breezy and quirky novel from 2005 is unlike the works from which uh Blenmeyers is best known. This allegory might be viewed as an attempt at a modern-day pilgrim's progress, but it is far less grand than John Bunyan's historic classic. New Town might also be viewed as an attempt to accomplish in short story form what Lewis and Tolkien did in long form fashion, but in actuality it's really more of an evangelism tract wrapped in a book jacket. While reading, I laughed a number of times, I smiled several times more, but unfortunately also groaned aloud at some bad puns, predictable wordplay, and humor that was a bit too on the nose. All in all, it's not a terrible book, and it can be completed in about as much time as it would likely take to play a round of golf. On the plus side, some of the author's choices will cleverly and helpfully get Bible students thinking about old truths afresh. On the negative side, some of the author's choices will leave Bible students scratching their heads and wondering, why is Blemeier's leaving open the door to salvation by works righteousness? So there you have it. I'm going to pick up with uh book number eighteen, I guess, in next week's show as we work our way through the list. Thanks for playing along It's fun for me, hopefully it's fun for you. Hopefully you're you're learning something. And if you're a reader, maybe some of these suggestions are books you haven't read before, you might want to think about picking them up. Uh if you want to visit the website and and learn more about the Faith Debate and past shows and panel discussions that we've had on this show, you can do so. Go to WFMD. com. Keyword Faith gets you there. The drop-down menu of the shows. Click on Faith Debate that way. That gets you there. If you want to hear podcasts, you can find podcasts on the Faith to Fay page, and you can find a deeper library of podcasts on the WFMD Audio Vault on the WFMD website as well. Again, WFMD. And you can learn more about what we're doing on WFND's Facebook page, and on my Facebook page for that matter. Until next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless.