This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The faith debate is on the World Wide Web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with the master of Dominity from Reform Theological Seminary, the faith debate master of ceremonies. Oh Troy Skinner. If you attend a church, then you've more than likely heard your pastor at one time or another mention the importance of overseas music. Missions. Perhaps you've even had a few missionaries visit your congregation over the years. Perhaps you've even given financial support to foreign missions. Perhaps even gone on one of your own short mission trips for a week or two or three. But what's the life like for full time foreign missionaries, those who moved their entire family to a third world country and raised their children there? Today we find out. I'm Froy Skinner, and here for the first of a four-part series. On foreign Christian missions are the husband and wife team of Scott and Susie Weirzma, Christian missionaries to Albania. And we're going to get into uh what Albania is all about, where it is, because if it weren't for Scott and Susie Weizma, I don't think I would know anything at all about Albania. Yeah. Uh and uh full disclosure, I have known Scott for almost forty years. Uh we met back in nineteen eighty. And uh I've known Susie for what about the last twenty-five-ish years, something like that. So um we go way back and uh they are under court order not to reveal too much about the relationship So anyway, Scott and Susie, they surprised me about, you know, ten, twelve years ago saying, Hey, we know we're we're raising money, we're gonna be missionaries in Albania and I said, Albany who? Where is that So uh so that we have some context, which one of you whichever one of you wants to take a second just to kind of say where it is on a map, that sort of thing, and then I want to talk about kind of the the whole process of being called to go there Actually, Albania is a small country. It's located in Southeast Europe, truly between uh Italy and Greece. It it borders the eastern part of the Adriatic Sea Gives you a rough estimate right there in the Balkans area. Okay. So and it was formerly ruled under behind the Iron Curtain and all that, correct? A lot of communist influence left over and that sort of thing. So it's a hard place to cultivate. Correct. Right Yes. And so is that why you got to lead you guys. I was going to say, is that why you you were called to go there specifically? What was that like? It was what, 2007, I think. You guys were in prayer thinking about what you're going to do with your Christian Walk or something like that? No, our I would say our initial call started in nineteen ninety-five, about two years after we got married. Um we both sensed the Lord uh calling us to foreign missions And so um it was something that uh we felt strongly enough about that we went to our head pastor at the time, the church we were attending, and explained that to him And um and his thoughts were that you just need to give more money in the offering. Don't worry about the foreign missions, you know, they can they can take care of their own, you just give more money to the church. And uh and the Lord uh moved us from that church. Um a series of uh of events and we began attending a a church that was very missions minded. And uh but it was still quite a process until um the Lord really directed our steps again and reminded us again of our calling. two missions and that wasn't until two thousand and seven. Yeah, so in those intervening twelve years, did you kind of almost I don't know if you could forget about such a thing, but did you kind of put out of your mind the idea of a foreign call to missions? Was it always there and you're just kind of waiting for the right timing? Were you trying to guess if it really was what God wanted? Did you have doubts of what twelve years is a long time. So what was going on in those twelve years? But certainly we had taken some mission trips, short-term mission trips. I um went to uh Romania with my I think she was uh eleven years old at the time, her oldest daughter. and spent about ten days in Romania at an orphanage there. And also uh my wife and I had gone to Scotland on a what was about ten day, two week mission trip to the screen. Of course Scotland, you're Scott. Exactly. So Mish long-term missions was not on the radar, but certainly missions was, because the church was certainly into missions and had many missionaries that would come and be guest speakers at the church. Now in fairness, you ever gone to Suzy Land? No, I don't think it exists. Well, no something's not right with the world then. Yeah. Alright, so you've uh now it's two thousand seven and you're feeling like Well I don't know what do you think? Is it a snudge, a pull, a tug, an ache? Like a sense of frustration within ministry. Um Scott as as the Lord directed us in our life. Um Scott actually went into full time ministry, or I should say yeah, uh He had three part time jobs, one of those being part time professional ministry. He went to professional ministry. And he was the youth pastor. And so um You know, so we were very involved with our church. And Scott shared an office with the children's pastor And the children's pastor put a sign up in the office that said, The Lord has called us to be fishers of men, not keepers of the aquarium. And that was something that really struck my heart like I think I was getting frustrated sometimes, um, with a ministry where you feel like you're called to be a doctor. And you wanna be it going out and and and helping sick people and you're spending all your time doing wellness checks And I felt like there's there's more to my calling, there's more to what the Lord had called us to do. And uh not that that doesn't need to be done within the community itself. But I think it was just a frustration that that I had felt that stirred something in me as to how easy it is to become complacent within for me within the church and being and being content with just being on staff but not truly fulfilling what the Lord was calling you. So you see this sign in the other pastor's office or I guess the office that Scott shared with the other pastor and see you at home you say, Hey Scott, you ever notice that sign in your office? I'm thinking we should go to Europe or something. Uh and so you start have uh I mean isn't really not at all. I mean and for Scott it was slightly different, but around that same timing. Mm-hmm. Correct. Okay, so that was kind of what prick Her heart again. So what was it that put you on the same page with her? Actually in summary I had a few different times that the Lord spoke to me Uh one, we had been invited to a Chi Alpha convention in Indianapolis, and at the end of that convention is when the the Lord spoke actually to both of us and said, I've called you to missions. On the way returning from that conference, Chi Alpha. Chi Alpha. It's a college ministry. Okay. And returning from there, the Lord spoke to me again and said It's it's time. Your time there in context meeting at that particular church is short. Start passing the baton. So my prayers became, Lord, who do you want me to start passing what responsibilities to Uh and then once we were back in the town and uh the Lord spoke again and said, I have more for you And when you say the Lord spoke, just an impression in your mind. Yeah, kind of a thought in my mind and it was kind of him in my own mind speaking to me what I just basically stated in those three different times So what's the uh confirmation part like? Like how do you know because there might be someone listening right now who said I think I've I may I might be called to missions. Sure. Uh when do you go from I think I might be called to missions to I'm called the missions I need to go. Like is there a threshold you cross? Uh I think to answer that it was a point of people just moving forward by faith. Uh I had asked the Lord, Lord, make sure I want to make sure this is correct, and I asked him to confirm it to me three times, and the Lord actually confirmed it seven times. So that we knew this was it. No, I don't know. That's a great question. Because I called our assembly got headquarters and I said, you know, this is what the Lord told me Basically, what's my next step? He said, well, we'll send you the application for foreign missions, if I can say. And uh so it came in the mail and we start filling it out. And even during that time we had some spiritual attacks. One was uh a form of identity theft, which took a long time. But at that time again, again the Lord had just impressed in the and it was like this thought in my mind, you're Keep going. You're in the right direction. Now, what was the vetting process like? I mean, does the assemblies of God, you know, make it difficult? Make it easy? Um it's it's a I mean certainly a process um where it's if you're called you're gonna keep pursuing it. If you're not you might give up. Um but I mean it's one of those things where it's you know simply filling out the paperwork. Um you definitely need to have multiple references and people who can vouch for you. Um there's interviews They check out your life in many different areas, not only just spiritually, but they also make sure financially you are able to go and able to maintain that. You certainly have health checks to make sure you're healthy enough uh to be able to live overseas as well. So there's a lot of areas like that that they're checking in. The route that we went, Scott was not ordained at the time. So we were limited to which tracks that we could go on And SOV went with the Missionary Associate Tract, which is a one-to-two-year term that you serve underneath the missionary Um had he been full um ordained, we could have gone over fully appointed and that would have been very different and the process for that is much more rigorous and stuff like that in order to Now did you have any outside of your marital dialogue, did you have other people, pastors, friends, whatever who were without even knowing it giving you confirmation. Did you guys ever think about becoming foreign missionaries? I think you'd be great at that. Yes. Actually I had met with my brother and sister and God had moved them from their church, not in a bad way, but in a very positive way, into other forms of ministry. And then actually into convoy of hope, which is disaster response. So when we had like dinner with them and I was explaining something that the Lord was telling me and my sister-in-law actually said, God is really stirring your heart Which again was kind of confirmation to what I was thinking. And uh people in Frederick might be familiar with the name Convoy of Hope. They've done some they do some community-based things as well. Correct. And they were here three or four years in a row, about three or four years ago was the last one I think, if my memory serves. All the years start running together once you get like thirty, you know. Right. Ten ten years passed by in a month, it seems like. Right. But um But that was different. So like that kind of boy hope they come and they and they gather food and they set up prayer tents uh and and they're trying to meet the need of of uh the indigenous population that might be struggling financially or might be in a spiritual place and then and they're unchurched. That's not what Convoy of Hope I think is mostly known for, ironically, although in Frederick it might be what they're mostly known for. But the what they're mostly known for is what your brother Nick does, which is when there's a hurricane or a tsunami or something horrible like that. Correct. They deploy and they get there like before FEMA or something. and they are anticipating and so they begin their trek already with trucks full of water and blankets and food and clothing donations and so on. So that they can be there as as soon as it's safe to be. This is the Faith Debate at 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Scott and Susie Wearsma, missionaries to Albania. And do you ever You must. When you get together with family or you skype each other, you know, long distance or whatever. You must have conversations to say, how is it that both of us are basically doing foreign missions? Nick is doing foreign disaster relief missionary work, and you guys are doing long-term, you know, uh embedded foreign missionary work, but it's foreign mission is y is that a coincidence or do you it's something in your upbringing or you can't explain it? Oh, I can say that's just the plan of God that we know of. Yeah. But you have um You you don't know you have any on your side? On my side? Yeah, your side of the family? No. Well I know that you have family who is ordained. Well well uh I think your uncle's now passed on, maybe. Yes, he is. Uh but so you had that influence, maybe that played part uh sub subconsciously, maybe? I mean I don't know. He didn't get emotional on me. Yeah, it's okay. And he was certainly um probably encouraging me jet very gently and lovingly uh of the Bible because I would ask him different questions and he says it takes a long time but Uh he was certainly a positive influence in my life. Yeah, I didn't get to know him that well, but uh I used to hang out with the Wersman family a lot when I was younger and I went on a couple of family vacations to visit. uh h his family in Michigan and they had a beautiful lake house with uh with a boat and he did the water skiing and he taught me the phrase buy and by I'd never heard that before He said, Yeah, well we'll go get some dessert, you know, by and by and I said, What? What's by and by? What does that mean? So anyway. You had mentioned a few minutes ago, Scott, uh that before you'd made this commitment to do this big long term uh missions your life You had gone on some short-term uh missions trips, like Romania, for example. Yes. Um what are some noteworthy differences in the experiences between those short-term trips and what you guys have been doing for the last decade? Uh just knowing that it's short and you've raised the money for that and you've really just said, God, if you want me to go to this, keep the doors open and God opens the doors, uh, taking family with and then Just trying to be um as loving as possible as a short time as you're there with the people that you meet, uh, versus Trying to go, for example, long-term missions is more of trying to build relationship, going to the same bread shop so that you build that relationship or going to the same service station so you build that relationship with the with the men. Uh perhaps going to the same coffee shop. So again it's it's long term building those relationships. Whereby when you're on a short term, that's very difficult to do if you're only in a country, let's say ten days or or two weeks. Now this might feel like a stick in the eye to those who've done a lot of short-term missions in their in their life, but this is the faith they base, so I get to ask the hard questions. How effective do you think the short-term mission strips really are for accomplishing the goal of advancing the kingdom versus these long-term embedded strips? You really need both Is that right? You really mean both. You know, short term you could say, oh you're there, you you you bring the word, but then you're not follow up and so on Um so it is good to have the long term missionary that's there, you know, to continue to disciple the people that are able to hear the gospel for the first time and and make a life decision for that. Um but having the short term people come in, it gets It gets lonely, it gets uh very tiresome to be on the mission field. Um and when you have the short-term missions team come in, they're able to bring in just this uh refreshing breeze that comes in with them. They have an energy that they're able to bring in that even though you know, maybe you've been hitting the ground hard and they they somehow they come in and they bring in something that sometimes So that bring great benefit to you as a long term missionaries. And the field as well. They're able to, you know, because they have all this energy they can do, they can do a bigger event They can do more in that one week than we could do on our own. And so and and they bring financial resources as well. They're able to bring supplies with them. There's a lot of things that they bring to it as as well. And sometimes it's even the benefits to well, I I guess a lot of benefits to the l the missionary thinking too because You know, as as you share with them and you're bringing life to you know, and bringing them around to the people that you've loved on, it just kind of rekindles your heart as well, where you can get tired and Um things can seem monotonous and stuff like that. It just it helps to to keep you on your toes. Now I've got uh kind of a two part question. I gotta tell you what the second part is first, because it's probably the the more typical question that gets asked because it's a safer question uh when you're out. speaking to different churches and stuff, they probably ask you, how did you choose Albania? Yeah, why didn't you pick some other country? So that's that's the safe, you know, friendly fire kinda question. The the question you probably get a little bit less frequently, but must run through the minds of some people is why foreign missions at all? I mean, there's a lot of lost, impoverished, devastated communities in the United States you know, why not do an a uh a United States full time missionary kind of thing in some of those areas? So can you speak to what your thinking was we're called the long term missions, you know, why What was the spark in your heart that made you want to go foreign and not domestic in the missions? Um Gosh, I mean I I guess I would say it's just the way that we are wired. You know, not everybody could do foreign missions. Um and so I think it's uh the way that the Lord prepared us is we talk about getting that seed planted in nineteen ninety-five, but not going and beginning the process till two thousand and seven. you know, we can see the way that the Lord really the things that we dealt with in life were, you know, kind of like um We didn't know at the time that they were strengthening us or they were preparing us for life on the foreign mission field, but they were. And um it isn't that staying in America is any less important than the people in Albania. But it's the reality is God so loved the world. And there are people that are called to minister in in everywhere in the world. And so there isn't any more value should be placed on us as people going to Albania. um than it is for the pastor who stays and he's in Frederick and he's ministering to the people in Frederick. Like it's all the same call. We've all been called. So to make a difference and and I see that frustration with people, why why go there? We've got enough poor people here, we have enough of whatever. That's great. You're right. And people need to be doing that as well. We've got a few minutes left on today's show, so maybe in these few minutes you can explain why Albania. Really? That was uh dark one, maybe? No. going because we knew we'd been called and we said, Lord, we can go any country in the world. We were very workable, flexible, which is another point of the foreign missions Um, because life can be very challenging, uh, with water, shortage of water, shortage of electricity, etcetera. Uh but the Lord had really Confirm because when we talked to the missionaries over there, they said what's really on your heart, we said discipleship and they said great, there's a huge need for discipleship there And discipleship was actually one of my responsibilities the first four years as I was campus disciple campus pastor at the Bible college there. And by discipleship Correct kind of up. Spending time with people speaking into their life. Correct. Training them as Jesus trained his own disciples, if I can use that metaphor. Uh but also then we had asked our girls had actually asked a question, uh Lord you know, wherever the Lord sends us, can they have missionaries that they could play with and minister with also? And that was the case in Albania. So the Lord was kinda getting our attention there. Because they had three two girls and a boy. We had two girls and a boy. Our girls were the same ages and our boys were only six months apart. So we knew God was working on something there. We asked if we could minister with them, the answer was yes. We asked if we would be living near them, and the answer was yes. Uh so actually God was answering our questions yes, yes, yes, and yes, and even prior to that We had an opportunity to go to Greece, to go to Romania, and it was just kind of like no, that wasn't right. And God was kind of weeding out Greece, nothing bad, just wasn't for us, and weeding out Romania. Because God's like, no, not quite there, I have a place for you So it was really God answering our questions yes, yes, and yes, which confirmed, okay, God wants us in Albania. And over what length of time did that play out? How long did it take before you whittled it down to Albania is the one? Um, I would say the whole process from applying and being directed towards Europe, um, maybe a month. Oh, so that was pretty quick. Yeah, and then yeah, and then getting contact from these different missionaries that all invited us to come and do ministry alongside them. Okay. Yeah. Uh we've got about a minute, so I don't know if we can do this in a minute or not. But uh if you can do it in a minute, you had mentioned a second ago, Susie, that Uh not all can do foreign missions. You gotta be wired a certain way, maybe. So what w what is that wiring? What is what is the wiring of a foreign missions person? Um flexibility I think um I think with the the Lord putting in our heart in ninety five the idea of missions, we held loosely on the material things. So there weren't a lot of things that were holding us to America. You know, we can live without a lot of stuff that's not as important to us. Um And and so I think it's just uh it just the way that like if if some people I can't live without my m my ice machine on my refrigerator, then you're probably not built for foreign missions. If things like that are more important than the sacrifices that you kinda need to make to live in a country that you're not going to get all those things. And so um yeah, I just think it's just things like that. The little things that can can be hindrances. You concur Yes. The flexibility and the not being bound by some of the materialistic ac aspects or and that No. Right Yes. And if you know, like I imagine sometimes and I can't imagine what it would have been like to be alive, you know, even in the United States in eighteen thirty two. Exactly. You know, no electricity, outhouses. Uh how did they do it? I don't so if you can't imagine living that life, you know, m and and it scares the pants off of you, then maybe you should think twice about it, maybe, is what I'm hearing. Like that really excites me and I'd love to find out what it would have been like to live in the United States back in eighteen thirty two. I'll sign me up. Then maybe maybe it's a potentially good fit. Perhaps all right well that's gonna do it for this show. We'll have Scott and Susie back next week. Scott and Susie Wearsma, they are with um what's the organization that you're with? Assembly of God World Missions. Okay, and it wasn't something that Scott didn't know the World Missions part. Yeah. So anyway, we're gonna have them back next week and we're gonna talk more of uh about their experience. um with their their children in Albania and uh dealing with the people over there and so that ought to be uh a good uh a good uh Geopolitical lesson for us as well. Thanks so much. This is the Faith Debate I'm Troy Skinner and this is WFMB nine thirty AM on your dial You can find us online at WFMB dot com. Keyword faith gets you the Faith Debate page with a drop down menu for all the uh on air shows. You can find the Faith to Fa Faith Debate page there. And when you get there you'll see what's coming up on future shows, what's been on in recent weeks and You can find links to all the podcasts in case you missed part of the show and you want to catch it all later. Alright, so uh go do that until next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless.