This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious treble being, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. We're Faith Community Leaders. Wrestle over the truth. Yaba do in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to run by Let's get ready to rumble. Ah. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary. The fate debate master of ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. Yes, that is. Corner weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder John Sweiser. Even worse, lots of people say they have a high expectation of being demeaned, abused, and being treated violently in any encounter with law enforcement. And yet there are those among them who say that ultimately the problem is not a skin problem, but is a sin problem If you want to better understand this complex issue and be an agent of reconciliation, then perhaps our discussion here today will provide help along those lines. Once more, visiting Uh with John and me on the Faith Debate to talk about our culture's current societal situation as Vaughn Thurman, a follower of Christ and his teachings, as are all three of us on the panel uh this week. There's so many things I was kind of thinking and hoping, although vaguely knowing that we would never quite get to uh on the series of shows. We we committed to each other we would do four shows together on this topic and we're at Ford uh show number four Uh we haven't talked at all about the defund police uh movement. We haven't really talked about the historical uh philosophical movements at play when it comes to postmodernism and deconstructionism and cultural Marxism. Uh some good isms we're talking a little bit about social justice, but not in the the depth You know there's Skinnerism out there. Skinnerism? Yeah. Oh that that's the Leonard. Yeah, Leonard. Leonard skinnerism. Uh we haven't even talked about the things that will be at the forefront that don't have isms on them that people are talking about. Like you know the the we haven't addressed the rioters response to the to what's going on, the political response to what's going on. We haven't really gotten deeply involved in what the churches we've had some talk about the church complex. There's so much and we've hinted at and probably if if I were to edit the all of the stuff we've done together and pieced it together, I could probably find five minutes where we've talked about strategies for moving forward. But we haven't even had a chance to talk about that. So it's really interesting, almost frustrating uh to do that, right? Well but we've talked about a lot of really good stuff, but the thing is there are Yeah, we've grabbed as we can and we're trying to be forthright and honest and therefore vulnerable, which you know, we've mentioned it the last couple of times. I think about how dangerous that is. I mean, we're, you know, three white guys, uh, in the midst of a cancel culture that if you're you misstep and you're not careful and so Again, this is going to come across the wrong way, and so this is the risk you take because those in the cancel culture would be really easy offended and say, who do you think you are? But we have to walk on eggshells on issues like this in ways that blacks don't have to. Candace Owen can get away with saying things I cannot There are some people on social media that are uh you know, black they're not treating her real nice right now either though. No, but they can't accuse her of being a racist. Right. Right. And she's getting canceled. Like they defunded uh um uh GoFundMe, shut her down, won't let her raise it. Yeah, they're doing that. But they they can't go after her in the same way. And so you're I'm noticing a lot of um uh sharing on Facebook of posts by black people that are taking a maybe a more Christian world view and they're not posting videos by white people because they can't get away with it as as easily. And so in that sense you could almost argue I'm not And don't misunderstand what I'm trying to say because almost argue that on this particular narrow point, there's a black privilege. They can get away with things. We we've seen that with the use of the N word I mean people in the in the in in black communities can use the N-word freely with I wouldn't consider that a privilege, but I get your point. So but so it it kind of goes both ways. Any of this transitions, I I've I'm reticent, not because I'm I'm resistant to wanting to share anything about myself personally. I think that years ago I might have had uh issues with that, but I'm at a point in my life where I don't really care that much, whatever. I'm not trying to hide any baggage or things that are part of my story. Um but I am concerned that it would come across as yeah, how how often over the years in these these black white issues or it could be black Jew uh you know uh white and black people versus Jewish people issues or v via Mexican issues and so he says, Look I'm not a racist, I'm not anti-immigrant, I'm not anti-Mexican, I'm not anti-Jewish. My best friend's Jewish. I have friends who are black. Right, yeah. It moves around. Yeah, and you but you can't say that. Oh yeah, sure he is He has black friends, therefore he's not racist. Like it's such a cliche and a trope almost that he can't do it, and so I'm concerned that what I'm about to say will come across as one of those tropes But the reality is that Vaughn a couple of weeks ago shared us he shared his story in a way that you realize that there's parts of your story that that read into this question of who has privilege and who doesn't. And so I'm really looking forward to this because I've known you for a long time and I've heard parts here and there, but I mean telling your life story. Tell us a little bit of that. your life to tell, right? And it does take your life to tell. Right. And just to give you a sense of where I come from on this whole life story issue, uh there's a book written by Dan Allender that if you haven't read, I highly recommend it called To Be Told And kind of the thesis of of his book is about the co-authorship of our lives with God. And as a and besides of that, it helped me to better understand in my own mind to get my arms uh mentally intelec intellectually wrapped around the idea of the co-authorship of scripture. And there's human authors and yet it's also God the author. How is that? And I think when we think about that in terms of our own lives Or the author of our own lives, right? That's a common phrase, a bumper sticker, the author of your own destiny. But God is also sovereign and is authoring your life With you, alongside you, a partnership with how you want to find the right words for this. And our life stories aren't merely our own stories. Our life stories are connected to other people's stories. So now that I've spent some quality time with Vaughn My ra interaction with Vaughn and his story has now influencing and slightly altering the trajectory of my story. Right. And so Dan Alander's book is all about unpacking all of those tangential relationships and more than just tangential relationships and understanding how they have helped to form the writing of your story. And it goes back to people that you haven't even met. Like my great great great grandparents I've never met and yet their story influenced my progenitors who led to my story. So all of that is part of my context of sharing stories and I feel like therefore my story and now that you're going to hear parts of it are going to impact your story, which will also impact the story of blacks, or if they prefer to be called African Americans, or anybody's story is influenced by now hearing my story just as me hearing their story is influencing mine. So with that as a There's a scientific principle that that describes that, that if you view something you end up changing it. You know, and so you can't actually view it without changing, you know, what's going on in it. That's what you're saying. And it's kind of like the butterfly effect, right? Somebody that did something generations ago that affects my life and your all of our lives even now. But as far as the the way we typically think about life stories Um some things that relate to this issue, the the black-white uh divide that is existing in our society right now, uh and whether there's white privil white privilege or not and those sorts of things. Um it was a very short period of time, but there was a period of in of time in my life when I was a youngster, uh when I didn't have a home. It was a very short window of time. The reason I didn't have a home is I was uh for quite a number of years involved in a situation that was involved with a a lot of a lot of violence and drinking and drugs and uh spousal abuse and battery and like really rough stuff and in the context of all of that um My mother and I went to live with an aunt of my her s her sister, and they got into a disagreement because uh their house wasn't healthy either for all the same kinds of reasons I just described. Right And they got into a dialogue and my mom said something that my aunt didn't like and she asked us and well asked is a nice way of putting it to leave. And the only place we had to go was her basement And so when she kicked us out of her basement, we had nowhere to go. And my mom had no money. So uh we the several nights slept in the car And then she finally was able to dug borrow and steal some money. I don't really know how she got, but she got enough money that we were able to live in a uh pay by day motel kind of a situation. So I wasn't on the street per se. So I don't have that homeless thing. But there's a darn float. There's an element uh in a in a narrow window of my life where I was, quote unquote, homeless. And I'll go s of course all the the violence and the drugs and alcoholism and the beating and all those sorts of things and sexual abuse and I mean that's it's it's pretty dark. There's that what's that uh There's a a scale of that ten point questionnaire. I I've drawn a blank now. Adverse childhood experiences. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There's a there's a there's a question you ask, and there's ten questions, and if you have a really, really healthy childhood You score a zero. You shouldn't answer yes to any of them. Uh it's r it's I don't know how rare it is. But if you have three or more of them and there's ten questions you're more likely to you know, to do drugs, to to go to prison, to not uh to not graduate from high school, all those things. So if you score a zero or one, you're probably basically more likely to be okay. If you score a two Less likely. If three is bad and th they don't even go past four. I think it's four plus. Yeah. They have four or more. You're more prone to suicide. to addiction, to uh violent behavior, to going to prison, to having a hot you know, being divorced, uh all of those kinds basically failing at life. Yeah, you you it's the higher the number. Well I out of curiosity I learned about this score that oh I'm gonna answer the questions. And to my surprise I scored a nine. Nine out of ten. So I did uh even though my my skin tone is white, I didn't come out of a privileged uh environment. Um And so I have to be on guard because because of that I I I've learned this about myself. I have to self-consciously, self-consciously work to put myself in somebody else's shoes and have empathy. Because somebody wants to tell me their sob story and use it as an excuse, like everything's stacked against me and I s I s I stink at life because of this, this, this and this. And my first instinct, which again I have to Acknowledge and and push back against it. Build a bridge and get over it. Exactly. Get over it What does the birds have to do with anything? Oh okay. Sounded cool though, so I wanted to know. No, but it makes sense. I mean I never heard it put that way. But yeah, get to work. Right. Right, you know, overcome. Get busy Building the bridge, get busy doing stuff and and and overcome. And and yet I understand sometimes it's easy like I was homeless in my life for a very, very short amount of time. Others have been homeless for years, and so there's no way that uh my mother finally got to a place in her life where she was willing and able and ready to escape And others are in situations where that never happens and so they spent their entire uh uh childhood and I don't like the word adolescence, but for this context you understand what I was talking about, it through their adolescence uh in those situations and that wasn't uh exactly my situation. Actually I feel like the ACE's um scale, uh it's scientific, but it it lines up in so many ways with the clear teaching of scripture, right? you know, that that sin wounds us and uh and undermines, you know, it's a curse that generational sin affects us. And it affects our prosperity, you know, and our sense of being protected. And I feel like You know, just saying that poverty is the problem, I've never felt good about. But the ACE scale I feel good about because it helps to define very precisely. You know what? There's some things there that that really do need working through, you know, that are, you know, as you describe it, it's Wow, nine. Yeah. Right? And so that perpetuation of these cycles, people who are high on that A scale without something transforming their lives. without that influence or investment, whether it's spiritual or whether it's relational, and and preferably both, uh that kind of discipleship process. They will go on to create the same kinds of circumstances for someone else. And that was where I was going in, you know, as we wrapped up last week, is man, I my heart is to see the the African American community address the issue of fatherlessness, not because I'm pointing the fingers at them. It's because I care, right? I see my my heart, I I've spent a lot of time trying to mentor guys from that community into starting businesses or seeing themselves different from a career perspective. And and one of the things that kills me You know, it's it's it's a negative for me when a guy says, Hey, my father instilled in me beliefs that I can't. But it's worse for me when somebody says, What do you mean, a father? Right. And that's the beauty of my story. I had a father, but I I had a heavenly father grafted in who gave me a different perspective of myself Um I I think it's really important and it's a and it's a sadness for me, but it's also a huge opportunity that I think we can partner on. I think I think the Christian community can partner with the African American community who isn't apart from the Christian community, you know, to to Really invest in these ways, but but we need nobody would invest in my company if I said I don't plan to hold myself accountable for results. Right? It wouldn't. Right. But but if I say, look, with your investment comes the right to hold me accountable, to live differently with these resources than I did without them Then we've got a partnership and that's when the conversation can begin to open up. And that's what I'm hoping for. That's uh the voice of Von Thurman. You've also heard the voice just a second ago of Jonathan Sweitzer. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the faith debate on 930 WFMD. So I kind of broadly touched on some of the the big fires in my life when I mentioned was it last week or the week before about how all the houses are on fire. So I'm not sharing my story to say, man, my story is worse than everybody else's or at least it's deserving. My point is everybody's got a story where their house is on fire at some level. Uh and so But as it specifically relates to the uh the divide issue, um but it we moved a lot uh over my life I um took instruction that's the way I think I put it took instruction at twelve different schools, that's how often we moved. And I can't I've never wanted to put my mom on the spot so I don't really know exactly But I've uh as I've gotten older, I'm suspicious that what happened there is that she would fall behind on rent and she couldn't keep up and she would either be kicked out or she'd skip out on rent, I'm not sure. Yeah and we uh I know there was one year I went to the three different schools in the same school year I mean that you know, so those sorts of things bouncing around. But by the time I got to high school there's a little tiny bit more stability, still pretty unstable by most people's standards, but a little more stability And so I went to a school that was a little bit more of a uh cultural fit for me and there was one black kid in the whole school. But previous to that I lived on the west side of Chicago and in Cicero, I don't know if you know the Chicago area or not, but Cicero is right on the west side And it's actually it's a suburb that's surrounded on its north, east and south sides by the city because of the shape of the city limits. So the only part of Cicero that doesn't touch the Chicago city limits would be straight west and it's rough. And this is oversimplifying it, but the north side of Chicago is predominantly white and quite a bit more affluent than the south side. The south side is predominantly black and not quite so affluent, and the west side is predominantly mixed and um violent. And I remember distinctly, I forget exactly how old I was. I might have been It didn't matter which color you were, if you if you were in trouble and broke you ended up there. Right, exactly. Yeah, that's that's that there's parts of Baltimore that I remember growing up that were like that. And so I lived there for a while and I remember distinctly. I might have been ten-ish years old, I don't remember exactly how old I was. Um Twelve, maybe I don't know. Between eight and twelve. Boy, I can't remember. But I do remember we're sitting at a stoplight and we're in Cicero and there's three youngsters, you know, probably pre teen, I'm gonna guess, based on my memory, that they might have been twelve ish, thirteen ish years old, uh, with a bicycle and there were two white kids beaten the snot out of a black kid and they stole his bike. And I was shocked at what I was seeing and my mom is driving. I turned to her and I said Dude, what are they doing? What why did they just do that to that kid? Why did they steal his bike and and then after they stole it, they beat him up, like to show that they could. Like they didn't they didn't beat him up to get his bike. They got his bike and then beat him up I'm my holy cow. What's going on in my mom said she used it. What triggered this in my thought recently 'cause I had totally forgotten about this story until recently. But what triggered it was these stories about the black families where they have to sit down and have that hard conversation with their kids and when you know if you interact with the world and particularly with police you've got to be careful and and That part there's a in a small way that resonates with me because my mom used as an opportunity to have the talk with me and she said you see there was an overpass. in front of us. Uh just ahead of us. And she said, You see that bridge? And I said, Yeah I said, That poor uh little black boy made the mistake of being on this side of that bridge. Those white boys believe that he believes belongs on that side of the bridge And I said, why? She said, that's the way it is. And I need you to understand that you belong on this side of the bridge. You don't ever cross that side of the bridge or what you saw happen to that little black boy is going to happen to you. Mm. I was like, holy cow. So and yet uh I was sent away to boarding school for a few years uh because my mom didn't feel like she could keep me safe. Uh while I was at at boarding school, my best friend was back then they called it mulatto, mixed race, half black, half white. My best friend was a mulatto boy. Um I I moved to Florida for uh for a stretch of time in my first several years before I uh uh entered more fully into a career and got my radio thing started. I was working at other odds jobs and in those odd jobs ended up becoming uh friends and my best friend during that three year period of time in my life, my best friend was a a black guy named Floyd. And if that's what part that makes you feel like, oh sure you have a black friend. Uh so but my point is um I don't think that I'm one of those people that says I've gone through life colorblind. You know, I don't see color. I think I've gone through life seeing color, respecting that the the differences that those colors might represent culturally and ethnically and historically uh and actually celebrating them. You know, I I see the differences but I don't see them as problems. And yet you grow up in some of the situations like I described in Cicero on the west side of Chicago where, you know, it was uh really rough and you start to have some biases and prejudices get into your thinking so that I find myself a little more guarded in certain social situations than I might otherwise be. And so I can relate to that too in a A a black is dealing with a police officer and has been conditioned that lots of bad things can happen to black police officers and they're more on edge. I can understand and respect that and I'm not going to tell them that they should diminish that. Even though they might not be at greater risk or they might be. It depends on how you want to look at the statistics. And we can argue the stats all day, you know. That's right. Yeah You know, so the stats don't lie but liars use statistics. You know, while figures don't lie but liars. Exactly. Yeah, so so It feels to me like what we did here is really what's gotta happen with us and our African American friends, right? We have stories, they have stories, and if we take the time to hear their stories and to not minimize the reality of their stories, You know, while at the same time recognizing that look, to whatever extent any of us has privilege, we want to help everybody to have privilege. And if anybody feels like their life doesn't matter, then let's help them you know, to make their life you know, to for them to know that their life is is valuable and and to be that Ken Gosnell, you know, in somebody's life that is a mentor You know, like is happening here in Frederick. I mean to date with this discussion that we're having tonight, the protests have not gotten violent and From what I know behind the scenes, the reason for that is because there's mentoring going on, you know, with guys that are in the middle of that protest. And so Praise God for that and let's keep doing, you know, looking for opportunities, you know, to move that forward. And with those that are on the other side of the aisle that don't like some of the language No, that liked some of the language that we don't like. You know, let's get past the language in the church and see each other's heart and press through to to the justice and the righteousness. And we're like so out of Christ represents. Is Not because we're opposed to the movement of of equality and justice. It's because I see those labels and those phrases and what these movements and some of these organizations stand for as being exactly the problem the collectivist mindset, the cultural Marxism, the postmodernism, the you know, language has no meaning and the the the breakup of the nuclear family the the problems they're trying to solve are undercut and destroyed by these things. I'm like, no, you're you're you're Committing self inflicted wounds. Anyway, I'm going over time. By the way, I have to do this too. I mentioned I had black friends in the p now in Frederick. Yeah, I'm a typical American ma uh adult male in this country. I don't have a lot of close friends. I have a just a very small handful of close friends. And one of my dearest friends right now in my life is a black, literally African American, and you're about to hear his voice next here on this very radio station. So anyway, till next week Thank you, John. Thank you, Vaughn. Thank you for listening. WFMD online at WFMD. com keyword faith. Till next week, one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours from right now. Whoops, there we go. God bless, don't want to cut that off.