You know, we're involved. in a war, whether we want to realize it or not. Daily battle is one of truth versus lies. People don't usually buy into false doctrine purposely. Well because they lack discernment. Discernment results from a carefully disciplined mind. Something Jonathan Schweitzer knows an awful lot about. Not a matter of feelings, some mystical gift. Discernment is linked with a seasoned developed biblically informed mind. The skills required for discernment are careful thought, keen interest, thorough analysis. Close observation together with alertness, attentiveness, thoughtfulness, and above all, a love of truth. All truth, big and small. This is right up Ronald Simmons alley. Right, doing all the analysis and observation. Yeah. The fact that certain serious errors may appear slight or insignificant at first glance Does not diminish our duty to be discerning, cautious, and critical in our evaluations. That's a sentence that I think is going to be very apropos to today's show. The fact that certain serious errors may appear slight or insignificant at first glance does not diminish our duty to be discerning, cautious, and critical Inner evaluations. We're here today in response to that call of duty hoping to both encourage you and equip you to fight with us within your spheres of influence. There with the help of words from John MacArthur we have the foundation that is the Frederick Faith Debate, brought to us by Deer Valley Landscape, Hardscape, Masonry. Also put my pumping and heating. How can we make you smile? What am I reading? Sinner. Ted Decker. The last of the Paradise novels and the second best in the series. Showdown was the best. Sinner was good. Saint in the middle, not quite so good. By the way, I encourage you to visit us online at WFMB. dot com keyword faith where you'll find a a daily weekday daily blog update from me. Jonathan Sweither does a pretty consistent update now of of his blog. Yeah pretty consistent and we link to it from the Faith Debate page so you can you can check that out. Um, last week on the show we were talking about um we began to talk about in kind of a loosely organized fashion, the church being squeezed out, pushed out, forced out, manipulated out of the public square by Secular humanists, federal government, uh whatever. Atheists, whoever doesn't want the church involved in these things. Right. I would say and I read that one line that Jonathan uh John MacArthur uh wrote, the fact that certain errors may appear slight or insignificant at first glance does not diminish our duty to be discerning, conscious And critical in our evaluations. And I think that's part of what's going on hundred and fifty years ago. I think that people who were leaders in the church had to make these decisions about how to handle the pushback they were getting from the leaders in government and throughout society. Well, it's not a big deal. Let's not make let's not make a mountain out of a molehill and they started down the slippery slope with a way overused phrase, but I think that's part of what happened. And I would I want to throw this out there. Okay Is it really fair to say that the church has been pushed out of the public square? Or might it be fair to say that the church has stepped aside? That we've abdicated Uh I would say that that it's a little bit of both. Yes, I'd agree with that. The reality is that is that coming to the end of the eighteen hundreds, the the end of the nineteenth century There is a pervasive sense among all the elite educated people of the world that Christianity uh and religion could no longer be trusted that somehow uh religion, uh in Christianity in particular, uh was giving way to science that was proving Christianity to be passe and no longer important. So then as a result, all of the political writers and all the sociologists of the day uh were um were inclined and intimidated into if they had any kind of religious background or something religious to bring to the table, they would tend to not bring that to the table and try to do everything that we that that they do out of a purely sociological orientation. Well that drove then the sense that that Christians uh instead of being robust and stepping up and doing what we've been called to do from age memorial, you know, from from from uh way back when that that we weren't robust. We didn't go for it. We're we we kind of believed the lie that, oh well maybe maybe we shouldn't bring our faith with us. Maybe somehow our faith is a is a problem in the public square and uh and that it should no longer be a part of things. And so Because we were intimidated in feeling that intimidation, we tended to abdicate and allow ourselves to be pushed out instead of robustly um you know pushing back and having, you know, even an effective uh argument to to uh push back along those lines. I was speaking in general terms about all of Christianity and all Christians in in this country particularly but It's not uh that's not entirely fair. There were people that were uh solid Bible believing leaders in the church. There just weren't enough of them. True. And they couldn't win the day. Well we had we had the fundamentalists And what the fundamentalists did was they pulled out of all of the the universities and all of the the institutions of higher learning that had moved in a liberal uh uh quote unquote science scientific direction, scientific naturalism direction. And so the fundamentalists um uh were sectarian. They they were uh they they were kind of come away and be separate to be holy And then you had the evangelicals that kind of arose, you know, maybe in the thirties, I guess it would have been, sometime late twenties, thirties, that said, well no, we we don't want to leave the the uh public square. We kinda want to be somewhere positioned you know, in the middle in the public square, you know, for the cause of Christ, but doing it, you know, in an appropriate manner. And the reality is that in the context of all of that there was a a big miss. There was that we we just didn't quite get there. And in uh in so So the reality is that we ended up abdicating. In that time frame, because we pulled away to be separate, the fundamentalists And then it was a couple years later when the evangelicals stepped back in. It's taken a while to get to the place where we have some kind of a uh uh an effective voice once again in the public square. We've had to rewin that. Well um there's a pretty famous uh in certain circles anyway, a certain famous uh famous story, certainly with people in the reformed tradition. Uh Princeton Seminary, which is now a me a a a liberal like way out there left wing liberal Yes. And by liberal, but we're talking liberal theologically, which is not the same as liberal politically, although there I think there's a lot of interbreeding that takes place there. They're not one and the same. Uh and back in the period you're talking about, back in the nineteen twenties, thirties, it kind of came to a head for that seminary. Uh going back into the late 1800s, there was a a push to go in a liberal direction and there was a fight taking place that lasted for a couple of decades, I guess, and then uh right before the uh the Great Depression, there was this huge kind of come to Jesus moment for the seminary, and the conservatives lost And they went on to found Westminster Theological Seminary in Philadelphia, which is one of the great conservative reform seminaries in the world today. They didn't advocate, they fought and they lost. Yes. Right? So but there are too many other cases where there wasn't even a fight and they went off to do their own thing. So is that what Kind of what you're saying is some people fought and lost, and so they were forced out, other people didn't even try to fight, and so they abdicated. Well w what is happening right now with the um uh gay and uh lesbian issue is that many of the conservative uh Christian uh universities are caving in. Um in the last uh This year in in twenty eleven, a number of them have caved in and said, yes, we have to uh accommodate uh the the the the gay and and lesbian lifestyle. And it's amazing the the schools that that are caving in at this point. And the part of the problem with that is those who are conservative, uh, they didn't have a biblical conservatism. on on that issue and their approach and their attitudes and there is maybe too much hatefulness. True, that could be part and self righteous judgmentalism. that was taking place and so then others were temp to tempted to kind of counterbalance the swing of that pendulum and go in the other direction too far. Because the truth of the matter is Um y the Bible says, you know, you you shouldn't have uh an an an open practicing homosexual uh in leadership in your church. Right? True. But if you have somebody who's an open practice and come right out sexual that the Bible comes out and says that that homosexuality is uh sin of the perversion. And and so then by corollary. But it does talk about some the qualifications for the leader. So somebody that is a leader uh should not be involved in perversion. So so it's it it's logical, but it doesn't come right out and say you can't. Exactly. But my point is it's in Romans chapter one it it it it uh begin at verse eighteen it starts It uh Paul is very clear on God's position on any sexual perversion and very specifically calls out the homosexual and lesbian lifestyle. Right, right. So he walks out into it. And so then when we get to First Timothy where he's talking about the qualifications of an elder, you know, or somebody that's a leader, in that context, the qualifications of the elder and the leader in that context are clear that they shouldn't be somebody that's walking in some kind of perversion. That's right. Right. But my point is those who aren't in leadership, those who aren't even in the church yet. Yeah. Particularly those who aren't even in the church. Yes Need to be treated with love. Absolutely. Not with hateful you're going to hell. That's the biggest issue. You're not going to hell because you're homosexual. That's true. You're going to hell because you don't love Jesus. One of the problems I have is is that we are soft on sin in the church and hard on sin on the outside of the church, which is just the opposite Jesus ministered graciously to sinners on the outside. Is that your phrase The har hard on uh soft on sin in the church and hard on sin outside the church. Is that your friend? I guess so. I'm stealing it. I'm stealing it. But but that's that's the issue. Um That is the issue. I'm Um what say you, Jonathan? No I'm sorry. Go ahead. Paul says that we should not fellowship with lesbians, homosexuals, liars, thieves, and he goes to this whole list of people. I I I shared that once in in a in a prison uh sermon and I said um and I said, Oh, uh it's not talking about Sinners, it's talking about people who claim to be Christians that we should not even have any fellowship. So how can I have fellowship with a fornicator uh an uh uh uh what's the other word that is used uh adulterer. Adulterer or any of those sins, they shouldn't uh the scripture says they shouldn't even name one be named once in the church. And yet Uh so i if they're not to be named once in church then definitely they can't be in church leadership. But then the the Christian has to love as Christ love. We love sinners into the relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ And then the Apostle Paul he says to the the church in Corinth, Hey, you got a problem. There there's sin going on the church and and and you guys are not speaking against it It's different when a sinner comes in, he comes in and he's washed, and now you have to grow in the grace and knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ, lay aside every sin and the weight that easily beset you, and so that you can run with patience. the race set before you. So there's no w there's no room for any argument that well we have we have to decide whether or not uh people living in sin should be in church. Unfortunately there are some acceptable sins in leadership in the church. At least that's the way the pro you know we'll talk very strongly against some of the certain sins, but we left the others alone and that's part of the problem where we appears that we are hypocritical. That's the voice of Ronald Simmons. He is the senior pastor. Is that the official title? Just pastor? The pastor. Senior assistant and everything in between pastor. At uh Wayman A. M. E. Church. Now they have a new building right now, but uh uh as this airs anyway. But I w I wanna s say something I think is fascinating and speaks uh tremendously to what you must be doing there uh at your church. The building they just left seats fifty-eight people and yet he has sixty-two members in his church. Very nice. That's something else right there. Yeah, come on the Lord. I want to see a megachurch beat that. They could have more people than they can facilitate. A hundred and ten percent. Yeah, amen. Uh anyway, and Jonathan Sweit is saying amen. He's senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Froy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. Okay, you had some thoughts. Okay, so the question that we're trying to deal with is is why is it that religion and Christianity is being pushed out of the public square? Mm-hmm. And um 'cause we're haters. Well well but but but this is the thing about soft on sin in the church, but then hard on sin outside of the church. The difficulty is that in the United States We s we we set up a style of government where where we are in covenant with unbelievers. The Constitution is a covenant. It's a it's a national covenant. And in our national covenant We bought into the idea that religion uh is free and that that a person's ability to be a part of that covenant would not be dependent upon whether or not they they participated in any given religion. True. And so all that being the case, it it created this this scenario where in the early days it just happened that most everybody was in one denomination or another. Catholic, Baptist, you know, Presbyterian, whatever it was. And as things went along, there was a growth of these that were non-religious. And so as we moved into in uh with this larger group that was non-religious coming through the late eighteen hundreds into the nineteen hundreds where uh scientific naturalism was intimidating Christianity out of the public square. Uh then there was this fight to maintain a sense of righteousness in the public square. And was it wrong for us to do so if if there was a nation that had bought in early on to Judeo Christian morality from the beginning and that that the roots of the Judeo Christian Judeo Christian morality uh gave the uh the the logic the moral backbone for getting rid of slavery in the United States. And all of that was was was driving the sense that we need to treat people with dignity, that that nobody should be forced to think a certain way. All of that was the foundation. Then it seems to me in the United States at some level that there is a fight That is a worthy fight to say that to say this. No country on the face of the planet that has atheism as its philosophical foundations has ever been able to maintain civil rights for its people. True. No nation on the face of the planet that has fundamentalist Islam at the roots of its uh the philosophy that under uh that that that grounds uh i its government has ever been able to maintain any kind of civil rights The only nations that have been able to maintain civil rights of its people are nations that grow out of a Judeo-Christian Foundation. And so it seems to me like it is appropriate for us to to argue for that and to say, look, maybe one day fundamentalist Islam is going to be able to do that. But up until now they've been unable to do so Maybe one day atheism will be able to do that, you know, but up until now they have been incapable of doing so. If that's the case, then then is it wise for the world, let alone the United States, to drive Judeo Christians, those that are motivated and inspired by Judeo Christian uh foundations to serve the poor, to serve the orphans, to serve those that are sick Is it wise for us to drive them out of the public square in the name of freedom of religion, or is there a way that we can allow them to to not be muzzled? in the public square and for us to argue that the nation is best served by keeping those people in the public square in a non-muzzled uh uh scenario where they don't have to shut their mouth and refuse to name the name of Jesus Christ in order to participate in adoption, in order to participate in all those things. is is a is a a farce because the the whole concept goes back to the the the fact that the church should not be muzzled um uh when that statement was made was taken completely out of co it it has been in the last thirty years been taken out of context. How do we not muzzle the church while those funds that are being used by the government to you know to to do social activity or whatever it might be How is it that those funds can be made available in a way that that nobody is muzzled, that everybody is free to bring with them, whatever the religious background is, and whatever institution that they're a part of is free to participate in in the spending those funds. I think it's the wrong question. Okay. And I think it's a fundamental divide between I know you don't You don't think this way, but I think it could be understood as you're just gonna surrender that part of the game. It's the government's money. How does the church get their hands on it? It's the wrong question. The question is whose money is it really? It's it's my money. It's it's it's the people's money. The government shouldn't have their hands on it anyway. So the answer to the question is the government takes less of the money Therefore leaving more out in the ha pockets of the people, and if their church is doing its job of preaching the gospel uh and and uh making disciples Then those people are going to be diligent and faithful in their giving. Okay, so let me ask you a question. Which government which part of the government did the founding fathers seem to think should remain small? The federal government. Yeah, they they weren't of the opinion that that state governments and or local governments were necessarily um uh the wrong place to uh to be collecting funds. Well this is gonna be an interesting comment for me to make with Ron, uh a a a black pastor and but we should I think we can blame Abraham Lincoln for that. Right, so strengthening the federal government. Right. Over and above the state. But my point is that I'm not I don't know that I'm so uncomfortable with local governments um collecting funds if the local people are of the opinion that they want the local government to collect it and then d to distribute it. I I I think that there's an argument to be made that the Founding Fathers uh expected that that would be the case. That it was the federal government and Abraham Lincoln that that moved things in the direction of the federal government and but and so now conservatives are of the opinion that all governments should be small But I don't know that that's always what conservatives argued. Conservatives argued that the federal government shouldn't be shouldn't be large, but that the local gu but but they they wanted that specifically so that the local governments could do what they needed to do Well, uh uh you know, th there are the the time during the civil rights movement. Uh I didn't agree with everything that happened during, but one of the things was the uh the southern states were standing by idly while people were being lynched and and uh prevented from voting etcetera etcetera right And so it became a moral issue uh for the federal government to step in and and tell the state governments, you know uh the c part of the Constitution. All men are created equal and endowed by their own. I agree with that. you know, about as much as the average American knows, maybe a l maybe more than the average American, I hope. You ever seen Jaywalking on NBC with the Jay Leno show? It's the average American doesn't really know a whole lot. So um i I think the Civil War and that whole movement ended there, what you're talking about. Yes. I don't think that's where it started. I think the Civil War started as a as an economic war. The North needed the South And there was no way that Abraham Lincoln could afford to have a weakened United States. I mean the French were strong back. Remember how what's going on? You got the French and the English and the Spanish Lots of stuff's going on, lots of pressures. He couldn't afford to have an economically weakened situation. He needed the ports in the south. He needed the agriculture from the south. But remember it wasn't Uh it wasn't the uh the post industrial age that we know today. The economic strength is the farmland. He needed that farmland I think it started for practical economic reasons with a little bit of what you're talking about and it ended up with the emotional groundswell of Let's free the slaves, let's have equality. No. That was one of the very, very good fringe benefits. Right. But I don't think that was the motivation for starting the war. And it no and and that's the thing is that that that's how the Civil War um I I think ended up taking on meaning that was bigger than The economic issues. It it it kinda transcended itself in that sense. I almost get the s get get the sense w when I study the history of the time Um so anyways, all that being the case, then it comes back to this question of whether or not Christianity or any religion should be allowed to be in the public square. and whether or not governments, local governments, should be allowed to collect funds uh you know through taxes for the local people so that people could then give or should all government be small And um again I don't know that I know the answer to the other. Well I I think that government can take monies for serving the the greater public needs. We need to have roads and we have to do that. You know there are certain things we need to have infrastructure or whatever, but that doesn't mean it stu doesn't still remain small. Right? Why does it have to be a big local government? is it grows and grows and grows. And ever and when the government every time it it takes a something from the pi private sector or the religious sector It has to build a bureaucracy to run it, which means you need more tax dollars to pay those public servants who must operate the machine that you've built. Um and and that's been I think part of the problem. Uh th uh years ago a study showed that if every If we dissolved the Department the Department of Social Services, that every person on welfare at that time could have received something like eighty-six thousand dollars a year Th the cost of operating the national welfare system cost about eighty-six thousand dollars per person being served and those people were ending up getting what at that time maybe ten thousand dollars a year. So that's the problem with when when the government starts doing things that the that the private sector or the uh religious community does. You know, when I provide uh social services, I don't charge anything. Right. And that's why I sound crazy, but in this context I won't sound as crazy. But I sound crazy because I'm I'm w I think uh government welfare should not exist Figure out a way to deconstruct Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, and deconstruct it in a way that what should be in place of those things has a chance to rise back up out of the ashes. I don't think you just cut it clean and everybody's left hanging. Right. But figure out a way to deconstruct it while you're reconstructing what should be there instead of a government run bureaucracy. Same with schools. I think public schools should be deconstructed while at the same time you allow for what should be happening, which should be the local communities, not the federal government with all their their dictates of uh and all the purse uh strings attached to their purse strings taking place and the families are making those decisions in community, in context, whether it's churches or whatever they're putting those uh those things together. 'Cause then you don't get all the well, we don't have time for me to finish the thought. But we're we've been brainwashed for generations now through public schools. True. And that's why we have this idea that the government is God. 'Cause we've been brainwashed to think that for generations now. That's a problem. I know I sound crazy, so we're gonna end on a crazy note. We didn't do our word of the week again. I promised. Covenant. Covenant. Covenant. As you dis as you defined it, as you were using the word, how do you define covenant? Covenant are two groups of people coming together basically uh uh making a contract that goes deeper than just a business contract into uh their commitment to live their lives and share their lives with responsibilities and commitments to one another. And so a covenant is a It's a marriage. And I think that that's a a good uh definition. I would go f further to say that there's an an an additional understanding in the word that as some people would use it, and that is that it would be a covenant that's greater than a contract that involves God. Yes, yes. That that would be a distinctive. Now I'm not sure that that's entirely true of the Constitution, but the way you defined it, I'm comfortable with the use of the word covenant there. But anyway. Jonathan Swipes, a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Ron Simmons is the pastor at Weyman AME Church. And Frederick, I'm Froy Skinner. Thank you to our sponsors, Putman Fleming Heating, How Can We Make You Smile? And Deer Valley Landscape, Heartscape, and Masonry. Visit us online, wfmd. com Keyword Faith. Until next week. God at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service. Because we believe you deserve it. Pub in plumbing, how can we make you smile?