Broadcasting from the police states of Frederick. City smacked out in the middle of the county of Gridlock. In the socialist state of Maryland, just outside the capital of a former Republic of the United States of America. This is the Frederick Face Debate sponsored by Putman Flood. Loving and heating, how if we make you smile? You can find us online at WFMD. com, keyword faith. There you'll find all sorts of religious links, including links to podcasts of previous faith debate shows. You'll also find the Faith Debate blog On the right hand side of the webpage, my blog is your blog, so I ask you to email me, Troy Skinner at clearchannel. com. Whatever you send me, I copy right a copy it and I paste it right onto the webpage. Nine fresh blog postings are updated, uploaded each and every weekday And some of that stuff you sent me is pretty darn good. If you haven't checked it out before, I encourage you to do so. Wfmb. com keyword faith. Our show today. Yeah, I know. It's it's been a a a hectic scheduling nightmare lately. But fortunately I got lots of, you know, stuff I can share with you. So here we go Special edition of the Faith Debate Show. It's just me. This is a a uh a message delivered very recently, uh at a uh a a local gathering of of Christian believers. It's a message based on first John chapter five verses one through twelve Titled Remember the Overcomer. Uh we've got this week uh we Part One, next week Bart Two, and then the week after that, I promise, well, I shouldn't say promise, right? But I'm pretty darn sure it'll be a Regular format of the Faith Today show. Alright, so thanks for your patience with us in the meantime. Listen. He hears it. Do you hear it? The high-pitched hum of mosquitoes tickles his ears. And he remembers the summer season from what seems another lifetime. The blood-sucking insects. would sting his skin and he'd slap at them feeling the smart on his arm and on his leg on his neck and his hand He would see the splattered bugs would be smeared. Nothing but a reminder of what used to be an antagonizing adversary. He remembers those mosquitoes. How he hated them so. But now he doesn't mind the mosquitoes quite so much. Again, like I said, that was a summer season from what seems another lifetime. Now it's nineteen sixty-seven and he's in Vietnam. And these mosquitoes for this American soldier are a helpful distraction. When the soldier is listening to the soprano song of the mosquito, he's not so aware that the sun has faked what he is afraid might be permanent blisters on his skin. When he feels the uncomfortableness, the sharp bite of that mosquito, the soldier's not so mindful of the blisters on his feet. At his heel, around his toes, and burning from having burst and mixed with sweat. When scratching at the maddening itch of the mosquito bite sight, this soldier's not as fixated on the bloody grooves that have been Dug into his sol shoulders by carrying that heavy pack full of food rations and medical supplies and radio equipment and the forty-six and a half pound mortar base plate that's used to support those shells of doom that are launched in the direction of the Viet Cong. You know, this soldier didn't used to carry quite so much. Of course, when the madness began, there were more of his buddies around to help carry the load. He misses his buddies. But the mosquitoes pull his mind back from this sentimentality, and it's a good thing he thinks. No time for a stroll down memory lane when he's on the march. On the march to where? Not sure he can remember exactly, but he remembers vaguely something about his captain telling him it was a place of safety and rest. And he trusts his captain. His captains battled the mosquitoes too, and he's carried a burdensome pack much heavier than this soldier's. There is so much to be admired in this captain. And whenever the soldier grows weary and near to exhaustion, the captain is there to encourage him. How are you doing there, my friend? You hanging in there? Of course you are. You're going to make it. You know why? Because I'm right here with you. And I'm going to see that you make it. But I can't make it. Yes, you can. You know you can. You know that you can make it because you remember what I taught you. Remember what I taught you? One step and then another. One step and then another. Just keep your attention on that one step. Just take one step Good, there you go. Now again, just take one step. That's it. One step. One step. One step. You got it. I'm proud of you. Soldier's weary. His lungs have lost their capacity to inhale. He wishes he could just throw away his lungs so they stop laying him down. Ah, it's crazy nose. It's just the heat or the humidity. Or both. I mean the heat and humidity out here are so insane they drive just about anybody crazy. But at least this soldier knows he's alive. The strain of the weight and the pain of those open sores and the swelter of the heat and those yearning for his lost friends. And the mosquitoes, those blasted mosquitoes, they all remind him that he's alive. And heading to the pasture up ahead where the captain says that he'll have rest. But now the soldier sees a rise in the landscape up ahead. A hill. Oh no, not a hill Can't make it up the hill. I just can't make it. He cannot. There's a stream. Maybe you'll rest there instead. At the bottom of the hill. Why climb all the way up the hill when it can be avoided if you don't have to? When there's no strength for the climb anyway. The stream is so inviting. He allows himself to wade in and Oh the coolness of the water on his burnt and stinging flesh and the mud from the stream bottom gurgles up over the top of his boots and sneaks down past his socks and it brings immediate comfort to those blisters. Oh, it feels so good. The soldiery plops down and he shrugs his shoulders and he Gets that heavy pack off and he can hear the heavy motor base plate, that armor plate plop or plunk in the water behind him and his pack starts to float a little bit downstream The freedom he feels. The exhilaration. He never wants to leave this stream. He never, ever wants to leave. All is good here, all is safe. He's sure of it This captain should have everybody else stop here in the stream rather than having them march up that tough hill, up to the pasture. The captain, boy. He could only see him now. Well, it's Captain could only see him now. Captain might might might not be too happy with him because he fell out of line. Captain certainly isn't going to be too happy about that. But the Captain would understand surely He would. Everybody was always saying how understanding is the captain, the brave and strong and understanding captain. Oh, how the soldiers, and this soldier particularly, loves the captain. The captain. The captain. The soldier thinks he hears the captain and a bunch of other voices yelling out the shouts of the fellow soldiers. They're hollering but sound like maybe urgent pleas. There it is again, the captain's voice Calling out. Oh boy. Captain's mad. Or maybe concerned. Captain is commanding and trying to get the soldiers to his feet. He might be angry, might be something else, but he's certainly working hard to get this soldier's attention. What is he saying? Soldier, up on your feet! March one step, one step, one step at a time. Let's go! Come on, follow me to safety and rest. But I'm resting here. But there is unsafe. The enemy is hiding in the reeds. They're using the stream as a trap. Now pick up that armor pack and get back to it. One step. One step. Come on. You don't have to worry about going all the way up the hill right now. Just take one step. Now take the next step. Keep going. Don't quit. You must not quit. You will not quit. I won't let you And at that word, the captain reaches the soldier. And the captain has been running all this time to the soldier. And now, hip high in the dangerous waters himself, the captain picks up the burdensome pack and he carries it with the soldier. And the soldier can see the blood soaking up through the shirt of the captain. The captain, too, has the battle scars shared by this soldier. As the captain marches, the soldier follows one step. And then one step, and then one more. He counts the steps aloud as he climbs, and the captain counts with him, almost counts for him, or somewhat counts through him. And the soldier feels this indescribable thrill. Terror still stalks him from behind. Utter exhaustion still battles him from within. But rivers of despondency have given way to floods of confidence. This soldier knows that he will make it to the pasture of rest. The captain is with him and he knows the captain will see him through, will get him there. He knows it no longer with any doubt because he knows his captain and his captain does not leave any of his soldiers behind. And so the counting continues. Each step the soldier counts. One step. One step. One step. Many more steps, he thinks. Just one more comes the answer. One more. That next step. Just one more. One step. One step. One step. And as the others on the march are nearing that pasture, they're up ahead of him and he can hear them cheering him on, encouraging him not to give up, to keep following the barked out orders of the captain. The soldiers are showing their love. For this soldier, as they had so many other times before, and he loves them too. He's not afraid to show it, not here out on the battlefield. There's one thing this war had taught him, it's that soldiers love one another and they show it. They had all learned this from their captain. And then finally, with one step, he makes it. He's at the top. He's made it to safety and security and rest. He's made it with his captain in one step. He made it all the way to the top of the hill with just one step. Just one step. All the way to the top. This is a basic point of the first half of 1 John chapter 5. It's about the soldier counting on his captain. It's about you swatting as a mosquitoes. It's about me tempted to give up on true security and rest for a temporary dip in the tempting cool waters down below. It's About all of us and our need for God. It's about Jesus Christ who brings us triumph over our suffering, just as he triumphed over suffering. It's about Jesus who triumphs and helps us to triumph through our suffering, just as he triumphed through his suffering. So let's read the first twelve verses of the final chapter of John's first epistle, and then we'll talk about them after a word of prayer. First John chapter five verses one through twelve. I've learned Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ is born of God. And everyone who loves the Father loves his child as well. This is how we know that we love the children of God, by loving God and carrying out his commands. In fact, this is love for God, to keep his commands. And his commands are not burdensome, for everyone born of God overcomes the world. This is the victory that has overcome the world, even our faith. Who is it that overcomes the world? Only the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God. This is the one who came by water and blood, Jesus Christ. He did not come by water only, but by water and blood. And it is the Spirit who testifies, because the Spirit is the truth. For the three that testify the Spirit, the water, and the blood. And the three are in agreement. We accept human testimony, but God's testimony is greater because it is the testimony of God. which he has given about his son. Whoever believes in the Son of God accepts this testimony. Whoever does not believe God has made him out to be a liar Because they have not believed the testimony God has given about his son. And this is the testimony. God has given us eternal life, and this life is in his son. Whoever has the son has life. Whoever does not have the son of God does not have life. Don't you pray with me for a minute. Father, we Pray for endurance, we pray for understanding. We pray that you would help us to understand these words that you penned through the hand of John the Apostle I pray that your truth would come boldly shining through and that me and my inadequacies would recede into the background and not distract from the Truth that we all need to hear, that we all need to be reminded of, or if we haven't already heard it before, to hear for the very first time and to apply it to our lives savingly. And we know that your promise is true. We know that your promise through your Son Jesus Christ is true. And it's in his name that we pray. Amen. So if you sit down and you read 1 John all the way through in one sitting, you'll notice something. And by the way, you really should read 1 John all the way through in one sitting, the letter. It's what we do with letters. Of course, that might be a bit of a dated reference. Okay, let me try. Somebody sends you an email. Probably expect that you're gonna read the whole thing all the way through, right? Somebody sends you a text or you receive a tweet. Do you save twenty or thirty of those characters to read some other time or do you read it all at once? Sony sends it out, you read it all at once, right? It's what you do. It's what you do with this sort of thing. So let's pretend that people still write letters. I mean we have to pretend that we still receive letters. So okay, we receive this letter. What do we do with it? We read it all the way through. This is what John expects his readers to do. And guess what? We are John's readers. So when you get home later today, read 1 John all the way through. You should do this. It's a letter. It's what we do with letters. Now we're not going to read all the way through right now because this is a sermon and we're trying to unpack some of the deeper issues to make sure that we really get specific points. So we're pausing, we're taking time. If you've been here for a while, you know, I've been preaching through 1 John. If I could have preached it all back and back to back to back and done like a five-hour sermon, I would have been happy to do that. But anyway, if you read this whole thing all the way through, you'll notice something. John repeats himself a lot. Sort of like modern day praise and worship music, you know? Same words over and over again, over and over, and over. I mean the analogy begins to break down a little bit after a while because John's letter isn't as repetitive as the worst of contemporary Christian music. And also Contemporary Christian music, even the good stuff, is not the inspired, inerrant, infallible word of God that tells us about our creator and our position before him, right? So Let's not take that too far. But still, John's letter is a bit repetitive. It's repetitive in a really good way. He brings up the fact of the matter and then he he swings back around to say it again and then he backs up so as to really drive it home and And he writes it out once again, just in case you missed it the first two or three or four or five times. You know, there's this swinging back, swinging back, this spiral. This circling back to cover the same basic ideas seems really redundant. Silly almost. Seriously, why would he feel the need to repeat himself so much? Well maybe the people back then weren't so bright. Not like us, we're bright people. No need for us to belabor a point. Particularly in the sermon, right? There's no need, especially in the sermon, for me to go on and on and on. No need for me to repeat myself endlessly. And yet here I am endlessly repeating myself in front of a bunch of bright people in a sermon? Well the benefit of this is at this moment You understand that John uses repetition in his letter. At this very moment, at the very least, you understand that John repeats himself. There's a repetitive nature to John's writing. You've got it. You understand. You know that John repeats himself, right? He does. He repeats himself. He does. Will you remember this later today? Or tomorrow? Next week? In a month? In a year? How about when life beats you down and drives you to distraction? What about then? Could there be a time where you'll get so fed up? So aggravated that you'll turn to somebody, maybe your child or your spouse And you'll say with exasperation, will you just stop? Please. Why do you keep repeating yourself? Why are you going on and on and on about this like I didn't hear you the first 10 million times? Only an idiot would repeat themselves so much. Only an idiot. Like John, you mean? An apostle of Jesus Christ writing the very word of God? To the members of the Almighty's church? An idiot? Like that? Is that what you would mean in that moment? Or, in that moment, beaten to the nub of your wit's end by the pressures of the world, might you have forgotten that this New Testament author repeats himself? Despite the fact that I've repeated this point endlessly today, despite great repetition, we tend to forget. You'll end up neglecting to recall what I've said here today. And we'll all end up neglecting to recall what God has said through John in this letter, too. Unfortunately. For thousands of years, God has revealed his truth to us. He's done this repeatedly throughout history. He's continued to do this through his church for more than 1900 years. He's continued to do it even today in messages like this preached all throughout the world. He'll repeatedly remind us again tomorrow and the next day and the day after that and still we'll be prone to forget So let's take time to ponder what John has said so many times in this letter, and then ask God to help us To remember. First John chapter 5, verse 1 says, Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ is born of God, and everyone who loves the Father loves his child as well. If you believe that Jesus is the Christ, then you are born of God. If you believe that Jesus is the promised Messiah, do you? Do you believe that Jesus is the promised Messiah? You are born of God. You acknowledge that you need saving from the penalty due to you for your sin. And that this saving comes through Jesus Christ, who is the Savior. You know this, and so you are a child of God. And we will pause it right there until we're just getting into the meat of the message, right? We gotta pause it. But uh that's the way it works when you're confined to the to the constraints of the faith-to-bate clock. Anyway, uh that was the first half of Remember the Overcomer, based on 1 John chapter 5, verses 1 through 12, special edition of the Frederick Faith Debate Show. My name is Troy Skinner. I encourage you to visit us visit us online at WFMD. com keyword faith. There you'll find all sorts of goodies. Um and including blog material that is sent to me by you. So email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com and I take what you send me and post it up there. What am I reading these days? Well, not coincidentally, Preaching to a Post Everything World by Zach Eswine, a very uh very good book. And uh and a related subject matter, by the way, another book I've been reading lately, uh just finished up, uh Albert Moller's He is not silent preaching to a postmodern world. Um don't know that uh Albert Muller covers any new ground in that book, but uh he does a good job of recapping a bunch of stuff that that uh others have uh written before him. Uh anyway, thanks so much for listening. Thanks to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Thank you for listening. Until uh next week, 167. 5 hours from now, I wish you all the best. God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs. But we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?