This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters. Others learn in a week. The fate debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in Mid's corner, weighing in with a master of divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Fate Debate Master of Ceremonies. Oh Troy Skinner. There's a new local author in Frederick. He's written a book titled Renewing Your Mind Daily. It's described as an exhilarating 40-day devotional journey, emphasizing the culture of God's kingdom. Talks about embracing a culture that highlights how renewing the way we think can lead to transformation and a lifestyle of submission to the authority of the kingdom of heaven. Introduced to the uh author um by Bob Miller, Frederick's Morning Mayor, host of WFMD's Morning News Express. Uh I think they ran into each other pumping gas and And uh Rohan Stewart said, hey, Bob, I wrote a new book. And Bob said, really, what's it about? And he told me, he said, you should be on the faith debate with Troy Skinner. And so So here we are on the Faith Debate talking with uh Rowan Stewart. Is it Rowan or Rohan? It is Rowan. Rowan, okay, which is silent. H is silent. Yes. Okay, so why is it even there? You know? Makes you wonder. Right. Almost like a W. Yeah, let me see if I can get you. You can lean back and be comfortable, but if you're gonna do that, we're gonna move the mic a little bit closer. Does that work? Thank you All right. So we're going to talk about the the uh uh the book specifically in a moment, but I want to kind of uh run up to to the book a little bit and give some context and historical context. So we were talking a little bit before the show started and uh um and it sounds like you grew up in a Christian context. So but you know, but but maybe not necessarily a Christian, who knows? So why don't you talk about your childhood and experience with the church and your your your road to discovering your your faith in Jesus? Yes, I grew up in the in the church. I remember pad age of five, six, seven, eight, going to Sunday school, memorizing scriptures. All that type of stuff. I grew up in the church and even it in you know in my teenage years. Even in my up to my teenage years, you know, going to Sunday school, memorizing scriptures, and all that But one day I realized that I didn't know who God was or i is. I didn't know who God is. I didn't know. I offer after all these years of going to church, listening to sermons, memorizing scriptures I didn't have a clue. So you were actually going through the process of going to church, actually faithfully attending with some regularity and memorizing scripture, and you still didn't feel like you had an understanding or a connection with God. That helps to illustrate that you know you can't work your way to a knowledge of God. You know, God has to do a work in you kind of a thing, I guess. Right? Is that is Do you think that's a fair way of thinking about it? Of course. Exactly. You're you you you're perfectly correct. And if I can add to that, it was coming here that I met a a friend of mine by the name of uh Chokuma Chucks. You know all this is recording the book. And this guy was like fasting every day fasting and and and reading uh scriptures and to me even being a Christian to me that that was ridiculous. That was just crazy for him to be fasting every day Eating only once per day at six and then there's praying. It was crazy. And and I called myself a Christian. But then he began to tell me dreams, tell me about dreams. Mm. And um one dream he told me I say, you know, this guy, yes, he's really crazy because he's telling me that he's expecting the the the fruition of that dream. And I'm I'm saying, you know, all this is recorded in the book by the way. I'm saying, you know, he he is yes, he's gone. He's crazy. But I'm not gonna tell him anything. I'm gonna let time reveal that it's just a dream and it's not gonna come to pass, right? So A few weeks after that, I began to see the dream coming to fruition. Within a couple of months, yes, I saw the dream come to fruition before my very eyes And it was this time I said, you know what? God, I want to know you like how Tooks knows you. And then I began, I started fasting and praying and reading scriptures. Now you mentioned that you met uh this really sold-out Christian. Um sold out in the positive way, like sold out for God, not that he was a sellout, but when you moved here. So where where'd you move here from? Here meaning. Well from Jamaica. Okay, and and you moved from Jamaica to Frederick? To Gaitensburg. Gayth. Okay, so to Maryland anyway. Okay. So um do you think that the the the geography had anything to do with it? Is the is the nature of of quote unquote Christianity different in Jamaica than it is in the United States? No. But it's it was just this individual has opened my eyes up to to a different realm, to n new possibilities And because he was a a young man dedicated to to prayer and fasting and reading scriptures. That's why I could could could see the you know God working through him, the Holy Spirit working through him and giving him these revelations that now spike my interest. Say yes, I wanna I wanna experience this type of stuff also. So this is when you were a teenager? This was when I was in my twenties. In your twenties, okay. So you grew up in a religious context, went to church, you were studying the Bible, that sort of thing, so your family obviously was supporting that. But you once you left the house you became more sold out for God and and became probably strange in their eyes, maybe. Did your family wonder what the heck's going on with Rohan? He's Acting kind of weird. Of course. Of course. You know, when I when I mentioned fasting and praying, it was just like this is a different person. This is not the ruin that we knew before. So yes. They were surprised. Yeah, now do they still kind of odd or are they uh they're they're they have come to embrace some of the things that you're about now. Well Uh maybe, maybe not. I don't think they they embrace like fasting and and stuff like that. Even now. But I start fast like five PM and then all night. You know, and then just have breakfast, lunch, go back to fasting. So they don't embrace that. They they embrace like going to church as I normally do. Go to church and come back home, go to church and stuff like that. But I want their eyes to be opened up to the greater possibilities of experiencing the revelation, experiencing the power of God, experiencing God a more intimate way. But uh gradually I think they would get to that point. And now you moved into the Frederick area uh what ten, fifteen years ago, something like that. Since two thousand six. Okay. So thirteen years ago. And a few years after that, or or um what, six, seven years after that you decided to write a book? Yes. So I started writing this book, Renewing Your Your Mind Daily. Yeah. Since 2013. What led you to decide, you know what? How long did it take you to actually to begin writing once you thought maybe I should write a book like how long did it take you to commit yourself to writing the book? I would say probably a good perhaps six months. So you thought about it for six months and then you finally said, okay, so what was the impetus Six months before you started writing, the idea occurs to you to write a book. Yes. What was that idea? Like what happened? Reading scriptures. This this book is insp inspired By Romans chapter 12 and verse 2, right? Which which this case says, you know, do not conform to the culture of the world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. So I I think that's that scripture is is very vital, very pertinent for us today. Um because we we we we're carried away into this we're we're being swept away into this um culture of of the world So renewing your mind, you know, Jesus Christ told us that for a man to follow me, he must first deny himself, take up his cross and follow me. But we're in a we're in a culture that doesn't want to deny self. It's it this culture that we're living in is is all about me, me, me and me. But the first thing that we got to do is come by renewing our minds and coming back to this culture of denying self Now oftentimes you'll hear people who uh take a stab at writing a book, they'll say that, you know, friends of them said, Oh, you should write a book. So had you been talking about these sorts of things with f friends and family, they said, you know what, Rowan, you should write a book? Or it was merely like, you know the move of the spirit spoke to you more directly than that saying you should write a book. I think it's a move of the spirit. No one did encourage me to write it, even after um telling them the experiences of 911. No one really said, okay, Ron, yeah, I think this would be worthwhile putting in a book. But now that the book is here, people have been telling me that this is just the beginning, that greater things are gonna come. I'm talking about pastors. Telling me that greater things are about to come. So yes. So in two thousand thirteen you decide to write this book and in two thousand nineteen you finally finish it. Yes. So t talk just a little bit about that writing process. You know, what was it that was taking six years for it to unfold? Well, you know what, at first it was gonna be uh you know a daily devotional for one year so um three sixty five days so I I basically did devotionals for three hundred and sixty five days But the the the material was so huge that being the publisher decided that you know what it's gonna cost too much, so let's shrink it to probably about 30 days, 40 days for 70 day devotional. So I said yes, okay. I want to make it more affordable, so let's do a 40-day devotional. So I I shrunk it and you know that that took some time. Furthermore, there are other there's lots of distractions that that came came my way from during that period of time. You know, family, um, work. So, you know, it it was just that process of prioritizing other things before before the book. Right. You work a full time job in kind in the secular world. You're not a pastor or in leadership at a church necessarily. So you have You have you have a a a job to do and and a living to earn for your family. Yes. So that gets in the way of writing a book. Right. And when you're home, you could sit down and write, but you have a family. So how many kids do you have? I've got three three kids. Exactly. So now did your family have any involvement in the writing the book? Did they help you edit it or provide ideas or No they they didn't help me edit. No they didn't. Okay. And uh have a couple of people read it and you know, give me their their impressions and then I would send it off to the publisher. Okay Uh we're going to dive in in just a second into some of the meat of what the book is all about. I'm trying to get this, you know, this uh preamble stuff to set the context. Yeah. Um So we're talking with uh Rohan Stewart. He has written a book called Renewing Your Mind Daily. And uh it says on the cover, book one Yes. So that tells me that maybe there's a book two that you're gonna introduce? Oh yes, definitely. Definitely I don't know the the top topic as yet, the subtitle as yet, but definitely book two will be coming out. And if I could tell you a little bit about about this So renew your mind daily was inspired by Romans chapter twelve and verse two which says, And be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. that he may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. So the subtitle of this book is Embracing the Culture of the Kingdom In it, I leverage my personal testimonies and those of others to to substantiate the fact that we all have to access the kingdom. It's just like going to to the ATM machine to retrieve funds, wealthy individuals could could starve if they fail to furnish their bank cards along with the appropriate PIN numbers. We also, we run the risk also of being spiritually malnourished if we fail to furnish the keys to access God's kingdom Renewing your mind daily reminds us that we have the keys to access greatness. So I'm looking for uh at the table of by the way, this is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. You can find us online at WFMD. com I am Troy Skinner and Rowan Stewart, author of Renewing Your Mind Daily, is on the show. So if you look at the table of contents, by the way, I'm holding in my hands not just any copy of the book. I am holding an autographed copy. of the book dedicated especially to me. So I I feel special. Thank you very much for that gift. So it's got uh you know a a a chapter for each day of the forty day devotional and it looks like Uh each chapter is built around like a story, an anecdote. Right. So what where did these stories and anecdotes in the book come from? Are they all your personal stories? Are they stories from friends? family? Both from my stories and testimonies of others. So a combination. Now did you go about soliciting those stories or did the other stories you just remember people sharing with you? These are stories I remember people sharing with me and pretty much I consulted them to get permission to to you know write this in in my book Okay. Did you go to anybody and say, look, I I would love to have a a story about uh let's see. Being ready to testify, that's uh day number thirteen. And so did you look like that example? You go say, hey, Bob Miller I need a story about being ready to testify. Do you have one? Like did you have to actively solicit stories at all or not really? No, I I I didn't. And that one that you referred to just now was my personal um testimony So no I I I didn't. But you know, like my prayer partners, uh th th my main prayer partner, she was originally uh a Muslim. And she just has an uh an incredible story of how she got converted through revelation also. Jesus Christ revealing himself to her being on the cross. And originally, her, you know, her beliefs didn't allow her to believe that Jesus Christ died and rose again. And and as a as a as a deep on her third attempt to visit, she had a dream. She had uh all she made all the preparations to visit Mecca and it was on this third attempt making all the preparation or third attempt to go to Mecca she had a revolution. And in that dream, she sees Jesus Christ on the cross and he's bleeding. And the blood is just fresh, running down, down his face. And and you know I I detail the dream in the book. But she she woke up that day and she said, yes. Jesus Christ is real. He died and he rose again. And from that day, she made up her mind she's going to find a church and she's going to attend that church and she's going to be faithful to Jesus Christ And from that day she got that revelation, she never turned back. Hm. Now that's an interesting point that the you know uh you can tell just by what uh Rowan just said. This is a a a specifically an overtly Christian book. This isn't just a spiritual book or some sort of religious book or some sort of faith journey book kind of a thing. This is a book written by a man who identifies as an with an audience, I assume. suppose, correct? Like you're intending this to to be used to advance the kingdom to be a possible co uh is that fair? Yes, yes. So renewing your mind daily the purpose of renewing your mind daily is to Draw people back into the presence of God. Let people know. Because I didn't know until w when I met Chooks. that one could experience such intimacy with God, get the get revelations and all that that type of thing. So I want people to know, I want people to give people the actual experiences of God revealing things to to his children of God opening up doors and showing his children uh revelations. So this book is really to to to draw people back into the presence of God. And the way we do that is is is the primary ways, fasting, prayer, worship, scripture, just just allocating time daily to fast. To pray, to read scriptures. The world and the things around us, everything is just grabbing our attention. And many many people follow that, that you know, that get caught up in this in this wave of just just going after self. Renew your mind daily is pointing people back into the arms of God because that's where we belong. The scripture says seek first the kingdom and all these other things. Will be yours. So that the the thing that we want to do, and he's the God that creates all things, the the omnipotent, the omniscient, the omnipresent God, the God who made us. So there is nothing impossible to him. And if he says, seek first the kingdom, that's what we should do. Yeah, and the well the reason I was asking, because even just now, you know, w uh this is a faith debate. Anybody who's listened to this show for the last 15 years uh knows that there are different concepts uh and traditions, you know, that bring different concepts. So you mentioned the woman who's a Muslim. So she has a concept of God that she would call Allah. But that's not what this book is talking about. This book is talking about the kind of the Trinitarian biblical idea of God, right? There's a Father, Son, Holy Spirit. That's the That's the God that you're talking about. Yes, the God the God I'm talking about is Jesus Christ. There is one way into the kingdom. And it's through Jesus Christ. Now, so your your faith tradition would be in the evangelical Protestant realm. That's the ch kind of church you grew up in, the kind of church you're in now, correct? So p I'm Pentecostal. Okay. So I believe in speaking in tongues, mm-hmm, being filled with the Holy Ghost. That that's my belief. So it's more of a Pentecostal background. Okay. Yeah, but Protestant distinct from Roman Catholicism or things like that. Right, right. And even yeah, Pentecostal is even distinct within Protestantism, so that's uh so um The book sounds a uh uh a particular Pentecostal note or or notes throughout probably. Lots of uh characters kind of Revelation and experiences and that sort of a thing. Right. So fasting, especially praying, you know, with with with with some consistency. allocating a good time to fast and pray. Like you know, like today I'm fasting from from from five. So I won't eat out again until morning. So and this is not to show me, but it's just again to show people that it's being done. People are doing it. People are sacrificing, being being l living sacrifice as as noted in Romans chapter 12 and verse 1. So if if if If the audience eyes, if if if our eyes are open to the fact that, okay, this is being done and these are the things that happen, or or you know, if you draw close to God, he will draw close to you. If these things are happening, if it's being done by others then yes, we all can do it. Okay, so you're in a Pentecostal uh church and belief system now, is that the kind of uh church you went to as a kid? I'm just curious. No, not as a kid, not not as a uh uh Protestant, not as a Pentecostal. It was more like uh an assembly. Uh it was uh no, it's it wasn't anything Pentecostal. Not saying that there weren't people there who spoke in tongues and and prayed and fasted, but not with the consistency as I see, you know, in in the Pentecostal movement. Okay. Alright, so we've kind of laid the groundwork giving you uh some background on the author. We've given you kind of a a general gist uh and a feel for the book. We're gonna do another show next week if that's okay with you, and we're gonna talk uh Well, give some nuggets about the book, some some uh some of the the key insights that uh Rowan is hoping that you might take from the book uh and uh and uh give you an opportunity to to uh plug websites where they can find the book or places where they can go and purchase the book, uh that sort of thing. So we're gonna but we're running out of time in this episode, so do that in next week's show. If you've uh missed part of this and you're interested in hearing all of it, it'll be available uh as a podcast at WFMD. com in short order. And then if you want, you can listen to the shows back to back. So if you you know you can stack them. I know some people have told me they like to listen to the show that way, Bill. They'll listen to it live, but then after a a series of shows is done with the same panel or same guests on, they might listen to two, three, four shows all in a row. It's a wonderful way to spend an evening Thanks so much for listening. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Face Debate on 930 WFMD. The book is telled with Renewing Your Mind Daily by Rowan Stewart. Uh it's book one of many to come. At least that's the hope, God willing, the creeks don't rise. Till next week, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from right now. God bless.