This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. Faith debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with a master of divinity from Reformed Theological. Seminary, the faith debate master of ceremonies. Oh to the show. I encourage you, as the announcer did, to visit us online at WFMB. com keyword faith This week we've got a uh special edition and I like I always refer to these as the shows as special editions. I don't know. I hope that's not false self-advertising. Uh The last couple of weeks uh we listened to my guest spot on the program with Jennifer Charlton on her program, Success Happens on WFMB, heard Saturday mornings at nine o'clock Uh was on her show a few weeks ago and uh took the the meat of that hour-long program and split it into two halves for the faith debate for a couple of weeks. And uh now this week I'm gonna share with you this week and next week A couple of uh shows that are built upon and uh upon a uh message that I had an opportunity to share uh down the road in Montgomery County uh not too long ago. It's a message that's titled uh Rent or the Option to Own. It's um uses a kind of an extended illustration from the Broadway musical Rent, so uh and how we can see the the gospel illustrated that way. So I hope you'll find that interesting. And the text from which uh we're we're deriving the thoughts for the message are from 2 John uh verses 12 and 13. So we'll hear part one this week, and then we'll hear parts uh part two next week on next week's Faith Debate Show. All right, so hope you enjoyed it. Good morning. As I usually do, I want to thank the leadership of the church, particularly your pastors, Jace, Carl, and Byrne, for inviting me back into your pulpit, and thank you for your graciousness in allowing me to share God's word with you once more. It is a responsibility for sure and I feel the weight of that for sure, but it is also just a a marvelous honor And so I uh I thank you for bestowing such an honor, allowing me to stand in your pulpit. Um you should not allow anybody to ever take that for granted. This is an important thing that's happening here this morning as we come together to worship God and expound upon his word to see what he has to tell us about us in relation to him through his son Jesus Christ. Now every week in anticipation for the Sunday message, there is an electronic newsletter that is sent out, and I'm sure that many of you read it. And I'm sure that many of you here haven't read it because you might not even be on the in distribution list. If you're a visitor, for example, you probably didn't see it. And it's always helpful for setting the context, but Uh today I think it's going to be particularly helpful that you have seen it. So I'm going to read it to you. 525,600 minutes 525,000 moments so dear. 525,600 minutes. How do you measure? Measure a year. In daylights, in sunsets, in midnights, in cups of coffee, in inches, in miles, in laughter, in strife? In five hundred twenty-five thousand six hundred minutes, how do you measure a year in the life How about love? How about love? How about love? Measure in love I recently saw a stage play, a musical that very accurately captures much that is true about life in the world. As the lyrics to seasons of life tell us, there is both laughter and strife. And our lives can bas pass by quickly with meaninglessness if we are not careful. But Rent blends these helpful insights with a troubling outlook on the human condition. For example, these words from the song No Day But Today. The heart may freeze or it can burn, the pain will ease if I can learn. There is no future. There is no past. There's only us. There's only this. No other road. No other way. No day but today. There's only yes. Only tonight we must let go to know what is right. No other course, no other way. I trust my soul My only hope is just to be. There's only now, there's only here, no other path, no other way, no day, but today. Believe it or not, these songs provide the perfect teaser for Sunday's sermon. We'll recap what we talked about the last time when I preached on 2 John verses 1 through 11, and then we'll embrace the wonderful theme of community and fellowship. that is found in 2 John verses 12 and 13. It will be a special time that we will spend together, and I am so looking forward to it. And that time has arrived. So here we are. Let's before we go any further, let's pray. Father, we thank you for bringing us together to share this time of corporate worship. Help us to understand that this is a time of corporate worship, that it is not a time of worship in isolation for the rest of our lives, that all of our lives that we lived in worship of you. But help us not to take for granted the great privilege and reward that we have by gathering together as a corporate body in fellowship. Help us not to neglect coming together as so many are wont to do. Help us to realize that there are things that we can gain by coming together to worship you. as one, and there are also things that others around us gain by having us in their presence. We ask that you would open our minds, our hearts, our ears to hear the truth of your word today, and that your spirit would move us to apply it to our lives. In new and dramatic and wondrous ways. It's in the name of your Son Jesus Christ that we pray. Amen. An old man turned ninety-eight. He won the lottery and he died the next day. Isn't it ironic, don't you think? It's like rain on your wedding day. It's a free ride when you've already paid. It's the good advice that you just didn't take. Who would have thought? It's figures. Well, life has a funny way of sneaking up on you when you think everything's okay and everything's going right. A traffic jam when you're already late. A no-smoking sign on your cigarette break. It's like 10,000 spoons when all you need is a knife. It's meeting the man of your dreams and then meeting his beautiful wife. Isn't that ironic, don't you think? A little too ironic. Yeah, I really do think. Alanis Morissette, without realizing it, sang a song that blasted from many radios about 20 years ago, back in 1996. That really captures a big theme in today's sermon: irony. Now the last time that I preached here, we talked about the second epistle of John, and we covered almost the entire letter that last time. We covered verses 1 through 11. Well this week we are going to read the entire letter all the way through, and it's not going to take that long. This is the book in the Bible with the fewest number of verses. It just has 13. So if you would, turn in your Bibles. If you don't have your own You can grab one of the pew Bibles. If you read the Bible on an electronic device, that's fine. But we're looking for 2 John. If you're kind of new to this whole Bible thing, that's in the New Testament, and Second John is almost all the way to the back To go all the way back to find Revelation, just go a little bit ahead of Revelation. You'll find 1, 2nd, and 3rd John right in that general area. We're looking for 2 John, and we're going to pick up with verse 1. The elder to the lady chosen by God and to her children, whom I love in the truth, and not I only, but also all who know the truth, because of the truth which lives in us and will be with us for ever. Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and from Jesus Christ the Father's Son will be with us in truth and love. It has given me great joy to find some of your children walking in the truth, just as the Father commanded us. And now, dear lady, I am not writing you a new command, but one we have had from the beginning. I ask that we love one another And this is love, that we walk in obedience to his commands. As you have heard from the beginning, his command is that you walk in love. I say this because many deceivers who do not acknowledge Jesus Christ as coming in the flesh have gone out into the world. Any such person is the deceiver and the Antichrist. Watch out that you do not lose what we have worked for, but that you may be rewarded fully. Anyone who runs ahead and does not continue in the teaching of Christ does not have God. Whoever continues in the teaching has both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not take them into your house or welcome them. Anyone who welcomes them shares in their wicked work. I have much to write to you, but I do not want to use paper and ink. Instead, I hope to visit you and talk with you face to face, so that our joy may be complete. The children of your sister who was chosen by God send their greetings. So today we are most interested in the final verses, the final two verses of 2 John, since we covered the first eleven verses last time. And these final two verses, they scream out to us, community, authentic community, tactile physical presence with each other. Face to face, complete joy, living as family, as the family of God, greeting one another with love. Walking in the truth of who we are in Christ. Community. Balancing and blending, truth and love. These are primary concerns for John in his letter to us, for the Apostle John. We can tell that these are of importance to him by how frequently he uses the word truth and the word love. Here's a Bible study tip for you as you're studying a particular passage of Scripture. Try to make note of recurring words and phrases. Oftentimes they're telling you something of importance, these repeated words. And keep in mind that there was no internet nearly 2,000 years ago. There wasn't even a printing press nearly 2,000 years ago. And so efficiency when writing was pretty important. They had to fit everything onto their little papyrus And so, while not being maybe as critical as when we're sending out a tweet, but Maybe there's an analogy here. When we're using Twitter, we have to conserve our words, even conserve our characters. We have to say what we want to say in 140 characters or less. We have to convey our ideas in as few characters as possible. And ancient writers, they faced somewhat of a similar concern. And so John in writing this letter wouldn't say the same thing over and over unless it was important that he say the same thing over and over And what is John especially concerned to tell us? What is the theme of utmost importance to him in this letter? Truth. And love. We know this because in a letter with just 13 verses, John uses the word truth five times. And he uses the word love five times. And then he contrasts these with liars, those who don't tell the truth. Who seek to steal our joy, robbing us of love by robbing us of truth. These are the themes that bring us up to the final two verses of the letter. These are the themes in the first eleven verses that bring us up to these final two verses. Now to help continue to make better sense of these final two verses, let's expand upon the context a little bit more. Let's review a few things from our last time together. This book of the Bible, as I've mentioned, is a letter, sometimes referred to as an epistle, and its author is the elder. Now, whomever is the elder, he is well known to the original readers, and his authority is unquestioned. I mean, imagine if you were to send some mail and you were to sign it, the elder. Or maybe a better example for us to kind of get our heads wrapped around, you were to sign it, honey. So imagine now you think this person, they're popping open, they're ripping open the envelope, and they're starting to read your letter What sort of relationship must you have with them if you sign that letter, honey? Would you send this letter if you thought even for a second? Gee, will they know who honey is? What if they have another honey? If there was any chance of this, you would think twice about sending that letter and signing it that way, right? So the writer here knows that his readers know him. They know him well. They know him really well. It's a deep, uh abiding kind of knowing, a trusted, loving kind of knowing, a respected, valued kind of knowing. of this elder. So he can call himself the elder and be confident that they know who he is. Unfortunately, we don't have the exact same advantage, do we? We weren't walking the planet nearly 2,000 years ago. But the church tradition, going all the way back to the early church fathers, has pretty consistently held that the elder here is the Apostle John. And I do think that personally that that's exactly who this is. John A man who is determined to maintain the truth of the gospel. The truth that Jesus really existed, he really lived, he really died, he really rose again, he really ascended into heaven. He really did. Jesus really embodies truth. He really embodies love. He really embodies life. That Jesus really is God, man. Really and truly. This is what the church believes. This is what the church knows. And John is Consistently in all five of the writings of the New Testament that are attributed to John, in all of his writings, he is careful to remind us of what we already know. He is careful to help us not forget the truth. We must not forget that we as Christians are God's children. We saw that in the reading of the passage today. We are to live out our lives in this truth. We are to walk out our lives in truth, in love. We are to live and love. As a family, in community, in relationship, in fellowship We must recognize this grace, mercy, and peace that John's talking about that comes from God From God the Father and God the Son and God the Holy Spirit, who is in us and is with us forever, we must remember We must, lest we forget, and then we become like the lost to our wandering after a lost hope Lest we forget and are unable to guide the other poor beggars like ourselves to where the food is Lest we forget and we end up living lives like the characters in the Broadway musical rent. Not too many weeks ago, the twentieth anniversary version of Rent, their celebratory twentieth anniversary tour, made its way through our area. And We had some friends with a couple of extra tickets and they invited Dean and I to go with them. They didn't ask us to pay for the ticket. In fact they wouldn't even let us pay for the parking. It was totally their treat. And what a treat it was. It was fascinating. It's a story that provides the perfect foil for the telling of the gospel. I suppose this is probably the result of some happy accident. I doubt that the playwright sat down and wrote this play thinking that one day a preacher would see the play for the very first time and then turn it into a a sermon illustration However, I could be wrong. After all, there are a number of self-conscious religious references in the story of Rant. The setting is in New York City, and the story begins at Christmas time. And after spending a majority of its time during the holiday season, it then quickly progresses through a calendar year before coming full circle and wrapping up again at Christmas time. This can't be a complete accident, can it? There is a Christ message in this play. To put a finer point on it, there is an Antichrist message in display. And as a result, we get our foil for the telling of the gospel. Now in 2 John, we are warned, we are put on guard against deceivers who deny Christ. These liars are a foil for John and his letter for the telling of the truth, for the telling of the gospel. Now, if we aren't careful defenders of the truth, if we fail to be beware, if we buy the lie, then what do we get? We get the world of rent. Now I'm not a theater critic, and I will admit that I knew absolutely nothing about rent before seeing it this one time. And so it's quite possible that I've missed a few things, maybe some important things. But here's what I saw in watching this musical. Well, I sat in a $100 seat about midway up the rose. The primary character in Rent is a uh a struggling artist. He's a documentary filmmaker, and he is seeking to find his identity. In his career. If only he could tell someone's story with celluloid, then his life will have meaning. Another main character in Rent is a struggling artist of a different story. He is a singer-songwriter, and he is yearning to write just one last glorious song. And then he'll fulfill his identity. And then he can die a happy man. Another major character finds escape in exotic dance and in drugs. Heavy duty drugs. She is an addict. I suppose in a sense this is her identity. She'll gladly trade it though for a relationship. a relationship uh of love, if she could just find love, honest love from someone who will help her to become the best version of herself. Now one of these faulty relationships in which she places all of her hopes to find her identity is with the singer-songwriter who I mentioned. And another such relationship for her is with a former boyfriend who Seeks his own escape through his newfound wealth. His his new identity as a rich guy isn't all that he imagines, so he once again wants to have the drug addict girlfriend to be his But kind of ironically, she keeps rebuffing him, pushing him away, rejecting him over and over again. And we're going to have to pick up there uh next week on the Faith Debate. That's the first half of a message based on 2 John verses 12 and 13 called Rent or the Option to own. Want to encourage you to visit us online at WFMD. com keyword faith. Thank you so much for listening to the show all these many years. And by the way, a little teaser We're gonna have uh in a few weeks, maybe a month or so from now, I think we might have Jonathan Sweitzer uh sitting back in on the show. Um long time uh cohort and co-founder of this show. Be good to have him back in the saddle for a little bit. Anyway, till next week. 167 and a half hours from now. God bless