This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gap fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The faith debate is on the World Wide Web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with the master of divinity from reform. Form Theological Seminary, the Fate Debate Master of Ceremonies. Oh yeah. Troy Skinner. Way back in 2017, I know, long time ago I had the opportunity to share a message with a congregation in Montgomery County. A message titled Rent or the Option to Own, based on 2 John verses 12 and 13 The first half of that message was heard last week on the Faith Debate, and we're going to hear the second half of that message this week. And it w it's funny how it worked out timing-wise. It will neatly fit the show the uh Sermon Will within the confines of the show in two almost exactly equally uh uh divided halves. So you heard that mostly a setup for what we're talking about and kind of give you an idea of what you missed so far. The gist of w what what is being said, had been said so far is supporting the idea that the Broadway musical, Rent helps to provide a foil for the telling of the gospel. Um and there's some uh connection of how this is happening in 2 John uh as well. He's got a foil for the telling of the gospel, and the foil is those that don't tell the truth. So there's kind of a loose recap of kind of the themes that have been touched on so far. And I was in the midst of describing some of the characters in the play. And we pick up with the continuation of the rest of the characters now. Um Part 2. Rent or the Option to Own. Another character in Rent looks to control his life and the lives of others by peddling drugs. The hero of the story seeks his identity in a gender that he was not born possessing. And his lover seeks identity in same-sex relations and seeks meaning and purpose in life through philosophy. Yet another character lashes out against convention with bisexuality and wild performance art. Her identity is all wrapped up, ironically, in that of a person who conforms to nonconformity. You throw in the lesbian lawyer and scenes of homelessness and suicide and a money-grubbing minister and police brutality for good measure, you have one very complicated plot Seriously complicated. There were strangers at intermission, I know, because I was one of them, asking complete other strangers, do you know what's going on? Who are all these people? I can't keep track. So many characters, so many subplots, so much subtext, so many interwoven themes. So much irony that was nearly lost on those in attendance. I mean, there's some irony right there. We couldn't keep track. There's so much irony. Ryan is trying to say so much that for many of us in attendance it ended up saying nothing at all The way of the world sometimes. But I did pick up what I think are some instructive points of irony, although I'm not entirely sure that they're the same points of irony that the playwright would have intended for us. For example, there are protests against perceived injustice that leads to riots where the participants have no interest in justice. Another example One of the secondary uh characters in the uh in the play is an anarchist. They believe in lawlessness. They don't want the no law. Everybody do whatever the heck you want. Well, this anarchist gets mugged Note of irony. There's a meeting group that meets a few times during the play for a support group for people who are dying from HIV infection, which is ironically the group's name is Life Support The stars of Rent, they live in a dilapidated building that has no electricity and Uh it's an apartment that no one would want to call home and yet ironically they they need to break in so that they can live in these unlivable conditions in an abandoned building. Now why would you need to break into an abandoned building? Because they were ironically padlocked out of the building. by the building's owner who was trying to protect this dilapidated building from them despite the fact that he wanted to tear it down anyway You might think that we have run out of track on this ironic railway. You might be wrong. The irony train it keeps on moving like it does in the real world in increasingly sad ways That illustrate where life takes us when we jump the tracks that carry the truth train. The characters and rents, they do seek relationship, and that's good. And they externally on the outside they appear to have Community. And that's good. But ironically, there is no commitment The songwriting and exotic dancing drug addict girlfriends that I mentioned, those lovers that I alluded to that are in rent, they break up. The uh uh characters, I said the scene is in New York City and these characters all have this community where they seem to really love each other in some sort of a way. They care for each other, they want to be there for each other, and yet All the people they care about are in New York and they number the characters leave for Santa Fe. You have people who lost their way looking for Santa Fe. Growing weary of chasing dreams, they they change their dreams, or they abandon dreaming Growing weary of true love, of ever finding something that approaches what they think is true love, they the characters in Rent they get caught up in uh various sexual relationships, on again, off again with adultery as a significant minor theme in Rent. But you know, we all know that this is true not only for fictional lives in the theater. These sorts of things are unfortunately true for real lives outside of the theater. What I saw in Rent I have seen in the real world. You have too, I'm sure. I mean the one guy in rent who has an actual career path quits his job We know people like this fictional filmmaker, don't we? Numerous times throughout the musical, the character's parents, they leave these heartfelt voicemails for their adult children, and these voicemails are repeatedly ignored. By the characters in rent. We all know families like this. Like this fictional fraudter for laughs from the audience. Poverty is strangely celebrated in rent, and yet ironically the need for cash is met by stealing from an ATM machine. Many of us know individuals who will wear their poverty like a badge, but will gladly take from those who have more out of selfishness. If you ever see Rent, you will note that they sing exuberantly toward the end, that there is no day but today, and yet everyone in the show is haunted by questions of eternity. If you've seen Renton, you'd like to remember that one character has a near-death experience where he sees this white light and angelic vision of of a friend who had died earlier in the story, the uh the dear friend was who's the hero of the story really, the cross-dressing hero of the story, comes back and has this angelic visitation. His name ironically is Angel, by the way. So it is in theory only in Rent that there is no day but today. Just like for the whole world around us, that same theory that people are trying to live by, in theory only. Everybody's wrestling with these themes of eternity. Rent can't escape from the the yearning of happily ever after. From the eternal glory that we were created to enjoy. But there is no happily ever after without Christ. This is why God has given us such a firm warning in 2 John. Let's revisit verses 7 through 11 real quickly. I say this because many deceivers who do not acknowledge Jesus Christ as coming in the flesh have gone out into the world Any such person is the deceiver and the Antichrist, watch out that you do not lose what we have worked for, but that you may be rewarded fully. Anyone who runs ahead and does not continue in the teaching of Christ does not have God. Whoever continues in the teaching has both the Father and the Son. If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not take them into your house or welcome them. Anyone who welcomes them shares in their wicked work. If you are God's elect, then you cannot lose your salvation. There are those I understand who would disagree with me. I get that. They will argue otherwise, but I think they argue unpersuasively. I am persuaded from Scripture that the saints persevere. To the end. And true believers in followers of Jesus Christ are saints. This is what the scriptures tell us. So you can't lose your salvation. However, there are rewards for us. And it seems that some of this reward can be lost according to verse 8. We just read it. And I'm not so sure that these rewards are all of this eternal heavenly nature. When we allow the snakes into our midst. As teachers of an anti-gospel or a non-gospel, to allow the world to infect the body of Christ, it disrupts our community of faith. This strong, healthy community. It is a reward to us. Sad that we don't so often think so But it is. It is a reward to us in union with Christ and by extension in union in union with one another by Christ's Spirit, we experience great rewards if we'll just allow ourselves to avail ourselves of those rewards This authentic, rooted in truth and love relationship of brothers and sisters is what we are after. It is, I would argue, one of the rewards that John is after. It's what he is talking about here. Look again at verse 12 of the letter. I have much to write to you But I do not want to use paper and ink. Instead, I hope to visit you and talk with you, face to face, so that our joy may be complete. Writing letters is nice. Truly it is. I wish we still did this much more than we do. Pen and paper rather than keyboards and touch screens. But even paper and ink is a poor substitute for personal. Direct face-to-face connection. John wants us to have joy that is complete. God wants this for us. He has shown us the way. It is the way of truth. and life. It is the way, the truth, and the life. In the words of Jesus, as recorded for us, not coincidentally by John in his gospel account, chapter 14, verse 6, and the 19th of the case. It's achieved by perfect obedience and perfect love. Now see, there's where we get into trouble because our obedience and our love certainly fall short of perfection. So what do we do? What's the solution? Well, Christ's obedience and love is perfect. Christ does not fall short of perfection. And so we rest upon what He has done and is doing. And as a result, we have a universal church filled with our Christian brothers And sister churches all around the globe, filled with God's children, others also chosen by God. And with them we have grace and mercy and peace. We have it with our fellow believers. We have it because of our fellowship with Christ. Again, if only we would grasp it Through Jesus we have grace and mercy and peace. And not just with one another, but with God. And therefore we have it with one another. As we can see in the final verse of today's passage. The children of your sister, who is chosen by God, send their greetings. This communing fellowship, this universal global fellowship of believers, this is the reality. This is our culture. This is our cultural reality. In answer to the failed fable of rent. Now I spent a significant portion of our time together this morning talking about rent because in rent we see the world It's a wonderful metaphor for the world, which is lost and confused, alone and sick, desperate and deceived. And when we're not careful to remember God's word, as John instructs us in this letter, when we're not careful, we end up the same way that these characters do in this musical. So we need to fight to protect and defend what we have. Otherwise we end up like the people in rent. The people that we know, who are lost in the world, wrapped up in our career like the filmmaker maker, wrapped up in bold new experiences like the lesbian. We end up raging against the system like the rioters, or raging against former loved ones, like the boyfriend and girlfriend Or we end up ignoring our family members like the renters do when their parents call and leave those anguished voicemails that we as an audience laugh at, ignoring the consequences of our choices like the people in rent do who are ignoring the reasons that they are ill. We end up wishing for fame like the songwriter, or wishing for escape like the philosopher We end up angry at religion, wealth, angry at societal norms, like many of the characters in Rent do, or we end up angry at God. Like the writer of Rent seems to have possibly been. It calls us to community, as I mentioned, and that is a good thing, but it is a community without a foundation. Everyone in this community Is mostly aimless and ill, not understanding the reality. Not understanding love or death. They're chasing happiness and missing joy. I get concerned that we too often do the same. Characters in red are yearning for identity and yet they're afraid to discover who they truly are. I sometimes fear that we do the same. Now, rent kind of has a happy ending in its own warped way, but I left the theater. Uh I couldn't help but imagining, as I left, the ongoing lives of these pretend people. Imagine that there was a second intermission to be followed by yet another act in the play. If that were the case, then you know that you just know that it will be filled with just more disappointment and depression and disease and death Because intoxication, infection, and infatuation still infected their circumstances and they couldn't even see it As an audience, we are made to push these thoughts out of our mind as we for a few minutes enjoy some singing and smiling and standing ovations. But imagine those actors on the stage. If they're anything like the characters they portray in this musical, then They can't so easily push it out of their mind when that curtain drops. They can't pretend any longer. Just as with the stage play, God, through the pen of John, in this letter calls us to community. Are we heeding that call? A call to the church community that has a foundation It's real community, authentic community that is rooted in Jesus Christ, who brings purpose in life. He is love and he has conquered death and so we rest in his joy that is made complete through fellowship A group of believers coming together in fellowship, knowing who we are, co-heirs with Jesus Christ, the Son of God. There's no fear, therefore, that awaits us when our curtain comes down. Because we know that we then join our loving Lord. In a new and marvelous way. You know, there's another curtain that's described in the Bible. Speaking of curtains coming down, there's the temple curtain. We read about that in the Old Testament. And it represents a separation from God. It's what kept people away from the Holy of Holies. Couldn't approach God directly. There's this veil there and this curtain. Is torn in two when Jesus Christ dies on the cross. And when this work of Jesus Christ is finished, We can now all, with great confidence, eagerly await the full restoration of everything at his second coming. And we come together in community to be reminded of that, to get a small picture of what it is that awaits us when heaven comes to earth. And boy, what a musical that will break out then. But why wait till then? Why can't we begin to enjoy that musical that will break out then? Why can't we begin to enjoy that musical even now? Can we enjoy fellowship and community and relationship with each other in the body of Christ even now? What say you? Let's pray. Father, we thank you not only for giving us your word through the Apostle John and all the rest of the canon. But for preserving it for us all these years, giving it to us in a way that we can read it and study it and comprehend it and apply it We ask that you would help us to apply it more fervently, more consistently, knowing that you forgive us for our failures in doing so because of the perfect record of Jesus Christ. We thank you for your spirit that encourages us and binds us together. We thank you for your plan from all eternity to rescue us from the dangers of our sin. And we thank you for the blood of your Son Jesus Christ on the cross. It's in his name that we pray. Amen. And there you have the second half of a message again was titled Rent or the Option to Own, um, based on Second John and uh with a uh primary focus on the final two verses of second John verses twelve and thirteen. If you missed the first half, you can catch that on our website. Go to WFMD. com. You can go to the audio vault section. Or you can go to the Faith Debate page. You can go to the drop-down tab of what's on the air and find the faith debate. Click on that takes you to the page. Or in the search field where you put in keywords, you can put in the keyword faith. That'll take you to the Faith Debate page as well, and there are links to uh previous shows available there. You can also get a sense of what's coming up uh on the Faith Debate. uh in in weeks ahead. Uh kind of tease at least one week ahead what's going on. So if you're wondering what next week's show is going to be, uh check the website and you'll get a sense of what's happening. uh in in the weeks to come. Well I thank you so much for listening to the show, not just this week, but uh in the past if you've uh endeavored to do so. Uh hope that you'll be around again next week, around this time, actually one hundred and sixty seven and a half hours from now, if you come back one hundred and sixty eight hours uh from now while you will just catch the very last seconds of the show. Uh anyway, until next week, thanks so much for listening. God bless.