Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement. Because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Project Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate is online at wfmb. com keywordfaith. There you'll find links and podcasts, or links to podcasts and news items and things like that, and the Faith Debate blog Our blog is your blog, so email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. That's T-R-O-Y-S-K-I-N-N-E-R at Clearchannel. com. I post what you send me 18 times a day, Monday through Friday, that's 90 a week. And if you don't send me something, that's fine, but go check out and see what other people are sending me. I'm sure you're proud to find at least one item every day that will what your whistle Of your intellect, your emotional center, what have you. All sorts of bizarre stuff gets sent to me, and I post pretty much all of it Well before we go any further, uh I need to uh offer a a a bit of an apology to uh Uh Dr. Gregg and uh John Schweitzer, we uh uh it's no secret. We can't do this show live on Sunday mornings because the people that appear on this show uh on Sunday mornings are typically busy doing other things, if you can imagine So we record in advance. And sometimes we record several weeks in advance, and sometimes we'll do two or three or four shows uh in in one kind of session. Anyway, uh this past weekend we were unable to locate the audio for the show that was supposed to run, so we ran a show that wasn't scheduled to run for a couple more weeks. And then we did an exhaustive search and cannot find the audio for that last week's show or for this week's show And since next week's show already aired last week, we don't have audio for next week's show. Does that make any sense? I don't know. We're we're figuring all this out as we go. So the show must go on. I'm not sure that what you're gonna hear today is anywhere near as good as what you would have heard if that audio hadn't been lost, uh and I think unfortunately forever, and that is very discouraging. But I think it's probably at least a hair, a whisker better than Dead Air. No promises on that account, but it's probably a little bit better than Dead Air. So We are forced into a holiday, Labor Day weekend edition of the Faith Debate program, which is just you and me sitting here. And uh from time to time on this show, we've run into some snags every once in a while. Usually it's a scheduling issue or something like that, but we've run into some snags over the years and Uh, I've got this big stack of stuff, as Russell Limbo likes to call his his uh prep materials, and I've been saving stuff forever. Thinking, well one day we'll get around to talking about it, and then we never do. And then I look at it and I wonder, wait a minute, why was I saving this? I don't even remember why So we're going to see if I can remember why I saved any of this stuff. This is something saved from 2009. That's right, from January of 2009. So this is uh goodness gracious, coming up on five years ago I've been saving this, and we've never done anything with it. It was from the religion section of the paper. Uh let's see. And I circled and highlighted some things. So let's just share this together on the fly and figure out what it is. What would a person need to learn in order to follow in the footsteps of Gandhi or Martin Luther King? It's an interesting question. A good starting point, in my opinion, according to this author, and I'll see if I can figure out who that is. Who is the author here? Charles Collier from uh Rhode Island. Good starting point, in his opinion, is to understand two core insights of nonviolence that are often at odds with our immediate impulses. And so not the most obvious paths to problem solving. The first insight is that peace is possible. The second core insight of nonviolence is that all people, even our adversaries, have value. Now that's interesting. I can see why I saved this. Peace is possible. Hmm. Yes, it is, but can permanent peace be possible? That's I think a better question for us to ponder because we haven't seen it. I think there's a war waging somewhere on this planet every single day, day after day after day. There is no world peace. There is no interrelational peace. People are arguing with their neighbors, fighting with their co-workers, fighting with their spouse or their children or their parents. We have an undeniable level of angst and violence with what happened in Ferguson, Missouri. So it's not just other places. It's happening here. It happens in our own community. There are murders and assault and battery and theft and absence of peace. People lose a loved one. They feel like their world is completely shattered, turned inside out and upside down at the same time. They have no inner peace. They are in turmoil. So is it fair to say that the first insight we must learn in pursuing peace is that peace is possible? And in what context? Peace is only possible, from a Christian perspective, from my perspective, through the Prince of Peace, Jesus Christ. And that's eternal peace that will only impact this planet on a globe truly global scale at his second coming. We can have an element of that peace now, of that perfect peace, but there's still a war that wages with uh with then. Even the Christian, even a mature Christian who understands, even the mature Christian like Paul the Apostle Who learned what it was to be content and maintain his joy in all circumstances, who knew what it was to have a sense of peace, even he writes in Romans chapter 7 about the struggle that takes place inside of each and every one of us So yes, peace is possible to a degree. Certainly we can pursue peace But I think the difference for the Christian perspective from any other perspective that I'm familiar with, and I'm familiar with a lot of them now, having d done this show for ten years, um The Christian perspective is that absence of Christ, the battle for peace. You hear the irony in that? The battle for peace. uh it's impossible to win. We cannot win peace for ourselves and for our neighbor and for everyone. Absent Christ. That is that is I think a fundamental Christian truth. Cannot win absent Christ. And yet, when we have Christ, that battle for peace We cannot lose. But we're still engaged in the battle. And so we don't have a sense of peace. A full sense of peace. We could have a sense of peace to be content in an environment that is lacking peace. But until Christ returns, and that's why we say, Maranatha, Lord, come quickly, please. We praise you and thank you for your patience with us. Help us to have more patience as we are impatient waiting for your return. So that would have been a great I can see why I say that'd be a great panel discussion question. Maybe we'll be cycle back around to this. at some point. The second core insight of nonviolence is that all people, even our adversaries, have value. Absolutely. All men and women, all of humankind. are created in the image of God and therefore by definition have value. We totally need to remember that. And not to turn this into an automatic lightning rod kind of a thing, but you know, a lot of times the peace sticks, those who will have the peace signs and the peace symbols hanging around their neck and their You know, they they hey man, let's live and let live, let's everything you know, th those kind of peace nicks. And I love those peacenics and what they stand for. But so many of them wouldn't have any sort of a problem with something like abortion. And abortion is an example where we do not See value in everyone, including our enemies. Now would you think of a baby as an enemy? Well, if that baby's gonna keep you from Pursuing your career, having the money you want, the freedom you want, the exact size family you want, if it's getting in the way of you accomplishing what you want to, that it is an enemy to your causes Anyway, open up a can of worms there m that would be a perfect thing to throw to somebody or if we had a live call-in show, the kind of thing we would throw to a caller and go to the phones kind of thing. Here's a different article. Uh same section of the paper, same day that that paper came out. This is by uh uh Ron Cassie who I've never met. Let's see, what did I circle here? Clergy representing more than a thousand congregations across Maryland signed and sent a letter to the General Assembly and to the Governor, Martin O'Malley Using the repeal of the law allowing for the state execution of men and women. Oh, okay. This is about when the interfaith groups were working to end the death penalty. Here's another section of the article. What's unique uh what is unique in this uh uh um petition signed and sent this letter sent to the assembly and the governor? What's unique is that this is the strongest group of religious leaders from different faiths, Protestant, Catholic, Jewish, and Muslim, that have come together from any time before, said ref uh Uh who is it who's saying this? Reverend John Deckenbach said that of the uh of Frederick. Deckenbach At least back then, I'm not sure if he still had a served of the uh conference minister of the Central Atlantic Conference of the United Church of Christ and is one of the signatories of the letter that was sent to the the assembly and the governor's office. Later in the article it says religious leaders said that their faith traditions share beliefs that preclude capital punishment. Hmm. Common to all of our faiths, this is a quote, common to all of our faiths is the belief in the sanctity of life and forgiveness, the coalition letter states. We believe that no one is beyond redemption, and that we are called to restore people to wholeness in society. Even for one who is murdered, never should we or our government on our behalf deny the prospect of redemption. Signatories of the letter included Deck and Back, who was quoted earlier, and the Most Reverend Edwin F. O'Brien, Archbishop of the Archdiocese of Baltimore, as well as the state and regional leaders from the Presbytery of Baltimore, the Baltimore Washington Conference, the United Methodist Church. the Episcopal Diocese of Maryland, the Baltimore Board of Rabbis, the Delaware Maryland Synod of the Evangelical Lutheran Church, and the Muslim Cultural Community Center of Baltimore. So my question to you. You might not be a religious leader or you might be listening to this show. Would you sign such a letter? It says, Come to all our faces of belief in the sanctity of life and forgiveness. We believe that no one is beyond redemption? Okay. But we should not have a death penalty, basically. That our religion if if you're a Christian, would you sign this? Should Christians be against the death penalty? Fascinating question I would say if we're going to look for our answer, we need to look for it in the Bible. I've struggled with this question for years and years and years, and I've come to a place where I've found cognitive rest, and here's where I stand on that particular issue. Without completely twisting the scriptures and wrenching things fully out of their context to uh intellectually, dishonestly Put the passages to your own uh ends. There's no denying Unless you do all those other horrible things to the scriptures, there is no denying the scripture says that the state has the right to wield the sword. The state has the right to execute that sort of judgment, that sort of final earthly judgment where we uh put some sort of uh death uh thing into their veins or off with their heads or put 'em in an electric chair. What we the the state Uh the Bible seems pretty darn clear. Has that right? Maybe we're uncomfortable with that. Maybe we don't like that, but it has that right. Well, why are we uncomfortable? Why don't we like that? I'm opposed to the state executing the death penalty, despite the fact that I say the Bible has gives the state that right. And why do I say that? I'm opposed to our fallen, godless state executing that sort of judgment because I don't trust them. I would not sign a petition saying that my faith says you can't do that because that's not true. My belief, my faith says they can do that. I would sign a petition that says, despite the fact that my faith Despite the fact that my tradition, the Bible says you have the right to do that, I'm imploring you, please, people in authority in government who have that kind of power over us, please. Don't exercise the authority you've been given because you can't be trusted. Too many innocent people have been executed Scales of justice are a little unbalanced, it seems to me. I say that philosophically Practically, there might be some situations where we don't need to trust the government quite so much because it's so clear, so obvious. that someone has done something and we know exactly who that someone is and then the the judgment that's uh meted out to them uh is appropriate. But whenever there's some doubt, I think we should err on the side of caution. Because everyone has value, like we were talking about before. I would not want the responsibility on my head of Falsely having someone executed. So I have a nuanced. I'm kind of like John Kerry on that issue, right? I'm kind of nuanced. The Bible says it's okay. If you advocate for the death penalty, I'm all for it. If you advocate against the death penalty, hey, I can support you on that too, because I I'm I'm right there with you. But don't mix the two. Don't say, oh, I'm I'm against the death penalty because The death penalty is wrong. No. The death penalty in and of itself is not wrong. The death penalty wrongly administered is wrong. At least according to the Bible. This is the Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Again, you should have been hearing a panel discussion, but we lost the audio, so here you are with me. Special treat for you, I know, right? All right, so that's enough of that. Let's uh toss that. Let's see, here's something else I saved. It's um not quite as old as the last thing. It's uh it's uh about four years and not five years old. It's talking about retailers wanting to put Christmas back in stores. Man, oh man. Drives me crazy. Retailers want to put Christmas back in stores. Do you see the irony in that? Do you see the problem with that, the inherent problem with that? If stores decorate themselves to the hilt with all sorts of ornaments and tinsel and flashing lights and Ho ho hoing Santa Clauses and images of reindeer and Frosty the Snowman. Is that Christmas? No Well maybe it is. Maybe it's what's become Christmas. Is that what we mean by putting Christmas back in stores? And why what's the motive for the stores doing this? To make more money, right? It's not because they want to elevate the name of Christ. It's not because they want to draw more attention to the fact that God, the one who created us, who spoke the world into existence, humbled himself. Ek humiliated himself, lowered himself to become man Is that what the stores want to do? They want to draw attention to that? I don't think so. They want to draw attention to the feel-goodism that leads to a stronger sense of consumerism because consumers spend more money when they feel good. Drives me crazy. We are so confused about what it means to be the church, to be Christian. Churchianity rules the day. Christendom rules the day. Authentic Christian truth. Certainly does not rule the day. Most of us don't even know what authentic Christian truth is anymore. And that's sad. Incredibly sad and frustrating. I know there are pastors that listen to this program because they tell me that they listen and I know that the pastor would not lie to me. They might, but not about that, they wouldn't, would they? Anyway, if you're a pastor and you're listening, or if you're a leader in your church, an elder somehow responsible for teaching, Sunday school, whatever, please, let's do a better job. Help people to understand what is the gospel. Please, I implore you, the gospel is not tinsel or mistletoe. It's not jingle bell songs. It's not. Despite the fact that in just a few weeks we're gonna start seeing all that stuff in the stores It's going to fill us with the Christmas spirit, if we're comfortable saying Christmas, the holiday spirit. If we're comfortable saying holiday, I don't even know what's acceptable in culture to say anymore. And it's interesting for those of us who want to fight the cultural war and fight to put you know Christmas back instead of saying happy holidays, say Merry Christmas and and all those sorts of things. Just something to think about. Just something uh uh uh uh a nugget for you to ponder. Where in the Bible will you find the words, Merry Christmas? Where in the Bible do you find instructions for us to have special recognition for the day of Christ's birth in the sense that it's a day where we come together to worship and share presence with one another? sing special seasonal songs. Where do you find anything like that in the Bible? I just throw it out there. If you find anything like that in the Bible, then I encourage you to email it to me and I'll include it in the blog. So that's all I have to say about that. Get myself in more trouble. This is a this is a topic we talked about uh a few times during the holidays. during the Christmas season, the Advent season, uh if you will, on this show a number of years ago. About every three or four years, uh, we we end up tackling this issue again on the air. Jonathan and I go back and forth on it. But for now that's That's the end of that. Let's see, what do we got here? This is I was saving a lot of uh religious sections of the paper for some reason. I never maybe I was gonna try to invite some of these people on as guests. Oh, I know why I say this. This was Presbyterian leaders, okay, gay, lesbian clergy. Uh at the time they shelved same sex marriage proposal. I'm not sure where they stand on that now. When you hear Presbyterian, this is something I'm not gonna get into the whole uh whether it's okay to have a gay clergy, uh where the church should stand on same sex marriage. We've beaten that issue to death on this show. You uh if you listen with any length of time, you know where I stand and where Jonathan Schweitzer does this show with me uh most Sundays. where he stands. But I do want to take a moment with this story when it says Presbyterian leaders okay a gay clergy. And if you're not real sure, this is something that's important for you to know. Not all Presbyterians are the same. To say that Presbyterian leaders okay gay clergy and that they might be okay with same-sex marriage That does not speak for all Presbyterians. It doesn't even speak for all Presbyterian leaders. It doesn't speak for all Presbyterian churches or denominations. And that's true across the board. It's true for Lutherans, for example. Here's what I mean by this. The largest Presbyterian Church in the United States is the Presbyterian Church United States of America, the PC. Presbyterian Church, USA, United States of America. The PC USA is the largest press uh body of Presbyterians in America. And they would be a mainline church. What uh uh Bible believing uh conservative evangelicals would refer to as a liberal church. Well there are other Presbyterians, for example the um PCA, Presbyterian Church of America. Sounds kind of like the PCA USA almost in its name, right? It's got America in there and Presbyterian in there, but they're completely different. The PC USA is staunch. in their Bible believing. They would be opposed strongly to having a openly practicing gay clergy member. Um they would be opposed to conducting same sex marriage ceremonies. The OPC, the Orthodox Presbyterian Church, the uh the ARP, the uh Even the EPC, which leans a little bit more in the direction sometimes of the PCUSA, even they would be opposed. So you hear see a headline or hear a story about, oh, Presbyterians are for this or for that. It's not true with the Episcopalians, it's not true with the Lutherans You know, the the uh ELCA, the Evangelical Lutheran Church uh of America, is um i is is very much like Uh, the PCUSA, kind of on the left side of things the theologically. But then there's things like the uh Lutheran Church Missouri Synod. Which would be very much in alignment on these sorts of issues with the PCA or the OPC or the ARP ARP or pick your up the soup of Presbyterians there. So just be careful. Don't lump them all in. Heck, Westboro Baptist Church, very famous these la infamous maybe is a better word, these past number of years for picketing outside of military funerals and being very hateful towards uh homosexuals Um on that whole issue, it's mean it's it's they're just ugly, ugly, ugly. And they have Baptists in the name, Westboro Baptist Church Well, I assure you, most Baptists are not anything like that. The overwhelming majority of Baptists, overwhelming majority of Baptists are nothing like that. I would say that Westboro is neither Baptist, truly, or a church, at least not in the sense that being a Christian church is more It leads more in the direction of being a synagogue of Satan for crying out loud with all the hate and venom that comes out of there. So if you're not really sure what to make of the church and Christianity and all the things you hear in the news and that Don't don't allow yourself to paint with a broad brush. Don't allow the media to paint everybody with a broad brush. Find out exactly what wait a minute, what exa and it's true what by the way, with uh there are liberal and uh moderate and conservative Jews, for example. So, oh Jews believe this, not all of 'em. Which one believes what and why? That's what this show is about Well, we have different Christian pastors on and they disagree about things. Not all Christians are monolithic in everything. If they're truly Christian, they're going to be monolithic on the important things. For example, we have a God, a triune God who created us, who is self-sustaining, self-loving, and therefore in no need for anything from us. And yet he decided to create a world in which we could live and have a special place in it, because he has a special place in his heart for us, despite not needing us. And we screwed that all up, but he rescues us from that screw-up by sacrificing himself on our behalf? Those are things that all Christians, if they're truly Christian, believe. And then after sacrificing himself, he defeated death, rose from the dead, ascended into heaven, will come again. Those are things that all Christians All Christians agree on. But there are other issues that we might disagree on. And so don't paint with a broad brush. And if somebody does something hateful in the name of Christianity, and even if they claim to be in the name of Christ, find out if they really are. Because if they're doing something hateful, they're probably not doing it truly in the name of Christ. If they're doing something truly hateful, then they're definitely not. If they're doing something you might think is hateful, Find out if you if they really, really are in fact being hateful. Alright, well we survived this show. This is the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. Thanks for listening. It's been a pleasure chatting with you, kind of a fireside chat version of the show today. Jonathan Schweitzer and I uh I think we'll be back on next week unless we can't find audio again, then it might be me again next week. But one way or the other, the show must go on. Thanks for listening. God bless.