The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMB. Let me ask you something. You listening to us on AM 930? Or Are you listening to us on FM 99. 9 HT2? Or are you listening to us on podcast later on? Or are you listening to us on the live stream at www. WFMD. com. So many options. It's so confusing. So many places you can hear the truth. Used to say something our introduction to the faith debate used to say something like uh Yeah, more truth you'll hear uh in a half hour than you'll hear the whole rest of the week. Or something like that. You know, we were we were trying to be modest. 'Cause the truth is you're gonna hear twice as much truth in a half hour than you're gonna hear the whole rest of the week. Are you kidding me? Particularly today when I were just saying before we started uh today's show, oh everybody's lying to everybody all the time about everything. So this is the one place where you can actually get some truth, an oasis of truth. Anyway, Imran Razby is on the panel again this week. He's uh You can find some stuff out of him about him online at um oh just rip my head now. Concord by love dot org. I don't know why I have a mental block. Every once in a while I forget the name of his ministry. Concert uh Concord by Love Ministries, Concordby Love dot org is his website Uh the Shabbat gathering uh is represented here again today. Stephen Jurger is an elder there. And uh Imran of course is uh one of the pastors at uh the church that meets at Imran's house in Thurmont, uh Maryland. I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. We meet uh in Frederick. You can find me online at household of faith in Christ dot com. So we've kind of twisted and turned in a general sense around the connection of the Old Testament with the New and how the heresy of Marcionism has maybe still had an impact on the church even today, like nineteen hundred years after the the Marcion was born. Uh things like that. We talked about the Sabbath a few weeks ago which is all connected all into this too. And there is a another topic within that milieu that uh fits that theme, but it could be a show or a string of shows all by itself, and that is the question of replacement theology. Now, this is one of the most dogged fights that you can enter into in an intramural sense in the church today. There are a handful of topics that You can say that about, and this is one of them. And in my experience, one of the reasons for that is that replacement theology is so often mischaracterized. So maybe if nothing else this show will be an education for you to come to a true and proper understanding of what It is what is meant by re replacement theology and what is meant by uh those who reject replacement theology but support something that people call replacement theology and get all of that clarified. I'm going to take a stab, you guys can correct me if I'm wrong. Generally speaking, in layman's terms, replacement theology would be an idea that says that the church which was founded in the New Testament era with the coming of Christ and and uh the sending of the Holy Spirit of Pentecost, that the church replaces the people of God in the Old Testament. That is what somebody like me actually gets accused of believing and teaching. And I reject it wholeheartedly. I reject the accusation. Uh I I reject I I am uh I embrace that replacement theology understood that way is an accurate way of understanding what is meant by replacement theology, but I reject replacement theology So that's my simple way of trying to explain it, but you can add some nuance or correct me where you think I got it wrong, either one of you guys. And Ron Steve wants to go first. Stephen's going first. Uh there's a scripture in Ephesians 2. Uh Ephesians chapter 2 verse 12 says, Remember that you were once separate from Christ, excluded from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus, you were formerly were far off and been brought near by the blood of Christ. So Basic replacement theology, one of the tenets of their uh statement is that the church has replaced Israel. Israel forfeited uh their place in God's plan because they rejected Messiah. And then of course, because they rejected Messiah, God cast them away, and now the church has all the promises. all the inheritance and all the uh blessings that are were to be attributed to Israel now as the church. Yeah. And so there are some major theological flaws in that in my view. There's some also some huge category errors, uh, you know, philosophically uh argumentatively speaking. It totally misses the boat. Uh and so I I think this could be helpful. It looks like you were leaning in a little bit too, Imran. Do you have something you wanted to add? There's so much to say. So little time. I mean, uh first of all, you're you're basically saying that God made a mistake He chose the Israel, he chose that people, and he made a mistake. He doesn't make mistakes. Okay, that's that's number one. Number two, is it's very clear in scripture that uh Jesus said he came for his people, the Jews. And when that's seeing that lady that's that's trying to get uh healed and uh she said, Well, even the dogs get the crumbs off the master's table So she was obviously not of Jewish descent and uh he Jesus arguing that I came for the Jewish people. Well, why would he come for the Jewish people if they don't matter anymore? If they're don't exist, if if it if the the new church is where everything is. So this replacement theology is so flawed in so many ways it's ridiculous And then another one is it clearly says that we are as Gentiles we are grafted in to the root Well the root is not taken out and a new tree planted. That would be replacement. That would be, hey, the church is now planted, the the old uh tree you know dried up and didn't have any fruit, so we took it out, we tore it out. And Jesus is very clear it says he did not tear out the root. He grafted us in. So there's so many flaws. It's just like I yeah, it's how can you even believe that? I think that the attack well you're I'll let you go first, Stephen. Go ahead. Uh just Paul says right out the gate in Romans eleven, first one, he says I say then, has God has God not rejected his people? Has he? May it never be. For I am an Israelite. Yeah, I think that part of the the the stirring up of the controversy and why it becomes such a you know a dagger throwing contest sometimes if if people aren't careful is There's a fundamental error that is made on on another side that then accuses somebody like me. I'm not sure exactly where you guys are. We might be in the exact same place. We'll find out before the show is over. uh they will accuse me of being a replacement theologian because I'll say that uh there's one people of God and when and that we could in certain contexts and Paul does it we could use uh the the the the word Israel and the word church interchangeably. And they say, oh so you're saying the church replaced Israel. No, not at all. I'm saying that what we now call the church, using New Testament language um is grafted into the Old Testament covenant people, which we would call Israel. And some of those who were Israel weren't really Israel, Paul says, because they were branches that are broken off. But if they're broken off, they can be engrafted back in to that same route to use uh Imran's point. So we're not replacing anything. But they're saying oh well you're saying the the church and Israel the same, so th therefore and there's only one people of God and the Israel is the old testament people of God and the church is so you must be saying No, I must not be saying. You somehow you can't get it to your head and you think that I must be saying, but I'm not. And I think part of this ties into again your Martianism. I haven't studied this out, so I don't I'm gonna look this up, but it's interesting that Martianism and its connection to dispensationalism is a fascinating thing that I've never uh never thought about before. But if that's true, that's that is a fascinating connection for me. And I think that the dispensational view, and I know the majority of American professing Christians are dispensational in this age, so I'm gonna anger some people today. But I think the dispensationalist our audience will go down from five to one. Yeah. No, no. Actually I don't I don't have access to the numbers anymore, but I used to have access and and based on the numbers I used to see, we have several thousand people who listen to this show. So hopefully that's still the case. I don't know. Now we have several thousand people that are angry for the show. But I think that I I don't think that dispensationalism has done us any favors, biblically speaking. God doesn't have two people. He has one people is one chosen people. And in the Old Testament, they went under the moniker post uh post Jacob and his descendants of Israel. But here's something that gets people scratching their heads. Abraham wasn't part of Israel, the way that they want to argue about the people of God. Yeah. Right? He's the he's the grandfather of Israel. So what does that mean? Any so I'm I I wonder if What I I used to say I'm about fulfillment theology. Christ comes and fulfills the theology that is pointed to in the Old Testament, but that still never seems to satisfy and disarm those bandits who want to come after me. So I've been trying to train myself to use better language, and the the phrase I'm liking now is I subscribe to in-grafting theology. What do you guys think about that? Well that's kind of what I talked about. We're grafted in. It's the same tree, same people. But even as a label. Like do you think that that's Got stickiness? You think that that you know we could get people to start talking about in grafting theology? Well, it'll get you thinking right about Romans 11, because there's an an actual definition of what you're using, and maybe that's your point. But I think part of the whole aspect of replacing somebody is uh especially when you look at the spirit behind it Um it seems like the world uh in the negative sense constantly has tried to get rid of the Jew. Because there's a promise that if all the Jews were exterminated off the face of the earth, I'm paraphrasing, basically God would be a liar. Because God promises he'll always have a remnant. So this whole equation gets back to what has God said? What has God promised? Uh and that's where you have to do your testing and that's where you have to go in and say where when it says forever. Now you said It's interesting the way you put that though. Are you saying that the remnant must be ethnically Jewish? At least one person who's ethnically Jewish for there to be a remnant? I'm saying the people of God There are scriptures, and I'd have to take a little time to try to look it up because I wasn't prepared to swing this way uh in this particular statement, but I've some in the scriptures I've read that the people of God, the the the the people of Israel, God's promise to his people, if they were ever extinguished. they that would put God at in a false place because it it it says that he's being a liar. So But that's my point though. That's what I'm wondering because my point is yes, but I'm God's people. You're God's people. Yeah. Well who is Israel? See, part of God's people all of God's people are Israel. Right. And all of God's people are the church. So we didn't call them that in the Old Testament, but I'm just as fine saying that Jacob who had his name changed to Israel, but he's part of the church. Well what is the church? It's Ecclesiah what is Ecclesiah? Congregation. Right, it's a gathering of God's people. Exactly. Yes, but I I I think also there is an actual um And Christ is alive, by the way, so even if every physical Jew were to die on the planet today, he's still Jewish and he's still alive. Right. Paul also talks about in Romans that the guy in Romans chapter 3 he says to the Jew first and then to the Gentile And there's also a scripture and I'll paraphrase it out of the gospels and where Jesus said, I have not come but for the lost sheep of Israel. In that context, in that statement, I think he's talking about all of I think it's that's a temporal statement. Well it's it's a temporal ordering. It's both in time. I I'm just saying that God loves the ethnic Jew more than he loves the Jewish Jew and the other thing. Christian you you're still gonna have issues. I mean it the the ethnic Jew if they don't believe in Messiah, they have problems. If the Gentile doesn't believe in Messiah, they have problems. Same problems. So we have to both come, you know Uh we were ho driving down in the car here to the s to the show that the Jew, if they reject Messiah There's there's issues. There's consequences. There's consequences. Absolutely. Okay. And at the same time, the church can't reject the whole word of God either. And 'cause there's consequences with that too. So we have to a allow the scriptures to speak on the topic and first of all, replacement theology, I don't even think you can even find that in the scriptures. You can't even find the word dispensationalism in the scriptures. Right. Anybody that actually subscribes to replacement theology is wrong. The part that's frustrating for me is when I make a statement like, well, the church is Israel, Israel is the church, then I get falsely accused of being a replacement theologian. And I couldn't reject replacement theology any more stridently than I do. Yeah, but you've already clearly stated that the reason you are Israel is because you were grafted into the tree of Israel. Exactly. You weren't Israel before then and you are b because you're not part of that tree. But I'm sure uh I can't be the only one. I'm sure you've had these conversations with people and they don't hear you. Oh, but they say they They will not hear you. They they've sinned, they've been cut off, they've been broken off, but they don't read the next verse that they can be grafted back in again if they believe. I mean Yeah but I I still to the question you asked earlier I still believe I absolutely believe that that there is an actual ethnic Jewish remnant that will always be there. So there is no way that all Jews will ever be exterminated or all Jews will be lost. There will always be a remnant because God said there will always be a remnant. And that's the remnant of the chosen people, but we are grafted in and become part of the chosen people, but there's still going to be a remnant of the ethnic Jew. That's my belief. Well go to Romans three then. Because once we're grafted in, then we're part of the tree. And so and so we're we're part of God's people, but we're not of the original chosen that that it's gonna have a remnant. 'Cause he he said that there will be a remnant of Israel's or Judah's children and descendants. We're we're not Judah's descendants. But we'll graph it in to be in the same tree that are related now. But to the point that Abraham, he said, look at the stars and count the sand of the sea. your descendants are going to be right out of that. So I mean in that whole plan of of what's going on, it's it's an amazing thing. So here Romans chapter three, verse one says, what advantage has the Jew? Or what benefit is of circumcision, which is another way of calling the Jewish uh people. Great in every respect First of all, they were entrusted with the oracles of God, or the Torah. And in even their unbelief, they have preserved the Torah through the millennium. And that's part of what I think Razi's talking about, that there's promises, even in their unbelief, God is preserving a people group all the way to the end. But they have in Romans 9, 10, and 11, it says they have to come to Messiah. They have to. It's not like you get a free ride because you're Jewish and you're circumcised. Okay? You don't get the free ride. And so it's it's something that that everything that was written in the Old Testament scriptures, it every aspect of everything, through the Torah, through the tabernacle, through the Ark, through Everything. It all pointed to Jesus. It it just it did. And also in Revelation it's saying that the the children of Israel will come back to Israel from all parts of the w uh world. It's not talking about Christians or saved people, it's talking about the actual descendants, the Jewish descendants from all over the world will start coming back to Israel in the end times. And we're seeing that happen right now. There's so much immigration of Jews that are coming back to Israel from Literally all parts of the thing. I'll read it right now. Okay. What's the citation? Yeah, Jeremiah 3131. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah. Not like the covenant I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to bring him out of the land of Egypt. my covenant which they broke, though I was a husband to them, declares the Lord. But this is the covenant what I will make with the house of Israel after these days, declares the Lord. I will put my law within them and on their heart and write it, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. They will not teach again each neighbor and each man his brother, saying, No the Lord For they will all know me, from the least to the greatest, declares the Lord, for I will forgive their iniquity and their sin, and I'll remember them I will remember it no more. So that's a promise to Israel. That's a promise to to Israel. And I'm Israel. So it's a promise to me. Well, this in context is talking about what he is gonna do. Present tense? Right, because they're taking out of captivity, saying they'll come back out of activity, which is a picture of the the ultimate fulfillment that's gonna come for the entirety of God's people. So I'm just continuing to read on here because it says uh I'll continue. It says Then says the Lord, who gives the sun by light by day and the fixed order of the moon and the stars for and light by night, who stars up the who stirs up the seas and that its waves roar. And the Lord of hosts is his name. And if this fixed order departs before me, declares the Lord, then the offspring of Israel will also cease and from being a nation before me forever, says the Lord. If the heavens can be above be measured, and the foundations of the earth searched out below, then I will also cast off the offspring of Israel. So there's a real point here that all of what is existing here today is why Israel is going to exist in its ethnic sense and also in its spiritual sense. But even Jesus Christ himself is not a pureblood Jew. Negative. If you read the genealogy, there are some non-Jews in the genealogy. Oh, okay, I see what you're saying. So he's not a pureblood. Well he But even those people in the genealogy are grafted in. Correct. And that even shows all the promise more to the grafting in of the Gentiles. I mean look at look at uh the harlot on the roof. That let the spies in. I mean the lineage of David goes through. Right, exactly. Um Ruth And we got some others. But anyway. I think that part of the challenge um that we're having in our contact not d not necessarily in this conversation, although maybe, but more broadly, is we're talking about the dispensational view where they There's there's this parentheses that takes place where God has a plan for Jewish as uh the Jewish people and then they're that's put on pause during the church age, which we're in now. And then at the very end of time there's going to be this return back to paying attention to the Jews. And so I think that has led to some of the problems of people uh discounting and not paying attention to the Jews now because it's not their time now. It was their time, it will be again, but it's not now. And I'm not saying that either because I I I don't subscribe to that. Yeah, I don't subscribe to that. So Yeah, there's a do a word search on the kingdom of God and the gospel of the kingdom and look at the different scriptures that you're going to come up and how the context is used and that's quite interesting. Now I I'm not sure if he's uh looking up something important that he wants to share or you actually uh you know uh the references to where be uh the Jewish people coming back to Homeland was trying to find that and then But I think all those land promises, I think those are all pointing to the ultimate fulfillment because if we look at the the fullness of the biblical narrative, we've got God creates everything and he puts Adam and Eve in the garden and then he screw it up. And so they're cast out of the garden But then later on we keep reading the Bible and we see about there's the the line of the seed of the woman who's gonna, you know, uh be protected so that the the the the the the seed of the woman's gonna crush the head of the serpent. That's Christ. But in the midst of all that, then we get this picture of the temple which is built with all this beautiful garden imagery, which is a and conceptually is taking us back to the Garden of Eden. But also taking us forward to future glory with a renewed heavens and earth, a new Jerusalem kind of a thing. And then Christ comes as the fulfillment of all of that. All he is all in all. He is the f the the perfect fulfillment of each and every aspect of that. It has its full expression in and through him. And then we all enter into that in glory when everything is renewed and the land prompt again, like we were talking about a few weeks ago with the Sabbath I think we think too smallly about too uh way too narrow terms on this. The land promise isn't about just some little s strip of land on the Mediterranean Sea. It's about Everything being made back the way it's supposed to be. And we inherit all of that because Christ is king over all of that. And we inherit Or co-heirs with him. We inherit with him everything that is his, and the whole planet is his, the whole universe is his. I think we've got to think bigger than we do. So That's how I see those promises that oh they're gonna they're gonna return to land of course they're gonna return and get a renewed land in Christ. That's how I see it. It I think John and also in Ezekiel are told to measure the temple. And I mean Uh the of all the the kingdoms that was in ancient Israel, I think Solomon's kingdom had the most land. Is that a fair assessment to say that he had He had the largest amount of Israel's king. Yeah, I think that's it. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Because it fell apart right after. Right. The amount of that land Um and the amount of land it's going to take for the the uh New Jerusalem to sit on is quite immense. And I don't exactly have the number or the scripture right. Uh it's huge. So But I think it's figurative though. I I think it's it's it's talk uh I think the point there is the immensity, not the exact measurements. I think the point is it's just it's huge. Larger than the mind can even comprehend. I think that's where that's where I go. That's where I think we should go with that. You know, it says fifteen hundred by fifteen hundred by fifteen hundred by fifteen hundred square square mile. I mean it's it's huge. It's an immense amount of Isaiah forty three, verse five and six talks about uh the people of Malay. Look that up later. That's your assignment for next week. Imran Rasvy, Steven Jurger, I'm Froy Skinner. This is the Fate Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Until next week. God bless.