In other states, including Kentucky and Minnesota. Weinstein was located on one of the properties and taken into custody. Police are continuing their investigation and are asking anyone who may have additional information to come forward. I'm Bob Dacey for Frederick's News, Radio nine thirty WFMD. The nine thirty WFMD weather bug forecast for Frederick and surrounding counties for your Sunday morning. It's going to be sunny and hot, chance of showers and thunderstorms mainly after two PM in the high above. ninety eight. Heat index value is as high as one hundred and nine. We do have an excessive heat watch in effect from eleven A. M. until nine PM tonight. For tonight a forty percent chance to showers and thunderstorms mainly before two A. M. cloudy Low 75. No service, contact the best. Thompson Best at bestseatac. com. I'm Jim Tice. This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four with faith community leaders wrestling over the The truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The fate debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom. Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with a master of divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Troy Skinner. At the Frederick Rescue Mission, they say that every program and service is driven by the desire to introduce people to Jesus Christ. Their method is uh to this end is to meet basic human needs and to equip others to do the same. The rescue mission is privately. funded you utilizing donations from the community to operate all of its programs and services and this week we talk about this uh parachurch and and the and how it fits within the parrochurch climate in uh Frederick County. At least we're hopefully going to get to something along those lines. We've been learning so much about the background of our guests on the show these past couple of weeks. Back for round three of what we hope to be a four-part series is the executive director of the Frederick Rescue Mission, Arnold Farlow, and the Director of Faith House, Terry Gray. Again, I'm Troy Skinner, this is the Faith Debate. Thank you for listening. So I if you can remember from last week You were wanted to share a story. We had twenty-eight seconds in with within which to share it, and we didn't think we could do that. So I asked you to try to park the the thought and we'd start this week's show. Do you remember what the story was? Absolutely. Okay First of all, Troy, thank you for allowing us to be on your own. It's a pleasure so much. This is this has been a delight. Um we were talking off the air in between shows um how rare it is that You know, you go you invite somebody over to a barbecue picnic, you sit around the fire pit, or you go out to to dinner, or you you're at a social gathering. And usually it's sports, uh the weather, if you're brave, some of the political nonsense that's going on, uh maybe a little bit about your kids and what they're up to and that sort of stuff. How often do we enjoy the pleasure of saying to somebody, so what was your life like growing up? You know, what's your life story been like? What were some of those key moments? What brought to you brought brought you to where you are today. We don't do that often enough, and this is a reminder to me these last couple of weeks that we've been doing the show and I think this week will be the same. I need to do that more, like not on the show necessarily, although on the show too I guess, but in life So tell me more of your story. Well, first of all in response to that, it just helps to remember we're all on a journey. And thank God for the journey. Uh still alive. But I was telling you when I first came to the mission how c how I kind of there were three other people and then I f finally went out, if you will, to become executive director. Well um I um I've only been here a few months and I was traveling back and forth from Charlottesville and staying in board members' houses during the week and back Charleston with my family during the weekend and Um I noticed the condition the condition of the mission was horrible. Uh nobody would dispute that. Uh boards hanging out of the ceiling wires uh stuff was everywhere and I was really concerned about the the fire safety and the um uh condition uh safety of the men and Uh the the mission we get a lot of talented people. So I had this one guy doing some refurbishing, doing some facelifting work, if you will, on the place and I said, Hey Brian uh I hadn't seen any fire uh safety equipment around here. Uh uh, could you look into that and tell me what you can come up with? I I don't wanna walk in here some morning and find thirty men dead or whatever. Well he donated a phone call well he c he called up the fire department and had them come over to look see if they could donate some stuff. Well they donated a phone call to City Hall. And uh Which got you in trouble. And then City Hall came out, uh uh the fire marshal came out and wanted to know if you could look around. I'm like What I'm gonna do tell you no. You know, go ahead how about it and then about an hour and a half later he came back and told me he wanted to invite the rest of City Hall over to take a look and So the short of it is uh within about a week we were uh we had to have the men out of the mission 'cause they deemed it unsafe for them to be there. So, you know, here I am, I'm moving my family into our house and moving the men out of the mission but at the same time. Um where'd they go? Well we were very blessed the um It was in September and the R Religious Coalition had not opened up the cold weather shelter. And Brian Scott, who was director back in the those days Uh we made it was able to allow our men to stay there. Uh of course they thought they had gotten away from shelter homeless shelters, but uh so we were able to have them there until we got situation in remedy. But uh So they coded us a new dorm, a new hotel and of course I told the fire marshal uh my family went on a vacation shortly after we got here and we Stayed in the new hotel and it it didn't look anything like this. And uh the mission of four nineteen was South Street was built in eighteen seventy five as a prison. It was meant to keep people from getting out. And the fire marshal wanted us to have everything set up so we can get people out as fast as possible. when you got an eighteen inch concrete inner wall that runs around and a brick outer wall with a metal plate that runs between 'em and they won't ig i ingress and egress every thirty five feet. Although it'd be hard for a fire to spread Well, it's funny we had a we had a specialist to kinda advise us um they had to get a sprinkler system short of it is. He said if Osama bin Laden was coming to Frederick that would be the building he would run into. So anyway, when all that was happening I'm like Why? Why would some of my lodges why would you pick your building? 'Cause it's bomb proof. Oh gotcha to hide out in. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Nobody's gonna tear this building up. Nobody's gonna get in this building and nobody can get out of it. Matter of fact, the last public hanging in Maryland was at at the mission. Oh, is that right. Yeah, yeah, nineteen twenty eight. So Wow. But however uh start with the mission. Yeah. I you know, it it was really uh extremely stressful and uh so I asked God what is what's what's the joke, God, this this ain't funny. Uh just moved my family up here Frederick, Maryland. And now they're wanting to wanting to get the uh that the government on All over us and yeah, I will have to say the city's been great to work with since since those days. But those were tough days. Well and in fairness, I mean They they wanted the same thing you wanted, which was they didn't want to have a news story that thirty men died in a fire. Right. So they were doing what they felt like they needed to do. Well Troy was the best thing that ever happened because it woke the board up, it woke everybody up. And we decided that we gotta make this place a place of excellence, not a place that's gonna spy and it's been Yeah, it's been fourteen years ago and we're still working on it. Uh uh in in nine years, by the way, you can have some sort of a centennial uh celebration of the last uh public execution in Maryland. Right. Would you like to be there? I thought these shows have gone better than that. Okay. So that's what straighten itself out within a handful of months or did it stretch out for a year or two? Well we were crazy. What we decided to do is that our dining hall was a mess, our classroom and chapel were a mess. So we decided to remedy the situation but decided to add a new building onto the building. Of course I remember uh I think Steve Crohn, the fire marshal, looked at us what we were crazy and a few other people looked at. But no, we decided that we needed to have more adequate facilities so But after we got this place remedy, we went right into capital campaign mode and and we were able to open up a new uh dining hall and a new classroom in two thousand eleven. It took us about five years Now there's probably been an unfair um um um assumption, that's what I'm looking for, an unfair assumption for the last you know two and a half uh Faith and Page shows that anyone who's listening knows what the Frederick Mesh Rescue Mission is all about. So why don't we take a minute to talk about what the Rescue Mission does? I know you have a variety of programs that that are instituted And then uh then we'll also talk specifically about what Faith House is all about. We'll let Terry do that part. So you want to do the Faith House first or what would be more logical? Talk more broadly about the rescue mission. quick, uh I do want to have a one little thing that stakes ways and then hand all over the cherry. Yeah. Okay. Oh Yeah, one thing when you come into a place like this with a lot of low hanging fruit and you can if you don't do if you can't do better then you don't need to be doing anything. So so my whole journey became better Let's just do everything bet I felt like we were doing the right thing. We were feeding the hungry. We were helping the addicted, the homeless, we're giving out clothes. Uh so I just felt we just need to do things better So my whole journey's been on better uh been better and our theme, our mission mantra, if you will, is Change Lives Now and Change Lives for Eternity. If you have somebody's hungry right now, you change their life right now. But our goal is is to change now, but our goal is also to see their lives change in this life and the life to come. So we don't wanna just we w y a hand up may have to start with a hand out, but we don't want to just keep doing a hand out. We wanna eventually see the person become independent as they're able s to sustain themselves. So, you know, we do food, residential recovery, uh, clothes, um so we're m so one of the things that happened, um Charlie Smith State's attorney and I were in Starbucks. Um we were talking about the need for a women's shelter and the mission used to have one on the corner of South Street and Market Street. and for various reasons i it it closed down. And we're talking about how there need to be a Christian women's shelter. We need to get on a move. Uh that coffee conversation uh uh we began to look around all the Jason counties in Frederick and there was no place for a woman to go if she had a domestic abuse situation or drug problem, there were shelter opportunities. But if she was just flat out homeless and had children There was no place to go in Frederick. So that's when we started Faith House and uh I will say this before I hand it over to Terry. We went to find we found a place Then I had to go through uh the gauntlet of zoning hearings, uh, 'cause we got it zone institutional uh and uh uh while the neighbor we have great relationships with the neighborhood now. It was a tough uh year of uh zoning and opposition and and during that time as well. Everybody wants good things just next door. Right, absolutely Not in my neighborhood. How about the other person's neighborhood? Right. But so we so we finally got the zoning that we needed and we bought the house from interface housing a building from interface housing alliance with apartments. And then We had a an inaugural director, Kathy Shay, who did a really great job, but it was time for her to move on that she wanted to move on and and so Voila, here comes Terry Gray. So what what does Faith House do? Faith House, we are a uh Christ-centered shelter for women and women with children who are experiencing homelessness. Ladies come to us f uh experiencing homelessness for a variety of reasons. We've had uh we've had ladies come to us out of domestic violence, uh ladies coming to us out of recovery, although we are not a recovery sh program and so typically they've already been in recovery for at least six months of of successful sobriety before they come to us. So it's more of a halfway house kind of an idea at that point? Or they're not quite ready to be off on their own because they don't have the resources. But they but they've they've uh graduated out of the recovery program so correct. Correct. Right Um but they're they're no longer they they definitely have already established successful sobriety when they come to us. Um and then otherwise we've had ladies that come to us out of abandonment. So many of them have been abandoned by a significant other for a variety of reasons. Uh we've had a mom before where she and her two kids came because her husband uh became incarcerated So losing his income created a homelessness uh situation for her. We uh recently have a woman with us whose husband is part of the Change Life Recovery Program at the Mission. And so definitely a w a courageous decision for the man to take a year off to focus on his recovery. But oftentimes we forget about the impact that that has on the rest of the family because uh addiction is definitely a it's a it's a family uh crisis, a family situation. So We currently have a mom with us with her two children whose husband is currently at the rescue mission. So we're able to help her. She's since gotten a full-time job and um with us with her two children whose husband is currently at uh the rescue mission so we're able to help her um she's since gotten a full-time job and uh just found out that she got a fifty cent raise uh yesterday and in a couple weeks she is going to become manager Um so she's she's Congratulations. Yes, she's doing uh listening right now. Yes. She is doing very well. We also have a we have women who come to us because of illness. So we currently have a woman with us who's a breast cancer survivor. She was living on her own after five different rounds of chemotherapy and surgery. She ended up losing her job and was not able to um retain her her housing situation, her home. So She ended up moving in with us and last week we were able to she was having her her one year um anniversary of being a cancer free and we had one of the other ladies. They really rally around each other and we really become a family. Um and that's really our goal and our mission is just to create an environment that's um peaceful and a place of healing and restoration for the ladies and they really rally around one another and uh support one another and they're all they all may have different stories And their their stories are all unique and and they all ha are on a journey, but yet they definitely have shared experiences as well. And so they really support one another and lift one another up. So one of the ladies went out and had bought balloons to celebrate her one year anniversary of Cancer Free and it was right before the the mission's annual banquet and I was walking past our dining room and uh this lady was was there sitting at the dining room table and I started to go past and I glanced in and I said hello to her and then I had a check in my spirit thinking, sure quite Like she's doing okay. So I took a couple steps back, went in the dining room, could tell that she was kind of teary eyed. So I went and sat next to her and asked her if she was okay and um She said she was fine. A lot of our ladies put on a a stoic front. Um it's so rare because People outside of Faith House don't do that at all. Exactly. They're they're just the same. And uh but I was able to to talk with her and I said, Looks to me like there's a couple of tears and She goes, Yeah, she goes, but I'm doing I'm doing okay And I said, Are those happy tears then? And she goes, A couple of 'em So I said, A couple of 'em? I said, That means a th Couple of them are and um so I was like, you know, what's going what's going on? And um she started sharing a little bit and I asked her, I said, Have you been to the doctor recently? And she snapped her head over at me and she goes, How'd you know? And I said, Well I didn't know, but something inside just prompted me to ask if you've been to the doctor recently and Unfortunately she went to the doctor that day and there's a lump in her chest again and he's ordered X rays. And I have the privilege and the honor to be able to take her to the doctor this Thursday because I asked her. She has her own car, she could drive herself, but asked her if she wanted someone to be there with her and um she cried all over again. And uh sure that's what I get to do every day. I get paid to be a support system And I I got paid to pray with her, um, that day and she looked at me and she she thanked me again. I can't tell you how many times she's thanked me for for being there and she said, I don't know where I'd be without you. She has no family, she has no one And so I told her, I said, You have family now. I said, uh, we have your back and and you have family now and you're not alone. And so, um and that's what that's what Faith House does. That's the voice of Terry Gray, she is the director of Faith House, uh also on the show this week. The executive director of the Frederick Rescue Mission Arnold Farlow, I'm Troy Skinners for Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. So how many women and children can Faith House accommodate at any given time? Sure, we can have up to 20. So the way we have it configured, when I first came on, there were five bedrooms. Uh there was such a wa when I came on, I came on in March of 2018. By June we were on a wait list and have been on a wait list ever since So it's sometimes hard to answer that question. People ask me how things are going and I you know hesitate to answer because I'd rather be out of a job. I would rather Fate House be empty and there not be any. But um there's a a great need. So were you homeless at some point or Well w how does your story connect with what you do at Faith House? I was about a hair's width away from being homeless myself. Um back in nineteen ninety nine, so a long time ago, I um found out that my my husband at the time, my girl's dad, um uh I knew something was wrong, didn't know what. It turns out that he was um uh a a cocaine addict. And so um And he was hiding it. He was hiding it. He owned his own business and so he was definitely hiding it. He never did anything at home. And I had to shared before that I was raised by an ex nun. So I was raised way the opposite Five of South had no experience um did not lead the colorful life that uh my boss here at head led. So um very naive. Yeah. But Uh in being naive, we ended up moving to Florida because I thought in my head that if there was no drugs in Florida. There's no drugs in Florida. And if I got him away from his contacts he could do is He could do his his business anywhere. You hadn't seen Miami Vice in the uh eighties, right? No skipped that show somehow. So we moved to Florida and unfortunately his uh his he had already Um, his his sins, um, I'll call it that, had had caught up to him and after we moved to Florida I found out that he was actually wanted. Oh, okay. Up in Ohio when he owned his own business, he uh committed some white colour crimes to support his cocaine habit. I had no idea So here I am down to Florida, had just moved down there. Um, had three kids. Our youngest was nine months old. Um and found myself where he went and and turned himself in, found out I had three kids to support, no job, knew no one down there, and had $150 to my name Mm. And uh by the grace of God and only through the grace of God I ended up getting a a teaching job um in a way that I never should have 'cause I did not go the n the normal channels. It just so happened that the Lord had me move into a house. We're two houses down. Um, that person had a son, my son's age. They were playing together. We were talking outside and her sister on her team needed a teacher. And this was in October. Teachers don't get hired in October. And um Within a week I was hired and I did not go through the school board like you're supposed to. Um that night her sister called me up on the phone and interviewed me. She was the team leader Uh the next day the assistant principal called. I went in for an interview, um, got hired on the spot, and then had to go through the channels and jump through the hoops and um The Lord always kept a a roof over my head, but I can definitely relate to our women because it was not a guaranteed thing that I I was gonna have a roof over my my kids' head So you you never got quite there, but you're right up to the edge and so you have a certain empathy that you can draw upon. Uh uh from your experience. And Arnold you had your your wild and woolly days that helped you to really identify with some of the men uh that you're serving. That's really helping to meet their needs too. And I imagine you have opportunities to share parts of your story. Uh or do you try to not go there too soon because it could have the the the the reverse effect? But I'm assuming it would give you some sort of a credibility if you if you were to share. Uh but So do is it a do you are you quick to share, hey, I know where you're coming from. I've been there myself or I was almost there myself or do you need to hold back and and and be more of a of a of a of a picture of stability? Well f uh for me um Can I get you a glass of water anything? Yeah I might be good. Okay. Um Well how about if uh how about if Terry speaks and then in about two minutes this show will be over and I'll get you a glass of water. Okay. Does that work? Yeah, it worked. All right. Well for for me I have to admit be before coming to the rescue mission and doing this, it's not a story a lot of shame involved. So um not a not a story that was easily shared with others and most people would be very surprised to hear my story. Um I kind of in in that's only a small glimpse of my story, but it at Faith House I think it definitely does lend some credibility. I'm quick to point out that we all have a separate journey. So even um even though some of our ladies uh like we lived in uh you know, I was uh with my my husband during his recovery days, he ended up becoming a licensed minister while he was in prison. And um we were part of before this happened, I didn't even tell y uh we were very involved in our church and involved in small group ministries and um while he went to prison he he served for he was Um he served four and a half years and during that time uh he became a licensed minister through the Assembly of God Church. They have a correspondence program. Okay, so this is the the husband that was in the Air Force? No And anyhow, during that time and then when he came out, we were um in ministry together. We led uh Mary Couples Ministry. Uh he actually became kind of an associate pastor at the Assembly of God Church that that I was attending. My kids went to preschool there and and they helped out during that time when he was away. But I'm quick to share with our ladies that everyone's story is different. We all have a journey and we all have a cross to bear. And um I remember um When my husband first went away, again, this was totally different from how I was raised. And I had a conversation with God again and I likened myself to this story of my favorite story of the Bible where God is asleep in the boat and the storm is raging. And so I tell our ladies, you know, I've been there where the storm was raging around me and I said, God, all you have to do is say a word. You speak a word and the storm could go away Um, but he wasn't. So I said, Okay, so you must be allowing Gary to walk through something, but you're also allowing me to walk through this. So I remember um, going um in in kind of shifting my woe is me mode to uh, okay, Lord, what am I supposed to learn from this? And as soon as I shifted my perspective to that, um things changed. And that was a long time ago, that was 1999, but the Lord has uh turned it around so that I could use my experiences to Speak life into ladies and let them know there's another side. Well it's definitely true. If you think that other people don't have a story, you just don't know them well enough. Everybody has a story. And uh we do well to take time to try to learn somebody else's. uh story and come up alongside them in their story actually, I would say. Uh that's Terry Gray, she is the director of Faith House here in Frederick Uh Frederick Rescue Mission's Executive Director Arnold Farlow is uh are you blue in the face? No, he's still breathing over there. I'll get him a glass of water here in a second. This is the Faith Debate on WFMD, 9 30 a. m. on your dial, also online at WFMD I'm Troy Skinner. Thank you so much for listening. We're going to have one more show and maybe next week we actually talk a little bit more about how the whole entity functions and structures and what it looks like from the inside.