Area of Tawny Avenue and the Frederick Shopping Center. That's according to the Frederick News Post, the paper stated that seventeen-year-old Omar Malek Bah was taken into custody Thursday evening. Leaders in Newmarket say they're working on plans on how to make Newmarket's historic district a safer place and that some actions are already being taken. Mayor Winslow Burhands and members of the town council have met with state officials and surveyed Main Street to see what the best solutions are that can be implemented. I'm Kevin McManus, WFMD News And a good Sunday morning, the 930 WFMD weather bug forecast for Frederick and the surrounding counties. Today will be sunny with a high of ninety-one. Tonight partly cloudy low sixty-nine. Monday mostly sunny high ninety-two. Monday night partly cloudy low. Rain chances on Tuesday. Tuesday a chance of showers and thunderstorms, mostly setting with a high near 92. 40% chance of rain. Tuesday night, a thirty percent chance of showers and thunderstorms, cloudy Low 70. No service, contact the best. Thompson Best at bestseatac. com. I'm Jim Tice. This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all form with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The faith debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the The sound of freedom. Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with a master of divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Troy ski! This is round four of a four round heavyweight battle. Well, I might be overstating it just a bit, right? But this is the fourth and final show with the Frederick West Commission, Executive Director Arnold Farlow and the director of Baith House, Terry Gray. Uh we've covered uh a whole bunch of their background, their story of uh how they got to be where they are. We've talked a little bit about the need uh in in Frederick County for uh what Faith House and the Frederick Restaur submission due. Uh we only briefly touched upon upon some of the variety of services and programs uh that are offered and we'll get into a little bit more on that this week. Um but I also want to spend some time talking about setup the structure that is the rescue mission, how things work, um maybe deal with some questions you're asked frequently. I don't know. We'll kinda see. It might be a potpourri. We'll see what what uh where the show takes us. So thank you again for being on the show. Arnold, thank you for having me. And uh you listening, you if you missed the first three shows, you can go to uh the website WFMD. com and uh find the Faith Debate page and you can find those shows available to you. on podcast and if you want to have some dirt on Arnold, I would strongly encourage you to listen to the very first of the shows that we did together. Because I didn't know I don't know how often you share that is that something you kinda sh share all the time? Well um law enforcement no. Uh uh here and there, here and there you you're asking Terry and kinda me before I went into a coffin spasm. Yeah, d do you share that with the with the men pretty readily or you kinda hold that back? Well when I first came to the mission I was involved with the men a whole lot, but the mission's grown quite a bit and uh um I've had to be more involved administratively and it's just a lot uh uh God is really blessed us quite a bit. So I'm not as involved with the men as I used to be. Now there's a lot to be uh be the administrator over, right? There's uh the the the bread of life program, the uh CLRP recovery programs life recovery program. Okay, the clothing program, the outreach program, the Faith House, and uh the Summer Enrichment Program. Uh Bread of Life is uh food, right? have uh we serve meals, we serve breakfast and lunch every day, about a hundred and thirty-five thousand plus meals a year. Then we have a food distribution center where we give out groceries uh a person can get a week's worth of groceries uh one visit per week and we have about seven eight thousand people come through there a month. So uh with housing the way it is, people's incomes don't go as far as they need to. So a lot of people avail themselves to get groceries at the Food Distribution Center. And so then we also help out a lot of nonprofits and other ministries of food. And and how is that sort of stuff vetted or is it vetted? If somebody just comes and self proclaims they have a need, do you take them with their word or do you have to figure that out? Well, when Jesus fed five thousand and he go, Why are you here? Uh w uh w put it this way. Um Somebody can steal my hamburger. You know, if you want my hamburger, you can have it. You just take it. You want my bread If I steal my car I'm gonna fight you. If I steal my money, I'm gonna fight you. But so when it comes to food, you know w w uh Yeah, and people have to re enable. Yeah we do. We we we enable but we don't you know, we we also help people and we help people get to where they need to be. We help their lives be changed Do people con us? Yes. Um, I always say we got three types of people. We got crisis, people who are uh Like Terry's earlier sharing they had a medical situation during a crisis. In two thousand eight we had a ton of people come to the mission, never been poor, they were freaking out But we help 'em get through two or three months of just barely making it until they get their lives back together again. Then we have chronics, uh We got every community has a certain number. Frederick has about three hundred folks. They got var various problems, mental problems, drug problems, uh physiological problems They don't want to be case managed. They're gonna sleep in a tent, they're gonna stay here and there, and they're gonna be in the community. And then we have crooks. And uh those are folks that are gaming system running around and They don't wear name badges, they don't tell you which ones they are. But every all three of 'em need ministry. All three of 'em need to know how God can help them and have their lives changed. And that's so we don't make people prove their poverty. Uh when Jesus uh fed the five thousand he didn't Now the recovery program, um, I guess in the old days we would have thought s specifically about um hallucinogenic kind of drugs or that sort of thing. But I imagine now a lot of the recovery is because of the opioid epidemic. Is that true or not really for you? Contrary to popular opinion or or whatever, alcohol is the worst is the worst drug you call it the health department, Frederick County Health Department. The worst uh substance abuse is alcohol. It's legal, it's accessible. Uh we all have friends who we don't know who they are. But they they they drank a lot and they managed to cut it, as we talked about being a functional addict. But we have alcohol uh uh but Uh you know, when I first came in two thousand five through about two thousand and eleven, primarily we had folks with crack. for heroin and then and then alcohol. And then things began to change all of a sudden it seemed that we had more guys coming in. prescription drugs, the opiate situation. So w I say we have about half the guys in the mission the struggling with that. Uh some people just you know, once you're drug choice, it's you know, w whatever I can get. You know, s some some folks are in that category. So Now is the clothing program tied to the food program or are they completely separate? Completely separate. Of course everything's tied together as a measurement, but we we we collect clothes. We have uh clothing bins around town and we also go to different thrift stores and different places uh on our regular routes and we uh gather clothes and we take the clothes and we give them out to the community They can come and get some clothes once a month. We also provide clothes for people in our programs. And then the rest of the clothes we sell to an exporter. And all that money goes right back into the program. It also provides men work they can do every day. There's a particular day once a month where everybody can come and get clothes or each individual can come at any point but only once a month. Monday through Fri Monday through Friday. Uh about one to one thirty to f about four, they can come and get closed at the mission. Gotcha. And then they can come back again next month if Yeah, yeah. Gotcha. Okay. And how how much of a need is there for that? Because that's not something that's not all that top of mind to me. The drug addiction thing, the homelessness thing, not having food It's it's rare that I think about people not having clothes, so but I can see it's a need here from the case. about four thousand people, I think about twenty five hundred, uh women and children and hm but uh you know, it's like we got a person they got a job And then having boots and having clothes to go to work in, so they're able to come and get some boots and they able to get the clothes they need. Uh So the clothing also helps the ladies of the Faith House. We have uh some women who especially the w the women that are coming from domestic violence. We've had uh someone come with with just a backpack, um, and that's it. Some women come with uh undergarments. The only ones that they own are what they're currently wearing. So We definitely we're we're also employment focused at Faith House, so our goal is to help the ladies become uh fully employed and many of them do not have the the c In appropriate uh wardrobe or interviewing clothes. And so uh we definitely our ladies take advantage of that as well. Okay. What is the Summer Enrichment program? This uh a program we started about seven or eight years ago. As for kids w uh first through fifth grade who are in danger of losing a grade and who are economically distressed. Some are maybe homeless or very close to being homeless and so it's about a seven eight week program where we do tutoring and then we also take 'em on field trips. They go eat at Dutch's daughter They go to Koksin Zoo, they do the train in Walkersville. Uh they go to all these places they've never been before. And so by the end of the summer Uh they're tutored up, if you will. Uh they're also encouraged, they also know about Jesus. And uh their parents or their guardians are very excited because they see a significant change in attitude and behavior. immediately and so uh s so we do that how does the child get uh referred into the program uh are they referred into the program? Like does the teacher identify them? It's a sign up. We have a always have a waiting list. We have a hundred kids, we do this within Frederick and we do About fifty seventy kids in Thermont. And you've turned some away? We we probably could do a thousand if we had case. The Frederick Public School System though has a fantastic program where they have liaisons for those that are experiencing homelessness So I definitely know that they refer students from from their schools that that are experiencing homelessness to uh the the woman Terry Quitech from the rescue mission that runs the summer arrangement program. Oh fantastic. And they also help provide a tutor, uh, is my understanding. that the Frederick County Schools also provide a tutor because many of these children are behind. Hmm. So you're s maybe so meeting a need of maybe ten percent of what's really out there to be served. So this is that's a an a growth opportunity there. Oh yeah, absolutely. And you know there's some other uh nonprofits, uh SHIP and the YMCA There's some other good nonprofits also involve things similar but not quite the same. Right. Now what uh w Uh on your website it talks about an outreach program. Now all that you're doing has elements of outreach woven into it, but is there something that's specifically the outreach program or what is that? our value system really takes place, uh Terry. Um she has a team of pastors and Harassers, if you will. And they go down to the dining hall and they interact with everybody and they pray with folks down there and As they get in conversations with the different folks, they find out what they need and they make sure they get connected to community resources I will also have other non profits and ministries come, dining hall, you know, every now scheduled. Excuse me. And they will um Also interact with our folks, but Terry we know the folks we serve because of Terry. Those who have been through Faith House or who have been uh you know uh Some of the chronics, I guess. Uh uh or maybe the the short term people too. Uh not not the crooks, uh goes to the rest of the state. But those people are ready to uh maybe move into a uh what would appear to be a more normalized kind of a life. At that stage, what is the connection between you guys and them? Do you stay tethered in any s in any way? Do you help them to get connected into a local church You know, how does that work? At Safe House we have the expectation of all of our ladies, uh curfew is at eight o'clock at night and then we do devotions from eight to nine, but we also have the expectation of church on Sunday So I know for in a the men's program they also go to church on Sunday. For a Faith House, we don't tell the ladies w where they need to attend church, but definitely want them to also build their set of resources since Faith House is only a ninety-day program. although the ladies can stay longer if they're making progress on their goals and uh following policies and procedures and just need a little extra time. But uh we have several churches that partner with us where we've been able to get them to come and pick up the ladies. Um but that's season procedures and just need a little extra time. But uh we have several churches that partner with us where we've been able to get them to come and pick up the ladies. Um but that's We also keep in touch after they leave. So when the ladies exit and they they're in more stable housing with the whole uh mantra of impacting lives for now and for eternity, our the case manager at Faith House, I like to say that she's all about the impacting lives now. She's the one that's connecting them to the community resources and Sarah does a great job of that But then after they move on, she's still contacting them by phone, by email, by text on occasion, and then we kind of w wean them off a little bit from that. It's more of like than just a w a monthly touch base or as long as m often as they need. And that's more about the resources, you know, do you have everything that you need? And then our program specialist is all about the impacting lives for eternity. So She is the one who does the devotions four nights out of the week at at Faith House, but then also she continues to have one day a month where the ladies who have graduated, if you will, have moved on from Faith House, are welcome to come back and do a Bible study once a month at Faith House. And then she also sends them a weekly devotion and is contacting them through phone, through email for through um text messaging to find out if they have any prayer requests or uh any price reports. So We have a transition housing program and we're getting ready to start one with Faith House. So there's a transitional housing phase. And then another thing we've really started working on really hard this year and it's in development that's mentoring. it's been shown that if they can have a mentor at the end of the program, we don't want one in the program because the program is supposed to take care of that. But if you have a mentor toward the end of the program and one that stays with them for about a year to help them transist. So those are a couple of things. Hmm. Yeah, and I think all of us need a mentor in our life. Absolutely. Absolutely. It's one of the great the voids in most of our lives is we don't have a good mentor in our life. So um this is the Faith Debate on nine thirty WFMD, joined this week by Arnold Farlow and Terry Gray from uh the Faith House and Frederick Rescue Mission. I mean Faith House is is part of the Frederick Yeah, unless you mention, but it's its own little entity within that. Uh and as you're talking about all these different programs, it's a pretty big organization, right? So I mean It's it seems to be bigger every day. I mean how many people does it take to run the mission Well, goodness gracious, uh we have about seven hundred volunteers a month. And then we also have we have about twelve board members and we have about twenty seven staff. Uh But uh yeah, you go on campus both places during the day at certain times it's uh it's a lot going on there and uh Uh uh one thing I love about the Fred Rescue Mission, uh I throw this little cue in here. It's the most diverse place uh in the community. A lot of people preach diversity and try to enforce diversity. We don't do any of that. We just do it. And uh the reason we are able to do it is 'cause the love of Jesus and everybody's there for a common purpose. You can have some of the most wealthy people in the community be there serving the most lowly person in the community. You have every race and we at the Federal Rescue Mission we we allow folks, no matter who they are, to volunteer. And so you you know, you you don't have to be a Christian per se. All we ask is that you do not proselytize or uh or uh start sharing something contrary to our faith state our statement of faith. So we have a lot of different people come to the come to the mission. It's just amazing you can just walk around there and you just see diversity. the way it is supposed to happen, not be forced to happen. And um uh so as far as uh how many people take to run the mission uh It it just takes a big God. And then and then not to mention that, there are people that that serve in a in a hands and feet capacity, so to speak, and then really the m the mission could not survive without the people that give financial gifts as well 'cause we're one hundred percent privately funded. And uh that's how we're able to do what we do. That's how Faith House, for instance, is uh we can talk about God and and talk about our faith and the how he's our anchor in the storm. And um So often I think the every person on our staff has a story as well and God has been their anchor. And I think when when you have gone through a storm and God's been there at the helm and has has been that anchor that you just want to share that um with others. And so um but we we couldn't do what we what we do without those that do our boots on the ground, but then also the Lord has equipped uh some people to uh go out there and and serve in a capacity where they're able to give a financial gift So these are some really positive things of community involvement, the diversity, you know, the the uh the expansion of the programs over time and stuff. So Uh I'm sure you must y y you don't strike me as a data guy per se, but you must have some real I'm proud of this statistic kind of data points. Are you able to talk about some of the successes in a like, you know, demographic kind of an idea, not specific personal stories, but on the whole we have a X percent success rate in this measure. uh about ninety nine percent about all the guys that come to the mission are homeless. And ninety nine percent of 'em are not homeless after being at the mission. Now some may relapse. And that kind of thing happened when they relapse, we don't see 'em going back to being homeless. They find some way to find a place to stay. And um to me that's a big Yeah, w a lot of people want us to hit home runs that, you know, have this unbelievable story. We hit a lot of singles and a lot of doubles. We help people get their G D or help people advance to get a job or or something gets We stop the the trend of a person's life going the wrong way and we get the trend going the right way, maybe we don't get as much of it our go around but they're definitely heading back in the right direction. Look like you were gonna say something as well, or did I misread your body language? No, I think that uh what Arnold said is is absolutely correct. I know um this year in 2019, uh Faith House has already had close to 60 applicants. Um And that does not include the number of people that call, but once they find out that we're on a waiting list, they they do not fill out the application because their their need is immediate. Right. And what do they do? Right Um 'cause like you're it, right? So what do they do? It is very difficult. Definitely a hard part of my job and I'm the one who who looks at all those applications and talks to everyone and and I know in one of the other shows we talked about how we we don't talk to people about their story as often. You're not at you know, out socializing, asking about what someone's story is and part of my job in the interviewing process, I'm asking them what their story is and offering to have them share their story and I know even um on uh the video for the the Faith House has their annual dinner in um middle of October. This year it will be October sixteenth, that du Duchess daughter. Um but for that video one of the ladies was captured on the video talking about how she came in and she cried at that interview and we cried with her in that interview and that we prayed with her and that she'll never forget that. So um Wow. Well we're ending on a positive note. I want to thank you guys for being on the uh well, uh if you're offended by that, Guy and Gal uh being on the show uh these past four weeks. Uh much success. Um maybe we'll have you on again at some point or maybe we'll get together socially, we'll share more stories. Well absolutely. That'd be great. Uh this is the faith debate. Uh not a whole lot of debating going on the last couple weeks, but yeah, every once in a while it's good to take a little step back and and not uh fire up the debate uh furnace. Um But it still is called the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. This is WFMD. Been honored to be joined these past four shows by Arnold Farlow and uh Terry Gray. with the Frederick Rescue Mission. Uh Arnold is the uh executive director of the Frederick Rescue Mission and Terry Gray is the director of the Faith House, which is part of the Frederick Rescue Mission. Until next week, 100 and a half 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at Wfmd. com, a service of clustered spires. Maryland's golf at its finest. This is 930 WFMD and WFMD. com. Now WFM. The American Civil Liberties Union and the Resources for Immigrant Support and Empowerment have filed an Open Meetings Act complaint against Frederick County Sheriff Chuck Jenkins. In a statement, the ACLU says it's taking issue with the sheriff's decision not to hold a forum for Frederick County residents regarding the 287G program. The Sheriff's Office has an agreement with Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which lets deputies check the immigration status of the suspects they arrest. Sheriff Jenkins says he's not required to hold the forms and said opponents of the ICE program were disruptive at last year's meeting. The ACLU says Frederick County residents need to be informed and know how their tax dollars are spent rounding up immigrants. Two indictments were handed down on Friday by a Frederick County grand jury. One was against Brandon Burnett of Hagerstown, Frederick County State's Attorney Spokesman Will Cocky. says Burnett and a co-defendant Perry Webb, also of Hagerstown, burglarized three residents in Brunswick on April 26, 2019. Cocky says witnesses helped police track down the suspects by giving a description of the involved vehicle. The car was located in Hagerstown and the stolen items visible inside. Also indicted on Friday was Richard Thomas Spencer, the third of Frederick, for robbing his employer. With big changes coming for drivers in our region, the Maryland Department of Transportation is now open to a different toll lane plan for major highways in Montgomery County. According to WDVM, there is a plan to widen the beltway along I-495 and add toll lanes on I-270 During a meeting of the Transportation Planning Board, officials agreed to consider Montgomery County's recommendations, which also includes getting more commuters on the ICC. I'm Kevin McManus, WFMD News. Fox News, I'm Carol McHugh. Dueling tweets after President Trump doubled down on critical comments on Maryland Congressman Elijah Cummings and the condition of his district, which includes the city of Baltimore. now lowest unemployment in U. S. history and only getting better. Elijah Cummings has failed badly. This is what the Congressman had to say. He wrote, quote, each morning I wake up and I go fight for my neighbors. Presidential politicking, Senator Elizabeth Warren decrying the influence of big money in Washington. There is a decision to be made in Washington, it has been touched