This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The faith debate is on the World Wide Web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with the master of display. Dominities from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Oh Troy Skinner. That's me. Thanks for tuning in. You can find us online, as I think the announcer man just said, at WFMD. com keywords. Faith gets you there. Also, you can find the drop-down menu of the programs listed on the homepage for WFMB. com and just click on the Faith Debate. And there you will find uh Yeah, links to podcasts from previous shows. You'll see a rundown of what's going to be coming up on uh upcoming episodes of the Faith Debate show. And if you've missed the show and you want to go back and find it, you can kinda scroll through and find the the show description, the show title that makes sense and you'll be able to find the right podcast. And I mentioned that off the start because you might want to do that after you hear today's show because I should years ago I used to do a show when I was in Orlando, it was a sports show and and back then there was no email or anything like that, electronic stuff. It was all It was all um uh actual marriage care mail carrier stuff. So we would get letters. And I had this little jingle that says, Letters we get letters. I should play that. If you were listening the last two weeks, you know the faith debate, we apparently get letters and I read uh a correspondence, it was an email correspondence with with a listener who had some very serious questions, uh very serious kinds of questions. We went back and forth and I shared that uh dialogue with you last week and week before. Uh you don't have to have heard those to follow along this week and next, but it might be helpful. So if you haven't listened to the podcast, you know or heard those shows, go back and listen to the podcast. So on the show this week to help me Further digest that exchange with the listener, the troubled listener, uh Imram uh Imran. I keep saying Imram. I I I've said that to my wife a million times when I told you guys we're gonna be back on the show. Imran, he goes by Raz. And I guess that's why I could feel keeping saying his name wrong. Uh Tammy and Daniel Razvy. They've all been on the show before, but never together This is cool. So um thank you. Yeah, it's great to have you guys on. Daniel's on maybe a year ish ago, year and a half, something like that. I can't remember exactly. uh what the topic was, but s legal w some legal questions. There were some uh uh uh freedom of speech, freedom of religion questions in the news that we went through several articles. Right. Me and uh local pastor. Yeah, so that those were those were dynamic those were dynamic uh shows. You w you impressed everybody who was listening with your with uh how articulate you are and thoughtful and uh and measured So w that's gonna be in in play on the today's show, I think. And the last time Tammy was on the show was with The RAS. You came on together to talk about I think child rearing and parenting issues, family issues, that sort of a thing. We talked about parenting and adoption. It was during the adoption month uh about a year ago I think. Okay. And then we've also had uh Raz on the show solo, well him and another panelist, but not with the other parts of his family to talk about your conversion story because you grew up Muslim, correct? Yes and looking back on believer. And and you're now a a Christian. And you were uh Daniel talking about the uh the legal stuff because you were very close to taking the bar And I'm assuming you've passed by now. Is that a fair assumption? No? No, I I I s uh still have to have more work. Okay. So I can't call you a lawyer yet. I kept referring to him as a legal expert last time and he got mad at me. Well you c you can call me a legal expert if you if you like, but uh but uh my my career is in the family business higher ground financial group Um, but I do have a a legal background, so Okay. Yeah, I needed him on my uh in my agency uh too much so he didn't have time to really take the bar exam, so he put it off for a little bit. Yeah, because Raz's agency he does financial planning and things like that, right? That's how you get the bills paid. Yes. But they spend their their hearts uh work, their life work is ministry related. That's why we had you on talking about the family issues. You've led a number of seminars, you've written a number of booklets on the subject, that sort of thing. Right. We have a ministry conquered by love. Which is focused on h handling the relationships and families and um bonding everyone together, those uh care between parents and children and And you've hosted and and I guess led a uh house church uh for years and so Uh that's why you're a wonderful panel for this topic. We're gonna get into it now. Um a a woman, listener, I'm not sure how often she listens, how long sh uh how long of a time she spent listening, how familiar she is with the show, but she She wrote, I'm not going to read everything because I've already read all of this the last couple of weeks, but I'm going to get a start in case you missed that, so we can get started. This is the very first email she sent Just the first couple of paragraphs. She says, Hi Troy, I listened to some of your radio program podcasts and really enjoyed them. Was particularly interested in the one from January 8th. of 2018, so that's about a year ago, about how one moves from unbelief in Christ to belief. You and your panel touched on the subject of moving from mental ascent to genuine saving faith, but just barely. I'm interested in knowing how one takes hold of Christ in the heart in a way that transforms. I've been stuck in this place for a long time, wanting the penny to drop, but that hasn't happened. I don't have intellectual problems with the Bible. It's that my heart hasn't been melted in a way that results in joy, peace, and a change of nature. I'm not looking for an experience, but a genuine heart change, and I don't think it's happened. I think I'd know if it had. I've grown up immersed in Christianity, know the Bible inside and out, and attend a Bible-believing church. I know all about God, but can't seem to connect with him personally. I'm not sure if it's a spiritual or psychological problem or a mixture. I long to have a personal relationship with Jesus, but never have, and at age 66, it's way past time. He seems abstract and distant to me. And I know that's not right because he is in reality neither of those. So I shared all this with you guys beforehand so you can kind of process and digest it. Um if This listener we're addressing you, you know, so somebody maybe in your in your church group or somebody who's at one of your ministry functions and comes with this kind of a of a question. What might be something that you might say to her, ask of her. What's the f what's the first thing that because this is a training ground for the listener, by the way. Pay attention to the answers that we give. They might not be good, but at least pay attention. So you can decide if, yeah, that's an approach I would want to take or that's an approach I would avoid at all costs. But what was your first take when you read the email exchange? Who wants to go first? Oh like Daniel. He's looking like he's leaning in. Well I think the biggest question is uh are you saved? Right? I think that's what she's wondering. Are you saved? And and so you have to look to scripture to determine whether you're saved. It's not a subjective feeling or uh you know um thinking in your in your mind, it's it's uh whether you are fulfilling the scriptural requirements for salvation. And we know that's not anything that we can do or should do ourselves. It's it's all through God's grace. Um but Romans tells us, Romans ten nine, that if we confess Jesus with our mouth that that he is Lord and we believe in our heart that God raised him from the dead, then we are we will be saved. There's no if or and or but so it's it's pretty simple. If you do believe and just believing that he's God doesn't d doesn't necessarily uh cover it. You have James where uh well James said, you know, even even the demons believe there is one God, um, but obviously they're not safe. Uh but at the same time if you're believing in Jesus, you accept him that he's Lord, not just that he exists as the demons uh understand, but that he is Lord over your life. Then and you uh uh obviously that God raised him from the dead. He died for our sins, and that's the only way to get to heaven, then you will be saved. There's um Tammy, what do you it seems like um That kind of is the crux of the question that the listener's asking. Are you saved? And she's saying, Yeah Let's find out. Am I saved? I don't know if I'm saved. Right, it seems like she's uh listed some experiences that she would expect to have had if she were saved and believes that she hasn't had those experiences and then she's equating that with not having been saved. And I think those are two separate things. Just from a parenting perspective, you know, God is our father. So I'm gonna do a little analogy here with parenting. You know, a child can feel that you know, mommy and daddy aren't loving me, I'm not I'm not happy, I'm like fighting this situation. Like I if if if if they really cared about me, if I really had a good relationship with them, then I would be at peace I would be happy right now or I would have these kinds of feelings that she's with I'd have a close relationship with them. But in in reality sometimes it's being just just resting in that relationship and honoring maybe honoring the parents. Um you see a lot of maybe discomfort in a relationship, but it's about um looking at yourself and saying, I need to be made happier. I need to be made this way. Whereas if you look to the other person in the relationship, so a child looking to a parent and just maybe caring about the rules in the family, um, caring about honoring the parents. Um, you know, scripture tells us to honor honor our parents. And if we do that we see the relationship uh blossom and then those things come back where you see a child more at peace. And I think that's almost what she's asking a is the sense that I get she's expecting those those feelings to come, but maybe it's just that she she doesn't have that close relationship with him, but that's outside of the the initial salvation, otherwise the the thief on the cross next to him wouldn't have uh have been in heaven with him. Yeah it might be good actually for me to uh t use this um this financial phrase with the financial guy in the room. Uh Imran is a financial planner and she's talking about wanting the penny to drop Um and so I'm turning you with kind of cutesy with that phrase, but in reality she's feeling like she's been immersed, she's grown up it sounds like, in a Christian environment She knows the Bible inside and out, she says. Uh she believes, but she's not sure she believes 'cause she's not feeling like her heart is transformed. So she's seeking some sort of a convert uh a confirmation of her conversion, 'cause she feels like she hasn't had one maybe. And you have a conversion story. So was there something in your conversion where you felt the penny drop that you can say, you know what, this is something I could say to you. Like did you ever feel this, experience that, think this, have somebody say that to you that helped you to how did you know? When you became a believer, a follower of Jesus Christ, how did you know? Well, I don't believe I had that moment, as some people say, on uh July twenty first at eight AM I converted. And I've ha heard many Christians say that and they've said you know, this was an amazing time, my whole everything changed. I've never had that. Um so with me it was intellectually studying the Bible and the Quran and other historical books and trying to figure out what is it that God who is God and what is He's trying to tell us and what does he want from us? And I finally started to understand that the God of the Bible is the true God. Jesus is his son and he died for my sins and that is the only way for me to have that relationship with God. Uh up until then it was more of a slave relationship and as an a Muslim. And it was very much a tightrope of how many good things were how many bad things. But once I realized there was nothing I could do, nothing that I ha had done to earn um the salvation It was a um eye opening things. It was intellectual, but it wasn't something that I had a great meltdown or or a f you know, a fever feeling. And What touched me is uh once I did that, uh made m made that acceptance that Jesus died for my sins. Then, okay, now what? Well, if I love God, like God loved me enough to die for me, if I love him, what what is uh what am I supposed to do? And it clearly says in the Bible that I will follow his commands. So now I have to read the Bible and find out what his commands are and and follow them. Does that help me get saved? Does that give me assurance of salvation? No. But what it does is the outward appearance and the fruit Uh and I think in your the email of Shane she talked about she was talking about her food that she doesn't see feel that there is any fruit in her life. And the fruit in your life comes from loving God and if you love him and accept his um his dying on the cross for you, then you would want to love him by doing his commands. And when you do his commands, that is the fruit. that it doesn't get you in heaven, but that is the fruit that comes from it. And uh I as a Muslim I read many, many stories of uh the dreams and visions coming to Muslims all across the uh world And I looked to myself and said, I didn't get my dream. I didn't get my vision. What's that's what's that's not fair. And what what's wrong with me? We're the devil's always going to be talking uh to us and trying to whisper in our ear to give us doubts and a concern about Do are you really saved? Do you really know? And the fact is, I'm assured because God says so. And once God says so and I accept that, that is my assurance. It's the only insurance I need is that God said so. He said so in his Bible. And I believe him. Now, the rest is up to me to love him. And when I love him, that's where the fruit comes in. That's where my relationship gets stronger with with God. And as I've grown closer to God if I read my Bible and prayed and I think a lot of time it's the prayer and singing that has helped me to get closer. relationship with God, they're knowing him better. How do you get related close to anybody? It's to spend time with them. And your listener said she spends lots of time. She knows the Bible inside and out. Um so where's the disconnect? Well uh I'm not sure that uh she's gonna find the um life changing, powerful whatever that that people s talk about in their testimonies and things like that. I didn't find find that, but I do feel very close to him over time I felt closer and walking in faith is a tough thing. And we've had plenty of times that our families walked in faith and we were just waiting, you know, what is God going to do? We know who he is. We know that he loves us. Now it's up to us to follow that faith. Yeah, that's the voice of uh Imran Raz Razvi, joined this week by his wife, Tammy, and uh their son Daniel, the Razvi clan, are part of them anyway. Their clan is like the size of a small city. How many are in your family now? We have thirteen children. Thirteen. So Yeah. The way God intended it. Be fruitful, multiply, right? And they have ministry conquered by love, right? And conquered by love dot org? Is that The website, remember? Yeah. Alright, so Daniel, your parents uh tell you that they love you. Your father just said that, you know, God tells him that God loves him and he believes it. Your parents on this I'm assuming have told you at least once that they love you. Uh once or twice, yeah. A few times anyway. So How do you know? Why do you believe your parents? I'm trying to find an analogy that would help this listener or others who are listening in to understand how we can trust when God says, yes, you. Well i in in one sense y uh you believe and you trust until you have reason to doubt s uh someone. Uh so I uh and if you're believing and trusting a human, you no more gonna believe them until you have reason otherwise when God says something, well God is the creator of the universe, he is all knowing and all powerful and he n he is all truthful. The Bible teaches us that God is truth. So everything he says must be true. So if it's in his Bible, then it's true and there's no other Um if and or but, as I said earlier. It's the parental relationship mirrors that, but uh humans are fallible. So humans can make mistakes, they can tell lies But God does not. God does not lie. Uh in fact I think um says in Romans, God cannot lie. Um people often say, Well, God can't uh there's nothing God can't do. Well, there's some things that God can't do as in it's it's against his nature. It's not in his nature to lie. It's not in his nature to um to to not show love towards us when we are believing in him Yeah, I think the question um that that this particular listener is having, and I want to give her the benefit of the doubt, I don't think that she's saying, I doubt God in his word. She's doubting herself somehow. Right? So when uh when we say things like we've said so far on the panel, we've said things like, you know, well God's word says, and so therefore it's true I think what she's saying is, yeah, but how do I know that therefore it's true for me? Well, I I think in in the email exchange she hasn't She hasn't asked things that w that that are red flags to me such such as I hear s people sometimes ask, Well I'm not doing enough or maybe I'm not good enough or I you know She seems to understand that you d don't need to be good. You can't be good enough. You can't do enough works. It's not works based. It is faith based. So she understands that she does need to have faith. And if you Your works will uh be the fruit, but they don't save you. And if all you need is to believe in in Jesus. So It it the question kind of has its own answer that when the Bible says that I need to believe that Jesus died for my sins and then I'll be saved, but how do I know if I believe that? Well i if we put specific if we put specific parameters on in order for me to be saved, I must experience this and this and this, then we're we're taking over the role of you know, God in the sense that h he he has a r different relationship just with I've got thirteen children. I I love every one of them, but my relationship with each of them is slightly different. and the and what we do together might be slightly different. And and so that relationship might be slightly different with each of his children And and it depends on her growth in in her relationship with him and you know, where she is in her walk is age is not necessarily, you know, uh um a a marker for spiritual maturity. It may be uh uh more likely if she's been in church all her life that she's she's had quite a bit of time to mature, but um it's not always Uh and so each of us have this relationship that's different and and what your relationship with your father looks like might be different than someone else's and it doesn't make it any less valid. And so seeing that someone else has is able to just experience resting completely in peace where maybe she's not at that point uh in her relationship with him. That's Okay. That doesn't mean it's not it's not as valid of a relationship or not as much of a father-child relationship. and and uh discipling children in a big family. I mean it's lots of opportunities to deal with uh crises of of conscience, crisis of faith, you know, the um people Eve even the best of us uh having moments where there's not any evidence that we're believers because we've just made the worst decision possible and choosing purposely to do something that's wrong, knowing it's wrong and doing it anyway. Right? Everybody has been there's like, holy cow, like, am I a complete fraud? So when you've have you had to deal with these questions with your children, with people in your in your church group, with uh people that you meet at the seminars or readers of your books who ask these kinds of questions, or is it not something that gets asked of you that often? I think it is a it is a pretty common thing. Uh you know, y you do have to keep searching as as you're a believer, there's a Um a a friend of ours, uh Bernie Beal. Um he's been on the show a number of times, friend of the program, who is uh who's is very fond of saying I I'm probably committing some sin right now. I just don't know it uh know about it. And as soon as I find out, as soon as God tells me and shows me then uh then I'll stop doing it, but I don't know yet. But if you're if you're constantly searching, you know, that then you'll then you'll see areas where God's gonna teach you to grow more like Jesus. Um But you the it's that it's a constant search process. It's not uh it's not something that you get saved and now you're perfect and now uh you know you're always walking with God. Twenty-four-seven. Also, this is a difficult subject and in our Christian circles, um, you never really want other people to know your struggles. Because then they'll judge you and and they'll think, are you saved? And so it's it's not a topic that's all like being on Facebook, right? People always put their best face forward. They don't talk about their struggles and their challenges so easily. Absolutely when Tammy and I uh minister and and coach parents, uh many times they have not disclosed some of these things in their church or they have disclosed some of it and they've had a lot of uh uh a lot of judgment and it makes it very difficult for them to be open. So this I think is a common theme uh among many, many people Because we are doubters. We're gonna doubt. Every time something goes wrong, well, does God love me? Uh uh we're gonna doubt. And even Job, you know, he he he was reprimanded. He did everything right and then he he re was reprimanded because he was putting himself in God's position, saying, Well, I did all this and so God doesn't have any right or reason to punish me. Well God has every right reason to. So when we are looking at at outside um things that are happening to us and judging that uh based on our relationship with God, it's always gonna be doubtful. So we have to take it on at at uh on faith that this is what God said. And this is what he means and this is what our relationship is. We will fall short all the time. God never falls short And that's a good word for us to end this program. We're going to continue with this panel next week because there's a lot more to be said to this particular listener and and uh to Raz's comment. Um it I think it's incredibly common, if not universal, in the Christian experience to have at least occasional doubts. I mean that lifelong uh struggles like this particular list is having to have but at least occasional. But I will say in my experience has been somewhat uh rare uh in in the sense of uh people voicing it to me. Maybe ten times in my whole life have I been around somebody that would if if that saying s this kind of thing, like I'm not sure if I'm if I'm saved. But I will say, in every single one of those instances, the person that was asking that question I'm like, what do you mean? Like, if you're not saved, I don't know anybody who is just based on what I see in your life. I see way more fruit in your life than you seem to see in your own life. So Whenever somebody asks a question like this, that gives me reason to hope that they they actually have an authentic faith. That's not a proof, it's not an absolute litmus test. But I think it's it's part of the indicator that should give this listener and others like her some confidence. Anyway. That's gonna be the end of this show. Thank you to uh Imran Raz, uh Tammy and Daniel Razvi. Uh conqueredbylove. org is their website. Uh this is the Faith Debate. Our website is WFMD. com. Keyword faith gets you there. Um Did I say my name? I said your name. Did I say my name? I'm Troy Skinner, in case you care. Uh we will be back with the same panel One hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from now. Until then, have a blessed week. God bless