Oh by now. Preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. Zu. This is a Freddie Fate of it on Freddiex Muse Radio 930 WFMD. It is brought to us by Putman, Plumbing and Heating. How do we make you smile? We are online at WFMD. com keywordface. There you'll find all sorts of interesting stuff, including the Face Debate blog and links to podcasts of uh this program. A whole archive, hundreds of shows, literally hundreds of shows there for you to to peruse and listen to. And the Bake Bay blog, uh our vlog is your blog, so email me Troiskinner at Clearchannel. com Troy Skinner at ClearChannel. dot com I post what you send me eighteen times a day, Monday through Friday, that's ninety a week. Pop things politics, religion, pop culture, reading recommendations, funny jokes. Interesting pictures, all sorts of stuff. So check it out. See what people are sending. Our way. Alright, so here's the deal. You might remember it was about a month ago. I came on and did a special edition of the show. Call it a special edition that makes it seem better, right? We had some sort of technical snafu, glitch, gremlin kind of thing that gobbled up the audio of a program. Have no idea where it went, why it gobbled up. Cannot figure out why it happened. And of course you know the danger whenever something bad happens and you can't figure out why it happened, what's the danger? You can't learn from it. If you don't know why something happened, you can't keep it from happening again. So here we are. It happened again. So the program you should have been hearing today, you're not hearing. I'm hoping that someday, somehow, mysteriously, that audio will reappear and we will put the show that you are going to hear today on the air sometime. Completely out of context, but it will air. But for now, don't have it. So what are you gonna do? Show biz, baby. The show must go on. So I'm grabbing my old trusty stack of stuff. Last time we had to do this, I had some stuff that when I was done with it, I went and tossed it out. See, that's theater of the mind when you do something like that. That's that's that's radio at its best. No, seriously. Don't tell me it's radio, it's worse. My ego can't take it. Okay, maybe it is radio worse. But anyway. Good, bad, or indifferent, there were some more for you. So I'm going through my stack of stuff and I'm going to see what I saved and why. See if I can remember why, and we're going to do the show together, you and me on the fly. and see what I can remember. So here's something that's from 2010 that I've been saving. Holy cow, why do I save this stuff? Um this was talking about All right, these are articles and things uh people were sharing opinions about um uh disasters, earthquakes, tsunamis, uh volcanoes, uh you know, uh avalanches, wildfires, all sorts of these horrible bad things that happen. And these sorts of catastrophes do not discriminate And it's let's see. Where is where's the quote on this? See if I can find this quote. Okay, this was this was particularly in the context of the earthquake that uh that uh that affected the island of Hispaniolo, where the Dominican Republic and and Haiti are. And so, um, so speaking about this uh this disaster that took place a number of years ago on the the Seven Hundred Club Apparently Pat Robertson Robertson uh was saying that it had to do with uh it being a Haiti being a French colony and its leaders swore a pact to the devil. uh in order to get out from under the heel of the French. And then Pat went on to say, Pat Roberts and and they said, We will serve you, meaning the devil. If you will get us free from the French. True story, says Pat Robertson. And so the devil said, Okay, it's a deal. But ever since, they have been cursed by one thing after the other That island of Hispaniola, Pat Robertson said, is one island. It's cut down the middle. On one side is Haiti, the other is Dominican Republic. The Dominic Dominican Republic is prosperous, healthy, full of resorts, etcetera. Haiti is in desperate poverty. And so Robertson concluded by urging viewers to pray for the residents of Haiti and said, Out of this tragedy, I'm optimistic something good. may come. Now this is uh uh an opinion piece written by Sam Bennett. And uh Sam says he couldn't believe what he was hearing, giving the magnitude and the gravity of the disaster, how could anyone, especially a reverend Be so flippant. White House spokesman Robert Gibbs said, It never ceases to amaze me that in times of amazing human suffering Somebody says something that can be so utterly stupid. Hmm. So what do you make of that? Matt Robertson, well known around the world, well known in the Christian community as well. Says a lot of good things, although I think his theology is a little screwy some places, but you know, he's trying to do try to do some good work. I think what Pat Robertson's biggest m uh misses is that he he is one of those that tends to equate Christianity with culture and so it becomes churchy unity. Um, you know, the religious right, the moral majority kind of thinking uh becomes what's more important than the gospel sometimes. I I I have a fear that that might be the case. And then he says something like this. And so he likes Sam can can take that and beat him over the head with it. I'm wondering if we were to press Pat Robertson and press Sam on these things, if they would find an area where they have more agreement than they think they do or not. I'm not sure, but we don't have that opportunity. But is Haiti cursed because they made a pact with the devil? I don't know. I wasn't there, I'm not in heaven. I can't see clearly all these unseeable spiritual things. All I can know about those things are what we learn about in the Bible. And so we turn to the Bible. And what does the Bible say about Haiti? Bible doesn't say anything about Haiti, specifically. But there are examples in the Bible, in the Old Testament, particularly, right? We we see where there are judgment, uh judgments visited upon nations by God. But I think we have to be careful. We've talked about this on the show before. Jonathan Sweitzer if you were here would be disagreeing with me pretty strongly right now. But be pretty careful to take that out of its historical and scriptural context Because Old Testament Israel is a theocracy. The people of God are represented by that nation-state Israel. There was no differentiation between the religion and the rule of law No differentiation between the leaders who were the priests and and uh the leaders who weren't priests. I mean the king uh was the king because he was anointed by God The king couldn't do whatever he wanted, he couldn't offer up sacrifices, only the priests could do that. The king did that, he got himself in trouble. There's stories about that too. And so the state of Israel in the Old Testament being the people of God It's a little bit different when there's a geopolitical climate revolving around that dynamic. But now the people of God are Christians. All Christians. Whether they're American or Canadian or Mexican or Haitian. There is no geopolitical nation-state that is a true theocracy, by true meaning a the theocracy that is founded upon the leadership of the true God. So Pat Robertson wants to say that Haiti got clobbered because of a pact it made with the devil What about the Christians who live there? What does he say to them? We heard some of this when uh Katrina hit New Orleans. Oh, New Orleans is because they have Mardi Gras and all this horrible stuff down there in the French quarter and all the drinking on Bourbon Street and blah blah blah. And so this was God judging New Orleans Certainly God can stop disasters, and God is capable of causing disasters. But is he visiting judgment on New Orleans? Was he visiting judgment on Haiti specifically? We better be careful before we go there, because we cannot know the mind of God. In the Old Testament, when God visited judgment on the nations, the prophets declared it so. And so we can say, yes. That blight that was visited upon Egypt, for example, when Moses was sent by God to say, Let my people go That was a judgment from God on the nation of Egypt. Why can I be so sure? Because God said so. He revealed it to us specifically in his word. But then remember the words of Jesus when he's asked about you know the child who had all sorts of problems. And why did he have those problems? Was it because of the sins of his mother? Because of the sins of his father? Because of his own sins? And Jesus says, No, it has nothing to do with any of that. It's so that the glory of God might be revealed. Things change with Christ. Things change with the incarnation and then at the crucifixion of Christ and the re and the death and resurrection and the ascension. It's a little bit different now. We've got to be very careful. Plus, it completely denies some of the practical things we might know to be true about the Dominican Republic in Haiti. Yes, it's one island. But one is what one half of the island is to the west and one half of the island to the east. Now that's profound, right? You need me to tell you that. Well the part of the is that the because of the way the weather travels across the island, there's way more vegetation, a way better climate on the east side than there is on the west side. And so there's more chance for agriculture, there's more chance for tourism than on the east than there is in the west. There's more chance for those things, Dominican Republic, than there is Haiti. And you take a bunch of corrupt, incompetent uh government leaders, and that just makes a bad situation frighteningly worse for Haiti. And then the earthquake hits and they get completely clovered. Why? Because they have substandard building codes and they uh living in shanties and It's not as simple as we might want to make it be sometimes. And it misses the point. Instead of looking for, oh, did God judge here? Did God judge there? Let's focus on the fact that God will judge. And He will judge justly. And so we are all condemned as guilty. When we stand naked before God, we are up a creek, without a paddle, as they say. Except When Christ stands before God with you. That's the Christian message. We all stand before God condemned, except that Jesus Christ Takes that condemnation for those that are trusting in him to carry that load for us. And not only does he carry that load for us, he gives us his perfect record. So there's no reason for God, the Father, to judge us, to condemn us, to judge us negatively, to judge us harshly. That's the Christian message. When we start looking for the evidences of the judges of the judgment of God in the here and now and lose the fact of what is truly most important, that final judgment. When we start doing things like that, we stop preaching the gospel. And we start preaching Christendom. We start preaching churchanity. We start saying things like, if Haiti would only be better people and stop making packs with the devil and have better government and build better buildings and be nice, good, moral, law abiding people like us here in America or them over in Dominican Republic, if only they were better, nicer, more sanitized people, I don't know, whatever our areas of judgment on them want to be, if they would only be better. They'd only be more like us. Then they wouldn't face God's judgment. That totally misses the point. We all face God's judgment Only by the grace of God, through the blood of Christ, can any of us hope. To be saved. That is the gospel. We start talking about tsunamis wiping out uh Muslims uh in the in the Philippines or you know the devil pact makers in Haiti. We we're so missing the point. And all the world hears from us is, oh, so you think you're better than us when what they should hear from us is I'm willing to grant that you are better than me by miles. I find it hard to imagine that you're worse than me, because I'm a wretched sinner. I'm horribly lost left to my own devices. I am a disaster. I would claim to be the chief among sinners, except that the Apostle Paul already has claimed that mantle for himself So I'm not even the best at that. I'm not better than you at anything. I'm not even better than you at sinning. Because Paul's better than all of us at that, apparently. Completely utterly lost. Except for Christ. We need to be preaching that. We need to be talking about that, sharing that, instead of pointing a wagging finger and saying, ah, it's because of this over here. That starts the smack of karma, which is not a Christian idea. Starts a smart smack of a small tit for tat kind of a God, which is not the biblical God. It is not the God who created this vast universe so that we might live in it Anyway, this is the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Oh, I gotta get rid of this, right? I love doing that. Uh our show is brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Continue to work through our our stack of stuff and see what we got here. I think this might just be struck in there by mistake. Yeah, this is the sports section. I'm not sure why I'd have the sports section at Fate Debate. We have the Frederick Sports Sunday show that uh Pete and Ed do such a great job on, so I don't know, maybe I picked up their stuff one day and stuck it with my stuff. Sorry. Sorry to steal your stuff. I wouldn't have stole your stuff if you didn't make a pack for the devil though. Oh, I take that back. I uh please don't don't don't take me out of context. And take that back. Pete and Ed have not maken made a pact with the devil. I'm almost positive. Uh okay. Yeah, this is all All right, next article. What do we got here? We've got about uh ten minutes left in the show, so I got time to really go off on a rant here if I want to. Let's see what we got here. Okay, yeah, this is uh back but we did talk about this on the show at one point. I think we had uh Paul Smith on to talk about this. The the mayor and the board beginning with prayer. Yeah, uh Ma Mayor Randy McClement began h the the first public meeting um with prayer, something that had been missing before, but he brought it back. And we may he had the question of should they be praying or not? And I've I've waffled, I'll be honest. I've waffled back and forth, uh not because I've been uncertain, but because I've bec be have become increasingly certain in different directions at different times. So here's here's my thought on public prayer particular particularly in a civic setting such as uh a city hall meeting or some board board of alderman meeting or something like that. If the powers that be are going to say we're going to have a moment of prayer then whoever leads that prayer should be free to pray in a way that squares with their conscience. And if there are all sorts of rules and regs put in place that they just can't I can't pray that way, then okay, then they shouldn't pray. Uh and and if they're gonna put all sorts of rules and regs on people praying, then maybe they shouldn't open with the public prayer. I don't know. But again, this gets into the whole church andity kind of thing and the cultural war, and we're fighting on the wrong front. I believe That the Bible tells us how we should pray. And for the Christian, the Bible would seem to say that if we're going to pray to God, we should pray to Him as our Father. And do so by the power of the Holy Spirit in the name of the Son. And if we don't do those things, it's really not a Christian prayer. And if it's not a Christian prayer, then is it really a prayer to the Christian God? And if it's not a prayer to the Christian God, is it a prayer at all? Because from a Christian's perspective, there is only the Christian God. So if I don't stand and pray and say, Father, God, Creator Almighty in heaven, I'm able to come to you with these words of prayer powered by the the prompting of your Spirit, your Holy Spirit giving the words to my utterance, giving me the things I should say. And I can only have confidence that you hear and receive this prayer as appropriate Because it's a prayer in the name of your son Jesus Christ, if I don't have that kind of attitude, maybe even say those kinds of things in my prayer, am I really praying? And I would say, I don't think so If I just have some nebulous God, we ask your blessing on this time together. Grant us wisdom. Amen. Who is the God to whom I'm praying? And how can others say amen if they don't know to whom I'm praying? Because words have no meaning absent their context. What does the word red mean? You see the word red, or you hear the word, that's better. Let's say you hear the word red. What does that mean? Well red could be the name of a sea. Or red could be a color. Or red could be an emotion. He's seeing red, meaning he's angry or jealous. Or if we change the spelling a little bit, but keep the pronunciation red can mean I've glanced at some words on a page and digested their meaning. You don't know what red means outside of his context. You don't know what a collection of words means outside of their context. So if I put together a collection of words and put some sort of artificial context around them so it seems like, oh, okay, I can tell it's a prayer because he said God and he said amen at the end. So I know through cultural um uh n the norms of of of culture that that would represent a prayer. So that was a prayer. But a prayer to who? I said God. Ooh, okay. Well, maybe it was to Zeus Or Baal or Aphrodite or Allah or pick one Maybe I've decided that my God is my Chevrolet Tahoe. So I'm praying to my Chevrolet Tahoe right now. You don't know that, but that's who I'm praying to. And I'm gonna say Amen, and I'm gonna hope you say Amen with me, because I want you to join in my prayer to that several way Tahoe. So if I'm asked to pray publicly, I'll gladly pray. I'll pray anytime, anywhere, and anybody wants me to pray, I'm glad to pray. I'm gonna pray the only way that I think I know how. Which is to pray to God the Father by the power of the Holy Spirit in the name of His Son Jesus Christ. And if I can't pray that way, they won't allow me to pray that way. Then I'm going to tell them that, okay, then you don't really want me to pray. In fact, I might go so far as to say, you don't really want to pray at all. Because a prayer not to the true God not sure it's really a prayer. Or if it is, if you want to say technically by definition, maybe it means a prayer depending on depending on how you want to define your terms. Certainly not a prayer worth uttering if it's not a prayer to God, the true God. The only the only one who can truly do anything about your prayer. Right? So anyway. Got a few minutes left. Toss that out. Never to be heard from again. We have to bring that topic up again. I'm sure it'll come up. It always pops up in the news from time to time. Um Yeah. This is interesting. This was a story back in this is in Egypt. Uh Egyptians riot after seven were killed in a church attack. Thousands of Egyptian Christians went on a rampage after six members of their ancient community were gunned down as they left midnight mass for a Coptic Christian uh Christmas in uh Nag Hamidi Which is a uh a mixed Christian Muslim town. A Muslim guard was killed, nine others wounded, including three in who are in serious condition. The violence began when Christians smashed ambulances outside the town's main hospital in frustration over delays in turning over the bodies for burial. Police fired tear gas to disperse the crowd. Clashes resumed after the burial services with angry cops that's the Coptic Christians smashing shop windows, chasing Muslims off the streets, and bringing down street light poles. Are you kidding me? Seriously? Those might be people that were regular attenders to the SCoptic Christian church. They might even have been actual members, not just regular attenders. They might it might even be the leaders for all I know. But that is not Christian behavior. That is not the church behaving as the church. That is not putting your faith and trust and hope in Jesus Christ and in the Lord God Almighty, who has the power over everything, including those attacks in the church. We cannot behave this way. Well, you say it's in Egypt, that wouldn't happen here. It happens here It happens here. And that's not Christian. People do violent things against abortion clinics There are some that would say that Timothy Mac Timothy McVeigh was motivated by some sort of perverted idea of what Christianity was about when he um Uh set off a huge bomb killing hundreds in Waco, Texas. Are you kidding me? Got my blood boiling, now the show's gotta end. That's a good way to end the show, right? Well my blood boiling. Anyway, we're online at WFMD. com. Keyword Faith. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putman, Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? We survived this show. Again, I apologize that you didn't hear the show that we intended to hear for you today, but we we make good use of our time, hopefully. Next week, unless we lose some bizarre you know bizarrely lose some audio again, we should have a panel discussion show ready for you next week and I'm sure you're gonna enjoy it. Uh we enjoy doing them, that's for sure. Thanks so much. Till one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from now. God bless.