Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. Faith Debate is brought to us by All Shred Mobile Document Destruction, the day sells security. All shred shredding today for growth tomorrow. Shreddered Faith Debate is designed to be an open and honest forum for our local faith community leaders to share and discuss their views. of the truth. Thomas Jefferson once said the clash of ideas is the sound of freedom. And in that spirit, we seriously wrestle with important ideas, possibly even disagreeing with one another along the way. The hope is that through our wrestling, you'll develop a better understanding of the truth. truth about the most important issues that face us in this world. This week we've given it some time to to stew on, didn't want to be reactionary, wanted to really think about this uh uh uh a and not just be knee-jerk like a lot of people were. Shavo case uh in Tampa, Florida, the feeding tube. I know you heard about it. Uh lots of controversy. Should they remove the feeding tube? Shouldn't they have? Should it be the husband's role to make that decision? Should it be the parents' role? All of those sorts of things We're going to talk about that today. And on our panel to talk about that are John Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel, uh Jim Eaton, the pastor of Mosaic Church, a uh new church in uh the area is just getting started, and Pastor Bob Lehman From Bethel Lutheran Church. Uh in Frederick, thank you all for being on the show. So in case there is somebody who's been in a cave for the last six months and didn't hear. Uh I'm going to recap some of the the important things to know as we get into this discussion. Terry Chavo, um 10, 15 years ago, whatever it was, uh, had something happen to her that caused her to go into a a vegetative state There's some debate over what caused all of that. We're not going to get into that. The point is that for many, many years, she has been hospitalized with uh uh little or no hope of uh of a full recovery uh to say the very least. It uh lots of legal wrangling. Her husband decided that uh enough was enough and that uh Um in his mind she should be put out of her misery and that life support should be eliminated and that in the context of life support they included a feeding tube. Um Terry's family, her parents and brothers and sister and Um they disagreed with the husband saying that he had some ulterior motive and that Terry wouldn't want to die, that Terry would want to live, and that the feeding tube wasn't life support. It was uh just a necessary requirement for uh staying alive than anybody would share. So that's kind of the the gist of it. And there were people on both sides. Those who would call themselves conservative Republicans, most of them I think, that I know about in the news were s were were in support of Terry Scheivo's family. Uh but not all of them were. And most of the the liberals, the Democrats uh out there were uh were on the husband side. But not all of them. This was a bipartisan split out there. So it's a difficult issue. Uh and I think it's a difficult issue because it's not a political issue. It's a moral issue. And so who better to talk about moral issues than uh the local pastorate? I'm not sure who wants to answer this question first. We'll see who puts their hand up first. But the question is Was it wrong for the feeding tube to be removed from a moral s sense? What does the Bible tell us about such things? And Everybody's kind of looking at each other, nobody wants to make eye contact. Who wants to try to answer that question? Is it right or wrong? All at once. Um spitzer goes first. Uh I'm gonna say that it was wrong only because the feeding tube was a repres is a representation of what you and I would do when we sit down to eat. And it's not um life support, it's simply uh regular living. You have to be fed and Um I so so I would say that that from the broadest standpoint, recognizing that there are many complexities about this particular issue, you know, um I'd simply say to start out that I think that it was wrong. and that a feeding tube, um, like like the Pope for that matter, should not be considered to be life support and should be considered a right that we all have to food and water. Jim Beaton, what do you think? I think uh for the most part I would agree with that. I think that obviously there were debates on what was her true state. Was it the vegetative state or was it something that she could eventually eventually pull out of? But uh I think that And I'm not minimizing there are a lot of complexities to it. But I think that at the heart of it there was a person who was living and being sustained. hydration and food through the feeding tube. So I think that in that case it would have been better to just keep that going as opposed to removing it and letting her die. Bob Lehman? Yeah. Um I would disagree probably uh a little bit with uh both of uh my colleagues here is that um uh a feeding tube uh like other kinds of uh becomes life support. Um yes the food and the hydration come uh by a different means Um but it is uh uh something that is ordered by a doctor. Um it is something that comes along with uh other obligations and uh uh some necessary uh expertise in terms of giving the hydration and also giving uh the food for uh people who uh um for whatever uh means, whether it be short term or long term, uh come to need uh what has been called commonly a feeding tube. Okay. This will be an interesting show because I'm I I I have a fear I have a fear that uh that Bob is gonna end up feeling ganged up on. I sort of thought about that. I was thinking about that earlier this afternoon. Um I can also speak from a from uh from a personal experience is that that my son has a a gastrostomy too And um it is required for him to uh either uh for uh whole or in part of his nutrition. And um It's a medical procedure. A surgeon placed the gastrostomy tube so that he no longer needed an NG tube that is placed also by a doctor or nurse into the stomach Um he has a prescribed formula that he receives. Um so uh um it is uh a a medical technique, uh one um Amidst many that are necessary for different people to have uh But is your son on life support, in your opinion? It is required to support his life. He would not receive enough calories if he didn't have the gastrostomy tube. Right. For me, I I wanna one thing I want to say 'cause both John and uh Jim said that uh it was a you know complex issue with lots of complexities and it's really difficult 'cause it's so complex with these complexities. You know Maybe I'm the dense one. I don't I don't see it as a complex issue for me, and that's why I said you're gonna feel like you're ganged up on it, because I would side more with uh with with um John and Jim. However, I'm gonna be probably less Uh strident. No, I'm gonna probably well I was gonna say it's the opposite. Um I don't see it as a complex issue at all. I think it's clear cut She was alive and the only reason that she died is we stopped feeding her. If they stopped feeding any of us We're gonna stop dying. And this is gonna sound really dramatic. We would die, yeah. I don't see a whole lot of difference between what happened to Terry Chiago uh between doing that And putting a pillow over her face. Or pulling a bullet in her brain. Or you know in fact I think putting a bullet in her brain would have been more merciful than starving her to death. Can I ask a quick question before we I see it as more of a black and white? Before we go there. Um because I think Jim and I answered the question whether or not it was right. Um and I think you disagreed with some of the definitions that we had, but your first question, I guess I'd like to hear Bob your answer to that. Can I Is that what Well the first question was it was it wrong to pull the feeding tube? Yes. Was it wrong? See that that one one of the things that also as I I I talked with uh Troy about this earlier through email to correspondences. Um I don't know all the facts along with what the going along with the share shy the complexity, then I don't know all the facts. Sorry. There's those complexities. um a lot of the uh personal issues, uh the family dynamics, the family systems of these uh relatives had uh where they both saw that they were trying to have the best interest for Terry Shaivo, uh came into complex conflict. Um and um we don't know where where the truth lies in all of this. One of the things that I think all of us as pastors have had to deal with um are people who have been on various kinds of life support um whether it's on uh respirator, uh whether it is um on the feeding tube, um determining where life begins, or excuse me, where life ends and life remains. Um We don't have enough information. No, I not at all. And we can all respectfully uh disagree. And by the way, I think we said this in a recent show. I think maybe it might Bear repeating again. As it turns out, we don't always have panels where everybody in the room is a Christian. But in this case, everybody in the room is a Christian. And there are some issues on which Christians can disagree and remain Christian brothers and sisters if we had a sister in the room, uh, and respectfully disagree. And continue to be Christians and love each other and say, well, you know, I don't agree with you on that, but still maintain a healthy Christian relationship. This is one of those times. That said Well I think Jim's like Yeah, let me let me let me well let me just jump in on what because I do come down on one side of the issue, but I do see some Uh some some complexities, yes, some issues that that t that muddy the water so to speak. And one of those as Bob mentioned was the the estrangement with the family. Another was it was protracted. I mean if you read the the account, the timeline of it It started back in nineteen ninety with her uh the d the the illness, the uh when when she went in that direction and then there were these court battles back and forth, back and forth and remove it and put it back in, remove it, put it back in. There was the husband and then there was the parents and and the husband had a girlfriend at a certain point and children through that. And Uh and then there was the the question of is she really in that vegetative state or is it something that she could possibly pull out of and there were debates on both sides from the medicine question. Problems to discern it, yeah. Exactly. So I do look at it as something that um is a very thorny or difficult issue, less clear cut than there are other than other issues that that play out in the media or that people wrangle on crossfire or whatever. This one I did see as having some merit to to both sides. Yeah I I'm uh my concern is is our willingness to surrender ground here. Uh Dr. Kovorkian uh is in jail for basically doing for others what our government decided was okay to do to to Terry in this particular case. Somebody who said they w who who is claimed to have said that they wanted to die was allowed to die. Dr. Kavorkian had people who literally told him they wanted to die and he helped them to die. And he's in jail for it. What makes this different than that? Well I think first of all you're you're saying it yourself. First of all there's I think there's a a strong line between that uh which is defined as physician assisted suicide and um the other is is withholding uh medical treatment. Um and to broaden it into this most general sense is that uh there are hospice There are hospitals, there are emergency rooms throughout the state, throughout the United States, throughout the world where hundreds of thousands of families make the decision each and every day as to what merits uh the amount of treatment is necessary for this person to to survive. Mm-hmm. I think that there's a difference though If you force someone's lungs to pump in and out, and you force someone's heart to beat, and you force them to stay alive when they would otherwise die if left to their own That's different than forcing someone to die by removing one of the three one of the three basic things they need to survive. You've got to have air You've got to have water, you've got to have food. And if you force those things out of the picture, any one of us would die on that scenario. Okay, so let me just pin you down on that. Okay. A respirator is not considered uh in in from what you're saying you don't consider a respirator life support? No, I'm saying that I think that a lot I think a respirator is licensed for because that's forcing that's forcing someone to breathe who wouldn't breathe on their own. But I'm I'm trying to I'm trying to what I'm saying. Okay, but I'm gonna pin you down again. Okay. Sorry If respirator is is life support because it it forces you to get something that you can't do on your own, how is that different from a feeding tube? Because she couldn't do either water or food on our own. We were we were definitely uh a feeding tube definitely forces something that the person can't do on their own. How's that different from a respirator? No. Well, I'm trying to, and I I guess you're not going to love me. I'm trying to concede a point and uh and be friendlier to to those who would disagree with me. Okay. I would personally I wouldn't pull the plug on my wife's respirator. I wouldn't pull the plug on anybody's respirator, personally. But I s but th for those who have had to deal with that very difficult situation I can understand that much more than I can understand removing food. I have a I have a a disabled uh child in my family as well. And for the first two years You know, the only way he ate was that we forced it on him. Uh and eating has continued to be an issue for him for many years. So was he on life support because we were f forcing food down his throat? And is any infant separate uh different from that? Yeah, you they can't feed themselves, they're totally dependent on us for everything. So I again I get back to I'm gonna ask the qu how is this complicated? How is this complicated? She was alive and now she's dead because she wasn't allowed to eat I would say I would say it was complicated in that there were a number of different extenuating circumstances in this particular case. But we're going to be able to do that. When I say it's complicated, I'm saying it l as as for example, as it was playing out in the news, my wife and I would often sit there and say, Wow That that is really a mess. What a tragic circumstance everyone is in and you see the legal wrangling and and the protraction over years and years. I still come down uh firmly in my own conscience and in my own mind on the side that I think the feeding tube and so forth. I don't mean to be saying I'm kind of going back and forth over the fence But I am saying that there are some issues where as I look at it personally, I can say, all right, I can see a lot of reasons why someone maybe even People in one family or people in one church or f house of faith, community of faith, might be on different sides of a particular issue because of certain Extenuating circum that's all I'm trying to say. I and I will agree with a mess. I will concede that it's an absolute mess. But when you you step well, we make a mess of everything. When you stip step away from the mass and figure out what is the right thing and the wrong thing to do, I think it becomes clearer. And maybe I'm missing something. I I've got three seminary-trained pastors and we have this question. Where you know, what does the Bible when does the Bible tell us it's okay to not feed somebody and to or when is it okay for somebody to allow the f That's the other issue we're not even getting to yet is, you know, Terry wouldn't want to live like this. Terry wanted to die. You know, she wouldn't want to she said she'd want to When is it okay to let somebody Because they don't want to live anymore, die. When is that okay? I got in it into a discussion with some uh college kids recently about this issue and uh all of them Christians they came down on the side, look if that was me, I'd rather die. And and I had to ask the question whether or not that came anywhere from in Scripture. Could they point to me somewhere in Scripture where if you're suffering or if your life is like Terry's, that we can say quality of life isn't what it should be, let's let 'em go. And they couldn't point to any scripture for me and so I had to ask the question, isn't that more of a Marxist mentality that that So that starts to grapple with, well, if your life isn't good enough, then somehow you're less than good enough. The poor's the if you're poor your life isn't as good as the rich. You know, so therefore, you know, we need to do things economically around the world. It seems to me that the that the question quality of life, whether or not the life is is qualitative enough to to be living cannot be uh cannot be tied together with scripture. You cannot um say anywhere in scripture that that the person is worth dying because that unless it's I guess they're so sinful. I mean that's the situation is when they're so sinful that God Himself says, Okay, your quality of life is no longer worth living. Um I want to give uh Jim and Bob a chance to to to respond to that, but I want to reset the show a little bit and I'm gonna try to talk less in the last half. I'm talking a lot more than I usually do on this show. Uh you're listening to the Frederick Face Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, host and moderator and uh and apparently uh of opinion opinionated person today as well. And on the panel, uh today Jonathan Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel, um Bob Lehman from Bethel Lutheran Church, and Jim Eaton from Mosaic Church. We're talking about the uh the issues revolving around the Terry Schiavo case. And uh the question that John was just addressing was where does the Bible tell us uh and if you know in what circumstances, if it does tell us, is it okay to let someone die or um that sort of issue and I don't know if you have an answer to it, Bob. I don't think that's it. I think it only creates a little bit more ambiguity with the question um in terms of does the Bible say that they should withhold food for this woman? Um it seemed as though from again from uh a thousand miles north of where the situation was going on and it being filtered through a number of different media sources, it's hard to tell. We first of all hear from uh the husband who was supposed to have been in relationship with this woman who uh reports that uh this was her wishes that she uh did not want to live this way that in her mind, as reported by her husband, this was not the kind of quality of life um that she had requested. Um And with that, you know, the the husband was trying to honor the wishes of uh of the wife and that um For life deceased, it was was a part of withholding the medical treatment that was necessary for her to continue in the state that she was. Jib, do you have any scripture for us? I mean I don't think it's a good thing. Well I was thinking generally the the the way you want to approach something like this is when you're when you're coming to the scripture, find out if there are there any big picture principles that are at work and then you proceed from that to does it does it narrow the parameter, does it come down into a more uh specific suggestion or command or example or pattern? So I can think of different scriptural patterns or principles that would put me in a certain direction. For example, the uh the priority of life, um how God ordains life. It isn't something that just comes about. For example, in Psalm 139, it says that a person is woven in the mother's womb, like a like a like a tapestry woven that way by God. So before the person even comes into the world God is at work and the life is valuable. One of the prophets, Jeremiah, was spoken to by God and he said, Before I formed you in the womb, I knew you. So he had already begun to design Jeremiah's personality, his characteristics, physical, emotional, otherwise before he began to craft him in the womb. So these are things that principles that portray God's value of life, then In contrast, there are some clear prohibitions about taking life, for example, in Genesis chapter 9 or uh in the in the Ten Commandments, for example, and that's been repeated throughout the New Testament. So for both uh Old and New Testaments, there were clear commands regarding the taking of life and then in the Old Testament Decalogue and in the Old the Law there were more specific laws about all right if it's this kind of a circumstance or this type of circumstance here's the the punishment. So on those broad principles it's clear. I think what makes it difficult right now is that we have a society where the technological advances keep getting higher and higher or more and more complex so that a person one or two generations ago would simply have been in their home and they would have just died a natural death. Uh speaking personally, my uncle just passed away a few weeks ago. ago of cancer and he opted not to go through any of the procedures. He wanted the hospice care, he wanted to simply uh pass away with his family But with the medical procedures we have now, life can be protracted. So that's where I think sometimes the the debate comes into play as to at what point is that going beyond the normal expirational. And that's the point I was making before in in talking about respirators and other things is there are some things now that do make it feel more complicated than complex and I feel for people that have to deal with but in this case, and that's why I like this case as a test case, it's not as complicated as that. Because it's there's nothing really super advanced medically about feeding somebody. We've been figuring out ways to feed people for a long time. So it's not the technical technological advancements that kept her alive. Yes, it was. I mean, f this person would not be able to eat if it were not for the technological advancements of medicine to uh give her feed feed her through a tube in her stomach. If if that were not a technology available, whatever had happened ten or fifteen years ago in her life, her life would have ceased by that point in time because of her lack of nourishment. They were able to continue on her uh she was able to continue on her life through use of this means. Um also it goes back again is uh what was as reported were her wishes that this for her, again defining was not a quality of life. And as the husband of the of uh Ms. Shaivo, that was uh the wishes that he was trying to uh continue on. Was her wish a sinful wish? We're all sinful people and you talk about uh it was a wish. We don't know. That that we don't know. But I mean we're all sinful people. We all sh fall short of God's grace. Um the other thing you talk about quality of life Uh the only quality of life issue that God ever talked about that we would have suffering. So if you want to talk about the suffering quality of life, uh that's probably the the most uh uh clear-cut uh quality of life issue that uh that uh both the prophets and Jesus Christ uh uh asked us to share with one another. In fact, it's that specific issue that I think is is so applicable in this situation because we're we're so quick to judge quality of life as to whether or not there is any suffering. that I and I sorry to say it, but I think the Pope is right in using the last eight years of his life as he's going through the Parkinson's and all these things to show that that we shouldn't be complaining, we shouldn't be discontent, but but that God Himself can use our suffering in a redemptive way in the people around us as they go through it with us, as they walk through it with us. that it has value in bringing uh other people into a greater place of sympathizing with those that don't have lives as, you know, two car garage, you know, with uh with health care provided by your, you know, uh company in 401k. I mean, if if we don't have all those things, then does all of India have have too low uh quality of life that we should wipe them out in in in so it's those questions I think that that are most important in this kind of a scenario. I'm gonna let uh Jim Eaton have the final word in this uh in this segment and we haven't Exhausted it, so we might pick it up and uh and do a part two next week uh on some of this stuff. By no means a final word, but but I did some research uh coming into this show and I was very interested to find out some of the the groups and the people who were coming down on the side of of the compassion or uh let her life go on. One of course was Pope John Paul II, who had a very interesting speech uh only a month before he passed away Um Jesse Jackson came in on the side which seemed very odd to be on normally he's more on the left politically. He came in on the side of extenuating her life. And there are a number of issues. There's a fascinating center called the uh Center for Bioethics and Human Dignity, which is arguing that we may be drifting as a culture to a more callous view of life and that's I think a bigger issue that needs to be debated. Yeah and I think that's probably the issue I've been arguing. I haven't been saying it very cleanly, but I think that's maybe we'll get more clean and and uh and and If you guys are willing to talk about this uh again next week, I'd appreciate it. You've been listening to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio nine thirty WFMD. Our uh panelists this week, Bob Lehman from Bathell Lutheran Church, Jim Eaton uh from Mosaic Church, and John Sweitzer from Broncos Valley Chapel, and uh I am Troy Skinner with uh WFMD. Thank you so much for listening. If you'd like to hear us talk about something that If you haven't heard us talk about yet on this show, please email me at Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. Thanks for listening, and we'll uh talk with you again next week. Douglas.