Broadcasting from the police state that is Frederick. City in the gridlock that is Frederick County, just outside the capital of the former Republic of the United States of America, this is the Frederick Faith Debate. Sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating, How Can We Make You Smile? Say hello to Patrick and Marlena Putman when you give them a buzz if you would. You can find us online, the faith debate that is at WFMD. com keyword faith. There you'll find all sorts of religious links, including links to podcasts. previous Faith Debate shows. You also find the Faith Debate blog on the right hand side of the page and I call it the Faith Debate blog. It's not my blog. Well it kind of is my blog, but my blog is your blog. So email me Troy Skinner at clearchannel. com And what you send me, I copy and paste it right onto the webpage. Pretty much whatever you send me. Doesn't even have to be about religion, okay? Nice uh fresh blog postings go up there every day. Nine of them. You can count them every week, Monday through Friday And some of the stuff you send me is actually pretty darn good. I'd say more than half of it's reasonably interesting and and worth checking out. So even if you don't send me anything, you can go there. Wfmd. com Keyword Faith and see what everybody is sending me. All right. So can I ask a question? By the way, on the show today, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor Cross of Tali Chap, who cannot wait to ask a question. That's the other person. And the uh pastor at uh Covenant Family in downtown Frederick. is uh Neil uh Champong and we're talking about uh uh the church reaching the kids. Okay, but before you go there and now he has a question. You're opening up the show with all this politics. Yeah. Is that faith debate stuff? Sure. How's that faith debate stuff? Whether or not we're a police state and whether or not it's a former Republic of the United States. So all that stuff before that. What that's just like free commentary by Troy Scanny. Exactly. So I gotta f I gotta muscle my way in here and Put out my views out there. So we're talking about uh kids. Okay, kids. Right? And and and how how the church should go about trying to reach kids. And uh the setup on this, I think it's gonna be important to to to revisit part of the setup. Neil's church, about more than two-thirds of of of your church is kids. Sixty plus kids out of an eighty-something member church, right? We have the adults about a hundred. Well we have about sixty-eight kids. Sixty eight kids. He has a very, very high percentage of kids, and so he's had to think about this as a pastor, like, okay, well, I got a lot of kids, I gotta think about having a ministry approach to How do I reach these kids? How do I impact their lives? And we were talking last week, Neil's thinking in terms beyond just reaching the kids and impacting their lives in isolation, but how do I impact these families And get these families into a situation where they're under the covering of believing parents. That would be the ideal, right? And Jonathan took some issue with some of the angles at which we approached that. Uh the big picture end of the line stuff, he agrees. He just he just wasn't liking the way primarily I was parsing things. That's always the issue with us. That's where we left off. And so I don't forget, you said something intriguing last week, Neil, and I wanted to to to run with it a little bit. You talked about the dynamic of parents maybe worshiping in different places from their children. Now part of that could be they're not worshiping at all and they're sending their kids to church to worship. That's one thing. Or the neighbors grab the kids next door because they know their parents aren't going to church or whatever. Or you have a mom and a dad Uh where the mom brings the kids to church or the dad brings the uh kids to church, that's less likely. It's more often it's the mom that brings the kids to church, right? In my experience. Or you might have the mom bringing the kids to church, but the dad's going to a different church. Yeah. Or I guess it happens. Yeah, in fact I know of a situation right off the top of my head right now where a situation where the kids go to one church and the mother and father go to a completely different church. I remember there was a parent who comes to our church but then takes the kids to another church. And then the whole idea so one day I asked Them I said, why would you take the kids to the other church and you come here? Oh, we love the way you preach and teach, but um Uh there's not that strong uh kind of ministry for the youth around here. I said, because we are approaching it differently from the way you think. Yeah. I said we're not doing something that is focused on a bunch of programs. We are focusing on how to impact that life uh that child's future. Right. Let me read a scripture. Last week you did a lot of talking about mentoring, you know, with career stuff and how to talk, how to think that kind of thing Uh what percentage of of what you're describing in terms of youth ministry is is uh having to do with them learning the Bible? in prayer and that sort of thing? Um we we have we have a separate class whilst on Sundays for them. Yeah. Whilst I'm preaching in the main adult service, there are a couple of times they have to sit in the adult service. Yeah. And when and they're present Um and I notice that their teachers and all that they're present. My message is made in such a way that they will have to understand it. I have to come down to their level. But then every Sunday morning they have a series of lessons that they also go through. So they have a Sunday school class outside of Sunday. uh the options of studying the word of God. One of the things we talked about doing uh race uncle which we haven't done yet is to start um a small group ministry. uh for them and the focus is on the very issues that they're grappling with. Might not be the same for every kid. And so tail us your wear spheres. And then when we look through those documents and find okay, these are the fierce and they all look the same and these are the kids that are represented, we can put them into one group. And then I would design a lesson specifically for that. I don't just design lessons and say, just lesson. I always want to hear them. What do you have? What are you struggling with? What are the things that you're dealing with? And then I have to painfully sit down through nights and study God's word and restructure something to answer those questions and deal with it. Because the church is not able to reach them because we don't have Uh we don't we don't carry relevant messages to them. Sometimes we we read the scriptures but they're not relevant to them. But first, uh Jonathan, unless there's been a change, I know that at least once upon a time, and perhaps it's still the case, you don't have you don't have a separate uh s worship service or Sunday school going on for the kids while you're preaching and while you're having the the the congregational gathering for for worship time. Uh is that just a practical thing or is that a spiritual decision that you you and your leadership have decided, you know what? No, we're I can appreciate where Neil's coming from with his church, but we've decided to go in a different direction, and here's why. I'm just uh Yeah, I've uh you know, I grew up in the church service. I didn't grow up going to a separate uh youth church service at the same time. I grew up, you know, uh with the opportunity to hear what the adults were hearing and to to uh was was you know expected to to sit in with the adults and to to grow into my understanding of what it what it was that they were teaching as opposed to teaching, you know, at at a quote unquote different level. And so from, you know, nine years of age on, we have 'em in the church service. We do do once a month now that is a uh is a kids service where where we go after some issues that are unique uh to young people. But our our primary emphasis is that they would be hearing what we're hearing because it's the gospel And uh if you know, if they can't understand it then then how is it that adults are gonna understand it necessarily? But the eight year olds and younger are not necessarily in the worship service? The eight-year-olds and younger are not in the worship service. We provide a weekly ministry for them. And it's like a Sunday school kind of a thing, sort of It's a teaching time. So there's some similarity there. What's the cutoff for you? How old do the kids break off and do the nine. Oh, so it's basically it's the same. Nine. Oh no, we're talking about the age break. Fifty percent of them are under the age of nine, fifty percent of them are over. No. About seventy percent of them are below nine. Uh-huh. And then the other uh thirty are above nine. Oh interesting. So uh when I talk about rich in them it's like Sure. My approach has to be two ways because I'm dealing with the much smaller ones who sometimes have very less attention span and then the others who can grab. Sometimes we watch movies with them. Sure. And uh we spend like a whole night so let's do a lock lock out. Lock in, yeah. And then we we're all sleeping in church and we're watching movies and I'm there with my wife, with other youth leaders and We watch the movies and we sit down and then we discuss the movies and we ask questions. And I remember one time a young guy asked me, Pastor, what's wrong with having tattoos? Having having what? Tattoos. Tattoos, yeah. it. So I asked the journeyman, I said, what is really right about tattoos? And uh for a few minutes he could not answer me. I said, listen In life, you must always approach things from two directions. And Jesus makes it very clear to us when he says in John 14, 6, I am the way, the truth, the life. What he says is that absolute things are with him and truth cannot be relative. It has to be absolute. So for example, you sit in a car and you come to a stop. And then there there's traffic light. All of a sudden you find that your car is moving. Now how do you tell if you are really moving and it's not some other objects moving? You look at a stationary thing. So the scriptures is the stationary objects by which we measure ourselves whether we are moving or we are at the picture. Um, you do all these things and most of the time the purpose is just because you want to look cool and you wanna be accepted and you wanna be part of. But is that the most important thing in life? Yeah, I'm wondering, it's it is it's just a bizarre coincidence or is there something about, you know, somebody who's in fourth grade, you know, a nine year old? 'Cause you both ended up making that the the point. Why not seven years old? Why not twelve years old? Like what happens when they're around third, fourth, fifth third? What what happens at nine years of age that you say, okay, now you're old enough and can understand enough that wasn't true six months or a year earlier. I mean is there anything is just it feels right or is there is there scriptural Lesson that I that I'm not aware of or it's just a coincidence you guys picked that number. Yeah, I think there's something there. I don't know that I could give language to it. And I don't think it's a uh like a a delineated biblical principle. Yeah. But I do feel like that that kids under that age, you know, eight years old, they're they're just a little bit more fooling around and not quite, you know, getting some of the deeper issues and after that there's a a a little bit more of a settledness in their soul that, you know, you can deal with They can sit in a in a church service, you know, they can take notes, they can listen. So I don't know. And I think that's isn't that around the same age that the Roman Catholics do first communion and all that? I think they do that around eleven twelve. So a couple years later. Yeah. But but I think it's all about what the parents do with their kids at home. For example, my my little boy to my oldest is five, right? He comes home with all his work from Sand is cool. And then my wife sits down right after service. As tired as we might be. She does it every Sunday. And then she says, what did you learn? What what is in here? And we go through the lesson with him. He tends to give better contributions because we're paying attention. The same way we would help a kid do his homework, we encourage all our Sunday school teachers to give their kids homework Hear that? Are we doing that? Are we f are we derelict? Are we following up on our kids' Sunday school lessons or Bible reading lessons or whatever they're doing and helping them and because we came in talking about youth ministry. But really what you're talking about is you're talking about parenting and specifically how to parent kids that maybe aren't your own kids, meaning how how do you help them to to grow up uh uh in maturity and responsibility and with a sense of hope for the future And at the root of that y is your word for mentoring is is discipleship. Yes. Which is which is the Bible's approach. You know, we're the family of God. And how is it that we get that we train up our children the way they should go? We disciple We we make disciples and you're just doing it with those that are there in front of you and saying, let's give these kids a future. Yeah. For those who are not in the church, what we do first of all is to have parental consent. Uh because um you can't and then we set boundaries. That for example, it cannot be a guy mentoring a girl to a girl and a guy to a guy. And um We th for example we have things like you cannot give a kid uh money more than fifty bucks without us being aware of it. If we found that out and you did not tell us, you're done. You cannot mentor the child. Because we want to put in guidelines to make sure that nobody is destroying the very efforts that we're trying to put in. And what's the very what's the risk on giving somebody sixty dollars? showing the kid that okay money is easy to come by. For all you know his parents or her parents don't have access to that kind of money. Gotcha. And so they go back home they think alright I got some fifty bucks, daddy doesn't have it And then they start math now. And so we want to be very cautious that when the money is given the kid with money. Yes. That whoever is mentoring is not manipulating the kid. And then whenever the money is given because we are aware We will give the money back to the parents and said this is the purpose for which it was given. Like anytime I go to um do a naming ceremony or some christening for for kit and people give money or something like that. I tell parents, when you have a second child, I am not coming in for this ceremony until I see that there is a five two nine. You did something with the first money. Because we have to It doesn't matter what we had. I grew up in a very poor home, but my determination is my kids are not gonna be like that. However, my kids can't have it on a silver platter. They need to work for something Right. I have a little piggy bang at home and um when all the toys are just everywhere I say guys anybody who picks it up gets a penny from daddy. I feel like this is a classic American story where immigrants come from another nation, wherever it is, and they they arrive here on the shores and you know and they're not all that well off. But they realize the opportunity that is here and and they're not going to let their kids end up the way that they were, so there's a strong work ethic, there's a sense of of clarity. mental clarity about what are the principles of righteousness and what w what is all the other stuff that will undermine my kid's success and and in the intensity of that moment what happens is a whole group of people goes from being you know just barely able to get by to stepping up and having a life you know that that is a part of the community. I mean if you're successful your kids are going to have a whole different issues to deal with than you ever had to deal with growing up in terms of temptations and that kind of thing. But what you're saying is that what makes all the difference is that our kids are trained up and trained up well with discipline with hard work. And uh the scripture I was going to read earlier, I think it's from the book of Mark 9. And um it's a story about that boy who was brought to Jesus. And I'm reading for the message translation. Uh from verse 19, Jesus said, What a generation, no sense of God. How many times do I have to go over these things? How much longer do I have to put up with this? Bring the boy here. They brought him and when the demon saw Jesus, it threw the boy. into seizure, causing him to wraith on the ground and foam at the mouth, he asked the boy's father, this is very important, how long has this been going on, ever since he was a boy? Meaning that the the parent knew. Well what's going on with his sh with his son. And has not known what to do for their child. And don't have what it takes to to deal with it and they're not looking for help. I like your approach to the first time. Don't have solution, look for somebody else who does. That's the voice of you. Neil at Champong, he's the pastor at Covenant Family Church in Frederick, Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, also In Frederick, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. So you're trying to impact these families. Uh you're trying to set up a a uh uh help to set up a proper family structure so that the church is not replacing the family so that the mentor is not replacing the father or the mother. So what are some guidelines that you guys in both of your churches have have given to mentors or that you as pastors have thought about as you're dealing with children that don't have parents that are involved in your church? So we're talking about boundaries and how five years ago. far can the approach go? What what we do is um what's what what are the limiting factors but also where are the places we could we should reach for the reach for the stars. The boundaries are not easy to set. And so if you're gonna mentor a child in um in every area of life it's not gonna be very easy. 'Cause um people are not masters of everything. And especially if you're dealing with somebody else's kids, you want to be very careful that you're not deviling an area that you're not supposed to be. So what we do is we take it over a period of time and say, We're going to mentor the kids in these areas. And then whilst those things are going on. And you define that based on each individual kid and what you think their needs might be. Yes. Well, yes and no. I mean, there's the broad area. We're going to mentor them in scripture. We're going to teach them the word of God and teach them how to live like Christ. Right, that's a pretty uh pretty biblically clearly defined. And you you've described a couple things where you're saying we're gonna teach them how to be uh how to speak better. We're gonna teach them how to how to think. Logically, we're gonna teach them how to um how to think about their career and where they're going to make decisions. So whatever a kid is doing is you're going to their mentors and your mentors are going to show them how to speak publicly. So that when they show up, they just going to um The assumption is that you've had a time with and practice it with your mentors. So I remember the boy who I was mentoring would say Oh, I'm gonna wing because Pastor is always speaking. I said no. There might be others who are not speaking all the time as I'm doing, but who might be better probably speakers then. than man. And we have that defined. But at the same time if the mentor finds out that the problem that the boy has has nothing to do with that at the time We do allow that we have to bring something up that is just suited for that individual because if you want to help somebody and you're teaching them with something they don't understand, it doesn't make sense. But we tend to define it so that within that time period we also having sessions with the mentors themselves, teaching them what to teach the kids Because we don't want them to just tell them the experiences. Sometimes your experiences are not good, but then how do you use your bad experiences or painful experiences to teach great lessons in the life of people? Um a typical example would be somebody has an issue. Um I love the way you think. Um somebody has an issue with um uh maybe he was sick. Right. Went back to the hospital, many things happened, came back to church. It's time to give testimony. I actually teach people how to give testimonies. Yeah, I mean. And I said Jesus did it very simply in the book of John chapter four, right? Who I used to be, what happened to me, and who is responsible for the change. Parent. And this is all that we want to tell people about. And I love the idea of the testimony thing because how often uh you know, n not all churches do, but a lot of churches will have uh inserts in their bulletins if there are church that has bulletins they hand out uh that have like the prayer requests on it. Right. People can write down a slip paper and s and s and and put it in the the offering plate or basket or whatever. They can hand it to their pastor or one of the leaders in the church and it gets added to the list. And the list of prayer requests is sometimes several dozen or you know multiple dozens long. Might be fifty or sixty prayer requests on there. But you don't hear the testimonies. And then the at the top is usually where they put the the praises. Mm-hmm. And there's like two. Yeah. You mean that those sixty prayer requests, none of them got answered? Well a lot of them got answered, but nobody thought to come back and let the church know and Praise God for answering our prayers. There's no testimony. If we are not out of time, let me say something about that because it's it's very important Um, we were trying to buy a video camera, professional one. And some other people asked me, Pastor, why are you buying the camera? I said it's not so that you can record my messages because I don't have a problem with identity. I said I don't need to be known by anybody. I said so that when you guys we because we actually have a live testimony service. I devote one Sunday. And it's all testimony. Whatever God has done for you, share it because it would amaze you how somebody is struggling with something. Yeah. And because of the testimony given by another person, that person has left that off. And then right at the end of it, I don't even preach. It's all the testimonies. And then we simply just pray for people and let them go. And we record these testimonies because some people would not be able to stand up. Because they are not public speakers. We will record their testimonies in the room and I'll play it. Um and then let it rest of the church watch it. Sure. Either way So for example you went down to FMH hospital, maybe in the labor ward, somebody's struggling, doctors are telling them, Oh, you know what, you can make it, it's over, this is done And then you just give them a DVD from somebody who went through a similar issue but made it. You see so the whole mindset that Christ has saved us to save others and in everything we do we need to think in terms of that. Yeah, I'm I'm finding little to argue with, so there's not a whole lot of debate taking place these last five, ten, fifteen minutes. So What could I say to offend you, Neil? In like ten seconds if you can, because we're running out of time. It will I would say we're by ourselves now. But I used to be on Assembly of God Pastor. Okay. But now I quit. Interesting. Okay. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Thank you, my friend. Good to be here. Neil Achampong, pastor at uh is it appropriate to call you senior pastor? What's your title there? Pastor. Just pastor. He he hasn't he doesn't have an identity issue. Like Jonathan does, senior pastor over here. And thank you for listening. Thank you to our sponsors. Actually, right now, one sponsor, Putman Plumbing Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile is their slogan. Check us out online, WFMD. com keyword faith. Uh I'm Troy Skinner. Thank you so much for listening. Until next week, God bless. Faith and hope. Words that walk hand in hand through the lives of everyone touched by breast cancer. Putman Plumbing honors the courageous battle being fought by the special women in your life by donating ten dollars from every October service call. Look for our technicians wearing pink bow ties. Putman plumbing dot com