Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Brought to us by Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? Welcome you again this week, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and we got a full slate of guests in the studio. Wow, I'm hearing all sorts of I hope that's not on the air. Hold on a second. Can you hear me? I hear you. Yeah. Hold on a second. Do me a favor. I love when we start the show so cleanly though. Would one of you guys grab that microphone for a second and and hold it and let go? Now let go. Fixed. That's amazing. Look at that. It's a magic trick. We'll be pulling rabbits out later on in the show. Anyway, Darrell Albright is on the show with uh with uh Jonathan Sweiss. Did I meant to introduce you yet Uh yes you did. Let's start over again. I'm Troy Skinner, your host and moderator. Uh Darrell Albright is uh owner, co-owner, uh whatever the the right Titling so the whole family is running the show there, right? But you're the guy. You're the guy. Owner at uh Frederick Mr. Reuter. And uh Jeff Long is Are you owner? No, I'm a branch sales manager. Branch sales manager. More important than the owner, I'm sure. Yes. Uh he is with um let me get this right. Barnett Pro Contractor Supply. That's correct. Barnett wholesale for short? Uh yes. Or or BPCS for short. There you go. Alright, I'll give you some marketing advice later on how to fix that name. Anyway, if you've listened to this radio station uh uh regularly and you listen to the early part of this year, then in January th into February you heard a big promotion that WFMD was doing, uh giving away a hot water heater And I'm going to give you a little bit of the background and then I'm going to let Daryl uh Albright from Frederick Mr. Reuter kind of fill in some of the gaps. But generally what happened is back in uh it was sometime in December, I believe, uh Daryl gives me a call and says, Hey We've had a good year. God's been good to us. We've been blessed. I don't know if he said these words exactly, but the gist of it was we've been blessed and we're feeling like we we should give back. Yeah, a lot of people aren't in the situation that we are, a lot of people don't have jobs, you know, they're having a hard time paying their mortgage or you know buying groceries or whatever And uh not having hot water in the middle of winter is a tough thing and we'd like to get the work out somehow so we can find somebody who's needy, uh th that needs a hot water heater but can't afford to get one, and we're just gonna give them one Can you help me like put a public service announcement on the air or something like that? Well that evolved into the hot water heater contest. It was like heck if we're going to give a water heater away, let's make it a contest. Uh and had a whole bunch of people that um that signed up on the website and the most compelling story of those uh was uh the county school system and not a family. Um now On the heels of that, Daryl and his company ended up giving a water here to a family as well. But that's kind of the ballpark. So why don't you fill in the gaps of of what I left out and talk about maybe what happened with the school and why you chose them so people get a context of what's going on. Because from there we're going to get into this show on the whys, the motivations what the Christian responsibilities are in these areas. For the record, everybody in the studio today uh is a professing Christian, so that'll be the perspective that we're bringing. Uh that being the case, I'll find some way, I'm sure, to sharpen up my my uh pins and needles and poke holes and balloons if possible, because that makes the show fun. But Uh the devil's advocate. So anyway, talk about your your choice of the school, why you chose them and that sort of thing. Well, we chose the school because we thought that was going to be a broader range of helping the community. As far as we felt like we could help the students out of the school, help their families, and educate the students at the school. Um, we all know that tradespeople are hard to find And we wanted to do our part to try to pique some students' interest and stay in the plumbing field. I just read a story actually this week, I forget where now. Talking about that problem, we've uh over the last number of really the last generation and a half, there's been such a focus on college degrees. Gotta go to college. All this and you celebrate the fact that, you know, first one in the family to go to college, finish college, get a college degree, gotta go to college. Can't get a good job without going to college. But what's happened because of all that is these trade jobs have gotten lost. And nobody's 'cause you don't go to college per se, I mean you can go to college and become a plumber, but you don't go to college to become a plumber. Right. So you have, you know, plumbers, electricians, carpenters, you know, those sorts of jobs it uh there's like a a gap. There there aren't as many of them as there need to be. There certainly aren't as many good ones as there should be. And so Darrell I think felt his heart was pulled in that direction. But then I don't want to put words in your mouth, but you felt like, okay, we did the contest, we're happy to help the school and those kids. Correct. And you're volunteering time, I think, to help the kids learn and all that sort of stuff. We're going back to the we're gonna go to the school and um do a class one day. show 'em some of the new products that are out there, the new technology. But that's not the original idea. The original idea was to help a family. Y right. The original idea was to help a family and then the whole school perspective just i as soon as i seen it's kinda like I knew this is this is what I wanted to do. But you ended up picking up now yours is giving me the interference. Isn't that weird? No hit that hit that microphone again. That's bizarre. We're booby trapped in here. Too many of us. Too many in the room. You ended up picking a family anyway. Yeah, I'm not sure if we picked a family or if the family picked us. Um Yeah, we went there with w we thought was a simple routine service call and uh after meeting the lady and she started talking to us about her belief and uh church and and then I just felt this heavy need in my heart that I needed to help her. So uh picked up the phone and called Jeff and I said, Jeff, I need a hand here. Um I've got this lady that's got four children in the house and Uh her and her husband are struggling to make ends meet. They just moved here a year ago and took 'em eight, nine months to find a job. And they're in bad times right now and they they need a new water heater. Um, can you help me? Jeff said, Yeah, I c I believe we can help you. So we got the water heater, was able to go up and install it, and uh Just the satisfaction of knowing that they have hot water, which they didn't have because theirs was dying quickly. Mm-hmm. Um Good. So then uh Darrell let me know about um that scenario. I said, man, there's obviously I asked him what his motivation was and uh I I I've really respected your answer because it wasn't a cliched kind of trite stereotypical answer. It was Uh, I asked you whether or not, you know, 'cause I n knowing you, know that your your whole family is a uh b a family of believers, you're Christians. Yep. So I said, you know, you doing this because you're a Christian? And you said, Well I don't know if I'm doing it because I'm a Christian But basically, I mean what my Christianity teaches me, you know, puts me in a place where I want to do this sort of a thing So I thought, well that's a pretty cool answer. I kinda liked that. Wanted to explore it a little bit more. And before I I I beat that to death, I said, let's get you on the show. We'll talk about it on the show as opposed to talking about it now. uh when nobody else can hear. Excellent. And in the context of that conversation, Jeff's name came up and he said, Well if I'm going to come on the show, Jeff's coming on with me because Jeff, the theologian of the two of us Uh that might be putting a little bit of pressure on Jeff, but apparently you guys are talking about religious and theological things uh back and forth from time to time. So obviously it's something that motivates uh your worldview and and your actions in the world. So why don't we slide the mic over a little bit and put Jeff on the spot. We've got this this the the background on the story from the radio station's perspective and from Frederick Mr. Reuter's perspective. What about from your perspective? Uh well I would say, you know, Darrell and I um we we met a few months ago. Yeah. Um we we met a few a few months ago uh through another Mr. Reuter that's down in Baltimore and uh when I when I met him uh you know, uh fine guy starting at a company, hard working guy, and you know, we get to talking and you know, me as a wholesaler, you know, yeah, I'd like to sell your product, but you know, it it really developed into a friendship. So Um and of course when he came to me uh you know in reference, you know, to a to a person that that, you know, basically had a need Um of course as a you know as a Christian um you know there's there's a lot of needy people in this world and um you know I've I've tried to practice in my life, you know uh to give more than you receive, you know, and and I've always find out that, you know, God will bless you, you know, tenfold and um So putting that into practice and you know um you know fortunately um I do work for a large corporation and um you know I went to my boss and you know we got the approval to you know mark down a water heater. My actually Uh my boss is a Christian also, so it find it a good thing, you know, and I explained to him the story and everything. So my boss was all for it. Um so we got everything uh together. Um but you know, as you as you look into the Bible and you know you see in the Old Testament, you know, when when they plowed the fields, they were to leave the corners for the poor. And uh, you know, of course y you know, we'll always have the poor with us and there's always needs out there. And uh but, you know, it's really having, you know, individuals, because I believe that's what God works through, is, you know, individuals And, you know, uh each individual and each one of us as Christians, we're called to do certain things, you know, and it's but be a lighthouse in this world. And uh, you know, in any way or opportunity that you get that you should be able to do it. And um You know, I have found in my personal life um, you know, um I think a little outside of the box, you know. So I do some unorthodox things in my giving and different things and um, you know, um at the end of the day, um we'll we'll, you know, see when uh you know the rewards are handed out. But um you know as far as you know i you know Um basically, you know, uh what we do here on earth, you know, we'll we'll receive rewards in heaven for it. And uh, you know, we always gotta keep that in the back of your mind. And uh, you know, realize, you know, that there's there's an ultimate purpose for everything. And I think if you can be a blessing uh to a person and I'm sure, you know, this person that was without a water heater and You know, um I I mean look look at the day and age we're living in. I mean people lost their jobs and you know I'm I I'm probably four paychecks away from being in the same spot. So Now do we know if the family that was the recipient if they're uh a Christian family or not? Do you know? Uh I know the the lady of the house is. Um she expressed uh actually to dad. that her husband's not necessarily in the same place she is right now. Gotcha, okay um now do you think that uh do they have any sense that part of your motivation or maybe the prime motivator in all this was I hope they do, but I didn't I didn't tell them that. Um I I hope that in their hearts they know that. But we didn't say that. Sure. Okay. Well that's Daryl Albright, he's the owner of Frederick Eusker Ruder. Uh also heard the voice of Jeff Long, who's the um District, no. What do you get? Branch sales managed to barn up pro contractor supply. Jonathan Sweitzer, wow impressed. So patient and quiet over there. Having heard this story, uh before I ask you a specific question, a general reaction or do you not really have a general reaction when we ask you a specific question? Um my general reaction is just the emphasis on uh rewards that, you know, we have in the in in the center of of Christianity, in the center of of what Christ has done for us, this idea that that the eternal rewards are more important than uh the earthly rewards. And this is such a practical application of that that at the end of the day, you know, whether you get credit here now for doing it, in fact Uh that's that's precisely what uh what we're told is that if we get credit for it here, maybe we won't get credit for it there. So sorry you guys are gonna end up getting uh Too much credit here on the air today. It's gonna mess up the eternal side of that. But the reality is that that's you know, that that mentality uh in Christianity I think cannot be overstated. It's really a a powerful motivator, I think, for uh those that are Christian. What's the obligation here, Pastor? And you have somebody, let's say Daryl or Jeff are in your congregation and they come up to you and say, Hey, what's my responsibility as a business owner or as a a highly influential member of a of a big corporation? What's my responsibility to meet some of these needs of those who are at that at that point I'd go to Matthew twenty-five, I believe it is, that's dealing with the uh sheep and the goats. And uh Jesus talking about whenever you did it for the least of these, you did it for me. And then I'd probably go to the Old Testament dealing with uh the tithe, the full tithe. that was supposed to be brought in the storehouse was really about twenty-three percent, which which included, you know, your your tithe, uh your ten percent, but then also included extra that you gave both to the temple and to the poor. And then you talked about how you would leave behind uh for the poor to glean. You know, those are the passages that I think I would deal with in that context that talk about our responsibility to to not consume everything that we earn. That somehow uh that there should be a an overflow of what we earn that that there's an so much of an abundance that we're giving it away to other people. In fact it's not just that we give away the abundance. There seems to be a the sense that if we'll give away that extra and not consume everything, then God himself then will repay us. And that's that's a huge motivator. I just don't know how you can get past that. Now how often is it an issue I imagine it would be an issue from time to time. I'm not sure of how often it's been an issue in your church. where you've got somebody who's a plumber or a mechanic or an electrician or whatever and everybody in the congregation knows this is what they do So, hey Daryl, my sauce's leaky. Why don't you come over and fix it for me? And expecting that you're going to do it for free, because all your brothers in Christ. Yeah. How do you how do you address that? Well I've got a close friend who um who owns a company and uh he uh his experience is that his uh Christian friends are most inclined this a little bit negative story to uh to make him feel used in that sense. Like uh you know, they'll come to him expecting that he's gonna automatically cut them a deal And uh I don't know that that is necessarily you know, if if we're dealing with with just people that are working, working hard, you know, we need to pay whatever the going rate is and for that matter maybe even you know give him a little bit extra. You know the question is which Christian in that scenario is supposed to give more? Are you supposed to pay him extra because you know he's a plumber and he's a Christian, so I'm gonna give you a an extra tip on top of that or is he supposed to cut me a break? You know, I I I think that that whole scenario unfortunately leads to uh selfishness and I think uh the better way to think is not, okay, he's a Christian, he should help me, but I'm a Christian, how can I bless him? And I haven't heard the flip side put together before, but that's actually Pretty interesting. That's got me thinking now about if I'm doing business with a with somebody who I know to be a Christian, do I want to bless them as I pay them? That's a pretty cool concept. Pay them little extra. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. When it when you're dealing with people that are poor, that are you know, that are clearly like on the edge of survival you know, then in those scenarios, obviously the one that has the resources, you know, that's the one that that should be trying to get. But when you're dealing with people that are that are both hardworking, solid people, I I think everybody in the scenario needs to think of ways to bless. And if people are really in such desperate straits, there's kind of a system set up within the church through the deacons and that sort of thing, right? The Different churches might not call them deacons, but the the role of deacons to to make sure that the widows and the orphans are taking those who are needy have their needs met So should that be run through the church, you think? Or does it not half be run through the church? Well I think part of it is run through the church, uh depending on how uh extensive the need is, but oftentimes it's j you know just done where Christ said that y the left hand doesn't know what the right hand is doing. where people just see need and they meet it and y y you know, nobody ever knows, you know, what exactly happened because they're just taking care of it. Which is actually a big issue here in Frederick. The question is You know, how much do uh do we need to centralize all those services in Frederick and get it all done out of one place as opposed to it being decentralized, you know, where somebody like Daryl, somebody like Jeff just steps up and says, Hey, you know, we got a need here, let's go ahead and meet it, you know, and you just do it. You know, and you know, how many times has that happened, you know, across Frederick, you know, around the world for that matter, where people just step up and go for it? And we don't even know that it's happening. But that I think is what a truly Christian community is like. You don't even know who's doing what, but the whole community is stronger because everybody's doing stuff that And I hope that you're right that it's happening a heck of a lot more than we know. Because if that's not true, then it just strikes me as ironic. Here we are basically celebrating that somebody who professes to be a Christian behaved in a Christian way. Let's do a show about it. It's so rare. It just doesn't happen. We should talk about that. What motivated you and what And uh well I don't think this sh this show necessarily is the place to get into it, but it is the case that oftentimes conservatives uh uh are are accused of not wanting to to give uh and care for the poor because we don't support government programs in that direction. I think at the end of the day Uh it's people like what Jeff and uh Daryl are doing that uh that put the lie to that, that in fact um many conservatives arguing they just don't think the government needs to be in in the middle of all that. Well, if you can believe it, our time for this show is up. Bring it on. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Thank you again, my friend. Thank you. Darrell Albright, owner of Frederick Mr. Reuter. Thank you for being on the show. Thanks for having us. Uh I'm gonna screw this up again. Your title, Jeff Long, you are the uh Branch Sales Manager, Jeff Long at Barnhead Pro Contractor Supply. I'm Troy Skinner, encouraging you us to visit us online at wfmd. com, keywordface, where you'll find an almost daily blog update there. And you can uh find a connection to the audio vault and listen to this show and others even better than it uh through the podcast. Again, thanks to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing Heating. Help we make you smile. Until next week. God bless.