Welcome to Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator. Troy Skinner joined this week by Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Troy Wallace and what was that title now? The Good Looking Handsome That's right. Oh no, that wasn't it The assistant uh congregational leader at El Saddai Congregation and Director of Revive Israel North America and I kinda like the good looking, attractive, you know, easygoing whatever better. Um You're so visual today. While I have your attention, uh be sure to do that. Never has a show looked better. And so we are You know, the Troy uh show all the way around today. We'd make you an honorary Troy, but you're just not good looking enough, don't we? Yeah, I asked them all earlier w you know, if they knew any Helen You know, and neither one of them responded to that, so apparently it's a old joke that everybody says. Yeah, yeah. In grade school. Something like that. Well good, good to know. I I've been trying to reach that level in my lifetime. Anyway, we're going to be talking about uh uh messianic Jewish stuff in a moment. But before we get into all of that, I want to tell you uh some things have been going on in the world and my take on them. Uh-oh. First of all, what have I been reading? Jonathan asked me actually right before the show, I said, what have you been reading? I said, you'll find out. Supremacy of Christ in a postmodern world. Have you read that? No. Who's the by? It's uh edited by John Piper and Justin Taylor. It's a composite of a whole bunch of different stuff. That's always where he comes from. It's his background. It's good stuff. Yes, indeed. Um you would like it. I like Piper. It's not as good as reading books about uh the hundreds of the city. Calvinists when they get into apologetics are just the the most fun. I love them to death. Otherwise you can take them or leave 'em, but uh No, I even like like 'em when I disagree with 'em, but when they get in apologetics I I end up being on the same side, so All right. I'm mostly on the same side with them. So I want to remind you now, in case I forget to later, that you can visit us online at WFMD. com. We've had all sorts of issues with our podcasts. I don't know if they're going to get fixed or not. They might get fixed sometime this century They might never get fixed. There might be new technology that replaces computers. By the time that happens, I'm not sure if and when the podcast is sending emails to the administration here and they will fix it. Eventually. So it hasn't worked for me. That's true. I'm not important. That is true. Other things going on in the world. Uh recently, not too long ago, Rush Limbaugh got himself into a world of hurt. That's right. Sandra Fluck. Yeah, and I couldn't help myself but to to have a take on that. And I went to management, programming management and said, Hey, I've got this take. I think you should and so they they they heard me out And they actually made use of it. Yeah. And they played it on the internet. Which is good because we have people who listen to this on the internet, but the people that listen on the air never heard it. And so it's like a commentary on the Sandra Flood thing. And so I figured I would do you all the favor of giving you a chance to hear it. Yeah, and how long is this? So I don't know, seven or eight hours. So here it is. These are this is and it's gonna have the whole thing. So it has like me reintroducing who I am, which I'm all about that anyway. So here you go. I'm Troy Skinner, host of the Frederick Faith Debate on WFMD, with some thoughts for your consideration. Rush Limbaugh screwed up and he admits it. He called the woman names. While his first attempts at apology were somewhat weak and slow to come, he has since offered a lengthy and contrite on air apology, but the case will not close. Makes one wonder about the cultural forces at work here. Just like the rest of us, Rush Limbaugh is flawed. However, from his world of entertainment, he seeks to effect positive change through substantive dialogue. Many disagree with Russia's political analysis, but as Thomas Jefferson once said, the clash of ideas is the sound of freedom. So I ask, why are so many businesses scared off by the sound of freedom? Multiple national advertisers have fled from connecting with Rush Limbaugh's numerous and loyal listeners. Think of it, they're fleeing from a radio program that is undeniably pro-busin. Why? The reason they give is they want to avoid controversy. Avoid controversy? Cutting down trees is controversial, yet these same businesses that dropped Rush continued to advertise in newspapers and magazines People complain regularly about telemarketing and junk mail that they receive every day. Yet these businesses continue to advertise in those controversial ways. Did you know that there's a huge list of businesses who refuse to advertise on radio stations playing contemporary Christian music? Want to know why Too controversial. Singing about love and healthy relationships and praising the name of God, a God who the overwhelming majority of Americans claim to believe in, by the way, this is too controversial an environment for businesses to place their marketing messages Yet these same businesses will place their ads in an environment that sings the praises of violence, rampant sexuality, and disregard for both authority and good taste. Much of top 40 music objectifies and demeans women. Dare I say it wages a war on women, without offering any easy discern benefit to society Why is that not too controversial? Well it is too controversial to advertise within the context of people sharing passionate views about important things for the benefit of the current and future generations This is evidence that the business owners abandoning Rush didn't do so because they were offended. They fled out of fear. If the clash of ideas represents the sound of freedom, then what should we make of the sound of scurrying fearful feet? Freedom in this country was once under attack, but no more. There's no need for an attack when our society has surrendered. We've surrendered freedom to embrace fear. May God save America. Save us from ourselves. Ah, that's pretty good, right? You like that? Yeah, eliminated. That was dramatic And it was uh you you had logos, pathos, and ethos. I mean you were hitting it on a lot of things. No, a great speech is supposed to come from somebody that is considered credible Okay, so I'm saying that about you, sorry. Sorry. And uh and it's supposed to have passion, pathos. I think I had some of that. And you had the passion and it's supposed to have logos, the logic I felt like you really nailed it. All right, I appreciate that. What do you think, Troy? Good job, Troy. I appreciate that. One Troy to another. All right. So now, uh back to what we're here to talk about. I had to get that out there 'cause it's frustrating when I've got pathos and log offs and all that stuff going on. That you know the world doesn't get to us to hear it. Yeah. So we whether you agree or disagree, I'm not saying that that that that you have to agree with that. Right. But put that out there and for people to think, but hey, you know what? Yeah, I hadn't thought about that before. And that is the essence of what we do here. The class of ideas is the sound of freedom. When we first started Marketplace of Ideas. The big question was whether or not you were allowed to talk about anything religious anymore because it was rude and uh and irresponsible to do that in public. And what we argued that was that if people are never talking about their most closely held beliefs in any kind of a public setting, then they're probably holding those beliefs in a very shallow way, which means that those beliefs will not be able to produce in them any kind of a moral backbone when push comes to shove. And so the only way to have strong beliefs is to be able to talk about them publicly and to defend them publicly. And so that was kind of the the basis of our show from the beginning that Yeah, okay, we can be tolerant of one one another, but if that means that we need to stop talking about difficult things in public, then tolerance is the wrong way to go. It's uh it leads to tyranny and and a loss of freedom. Well I don't think tolerance has to imply silence on heavy duty issues. Yeah. Uh unfortunately it seems like that's become the response of our society. Yeah. And uh people who have gotten to talk to me over time. Yeah, Jonathan's the show today. Passion i it fuels us. If we don't have any feeling behind something then what does it lead to besides I guess apathy? I almost feel like our generation has a little bit a little bit of a backlash against this this subtle attack on our freedom of speech. Does that mean I'm in your generation? Yeah, I'm including you. Okay. Though we're like barely there, you know, so you're gonna have to give your age on the air now just so that you can I'll be thirty-six this year. Downhill to forty. So we're within six years of each other. That's pretty close. Is that the same generation? I don't know where the exact split is in there. And but the point is that there's been an i there seems to have been an attempt to kinda quiet us down and uh I just feel like there's a number of people in our generation that are like, you know what? If our forefathers had the freedom to share what was on their hearts, then maybe we should too. And so we're going to share what's on our hearts in regard to I guess uh um Messianic Judaism? Yeah. Yeah. Now I think John's goal is to get to eschatology. Well okay. I might start with a brief Okay, well let me I'm gonna uh the point is we want to introduce who Troy is kind of what is the thing. supposed agenda might be for for the show. I really don't. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Carlson Joy Chapel, uh who's been on the show for years and years now uh apparently is friendly at s on some level with Troy Wallace who is the uh assistant congregational leader at El Shaddai Congregation and they got to talking or whatever and Jonathan said, Man You should come on the faith debate so we can talk about this. Yeah, in fact, Troy But I wasn't there, so I don't know what the this is. Troy and I go way back. His parents used to go to my parents' church back in the late 70s, early eighties. Right. And then uh after that they moved to Frederick, and when they moved to Frederick, in eighty five, my dad knew that uh that somebody that was working with him at the school the Christian school that that he was uh the president of, uh one of those guys was starting a church in Frederick, and it was a messianic Jewish guy by the name of Asher and Trader. His name was Keith. at the time and since he's moved to Israel and uh has changed his name to Hebrew name. Right. So Asher entrader. So sure enough, uh they said yes They went started going to church with Asher and Trader in the context of that became very good friends. So Troy, uh as a teenager as a young teenager ended up going to a messianic Jewish congregation and even experiencing as a non-Jew, right? This is important. A gentile ended up experiencing anti Semitism at school. Right. Aren't you that Jew boy? Right. Uh even though he wasn't Jewish because his parents went to the most interesting thing about it, Troy, is that in the congregational setting, I was identifiably not Jewish. But in the in the general public or or in the broader world Everyone identified me as Jewish, particularly at school, because of some of the practices that my family adopted as believers in Jesus. Now we have to say that the thing that drew us to the community was that there the faith in Jesus as the Jewish Messiah was a very prominent aspect of the community. Now along with that were and still is even today uh standard recognizably Jewish practices. Practices that you would never see in a church setting. uh along with some practices and some beliefs that you would find in a church setting. So it was very interesting to co or add to uh the struggles of puberty this whole identity crisis of who is a second When did I become Jewish? And my parents were really following what their leading in the Lord or or some of their newfound religious convictions were, and they didn't necessarily have the apologetics or or the the logos to be able to explain it to me. Um so it led to some very turbulent times, again in the midst of The natural turbulence of puberty. Uh so which led me to some of my convictions. Right. There were some key events that happened while you were in college, while you were actually were were hanging out with a Jewish girl. Right. And in the context of that you you realize that that that you personally held convictions. Yeah. about this that even though you were a Gentile believer in Jesus Christ that you felt like the Lord was calling you to participate in the messianic Jewish calling in the long term. Right, in my own personal convictions, not just because my parents made some choices back in the day when I was ten or eleven. Like it was a major crisis in the very major crisis. So much so that that I really turned away, if you will, from the faithful for a s a ser a serious uh period of time to try to s settle these things in my soul and settle them in my in my person. And it was it was that i introduction to that Jewish girl uh and and connecting to the Jewish community in Virginia at Virginia Tech that didn't believe in Jesus that actually settled some of of my own uh uh identity problems at the time. No, um I'm not sure how many people will be familiar with the theology of uh a messianic Jewish congregation. So but I don't want to see a bogged down in all the minutiae that I'm sure there is to say. But there is. Uh one question that comes to mind that might help to clarify this w Would it be more fair to say that that your congregation and those that belong to Messianic Jewish congregations around the country, around the world, whatever, primarily think of themselves in terms of their Jewish who happen to believe the Messiah has come and his name is Jesus Christ? Or do they prim or would it be more fair to say that they primarily think of themselves as Christians who still want to recognize and value the Jewish traditions from the Old Testament? I'm betting kind of neither. Well, I if I had to choose between those two, Troy, which the way you set up the question I'm I'm forced to, I would say that the the former, the first one that you said would primarily be the thing that the Jewish people that I know, that would be the way that they identify themselves as Jewish people that have that as their uh their worldview framework that see Jesus as the answer to some of the questions of their framework uh the way he lived his life in the first century, but then also the expectation of what Jesus will accomplish in a future day. uh that maybe he hasn't yet. And that's why Jonathan kind of drives that this eschatology thing with me particularly because the grand sweep of the Bible, uh, including the New Testament, when seen in a from and in a Jewish context leads to a future culmination that we don't see yet in the present age. Well we used to do a ha uh had a habit of having a word of the week and I think we'll have one today. We've had this as a word of the week before but y Jonathan used it and now Troy you used it. Uh eschatology. Yeah. Uh comes from eschaton, uh it has to do with uh last things, uh and end times, last days. So it's uh eschatology, the study of so it has to do with the study of the end times, study of the last days. Right of the things that come of the future kind of thing. So um uh in popular, you know, the the the days of Armageddon uh you know, Christ's second coming, you know, the end of the world, you know, uh December 2012, you know, those sorts of ideas are eschatology types. of of of uh of issues. Right. Um so how do you feel like the the messianic Jewish uh tradition is received by um the rest of the believers in Christ. You know, how do how do evangelical Protestants receive you? How do the Catholics receive you? You know, whatever. How do how do those who are not messianic Jew uh Jews How did they look at you? say this as part of answering what many of those leering looks come from. I'm not Jewish, so I don't consider myself messianic Jewish. I'm a Gentile person from a non-Jewish background that lives in a community of faith. in Jesus, where Jewish people continue to identify as Jewish people and not primarily as Christians in the wis western Christianized sense of the word. So the leering looks are often, w what are you as a Gentile doing kind of promoting this ideology? Well, I want to say that I'm not here to promote uh Gentiles becoming somehow Jewish observants. Right, he's here because I twisted his arm beginning to come on the show. But but I want to make clear that You know, oftentimes the initial response, Troy, from the broader Jesus believing or Christian world is is a little bit of a leering glance. because so many people see Paul's comments in letters of the New Testament that were written primarily to Gentile communities as if it's doing away with the law. Um and you know, Jesus says this whole thing about I've come to fulfill the law, uh not to destroy it. So there's this once you get into some of the subtleties, usually the leering glances from the broader Christian world, at least become uh uh nods of acknowledgement. Um uh but oftentimes I would say the first response i is kind of a leer. And of course Uh the same thing is true from the the the Jewish community. Uh when I say Jewish community I mean the the Jewish community that historically doesn't recognize Jesus as the Messiah of Israel, much less the Messiah of the Nations. Yeah. Um, the same thing. Uh so it's kind of a a double edged sword or a knife that cuts both ways. And I I think at the end of the day Jesus as a common denominator gives us relationally more credibility with the Christian world. Um and uh uh Jesus is the dividing line in the Jewish community that sometimes is very hard for us as as a community to overcome. Now the um Okay. Um just about in terms of the definitions. I I realized something about the term Christian. that the believers in Jesus Christ were not called Christians for some ten plus years after Christ had risen from the dead, and it was in Antioch in a primarily Gentile context that they were called Christians. They were first called Christians, I think. They were there first called Christians. I mean is the Greek word for Messiah and and the word in Hebrew is is Mashiach, it's it's it's the the Messiah. And so that's why they call themselves messianic uh believers uh uh m messianic believers as opposed to Christians. Right. And that distinction is interesting because Paul, even in Romans, says that the gospel is first for the Jews and then for the Gentiles. And so uh for there to be a distinction there that is significant, uh the more that I look at it, the more that I see that that there's Uh there's there's nuance in the New Testament about these issues that I never saw until I really began to dig into it from a messianic Jewish perspective. And I think that nuance is important. Well and I think that Just a as a more general statement, nuance is why you guys can have a show. Right. Because there's so many different beliefs when it comes to God that oftentimes are built on nuance. Now You know, the main thing needs to say the main thing and I'll say this uh pretty boldly, there's no way by which a man or a woman can be saved. except through calling on the name of Jesus. So that being said, then there's there everything from there, ultimately, as believers in Jesus and accepting that truth become a matter of nuance. Um so how are we gonna do that and and how we gonna do this and how we gonna approach this subject or that subject. And I think that you know that's probably why you have uh a pretty healthy following on the web uh for face debate because people are interested in nuance. They're interested in nuance. I mean No, maybe Bill Clinton took nuance a little far back in the day of how you define particular words, but nevertheless. Yeah, right. Um But I think that never inhales. I think that's a joy. I actually find joy in searching those things out. Especially if it's in Which thus far this has been a very friendly environment. I think nuance is issued. Don't worry, we're gonna get you next time. So but um the the point I was going to with the questions before, we we have a couple minutes left. I think we might have time for for you to give a a quick sense. Somebody who is a non-Christ following Jew uh comes up alongside and sees what your messianic Jewish congregation El Shaddai is doing. And they feel other than the Jesus proclamation stuff, they f they feel pretty comfortable. Like this feels like a Jewish thing. Uh she uh we we briefly mentioned that I came from that background and uh she she rolled her eyes and she's like, Okay, well, you know, and she just kinda we we didn't get into it deeply. But I feel like that's the response that we ten that uh that I tend to see in the Jewish community. And those were going in a little bit of a different direction, but Troy was at the Jesus part, but as far as the practices and how it Things go. It feels Jewish, for lack of a better way of putting it. Uh the range of expression of the Jewish religion uh by people who have a cultural identity that's that is Jewish is pretty broad. So it would depend on the person and the place and the time. Um I think if you came to our congregation you would recognize things from from the church, from Christian practice. At the same time, you would recognize things that were identifiably different. We have a Torah scroll that's uh from the the the mythology attached to the scroll is about five hundred years old. We parade it around the congregation. We say blessings in Hebrew Uh and yet at the same time we sing what are would be defined as contemporary praise songs and people will be lifting their hands So I think regardless of the background you come from, you're gonna find some things that you can identify with and some things that that seem a little bit. foreign. And that's for again for a Jewish person and for a Christian person. And I'll just say this too. Again, I'm a non-Jewish person in a in a position of leadership at the congregation. Why is that the case? Like am I trying to promote Jewish practice? Well, I'm trying to stand in a place of providing an environment for Jewish people who have a a covenantal responsibility continue to m to identify as Jewish people a a place where they can worship Jesus as Jewish people and they don't have to uh take upon themselves what would be identifiably Christian practices. You know, something in the history of Christianity was uh when the Catholic Church was forcing Jewish people to convert, the evidence of their conversion was eating pork. Uh you know, you're not going to find pork served in our community functions because we believe that it's it's important to continue to provide a place For people who are of a Jewish cultural and religious heritage to be able to express their faith as followers of Jesus Very interesting. Well and we're gonna wrap it up because we've only got about a minute left, so I'll uh I'll put a bow tie on this unless you had something you could say in ten fifteen seconds. Not at all. I'm just thinking about the whole port thing. Next week in the show, you know, we'll uh we'll finish This conversation shouldn't take too long to be part of it. And then we'll launch into whatever those things were that Jonathan thought would be interesting for us to launch into. I guess eschatology. becoming a nation in the end times and the role that that that uh the Jewish nation plays in end times. I think you're gonna find it very fascinating. Stay tuned next week. Ooh. Sixty eight and a half hours. Sixty-seven and a half hours from now. That's like a Batman teaser. Next week will Batman get away from the Joker. Will Penguin peck his eyes out? Tune in next week and find out, right? I never watched it that much. No? That's what's wrong with you. It explains it. He's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. We are joined this week by Troy Wallace the assistant congregational leader at El Shaddai Congregation, and we didn't mention it, but I should have the also director of Revive Israel, North America. So we'll be talking about those sorts of issues, I guess, in in next week's show. I'm Troy Skinner and I think I forgot at the beginning of the show to mention our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating, how can we make you smile? So to make up for that, I'll mention them a second time. We want to thank our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating How can we make you smile? Again, and I encourage you to visit us online, WFMD. com, keyword faith. Don't try to podcast until I tell you otherwise, all right? Until next week. God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, and Honest answers an amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Put in plumbing, how can we make you smile