This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master's notorious treble beat bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can The Faith Debate is a three-for-all forum. Where faith community leaders wrestle over the truth. In less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble. Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Fate Debate Master of Cemetery. Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron here. Is that it? And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. Ooh, mama. The notorious big bridge builder, John. No, I'm just getting long. Stumbling block to many regarding the Christian faith has to do with the discourse. about homosexuality. In fact, it's a stumbling block for entire denominations these days. Just look at L over the past couple of years within the United Methodist Church. Well Craig Lancour is a new Christian, relatively new Christian, who happened to be attending a United Methodist Church, and he has some questions. He's on the panel today to get those gosh darn questions answered. We're going to examine the same-sex marriage issue, quote unquote from the thirty thousand foot level so that we can try to see the forest before we then swoop down to take a look at the impact upon individual trees. So Craig Lancourt, Jonathan Schweitzer on the show with me today. I'm Troy Skinner And I can't remember if the big voice guy said it or not, but you can find us online at WFMD. com. Keyword Faith gets you there. And uh if you miss part of this show or other shows and you want to hear on the podcast are always there and ready to uh to listen to. And by the way, I learned something this past week. Well it's really easy to download the shows. Onto your device, whatever your device is. Yeah, you can store them on your computer if you have an external hard drive or you want what I mean I I'm not the most technically skilled, although in today's world you can't help but pick up a few things over the years, so I'm not a neophyte either, like I know more than my mother. Oh, but that's not saying much. But it's really if I can do it, you can do it. So if you f if you find some shows that are particularly interesting and you want to listen to them over and over again, uh you can download them and save them. Who knew? You know, uh with uh Cross Bridges they j we we just put out the uh the prayer video and the guy that's doing that for us, he went and checked out some of our uh our shows and downloaded them and and he found it pretty easy to to get connected to some of uh what that uh what those topics were all about and really, you know, was uh drawn into it. So well we'll see how well I do whether I want to download it or not. Download yourself. Dow downloading shows is probably easier to do than tackling the issue that we're gonna be trying to tackle. Uh I I think it'll be s it'll make sense to try to talk big picture and and work down and I'm wondering if the easiest way to enter into a big picture conversation is to ask Craig to ask the question he most wants answered. Because I'm gonna I'm willing to bet that'll give us the kind of context to provide a foundational kind of answer. Do you agree? I do agree. Could I just share how Craig and I met? Oh sure. I figured that would come up through the course, but if you want to leave with that. He was looking to take drum lessons, I think, through his church somehow, and my brother uh was introduced to him and my brother introduced him to to me, and so Craig and his wife came out to help us with the Frederick County Goes Purple and his wife and my wife like had this major connection. Craig and I really hit it off well. Uh they just f into helping us just with destined to the you know, he was just telling me the other day, he said, John, whatever you want to do, I'll do it for you. on a rooftop and wave a purple flag, I'll do it whatever you want. So that was kind of a cool space. It all started with the devil devil rhythms, right? The drum The Devil Rhythms got you guys. Hey the Lord works in Mr Mysterious ways. Dude, we're back in the eighties, you know. Yeah, I remember those discussions. So obviously uh I kind of knew from Jonathan that this was a an issue, Craig, that you wanted to hear some discussion about. How did that? What were the kinds of things you were saying to Jonathan? What was the question you were asking? Well we had I had gone over to Jonathan's for dinner and we um I had really I I started attending this wonderful church in Damascus, um, Bethesda, and I fell in love with the people there and before I really understood the Bible and the context, bigger issues of the church and um when this concern over homosexuality and and their role in the church is when I said, Well, I don't understand how i if it's sin makes homosexuals not allowed to be pastors, then don't we have to start talking about obese pastors or pastors who smoke or pastors or you know, all these other issues that would come up. And if it's Um you know, the issue was are they continuing on in it? And that's where that whole idea was. But if it was just the fact that they were a sinner to begin with, I said, well You know, I have all of these issues in my past with addiction, with everything else. And if God can use me to fulfill part of his plan? How come God can't use a homosexual to fulfill part of his plan? And that's where I started seeking and looking in the Bible and reading different passages and I pray earnestly about it and God would show me one passage where you know, um Jesus throws the money changers out of the temple and the rage he has there and then he showed me another passage where the compassion he had for Mary Magdalene and then I'd say, you know, well God, that really doesn't help, and I'd pray more and pray more, and finally I got the answer back, WJD. And uh It was what would Jesus do? And I said, Well, I don't know what Jesus would do, so that just made me read more. And I was reading the other day about, you know, the body of Christ and needing unity in the body of Christ. And I said, aha, there's my answer. And I walk into Bethesda United Methodist confident that I have finally found my answer and a friend of mine says, you know, uh he he talks about the passage where you're better off to pluck out one eye and arrive in heaven with one eye than And I'm like, well wait a minute, that contradicts everything I was just about to prove here. So it's amazing to me how I continue to pray to God. seeking an answer and he continues to show me different passages that I could interpret however my heart tells me. And so I s I sought people out who knew more That's where I ended up at Jonathan's dinner table. Now um before I ask Jonathan to share what his uh answers then were or what his answers now might be to that sort of a query. Uh how long ago was it you started attending this church? Um it was this time last year. Okay, so yeah, it's uh so it's You you walked in right when it was a at a fever pitch, right? Okay, gotcha. Yeah, that context is helpful for me. So Yeah, all right. So what did you say or what do you think? Well can I ask can I ask you this question? What's going on at your church in lieu of what's happening with the United Methodist denomination as a whole? Like how is your church Responding to it. Our church pastors um that we need to stand on the Word of God as um is written and um our church is a part of the Wesley Wesleyan Covenant Association and um we're excited about the opportunity to start a new denomination. Now So you guys are separating from the rest of your Methodist denomination over this issue. My church is. Your church is. Right. That's why I mean I Grew up in a very rural household, a very liberal community. I grew up in Montgomery County and I was um voted Democrat most of my life. Well, I guess the radio if they listen that I voted for Clinton, I think that might get me blessed at church a whole lot more. Um But all the more reason to pray for you, my son. Um but it is it is amazing how if I had walked into that church on my own, I would have never stayed. But the Holy Spirit really drew me to that church through a number of interactions and I fell in love with it before I realized that we didn't agree on politics and on other things, but we agreed on Jesus Christ. Right, and so I guess so that's the next question. What was it about Bethesda United Methodists that you fell in love with? You you you're talking about falling in love with the people and you're saying Jesus Christ Uh you talked about the the cl the you know what the word of God teaches, like like these are the different things. Like when I asked you why did your church separate your first point was that well we we want to do what the word of God says. Right. And so it so this is kind of driving your question it sounds like and what what I wanna say first off is I don't know enough to know enough. And that's where I'm um You know, I walked into the situation and I fell in love with the people and I fell in love with the church and then, you know, I started to hear more about this issue and how it was driving the wedge between, you know, and the church and it really started to concern me. And um I I take my faith very seriously today. And I'm very committed to um trying to serve God the way He wants me to instead of the way I want to. Um and so so this is this is a a really big deal, right? Because it um it drives at the heart of like what's going on in the nation as a whole right now that um that people that disagree about political issues, view the people on the other side as the enemy. As less than. And uh as, you know demonic caricatures of the worst thing imaginable, right? Right. And uh in racially that seems to go on a lot. um, you know, whatever whatever wherever you stand on a lot of the hot topics, immigration, abortion, homosexuality, you know, all these all these uh issues that um uh that end up being a part of the discussion. And so my point is is that is that you somehow slipped past all that into a place where now you're being challenged y you know about well what does the word of God actually say? What does it teach? And, you know, how is it that we end up um trusting, you know, and and following the word of God. And so so again, uh you and I were talking about this, I think earlier today, that Feels to me like on every single one of these issues there's two scales that we're working off. Right. Right And the one scale is the truth scale. And the truth scale, I also call it the health scale or the the safety scale, right? Right. The the the the truth i has to do with how bad something can hurt you or how much something can help you, you know, if it's in your life. Right. Right. So for example with opioids, the whole truth scale right now is that people are dying And we're dying at a rate of one a week in Frederick for three and a half years though that that has, you know, just come out that it's gone down in Frederick County, thank God, uh by twenty percent. We need it to go down way more than that But the truth scale of that is that people are dying, right? And so uh so that's the one scale. The other scale is the is the grace scale. Right, or you called it the love scale earlier earlier. Right. You know, and it has to do with whether or not um we should be embracing and reaching out to care for one another. in the midst of these situations, it seems like those two scales are inversely related. Right. The more dangerous something is, the less likely people are to be reaching out to care for you. The more people are reaching out to care for you. Sometimes the less they're willing to speak the truth. Right. And so we're told in J John 1 that Jesus came from the Father full of grace and truth. we've seen his glory, the glory of the one and only, right? Right. And so what glory is all about is the ability to to do both those things at the same time. And it's that's where I realize the harder The more you love someone, the harder it is to tell them the truth too. Right. Especially when it's a truth that cuts to the core of the individual. Um that's where I love my relationship with Christ today so much. I wanna make sure that I'm standing on the truth. That I'm doing everything I can to seek out what is the truth. Uh so in the context of your your uh recovery right right you're defining truth as those things that potentially you could fall back into that are not good for you. Right. And that that lead to kind of a downward spiral. I'm defining truth as um Yeah, that's good. How do you define truth? Right. My truth for me as um Christ in my life and what how Christ will manifest and what um what he truly has from message for me in my heart. And that's where um it was funny my uh our pastor on Sunday was talking about um a a preacher who stood firm on the word until his daughter came out as a lesbian. And he said, you know, that didn't make sense to him that, oh, now that his daughter came out as gay, that he changes his opinion on homosexuality. Yeah, what'd you think of that? And In some senses it's it seemed very hypocritical because it was very easy for him to judge others and say this truth when it wasn't part of his house. But when it was part of his household that changed his truth and was it the love that changed the truth or was it the truth that changed the love for him and I don't know and I don't know whether he's right or wrong. Was it the love for his daughter that changed his understanding of the word? And that love was more important than what it created in the Old Testament. Is that not an amazing question? This is what's going to happen and Jesus says, Well love. And so he loved his daughter so much that it changed his opinion on homosexuality. Now is that still the truth? It is for him, but is that God's truth? That's what I want to know. Could I observe something that that you put together here just about two minutes ago as you were talking? You said that that his truth changed and he was less judgmental. And I and so I want to ask this question. We we said that there's these two scales, right? Is it judgmental for us to acknowledge the truth that certain things are unhealthy for a person. No. Right? And so if somebody's in a in a in addiction, for example, and Um and they they keep struggling with certain things, right? Helping them to to work that through and to come to a place of the truth. Uh I could do that two different ways. I could do it in a very judgmental, demeaning harsh kind of a way, or I could do that in a way that's just forthright that talks about the truth but is full of grace. Right? And so the truth do doesn't necessarily have to be um uh harsh and judgmental, but the truth if if we're not living by it, it's gonna impact things, right? Right. And it feels to me like people get the most They they sound the most judgmental when when they're they're worried that somebody's gonna get hurt What I think right what I think a lot of Like did you feel like people judged you when you were in You absolutely. Oh absolutely. And everyone who tried to help me was the biggest jerk in the world. Right. Absolutely. Right. But my question becomes Um Would you say some of those people were more judgmental than others? Sure. Absolutely. But the question becomes, how do you cure an addict if you don't allow him to walk in the front door of the rehab center? Right. So it's that truth and grace thing. How do you do both of them? Right, bingo. And it's so for that one individual I was talking about, didn't we? His truth changed because of love. Did love change his truth or did uh his you know, was it His new truth, correct? Where he believes in the love of his daughter over the word of in the written word of the thing. Does the word of God of God My read is that the Word of God is is working on the grace scale from chapter 1 of Genesis all the way through chapter 22 of Revelation, and it's working on the truth scale. every step of the way. Right? And so so it's never one or the other. It's always a both and. Right? And so The question about any issue, whether it's homosexuality or sex outside of marriage or uh lying, cheating, you know, uh lust, you know, pornography, whatever it is, the question is What does the Bible say in terms of the truth side of things? And what does it say in terms of the grace side of things? Right? And so so I'm always thinking And and I think if we're going to think biblically, we're always thinking according to both of those scales, grace and truth. Uh some other similar um dynamic tensions that we find in Scripture are justice and mercy or righteousness and peace. Um John Stott I think listed like four additional ones and I'm probably not going to remember right now that that are these places where where the the truth part, the righteousness, the holiness part is kept to a very high standard. while at the same time we see this breathtakingly high standard of love and mercy and uh and community and forgiveness, you know, all at the same time. And so the question is is, you know, what does the Bible say about Homosexuality on the truth side of things. And then what does it say about, you know, on the grace side of things? And my impression is that The Bible's very clear on the truth side of things that homosexuality is is not God's plan for mankind. Right? And and that uh that it is that that kind of activity is is what the Bible describes as missing the which is the the Greek definition of the word for sin. right, is that you miss the mark. You know, what is the mark that God God created us for and that that is the missing of the mark. And so like you described Gluttony is missing the mark. Right? Or uh addiction to any uh substance, you know. for that matter, smoking, drinking, you know, all those kinds of things. They miss the mark. And why do they miss the mark? Because they end up leaving us unhealthy. both in our soul and our spirit and in our physical body, right? And so so those things are are things that are uh are considered less than what God has for us. And so Romans 1, 18 and following, you know, describes uh in the New Testament the kind of a a descent into sin and brokenness and includes in that list, you know, at one point uh two people uh two two men uh desiring to be with women be desiring to be with one another. I hope you weren't helping hoping I was gonna help you on the the scripture quotes there, 'cause um No, no, no, that's okay. uh along with many things that are called an abomination in the Old Testament, including, you know, eating shellfish and and other things. And so my point is just that that on the truth scale Scripture seems to be really clear. Pretty clear. Right. Right? However, that's greatly debated by those who believe that you can't trust the Bible and that what used to be considered sinful, that we shouldn't still consider those things to be sinful. Do you have some examples that come to your mind when you think of it that in those terms? Well we're gonna probably have to hold those examples for next week's show because we're about to wrap up out of time. And for the uninitiated, when John was talking about Genesis and Revelation, those are the first and last books of the Christian Bible, so he's saying the entire canon of Scripture, all the the scriptures of Christianity uh are talking about this that the judgment is true, but the grace is true too. And sometimes it's like, how is that possible? And then we see Christ at the cross. Hallelujah. So where the judgment is executed, so the judgment is seen through, but it's seen through on God's own son, God himself takes on human flesh a in an un unamazing uh totally amazing uh uh uh expression of grace. So the two can coexist. In fact, they coexist in a pretty dramatic way at the crosshead. So many other things I was going to throw in there, but this sh this show we'll pick up next week. Jonathan Schweitzer, thank you so much. Craig Lancour, thank you. Appreciate your transparency is refreshing. Thank you for that. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. You can find us online at WFMD. com. Keyword faith gets you there. You can also find us on Facebook at WFMD's Facebook page. And um actually you can follow me on Facebook. I pretty much do everything on Facebook publicly, so it's no no big secret. I'm kind of an open book on on social media for what it's worth. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless.