This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed mascot as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Treble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all for Where faith community leaders wrestle over the truth. Yeah, but in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for the sound of freedom? To rumble Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Fate Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a more And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder John Sweister. No, I'm just getting warned up. Here's a quote. The Southern Baptist Convention is tanking rapidly. President J. D. Greer has asked for forgiveness from the LGBT community for discrimination, injustice, and abuse. Are you kidding? What abuse? What injustice? What discrimination? Are Christians no longer to dis uh to no longer discriminate against sin? These are words posted as the description for a YouTube video podcast as part of the Facebook page also. It goes by the same name, the YouTube video channel and the Facebook For such a time as this, the video features today's guest, Pastor James Pittman, an ordained Southern Baptist minister of the gospel himself serving as senior pastor of New Hope Community Church in Palatine, Illinois, after announcing last year that his congregation was leaving the Southern Baptist Convention There was a change of strategy, and James and his church find themselves holding out a new hope for their denomination And so back for the fourth time now and I probably our our last time in this cycle, although maybe someday if you're willing we'd love to have you back on again and talk some more because we've had some really good uh discussion and and you've obviously been thinking a lot about this and and studying a b a lot about it and uh Jonathan is asking for nuance and you're providing nuance. It's all been very good. One thing I do want to do so I don't forget because I've wanted to mention it every week this is our fourth show and I've wanted to mention it all four shows and I've forgotten every time As this airs, the election actually is now behind us. We probably still don't know who the winner is because we won't know who the winner is until like March or something, I'm sure. But uh but uh But uh so you're you're um I don't know what you're calling it exactly. You're having an event. Uh as we as we record this, you're having an event in the future, but as this airs it will have passed. Uh on October twenty fourth he had an event that was live streamed, I guess, on YouTube, on Facebook, that sort of thing. Uh and and because of the way that the this magical world of the internet works, it's out there forever then. So if somebody wants to go and hear people talk about these kinds of issues, uh how do they they just go to your Facebook page or or your YouTube channel? Where where's this in the archive? You know what? If i had we had this conversation a week later I could I could be a lot better with that because we actually are putting up a website. Putting up a website for it. We're gonna web fight w uh something alone line for Suther Thomas dot dot org or something like that. But we're gonna now have a website by which we run all of our social media and email list and blog site and podcasters. So we're actually in the process of putting that up. So try um try I guess, you know, you listener, if you want to try for such a time as this dot org and see if that gets you a hit, right? Yeah, I'm not sure that'll be it. I'll just do it out there. Google it, see if you don't find it. What you can do is put it in the description of this this um This this um show that they won't have it by the time this airs. You probably have it on there as well, right. So go to Facebook for such time as this or go to YouTube for such time as this, and you can probably find it that way too. And I will try to add it to the to the uh to the um description of this show as well when it hits the internet. So anyway I just wanted to do that because people are interested in what we're talking about. You're gonna have a uh like a panel discussion or a uh sort of a conference kind of a thing and It's going to be a panel discussion of pastors in the area that's that that's dealing with the exact thing we are talking about here in the series. How do you marry the two, critical race theory and biblical sound biblical theology if you can do it at all. Right. And and Jonathan's trying to navigate that very question. I think we all are. I think he's on a fool's errand. I don't think it can be done. But I'm fascinated to listen as he tries to figure that out. So Yes. What what more what other questions? Do you want to pick up your questions, John? Yeah, so um okay, so critical race theory clearly is is driven by um at its root by a Marxist world view True. Right. And so um it's i i all of its metaphors, all of its language uh is geared not to try to define a biblical idea of sin and righteousness and justice, but to define what is uh a Marxist worldview in what's right or wrong according to a Marxist worldview. And so the question that I asked you and that that you were starting to really go after um uh as we were preparing for the show uh was Can you, like if you lived in Maoist China, use critical race theory to preach the gospel uh if you live in that context. If you're if you're, you know, an African American church that uh most of your members vote Democrat and you've lived in that world for fifty years. Can you split hairs and still use critical race theory of uh language to preach the gospel or is it not possible? I don't think it's possible but but let me say the critical race theory goes beyond just language. They redefine so when you see someone who says that poverty is an injustice, right? Yeah. You've just redefined what injustice means. Who is not giving them justice? What is contributing to their poverty? See uh one person I know says they're mixing up injustice with mercy. I'm not even sure that's the case, but Who is who who committed a crime against them in which justice is not being is not being uh meted out. Clearly there is many places in scripture where poverty is happens to somebody because of their own failures, their laziness or their sin, uh you know, or their lying. Or it could happen because of, you know, famines that come to the land Or it could happen because of direct injustice. So all of those are options, but to say poverty is injustice means that there's no other options. But it and upset exactly. And so that's what you hear a lot. So think about what we hear in the culture. That there's a lot of injustices geared towards minorities. And here's what's somewhat, how can I say it, insulting to to to me as an African American. Mm-hmm. When you say that Or you just are you just saying that the African American community bears no responsibility? for their situation as though the only way the African Americans are going to come out of poverty is that the white culture does justice by them. Do you do you see do you see what I'm saying? Yeah, this is why I love the the teachings of uh the writings of Thomas Sowell so much. And that's why they try to mark the red next to white soul so much. some very exact suppressed groups rise out of poverty and into success, you know, just by being a strong community and working hard together. Exactly. And so even like even when you hear that Where is the where is the even the option that sin plays a role at all? And they're not doing that. And so when you have someone from the gospel coalition who says that the poverty is an injustice. Wait a minute, you can't talk in those ways. Do you even consider the option of sin? Where does sin fit in all of this? 'Cause either the people in poverty sinned or someone sinned against them. But you can't say poverty in and of itself is injustice or is a is a sin. That that that's a that's a different world view It's a different way of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case. There's a couple of places. There was a um uh article written by Tim Keller that was talking through um Alice Dara McIntyre's uh you know which justice and and you know four different secular approaches to justice and then what is a biblical approach. But in it he began to describe uh a couple passages in the Old Testament about um whether uh in Exodus where we should be biased against the poor, uh and neither be biased against the rich. Um and how Tim Keller unfortunately uses that to say that all systems tend to grow in the direction of injustice against the poor, uh uh as if somehow that passage doesn't say the exact opposite that we need to be uh be beware of both uh dangers. Uh and there's a couple other passages that are similar. And so poverty is injustice. That's another one where uh it oversimplifies the issue and puts a spin on it that is inherently Uh well, instead of the word of God being sharper than any double edged sword dividing between joints and arrow, it ends up being uh a phrase that uh that muddies the waters, specifically where the Bible clarifies and pierces uh to bring better clarity and better freedom uh in the midst of issues. And so um So I I see a number of those places where it's definitely a problem. This is the Faith Debate on 930WFMD. You just heard the voice of Jonathan Schweitzer. I'm Troy Skinner. We're joined by telephone from Illinois. Uh or if if you're you know if you're not from Illinois, Illinois, um Pastor James Pittman, he's a senior pastor at New Hope Community Church in Palatine. Um I do want to add my own little nuance here and try I'm gonna try to do what I can to meet my brother here, uh John Sweitzer, where he is, and maybe I don't know if this will help scratch the itch or not. I have no idea if it will, but I think that it is incumbent upon not just possible, but incumbent upon pastors and preachers, you know, people who are preaching. uh and teaching the Bible to understand what critical race theory and all these things related to critical theory in general are all about so that they can use it in proclaiming the gospel as kind of a backdrop relief, an offset. So the world might tell you you're a victim, but the Bible tells you this The world might say it's the other person's fault, but the Bible tells you this. The world might say you can choose your own biological sex, but the Bible tells you this. I think it's important for us to understand what the world is embracing right now, uh, so that we can then use that in proclaiming the gospel, but to try to use Um, to try to use well, I don't even know what term what to try to use the word intersectionality in a gospel message doesn't make any sense to me. But if you're going to talk about injustice, I think it'd be important to say now the world will tell you that injustice means this. But The Bible tells us that injustice means this, and just and biblical justice is this. Well, so the thing about intersectionality, right? Um let's talk about Rahab the prostitute. Right, there's an intersectionality that uh it seemed like there was no way that she could be saved, but God broke through And Rahab the prostitute ends up uh s ends up not just helping the spies that went into Canaan, but ends up being saved and actually marrying into the lineage of Jesus. Same thing with Ruth, the Moabite single, you know, woman with no children who is uh who's now in Israel. the the story of redemption becomes that much more uh amazing because of these intersectionalities. Of course the the parable of the Good Samaritan. You know, so I intersectionality is like everywhere, you know. In fact that's that's Paul's point. He was uh the Pharisee of Pharisees, right? Uh a Jew circumcised on the eighth day, like he was the the essence of of the oppressor, you know, the one that had it all together, but he counted all things rubbish compared you know, and so intersectionality could be used in those Well what I m what I meant by that was I don't know that I would use the word intersectionality in a sermon. I could say, you know, by the by the world's standards, she's a woman, she she's a process. Exactly. And so she had nothing going for. And yet yeah. And so God did it. Right. So in that sense I guess you can use critical race theory to proclaim the government. Why do you even need to? Right. But I feel like the answer to why we need to is what's what's most obvious to me. At least half of our nation right now, and arguably all of our kids that are raised in the public schools are a wash in critical race theory. By the way, I need to cut you off for two seconds. Public service announcer. Public service announcer. Silence for a second. We're going to silence Home school. This public service announcements are brought to you by WFMD Homeschool. So the point is is is that um is that we live in a culture right now And Paul's the one that said to the Jew who be a Jew, to the Gentile be a Gentile, you know, to to each of the different groups. And so to the critical race theory guy, um I'm not gonna spend my time trying to convince them critical race theories off. I'm gonna I I'm gonna try to be prepared that when I t in fact there's some people here in Frederick that I'm working together with on some some projects that are that are kinda community wide. And that's the whole point is that uh we need to get out of our pews, back out into the world where people are living and interact with people that think that we're crazy for where we stand politically on other issues and in order to do that I need to know that they're living in a critical race theory worldview. That being the case, um, for me to be prepared to share the gospel in that context seems to me like like a a no-brainer. Yeah, but that's just that's just Apologetics, right? I mean you're meeting somebody where they are. If you know you're interacting with a Muslim, you're gonna you're gonna start with a presupposition, okay, they have, you know, Islam on their mind. How do I speak to that? Yep. So it's no different than that. But you're not gonna start preaching the gospel, quoting the Quran and using m Muslim words, are you necessarily so I visited, you know Troy, that I've visited um the uh West Bank and the Arab Church in Israel and the West Bank, right? And what's amazing to me is that for those that live in Muslim nations, uh there are are a surprising number of metaphors and overlaps from the the gospel, from the scriptures over into Islam that are very valuable and effective uses. And so it's it's a mystiological, apologetic You know, just like y Paul on Mars Hill, you know, says, I perceive that you're a very religious people, right? So then you bounce off of that into the gospel. Yeah, and I and I want to get back to letting uh James talk here in a second, but just to finish my my train of thought on this. Absolutely. And I'm meet them where they are so that you can draw them from there to the truth. Right. Right. My concern is the way that I'm I've been hearing the questions be asked, not just from you necessarily, but just the the the the people that are having this conversation. I get really concerned about syncretism. Yeah, I mean. Where we feed so much ground that all of a sudden we have a counterfeit gospel and we think we're doing a good job and we're not because we're using the language of the enemy. And of course and all of the assumptions that go with that language. And of course we've already done that, right? Because everybody knows the American gospel is a gospel that You're gonna have a wife and two kids and, you know, a a nice fence around your yard, right? If you just work hard, you know, and tell the truth, that kind of thing, which is a false Gospel. Right, and that may or may not result in uh uh monetary prosperity or may or may not result in peace uh with all my neighbors. It could be the case that that sets me in opposition to some of those things. And so that's the point is that Uh syncretism can happen anywhere in it certainly can happen with critical race theory. So if you have thoughts on that, I'd love to hear them, James, or if you have other thoughts. We'll have five minutes left before we're we're we're done with this this particular series. So If there's something really important on your heart or mind that you want to share as words of wisdom, I'd like to hear that too. But real quick when it comes to critical race theory. what we're going to do and and we're not trying to s um throw curve balls. We may throw fastballs, but not curve balls. So when it comes to critical race theory, to the to to to the person in the church, not outside Right. One, there's there's gonna be uh I think three two questions, but here's here's the first premise uh that we we we need to agree on. That sinners sin. Systems don't sin. Sinners sin. And I'm sure we'll be able to agree with that. Any believer will be agree on that. So then the the first question is this Who sinned If we're talking about critical race theory, if we're talking about racism in the church, one, who sinned? Either in the past or present, who sinned? And then the second one is, how does that person Seek repentance. Okay, what does that person have to do in order to seek repentance, i. e. , from that individual and God themselves? And if you can't answer that question In that an individual's sin and point out the the specific act or b the specific behavior in which that person has sinned and what they need to do in order to repent. And you can't answer that, then maybe just maybe you are dealing with a different worldview and it's a different gospel. Okay, so When I look at the the history that our critical race theory guys are presenting, it's clear to me that they that they are fully prepared to to to um identify and condemn some some clear sins that our founding fathers committed Uh it also feels to me like they go too far in certain places, but clearly uh our fa uh many of the uh founding fathers uh allowed slavery and in the south uh some really ugly, ugly forms of slavery. Same thing with if you go back to the colonial endeavors where the Pope sent out missionaries alongside of conquistadors uh at the point of the sword in ways where where we have to argue that the gospel ended up uh uh taking on uh worldly overtones that Christ never intended. Uh and and so then the same thing's true that there's clear sins in Jim Crow South uh where that was the case and I would venture to say that there's still some significant sins, but I think your principle is that let's identify the s the the specific sin. Um however I'm still gonna argue in uh in so I'll give you enough time to to have the final word that systems that are built on bad doctrines or on ungodliness, for that matter, critical race theory itself, uh, the systems that are built on those theories are going to be inherently sinful systems. Uh and so, you know, like you were gonna talk earlier about Venezuela, people that you know from Venezuela, like their system had become inherently uh corrupt. uh and um uh and oppressive uh you know but it was Marxism that made it so not you know that it was Christian. So what's your experience with the uh with the Venezuelan people? Just just real w with the Venezuelan, um we have a church that that uh rents uh well they're in partners with uh let's just put it this way, they they saw things in the culture long before I did And they s they saw things in the culture in which they told me, James, the United States of America is embracing socialism. They're embracing Marxism Um so they said that maybe three years ago very clearly, maybe longer than that. But going back to what you say with systems inherently evil, uh systems don't sin and neither are systems going to be on trial before the Great Throne. Um systems are inherently evil because evil men set them up. Right? And so I agree with that. Systems can't be redeemed. Sinners can be redeemed. Right? And so I get with this. What I mean by theologically in front of Christ, systems are not redeemed. That's what I mean. And so so there's so many places in the Old Testament where uh where Edom, you know, Jacob have I loved, but but Esau I've hated, right? Where where he's referring to the whole system of Um I think you misunderstand me. Yeah. The blood is not applied to the system. The the blood is applied to individuals. Correct? Um The blood of Christ doesn't wash systems, it washes individuals of sin. So I'm gonna keep thinking about that. I think you're probably right, but I wonder if there's some nuance to it. So keep talking. um that um republicanism and democratic and socialism those systems will not stand before Christ and give an account. Individuals will And if and and and those who are clothed in the blood of Christ by grace through faith will be saved. And so That's what I'm saying. When you try to marry the two systems, you're gonna always run into that problem. Because once I can vilify a system Then who sinned and who needs to repent? Systems don't repent. Now, you you can have godly men that come along and s and and and repeal laws that are they're sinful, right? But it's the individual by which is redeemed. That's what I mean. The blood is applied to the individual, not the system And that's going to end up being our last word on this four-part series. I'm Troy Skinner. That was the voice of Pastor James L. Pittman Jr. He is the senior pastor of New Hope Community Church in Palatine, Illinois. He's got a YouTube channel for such a time as this. He's got a website in development that's going to probably have for such a time as this as part of its web URL. And he's got a Facebook page for such a time as this. You can find him in all those places. You can find us online at WFMD. com or you can find me, Troy Skinner, online. If you follow me on Facebook or Parlor or MiWee. I will follow you. And uh Jonathan Sweitzer, he probably feels the same way, so follow him too. Jonathan Sweitzer, uh he's he's uh uh crossbridges. com or dot org. Dot com. com crossbridges. com. I always forget for some reason on that. So you can visit him online as well. Thanks so much, uh Pastor James. Thank you for listening. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMB until next week.