Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County. But preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Project Faith Debate brought to us by Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? We are online at WFMD. com keyword faith. There you'll find all sorts of links, podcasts of this show, for example, and the Faith Debate blog. Our blog is your blog, so email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. I post what you send me eighteen times a day, Monday through Friday, that's ninety a week. How do I do it? Well I couldn't do it if I had to do all the writing myself. That's why you need to email me. I post what you send me I encourage you to pop in, see what others are saying, even if you don't want to email me yourself. On the Faith Debate today, we have Arn Björndahl who is with the Youth for Christ of Central Maryland. He's been on the show a couple of times a long time ago, was on last week and he's he's back this week. Uh Jonathan Schweitzer is unable to be with us uh on this panel uh for these purposes. So anything you wanted to say about Jonathan Arne, this is your chance. He can't defend himself. Um what am I reading? Last week I neglected to mention what I've been reading, but I didn't have to because Arn mentioned so many books that he's been reading, or that he would recommend that we read anyway. uh RC uh sproll, Josh McDowell, and Michael Beehe were among his recommendation choices. And I would say he mentioned specific titles. I would say you pick any book by R. C. Sprohl, Josh McDowell, or Michael Beehee, and you're probably gonna be okay. So they they they're they're um they're Uh very smart, very gifted communicators, good writers, and uh and and they fall on the right side of issues most of the time as far as I'm concerned. Mm-hmm. And that's all that really matters. And you mentioned Lee Strobel. And Lee Strobel, another one. Yeah. Lee Strobel a little more accessible, perhaps, than some of the other authors. But I mean it's not like they're they're heady. Like R. C. Sproul is a theologian but he doesn't s doesn't communicate like a theologian. You know, uh Michael Beehe is tremendously intelligent, but he's readable, you know. Uh he's not he doesn't use a whole bunch of opaque and oblique kind of language and things like that. And uh and Josh McDowell, I mean He's famous for a reason. Because he's good. He's uh he's understandable, he's logical, you can follow the flow of his argument, uh, good stuff. Um the we mentioned them all now, right? Yep. We gave them all so their book sales just skyrocketed because of this this plug they got on our radio show. Yeah, right. Last week we were talking about the question of the curriculum in schools and whether or not the curriculum uh is guilty of conditioning our children to not believe in God. Arn said no. Uh primarily I think the gist of Arne, your argument was Because it's not the school's place to do that anyway. That's right. It's up to the parents to do that and if we're expecting the the school system to shape our children one way or the other and we're leaving it up to them to do that, we're we we lost before we started Yeah, and and we're leaving them to the uh wiles of of probably their peers for the most part. What their peers think. Or pop culture. Yeah, what their what the s what the pop icon superstars think and things like that. So we touched on but didn't spend any time on one particular part of the curriculum. We might not spend this whole show on it, but I'm curious I sense that you and I might have a little bit of a of a sh of a small disagreement on the question of evolution and how it's taught. Um So without me putting words in your mouth, explain to me again briefly, you know, your take on why evolution in public school curriculums really shouldn't be a problem. Well i it's a theory and there are many theories that are are presented in the public schools and The the idea, first of all, that Darwinism uh Darwinism has been uh kind of dismissed by modern evolutionists because of various different uh issues. But uh Evolution uh is just one of many theories and we ha what we have to do is we have to prepare our kids so that they understand. And and it's not that I accept evolution. I'm not an evolutionist at all. I I w we tell you that I am uh you know, I don't accept evolution even slightly. Uh there's a great there's a great uh research study done in the Behe book about uh malaria and he talks about just uh some minor modification in the a cell related to malaria and he th that minor modification would take tens of millions of years for just that one little uh it so it would He his point is that it the billions, if not trillions, of years that anything would ever have to uh exist before uh change would take place is uh even exceeds what modern evolutionists believe the age of the earth is. So I'm not an evolutionist. I don't believe in it. But I what I tried to um say in the first show was that parents need to equip their kids with facts. And the facts point to God. And I'll give you a good example. In the book, Not a Chance. Uh R. C. Sperl talks about the the law of causality, okay? And he's doing it's more cosmology than it is evolution, but you know, you could use um cosmology to prove uh uh the existence of God, even using uh the the theories of physics. And if your kids are well equipped th they could they can uh they're allowed to speak freely in the classroom and they could make a convincing argument for a uh self existent pre-existing eternal God uh with intelligent creative powers if they understand the law of cause and effect. It's it's it's a brilliant argument put together by R. C. Sprohl. Uh but typically our kids, when it comes to evolution, when it comes to physics, they're not ready. They walk in and they they're hearing for the first time some some teacher who's telling them the theory of evolution. Now that's where I uh I'm you know that's where I come from. I'm not an evolutionist, but I I I know that that's a legitimate um I say legitimate. It's it's a uh it's accepted by a lot of people. So it's something that kids need to be aware of. And yes, I would like them to also teach creationism, but I also recognize that in a public school they're not going to going to um promote or any type of God theories. Yeah. And see that's where I think y that that's where you and I find a place of some of some intellectual disagreement anyway. I think that uh because I I agree with a lot of what you said, perhaps even the vast majority of of what you said. But my concerns would be, um yeah you're right, ever since like I think it was a a j uh science journal article in n nineteen ninety six, ever since that point, uh Darwinian evolution has really fallen on hard times among the uh academic elites. Absolutely. Uh it hasn't so that's almost twenty years now that Darwinian evolution has not really been accepted as uh scientifically as sound as m up until that point it was. Um but that said, it still provides the foundation for what uh present day evolution theory looks like. It's you know, it's still kind of based on the the the principles or ideas that sprang from Darwinian evolution. And the whole idea, uh it seems, a at least a pessimist's view of of the motives of those is that they're looking for a uh a way to explain the existence of the universe and the existence of life within that universe absent a God. Seems like that would be the motivation. And I would I would argue that there are some would say it's the soul undying motivation for some. Uh so that's a problem. Then you have times when evolution isn't presented as a theory, it's presented as a fact. uh presented as uh so many times we talk about evolution. We don't talk about the theory of evolution, we talk about evolution as though it's a given. Or we talk about some of these proofs for evolution. We talk about the fossil record, which there really isn't a fossil record that supports evolution Or we talk about the Miller experiment, which was debunked. We talk about the um uh Hegel's drawings which have been proven to be a fraud. We talk about those uh those, you know orangutan looking characters that grow up into a upright six foot man that you alluded to in last uh last week's show that uh is totally fabricated, or the idea of taking a shard of a bone and building an animal out of that shard saying, this is what the animal that belonged to this shard Really? Like seriously? Mm-hmm. What's the motivation and motive for that? And um I I questioned some of that. All of that aside, When you say when and I'm gonna use your words kind of against you, I'm not meaning to put you on the spot, but uh because I've heard this before, and it it bothers me intellectually. It doesn't bother me in the core of my soul, but it bothers me intellectually. When someone says, well, you know, we're just we're just going to present the facts and w and you know, we're not gonna talk about creationism, we're not even gonna talk about intelligent design, we just want the facts are what the facts are, it's not the school's job to talk about anything. that even hints at religion because it's a state thing and they're so see this separation of church and state or it's not the role of the school or whatever those arguments might be. But by looking at the facts, on the one hand, on your left hand you're saying the facts point to God. R. C. Sproul uses facts to point to God. Josh McDowell, uh Lee Strobel, Michael Beehey will use facts. that point in the direction of an intelligent designer. I'll talk about intelligent design here in a second, but at least uh the idea of there being a supernatural being that was the an intelligence that uh being that was out there. And then on your right so you're saying on your left hand, but on your right hand you're saying, but we can't talk about God. All the facts are pointing to the existence of a God, and yet we can't talk about what those facts point to feels like we're at odds with ourselves. We're not being there's an intellectual dishonesty. If the evidence says now I I would be okay with Uh and this is where I would get some pushback from a lot of my friends, of the circles that I hang out with. I would be okay with public schools saying, look, the evidence leaves open at least the possibility. A logical argument to make based on facts is that there is some sort of an intelligent being out there who Put this all together. And that would be in line with intelligent design theory. That gets pushed back at really hard by the other side because they feel like, well, that's just that's some sort of creationism. We don't want to teach creationism. But if the evidence points to some form of creationism that we want to label as intelligent design, okay. And I think they should be okay with that because I don't think that goes far enough from a Christian from Bible-believing perspective. Those who put all of their eggs in the intelligent design theory argument are missing the point because even if you can make the argument I know I'm being long-winded here, but even if we could make the argument. that all of the facts lined up just so prove I don't think you can prove God. You accept that by faith, but even if, for the sake of this discussion, you could prove God Which God are we talking about? A false God that we fabricated out of whole cloth or the God of the Bible who truly is the creator? And intelligent design theory doesn't answer that question. No, it doesn't. So from a spiritual perspective, from a belief perspective, from an all-important eternal worldview perspective, the ultimate question is still left unanswered. So I think we could do ourselves a a big favor, the Christian community, by not fighting so hard on the intelligent design front. It's an important argument to have, but to put all of our eggs in that basket and if we should win it one day I'm afraid that so many people will feel like, we've won. The war is over. Mm-hmm. That's not the war. No. The fact that there's an intelligent designer is not the good news. The Christian doesn't care about intelligent design. The Christian compare c uh ca uh cares about the savior. Yeah. And there's no savior in intelligent design. No. So You know I think uh w you know, I I could uh I could tell you that yes it it should be in there or no it shouldn't be in there. I'd I would prefer it be in there, uh some talk about intelligent design, but it's not. So what what I wish it were there just for int intellectual honesty. I wish it were there. But I think you know l let's let's get a little spiritual on this, okay? On the face debate show? On the face debate show. You know, I I really believe it's it's time that Christians rise up and train by that title. Train their kids and become in become educated on this subject and uh make sure that uh their children know Uh the truth of the Bible, first of all, number one, that the Bible is fully support every time there's a fact that is discovered, a new fact, it always supports the Bible. Okay. Um the sec the second thing is they need to be aware of the uh uh you know, the the facts about um evolution. What facts do they have that they use to support this? Uh and recognize the significance of them because they're not very significant. You just m mentioned a few of those and I I'm not gonna repeat them, but there's The value of those facts are minuscule compared to the size of the theory they have uh they are looking at. And that's why it's still a theory. But in the absence of the ability to prove God, which is very uh you know, as you said, it's very difficult to say I can prove God. I can prove God experientially, okay, uh in my own experience, but I can't prove God uh you know, through fossils, okay. Uh except to imply God, uh through uh some type of facts. So with that You know, we have to train kids in knowing who God is personally, experientially, but also the facts that support God and the logic that's associated with uh Proofs for God. He's Arn Björndal. I'm Froy Skinner. Arn is with um Youth for Christ of Central Maryland. This is the Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, online at WFMD. com, keyword faith. Now there are s somebody listening right now who's incredibly frustrated because they don't have their point of view represented between the two of us. There's probably more than one person, but I think uh there's a big person represented uh as a frustration uh component of our of the audience. And that's the person who says, Well, I believe in the Bible and I believe in God and I believe there's a creator and I believe in evolution. Mm-hmm. And I think the two work together. I don't know if you have an opinion on that, if you feel equipped to address that at all, but that is a a viewpoint that we have completely ignored up until now. Yeah, I've I've heard that theory and I've I've actually read a little bit of that and I I find the reasoning behind it very difficult to to follow. Um they they usually create long periods of time between days and uh usually they say, you know, that a a day in God's eyes is like a thousand years or m you know. Right. So forth. And it's a or Even longer, whatever. Uh but I don't s I don't know that um the schools should be promoting any of that in their curriculum. That's number one. Um or the different theories uh uh of God associated with it. But uh I do believe that we if we're if you're a parent and you believe that, you should intellectually study that thoroughly. And you should sit down with your child and explain it to them because Th anything that is a theory, uh I I'll I'll leave you uh how about this? Let's let's switch it. Political. If you have a political worldview If you would like your child to have the same political worldview, wouldn't you take the time to explain to them why you believe the way you do? Well, I to believe the same is true about um uh evolution and about God, about the Bible. Take the time and invest in in those kinds of things. Spend the time uh intensely to show kids because the the intensity alone will make them see how passionate you are about that subject. And I think it could be helpful if you've got uh a child that will be patient and stay with you through it, uh and if not, figure a way to do it w that will meet them with their atten where their attention span is. to not just explain to them what you believe and why, but also to demonstrate that you understand other points of view. So they don't come away with the idea, well I know mom and dad think this, my teacher says that, and my teacher seems really smart And my parents, maybe they're just not that smart on this particular subject. But if you've also said, look, we believe this and here's why and in public school or among your friends or on TV or wherever you might interact with the world, you might run across in this issue or that viewpoint and here's why they believe that and and these are the reasons for believing that but here's why I think those reasons are insufficient. Um or these are the n this is the knockout blow. Is as much as you can stack those blocks up high, here's this one thing that knocks all the blocks down at once And if he can explain that, wow, not only does mom and dad understand what they believe, but they understand what the other guy believes and why they're wrong. But do it in a way I think if you can do it in a winsome way. Mm-hmm. We are calling do it with the w with the fruit of the spirit. Do it in a way that is gentle. And kind and not try to you know, w what made me think about this was when you put it in a political context, how often, you know, Republicans say Democrats are idiots and Democrats say Republicans are idiots? The truth of the matter is neither one of them are idiots. Right? Uh whatever side of the s of that argument you fall on, the other side is just wrongheaded in your point of view. Right. Uh but they're not idiots, so what is the logic behind their argument? What is it they're hoping to accomplish? Uh there's gonna be mixed motives, but what are the good motives? Let's give them credit for their good motives. But then explain now despite all those good motives and good and despite all of these reasons for believing that that's true, these are the reasons why I think it's dangerous or wrong or illogical or that's why we reject it. Then when your student is in school And the teacher says, this is the deal and I'm like, Oh yeah, that's what mom and dad said they would say. And I already know four answers against that. Mm-hmm. And they don't have to be the little nudge in the classroom, uh, excuse me Mr. and Mrs. whatever, teacher in front of the class. You're wrong, my parents said so. Mm-hmm. Teach them to be winsome, to be gentle and kind. Well you know what you if you take a look at the age that we are in as it relates to uh schools, the age we're in is that of Students have a lot of say and a lot of power. In the older days, students did not have a lot of power to speak up in their classroom. Today they do. Today uh if you look at uh religion in the school, yes, in the old days the the school teacher would teach the Bible. Today you have the freedom of assembly in the school to organize a Bible club to organize for so they have to this but it has to be student led. When it comes to the curriculum, if a student comes in well prepared w with an argument about evolution or about cosmology, about the the beginnings of time, whatever it might be, or politics or whatever. If they're well prepared in a classroom they will often be given a f uh a place to speak. Whereas in the old days that that was not the case. So in you know, from my standpoint We have to equip kids that to be able to be, as you say, winsome and capable and intellectual, uh, not just emotional, uh, but persuasive as well. If they're going to be successful in their in their public schools. We had a guest on this show with our fathers a few weeks ago, uh Hannah Mangot, who uh is was in middle school and now entering uh now in high school as we speak now. And she uh was able to make a change in her school. They were talking about world religions. There was a history class or civic Western Civ class or something, I'm not sure. Exactly to remember that. But they were talking about major world religions, and there was a list of the top five religions in the world, and Sikhism was not on the list. Uh Judaism was. But this young lady is a Sikh. And she knows that Sikhism is the fifth largest religion in the world. Judaism is sixth. Mm. And so she went and she advocated for a change and they acknowledged their mistake and they made a change in the curriculum for that school. And that was a student doing that. So th I applaud that and that's great. But I wonder, you said it has to be student led. Does that mean that it can't be parent led? Well, the in the public schools, uh when I uh when I mentioned that the the age that we live in is that blu the students have a a lot of rights to speak their mind in public schools. In i in a in the front of a classroom, parents have no rights to speak in to students. Whereas um if a a well equipped a student who is well versed in agnosticism or not that wouldn't be atheism can stand up and explain his beliefs, typically uh they will be given the the floor to speak if Yeah, they speak in a respectful manner. We're and the same goes for Christianity. But typically parents cannot do that same thing because they're, you know but i it's not because they're they're trying to persuade a class or something like that. Because in the in classrooms debate is is valued and opinions are valued And uh you know. So there's there's opportunities within that. This reminds me of the movie that came out last spring that's now on DVD. Maybe it'd be a good stocking stuffer for the holidays. There you go. Um God's Not Dead. Yeah. Right? Starring Kevin uh what what's his last name? Sarbo, maybe or something like that, I don't know. Used to play Hercules. Uh that guy. Yeah Yeah, and it features the newsboys. If you're not already a Newsboys fan, uh you should check them out. I'm not so much a fan of the the Newsboys last few years. They have a new lead singer and that It's changed the tone. But the older newsboys love them, so it's it's a little plug for them as well. Why so the record sales will now spike because of this program. We we had that kind of weight in power and influence. Yeah. So you look like you were gonna say something or no? No, with th those those kinds of resources, even movies like that, that's fantastic 'cause it culturally uh enhances the experience of a Christian student to see that kind of a a movie which is quite um motivating i because th you know, someone is uh intellectually considering th the claims of God. Yeah Now the one thing I will say about a movie like that is I think it can be very encouraging and it can inspire some courage and motivation for us to go out there and you know, argue for the faith and and try to be persuasive and defend what we believe to be true and stand up for it and and all that sort of stuff. Be the be people of conscience. Uh but I think we make a mistake when we try to get our unbelieving friends, hey, come watch this movie with me. Uh it'll help you to understand I I think it's it's it's a good movie for preaching to the choir. I don't know that it's a good movie that those who aren't already part of the choir are really gonna resonate with. Do you agree with that? Um sure. I I'd like to I I I'm not uh I'm not sure. Let's put it that way. I would say that uh A lot of people are affected by media and uh I just feel like movies like that are too on the nose and they're too obvious and they're just you know, and people are like oh Okay, you're preaching at me and they start to tune you out and glaze over before you have a chance. That's my concern with a movie like that. Watch it. It certainly beats the heck out of taking your friends to go see Heaven is for real or Noah or something like that because those movies are uh th they're problematic. At least God's not dead is not really problematic. No So anyway. Well, uh basically uh my uh my feeling is that kids need to be uh capable of taking leadership. especially in the cause of of these debatable issues like uh evolution, like cosmology, like even political things, because they if they're not equipped If they're not prepared, uh they're not gonna they're gonna fall. And there's so many opportunities for them to take leadership like in these clubs that are held in schools that are led by students. Uh i you know, these they have to take advantage of these things because if they do, they're reinforced in what they're w what their world view is. And speaking of the importance of you know understanding those who you don't agree with, uh I've spent some time reading the Book of Mormon, which I believe is written by Joseph Smith. Mormons would disagree with us. Delivered by the uh hands of the Angel Moroni, but um and written by a whole bunch of people other than Joseph Smith. But uh I read that 'cause I want to understand what exactly are the women's reading, you know, what's influencing their worldview and uh and be able to interact with them on on things and raise questions and have discussions. So Don't just pay attention to those you agree with. Pay attention to those you disagree with and get yourself educated. Arn Björn Dahl is with the uh Youth for Christ of Central Maryland. I'm Froy Skinner. Our show is The Faith Debate on WFMD. Our sponsor is Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? We are online at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Encourage you to visit today and visit often. And ho ho ho with all that stuff. Ah, humbug. Merry Christmas. And happy Kwanzaa? No, I don't think I'll go there. God bless you. Amen to that.