This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious treble beat, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Kula! We're Faith Community Leaders. Wrestle over the truth. Yeah, but in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble out. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moral. And in this corner, weighing in as a The pastor, teacher, and founder of Bridges connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder John Sweiser. Now I'm just getting warmed up. Yeah, we've got uh Tony Campbell back for another go-round and this time John Sweitzer, the big bridge builder, has joined into the conversation. So what are you got a little I'm the mixed master. The mixed master. So John Sweitzer um has started his is well underway now with his new initiative, Bridges. Yeah. It's going well. Yeah. Changing the pace of Frederick as we speak? Trying to. Yeah. I mean there's a lot of good stuff in Frederick without a doubt. And so uh you know, stepping into some of these gaps are uh it's an exciting place to be 'cause there's a lot of good people that are that are, you know, ready to step Well cool. On the panel this week again, Dr. Tony Campbell. He is running for United States Senate. in the state of Maryland as a Republican. Nice. As a Republican. The man is crazy. So I've um we've we've talked no Hogan Hogan's been doing pretty well, right? He's looking strong. Second most popular governor in the in So anyway, I I kind of almost unfairly spent some time the first couple of shows I did with uh with uh Dr. Campbell saying, you know, so you know, what happens if you don't win? But let's talk now right now about you know what happens when you win. We always focus on the president's first hundred days. So what's uh what's Tony Campbell's first hundred days gonna look like as a United States Senator. What are the things you're gonna be pushing hardest on? Um you know just having the conversations that we were talking about earlier. Sanctity for life being being a big one, uh school choice being another one. Um you know I I really believe that you know school choice is the um civil rights issue, the discrimination issue that that a lot of folks are are are faced with, you know. Um Is there anybody in the African American community that disagrees with you about that? No, but the question is how do we go about doing it? Sure. And and what people are used to having as opposed to, you know, a a new way of thinking about things. Um mention the Troy earlier. I mean I'm on the board of a charter school in Baltimore City and when And when kids get to our school in sixth grade, they're two to the three grade levels behind. And when they leave in eighth grade, they're at or above grade level in reading the math. That's so exciting. And and and it's not about the kids. But does that make you a threat Well, I think it well the system partly funds the tourist goal. So the one one thing that I hope that in the governor's second term and he's been pushing us at least Yeah. Um but again it's it's not necessarily about what is right and wrong, it's about having a political will to push it. And to make that happen. Totally. Yeah. And is there enough of that political will here in Maryland from what you can tell? Uh I I think in In Hogan's second term, you're going to see a lot of things that didn't happen in this first term. So how do you encourage that interesting. How do you encourage that from um you know, the federal side, you're trying to affect a s uh state change. So is that just gonna be trying to steer dollars to Maryland to help it happen for federal dollars or like what Well I I think uh the the question and I know that Betsy the boss is looking at discipline issues and and looking at expanding you know kind of the role of charters uh at the national level. Um Now this again goes back to was the proper role of government. I don't think the national government should be in that part of education to begin with Um and what you were saying earlier is that if we if we even start having that conversation as far as what's the role of the national government, then we maybe already lost a battle because we're dealing with them on on their terms instead of instead of the correct terms Um and so the their job is would be to is to get the government out of it. Is to get the national government out of uh of that process. Wow, so you'll be advocating the defunding of the federal education budget. Well guess what? I think it's kind of And she's and she's already done she's already doing it, but I I think the which is why she's hated. There are things that the that the national government should be responsible for as far as education and one of them and the main thing being security. infrastructure hardening our schools, making sure that there are that these incidents that happened are it's a lot harder for someone to enter in our schools and to do damage. Um that's a role that the Dational Government should play. Because if you go to Capitol Hill and walk into any of these House of Instant Office buildings, you have to go through a metal detector, you have to go through armed guards and and in our schools. You can make up some story and walk into just about any public school. So why wouldn't policing our schools be a state issue? Why not have state police? Responsible for that as opposed to you're saying the federal government. Well I'm saying if they're going to fund anything they should they should help fund infrastructure. Meaning the schools, the the physical security of the schools. Not not necessarily um, so so the point is if they do it. That's what they should be reposed. Releasing the schools to have the freedom to state by state uh figure out what's best for them. Well the national government doesn't have any should not have any role in teacher standards or curriculum management. Yeah, that was the problem we all uh were trying to figure out with with Bush. You know, he was pushing the notes on the but it meant he was buying into the federal government playing a role. Uh in that's where most of the fiasca was the central government trying to It's incredibly complicated because what we have right now is socialized education. at the primary grade levels anyway, and they're talking about trying to do it all the way through college as well. You know, free education, f quote unquote free education, the most expensive free education you'll ever get. Um But then I wait. So by socialized what do you mean by socialized education? It's one size fits all the governments in control. That's that's ever since we've had public schools. Yeah, that's the definition I'm using anyway. Okay. And so I just never heard it like quite said that way. And so I'm not sure. I can get kind of militant about the uh the whole school thing. Okay. And so uh and I'm also I believe that, you know free markets lead to flourishing because people have are called to then call upon their own talents and gifts that God's given them and people end up finding their niche and and they find their purpose and the human spirit is enlivened And the communities are enlivened around that. And so how we go from a socialized model uh now's gonna understand what I mean by that, to a pure uh free market model I don't think you're going to have a a pure free market market. You know, the government kinda helping to fund some of the schools. Yeah. Which begins to feel an awful lot like crony capitalism. Where the government's putting the finger on the scales of certain schools because they're giving funding to those schools and the other schools aren't getting that funding. And they're not playing on it financially on equal terms. Yeah, well I I think what what I would want as a parent is to have the choice to send my kid to whatever school I want that kid to go to. Whether you're a wealthy parent or not, if you're a poor parent, you have no choice right now. Right. That that's what I would want. And are you, Troy, saying that a pure capitalist system would be a like a voucher system, just a straight voucher system? for everybody? Like would you call that a pure uh pure capitalistic system? Is that what you're or free market system you're saying? Well th that's still not free market, but at least you have the choice of sending your kid where you where you want them to go. So you have the free market? No, it's not free market because you you still have taxpayers funding their vouchers. Sure. Yeah. Yeah. But the question is what is the what is the outcome of the education that you that your child is getting for the money that the taxpayers are spending? 'Cause right now it's terrible. Well, it does mean that they give me my money back because that means I get to send my kid to the school that I feel is best fit for us as a family. We have right now there's no choice like that. Half or a little more than half of the Feder Frederick County budget, for example, goes to the school system. So now it's two thirds in taxes. So it's grown, I guess, since I moved here. Right. Well when I ran for Board of Ed, that's what it was. I don't think it shifted. Alright, so we're talking about a huge amount of money. So just imagine I get to keep all that money. You get to keep all that money. Everybody who's a property owner in Frederick County gets to keep all that money. Well you won't be able to keep all that money. No, all that school that school money. Okay. Right. In in this idealized fantasy world. Right. Meaning that instead of spending school I could spend it on things I wanted to spend on. We're talking about a half a billion dollars or something like that, right? That half a billion dollars would then be I mean if he got five kids you sp you're talking about more than that. But I'm saying this all this money is freed up so that how because how would you fund a pure f free market system Well if you free up over a half a billion dollars there's a lot of money available. And you could set up programs like yours, bridges. We could have a bridges to a better future and have a whole school sort thing that's privately funded through donations, like a crowdfunding kind of an idea. And that's more of a free market model. And the government doesn't stick its nose in and then dictate, you know, what the valedictorians can say in their speeches and who can pray in what way at that sporting events. Because if I don't want my kid to go to a school that prays Christian prayers at a football game, I won't send him to that school. I'll send them to this other school. I'll have all these options. It'll be myriad And that would be that's in more of an I I I I understand it's fantasy world, it's not gonna happen. But my concern, I mentioned this with the pro life and these other issues, we take these half steps to kind of get closer to the ideal But sometimes I get concerned that the half step is almost worse than where we are because crony capitalism is a disease. That's a real problem. So I don't know how do we There's I'm probably asking questions no answer to. So so so your choice is socialism or crony capitalism. Well unless we unless we can figure out a way to unless we can figure out a way to incentivize to go boom all the way But what's the path to that? Right. Okay, I can only do this if I can see some sort of legitimate path to victory. Doesn't mean I'm gonna win, but I can see a path. And I'm gonna follow that path and hopefully I win. What's the path to a free market system education for the for any Frederick, let's keep it simple. Just for Frederick, how could Frederick do it? There's no there's no path, is there? Well, I mean th there's a there's a path that exists. The question is the question is the political will to make it happen. I mean you you you changed the county charter. You y you reallocate the money that's being spent for public schools. You you do something about the teachers' unions. I mean th those are the ways you do it, but the question is if you're the county executive you want to win another another four years as county executive Okay. Or if you're the governor, if you wanna if you want to win Frederick County by a decent margin, you're not gonna step into that hornet's nest. Right, yeah, it's a third rail. So would you mind if I took the discussion a slightly different direction, still dealing with school choice? But it's a free market. You can free exchange of ideas. A free exchange of ideas, yeah, so I can offend that well. Um and so uh if people could choose what schools they wanted to send their kids to. Um I think that if you're of a Jewish background you have a little bit of a concern that maybe uh people are gonna send their kids to Christian schools and you're gonna end up being uh, you know, just a part of a secular school or maybe a Jewish school, meaning that you won't be in the Christian majority. And over the last two millennia millennia is it millennia after the last two two millennia uh the Jewish community when it was not uh integrated well into the Christian community, uh the result tended to be that there were, you know, like these uh major um uh moments of uh you know just annihilating whole groups of Jewish people. And then the next uh question is would white people and African Americans, which oftentimes can seem to to be culturally in different places, would they choose to just go with their own culture? you know, or would they choose to you know to go together? Like like are there are there dangers of that kind of thing happening that they call it the balkanization of the school system. You know, I and is that bad if that were to happen? I I think it's likely that people would make choices for things that fit them most comfortably and oftentimes that's a cultural reality, you know? Yeah, I I think they're interculturally connected. I think there's something to be separate on. Um I'll I'll come at this from both angles. One is um the balkanization that that happens because of choice happens in our churches. R exactly. And so And and and I'd like to go there as we talk and you know let me know. You can go to you know You know, even today most of the churches that you go into, um, they they are predominantly one race or another. Yeah. Because that's kind of we tend to go where people where we feel comfortable So there's a whole number of churches and pastors that I even know here in Frederick that are intentionally integrated ways. But it begs the question, what's better you know, that that we all become one culture or that we allow the different uh groups to celebrate their own culture in ways that that can't be celebrated when when you're trying so hard to be one culture, you know? Say an African American church freedom to just be African American there's an expression of that culture that that deepens and enrichens you know, and same thing with Latin American, you know, churches or same thing with, you know, Korean or w you know whatever, you know, they they they hang on to and deepen a a certain cultural connection that I don't know is necessarily bad, but that people in the world tend to mock us for that for that as somehow, you know, that that it shows how ununified we are and how uh maybe racist or you know unkind we are. Well I don't think it's bad to go the other way out there. I'm not saying that I I'm not advocating for for one race only schools or churches. I'm just saying that I don't know that that's always bad I I I'm not high with both. I I think that what what I hope most thinking people would want is an equality of opportunity, not equality of outcome. Okay. So you know And so how does that play if I choose organization if I choose to go to a if I choose to be intentional to worship at a mixed church or or church of of mixed people, then that's my choice as an individual because that's where I feel like I I want to In fact you'll own it that much more. Exactly. You'll be a lot less offended by you know, by not uh not feeling like you can be your own culture because you've chosen to be a joint culture. Right. Yeah. And so buy-in. And so there's the uh so the opportunity is is the choice to decide what w you know, what community of faith did I want to be a part of? And I think that that kind of translates to your school question is that if Now my parents chose to I mean I we were living in this place called Midland, which is West you know, West Pennsylvania, and uh let's say sixty percent African American. My my parents intentionally moved me and my two brothers to a white school. Because that was the choice that they had before them to make that decision. Now they could have made a different decision, um, but they were more they were more interested in um The choice of of how how that choice would affect impact their children. I think just cultural It wasn't it it wasn't a culture because, you know, we still went to the same church. We still went back to Midland three times a week to go to church. So we were still in that and we were still in that part in that community. Yeah. Um but as far as School choice? Yeah. They made the choice to move twenty miles away. Yeah. You know, three episodes ago I was asking you some personal questions about your family and background upbringing and stuff, and I didn't get into like your present situation. Are you married? Do you have children? I have children, I'm not married. Okay. And are your children's uh your children's school age? One of 'em is. We'll be. Okay. And so what kind of education choices are you, you know, planning for your children? I am scared Scared, scared. Me too. She's five years old. She's Yeah. Bright kid. I mean she's she's terrific. Um but I don't you know, I want her to go to public school. I want her to have that experience. Yeah. But Right. I want to put a fence around a kid, you know, twenty-four seven. But so I have to I have to find I have to make the choice to find a school that I'm comfortable with for her to be in. Right. And that's and that's extremely difficult right now. Sure. You know? So I I don't I I really don't have a question for you, Troy. I mean I don't have it I don't have an answer for you. I'm struggling with that right now because it there's two or three schools that she can't go to. But I'm doing my due diligen due diligence as a parent to try to figure out which school she's gonna go to kindergarten. Yeah, the reality is that many uh uh school administrators, those that are in leadership in public schools, uh consistently send their kids to private schools. And so, you know, if if it's not good enough for you, then you know w why aren't you willing to, you know, provide the same choice for other people that you get? I'm reminded of things I heard when I was growing up Uh, and then things I heard a little bit later as I was a little older growing up and things I now find myself. It seems like every half a generation, biblical generations are forty years, I guess, nowadays generations are like every six months. Like if we name the generations. So I'm not sure what a generation is anymore. But you know, let's say twenty-ish years is maybe for a contemporary idea of a generation. And it seems like every twenty years the new cycle of kids entering school comes up And th there's kind of this recurring theme, like, oh well I'm glad my kids are done, I don't know what my kids are gonna do. And then their kids have kids and they're like and they say the same thing, Oh, I'm glad I'm through with school now, but I don't know what my kids are gonna do and But I feel like this time it seems different. Doesn't it feel different? Yeah, it's because you're fifty years old now. Sorry, did I say that on the air? It could be because I'm older and wiser and better looking. Might have all might have something to do with all of that. Wife is. If I think the circumstances rechange. By dead. Huh? Twenty fifth wedding anniversary. And you guys invited all your family and friends and we did a recommitment ceremony. That was beautiful. Yeah, yeah. She was looking good. I'm not so sure. Yeah, she she took over the dance floor as she's uh will always do if there's a dance floor present. So that was cool. So but that's kind of the gist of my raising that point. Yeah. Is it my imagination? I mean you guys are all about the same age as me, so maybe we're all in this boat together. But or are things legitimately reaching like a tipping point where we have to be legitimately worried Not just a little bit concerned and boy, I wish it wasn't so bad, but legitimately worried if you have a five year old entering the school system right now. My concern is the lack of sanctity the sanctity for life. And how that manifests itself in in people's actions. You know. I don't you know it's one thing when I was you know I'm fifty two, so we're about the same, right? Yeah. Okay. So you get bullied. You can either decide to roll with it or you can decide to um you know fight. Right. Oh, I like the way that you're tying this together, I'm following it. And you settle it. Yeah. And then that was it. Yeah. Either either you were either you won or you lost and you and if you won you felt good. If you lost you got your butt kicked. But that's where it ended. Right. Yeah. Now you feel bad about yourself because someone's picking on you, you may go home and get a weapon and come back to a school and and just After the math. And part of that is because the bullying isn't quite as direct as it was when we were kids. You were bullied directly to your face when we were going to school because there's no social media. Now you're being hit sideways with comments and things that go viral. You know, s you did something stupid school and the video goes viral or somebody calls you a name and people keep sharing it and forwarding it to the other friends. And it's hard to address and confront the person who's the offender because it's kinda out there somewhere. They can't go punch him in the nose. Well but I think the difference though is that like w when I was in that environment that I just told you about. Only if they're named John Sweitzer. Actually if you can finish your thought in like fifteen seconds later. But back in the day, I was called the N-word. Sure. You wouldn't y y kids they're so sensitive they wouldn't even dream of doing that today. So, you know I I I just think that we've we've just lost that, you know, the whole idea of life is sacred and and we just you just don't do that. We just there are the lines you don't cross and they're Those lines are extremely blurred now. I agree. I'm in agreement with that. The one in agreement is Jonathan Sweitzer. Uh I'm Troy Skinner. The other voice we've been hearing is Tony Campbell. I'm going to use the N-word. He's nice. He's a very nice guy. Dr. Tony Campbell running for U. S. Senate In the state of Maryland. As a Republican, the man's crazy. Alright, till next week, God bless