This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The fate debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com. Keyword fate. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with a master of Divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the faith debate master of ceremonies. Oh, yeah. Troy Skinner. Some pastors, such as Robert Jefferist, who is a vocal supporter of President Trump, have said that God is not against. against walls. Walls are not unchristian. The Bible says even heaven is gonna have a wall around it. Not everyone's gonna be allowed in. When President Trump is insisting on a wall, he is fulfilling not only his constitutional but his God-given responsibility. And he should not be demonized for doing that. So other pastors say that this view is taking Bible passages out of context, that the true message of the gospel supersedes walls and shows Jesus pulling people over walls, not enforcing walls. What does the Bible say about Trump's wall? I'm Troy Skinner, and here to help us identify biblical perspectives on the wall. Morgan Kokenauer, pastor of Frederick Seventh Day Adventist Church, and Tim May, pastor of Pleasant View Church of the Brethren. And yes, you're going to recognize his voice. Tim May is also one half of the afternoon show here in W. WFMD heard Monday through Friday, three to six is called Biz Maryland Live with Frank and uh Tim, or actually I guess we promoted as Tim and Frank, although You'd never know when you listen to the show. Tim will put a caller on the air. I don't know if you ever listen to the show much more again. You're probably busy preparing your sermons and all that sort of stuff and ministering to your you know flock, yes, yeah, you know, doing important things. Well well uh Tim Gallivant's on the radio But Tim will talk about whatever he's talking about and then he'll say, All right, let's go to the John and put he'll put a guy named John on the air and the first words out of John's mouth Frank It happened. It happened. Like every caller. Let's go to Tim. Frank We like it, do you? We we only do that for you. I think it's hilarious. Anyway, I teased it last week, um, and so we're actually gonna do it. I think I teased it two weeks ago too. We never got to it last week. The Bible has some things to say about these sorts of issues, the people are quoting them and throwing at each other. Sure. You know, like spaghetti of the wall and hoping some of it'll stick Speaking of Frank, some of these verses I'm going to cite are from Frank. He wanted me to throw these at you. So one of them is Deuteronomy 27, verse 19. Old Testament part of the Pentateuch, old, old, old part of the Bible. It says, Cursed be anyone who perverts the justice due to the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow. And so when somebody who maybe doesn't understand all the intricacies of Christian theology sees a verse like that, it's cited by somebody and they're like, Yeah That's a good point. And they maybe they go online. They might not own the Bible, so they go online. They look it up. Deuteronomy, how do you spell that? Okay, chapter 27, verse 19. It does. It says, Curse be anyone who prevents the justice due the sojourner So Morgan, Jim, what do you think about that, huh? What do you gotta say? Huh? Huh? Huh? Frank, I'll tell you. Frank! Frank It's it's it's Chris, let's go back. We're old Testament. You're gonna go into Exodus uh twenty two where it says the same thing. You should not wrong a sojourner. Or oppress him, for you were a souljourner in the land of Egypt. So you're gonna get these different uh points back and forth. It doesn't say anything about being a illegal sojourner, does it? I I just asked you. I I thought that was a fair job. Well I I know what when I when when we are when we are challenged not a tact but when you're challenged You have to think in the context where they're getting this from and what actually was going on. I mean it it's very nice that that uh you can look up Bible verses and say, Well, yeah, this is it. What about the soul journer? Well first of all this is nothing about illegal soul journey, we're not talking about soul journals. Well I can even take it a step further, Tim, is that is it is it possible to provide justice to somebody and secure the border? Sure. So I don't even think this is this has nothing to do with Sovereignty or security importance. Nothing. Exactly. I want you to go back there, I want you to build a wall, and anybody who tells you to stop, don't listen to them So God clearly can work in a context where you can have borders and walls and still provide justice to a sojourner. Uh you're gonna find sojourners welcomed and and that's and they're quoted throughout. But this has nothing to do with the subject matter, Frank. I mean choice. Alright, well here's one from the New Testament Matthew chapter twenty-five verses thirty five and thirty-six. It says For I was hungry and you gave me food. I was thirsty, you gave me drink. I was a stranger, you welcomed me. I was naked and you clothed me. I was sick and you visited me. I was in prison. And you came to me. I agree. That's beautiful. Mm-hmm. And I agree. And what does this have to do with illegal immigration? Well I think Frank, if he were here, would say these are hungry, naked, thirsty strangers who are coming. And we should be. If they do come to me, I will take care of 'em. He's saying they have. They must have. Frank we we talked about this uh Frank It's fifteen hours a week I say that name, it's no wonder. I apologize, Troy. No, no worries. Much nicer. Um again, this doesn't say anything about illegal persons. This doesn't say anything about w a border wall or people coming in illegally and uh breaking into your home. So none of that. This is a Christian monster. That Matthew I knew you were going to bring Matthew uh up at twenty five. Uh I agree. We should do that. And if they're here I would do that. But the frank the the point is I don't think It goes back to supply and demand, I guess. I I don't know. We've we've got to come up to I want people to understand that Christians love everyone. We b you know that we love our enemies. We you know that's that's the Christian life But there has to be some common sense in love. I mean, you know, if somebody's stabbing you with a knife, you can love 'em, but you better, you know, better get that knife away from 'em, you know. Uh i I'm not trying to be silly here, it's just that And that's beautiful. I that I can't wait to get to that land. It doesn't exist on this earth But until we start realizing that we can't, it's an impossibility, and that we begin to injure others. So then you start to say, well what's life is more is this illegal immigrant's life? Is this important to my child's life? Why should I be, you know? I I think you you you take us down the rabbit hole that doesn't exist. So yeah, I agree with Matthew twenty five completely. But while in Matthew, uh other parts of Matthew, or in chapter twenty two for example, you shall love your neighbor as yourself, Matthew chapter five, you should love your enemies even. With no question. So Well wouldn't you don't w if you went somewhere else and you were in desperate straits, you you you were fleeing oppression in your country, let's say America turned on a dime and became a really oppressive place and you wanted to run to Mexico, wouldn't you want Mexico to Take you in and uh legally. Yeah, I'd want to do it legally. You you keep leaving out the fact there's a l a right way and a wrong way to do this thing, and you cannot justify wrong by saying what's the right thing to do. That doesn't make something wrong right by saying it's it's the right thing to do. Uh you know, uh it it's the old story uh is you're starving and you go in and steal a loaf of bread It's the right thing to do it but it's wrong. Well let me let me spin this a little bit because you just gave me a thought that I think Frank might ask if he was clever. Which he wouldn't be. What if what if the current immigration law weren't written the way that it is? What if we had open borders? Would you be advocating for more control at the border and maybe c constructing a wall and placing limits and things like that. So is it merely that the civil law is what it is and we're just we need to you know subscribe to that? What if the law were the opposite of what it is now? What if what if Frank got to write the law? Would we still be supporting the law then? Lord help us. It's not like this is like a safe, you know, w we're we're protected or we're not protected. So we would pretty much have that. I I think again it would it would dictate if the law said that anybody can come in at any time, that's fine But it would come to a point of of again supply and demand. It would come to a point of can we provide? And and I think the country w there would be a there would be a revolution of kind, Frank, if we said, you know, we have to at some point take care of our country or take care of our pendulum would swing. Yeah. Exactly. I didn't mean to take care of it. No, no, you're fine. I mean I agree with all the text. I mean I I I wholeheartedly believe in all the text that you're you're presenting right now and Um I I would I would just say this with w would would we use these texts if you get pulled over for by a police officer if we're going thirty miles over the speed limit and say officer Yeah. So you're supposed to clothe me and love me and not give me tickets and let me out of this. Well I'll I'll take a stab at answering Frank's question that I may have for him to ask. Uh and the reason the reason I think it's an interesting question is because uh it's easy for us to default and say, well the civil laws are and we should we should abide by the civil laws and there's a lot of merit to that. But what if the civil laws don't agree with our sensibilities? What's governing our sensibilities? And so I think it's a broader question. So Should we you know if you ever watch some of the talking head shows on Fox News channel, like Tucker Carlson is you know, he's he's famous for asking these questions. So how many is a how m how many is too many? How many is enough? When can we turn off the the spigot, you know, and say, no more, we've got enough here. Uh and he asks those questions for mostly for economic reasons, but economics can be a moral issue. If people can't put food on their f uh on their table, can't feed their families, can't find aanful employment to give them them their lives some sort of of of of meaning and purpose and and and and and and feel like they they have they have an honored position in society. Those are moral questions, right? We should be we should be Christians should be able should be for the flourishing of individuals. And so are we helping those who are already here to flourish if they're already at a disadvantage um for gain with gainful employment, for example, and we increase their competition, driving down wages. That's a big Tucker Carlson thing, right? He talks about it all the time. That the big business folks, they want illegal immigration Which is why there's a wink and a nod from both parties on this sometimes. To your point, Tim, practically speaking we have opened borders to a large extent. So I think we as Christians can say, yeah, the civil law happens to be there. But even if it wasn't, we need to worry about family units being able to provide for themselves, being able to feed their families and and have and be able to vet those who are coming in so that we don't have um What was that woman's name in California that was killed by the the person who was had been deported? Kate Stanley. Kate Style. And that's interesting. What do we do with somebody like that? He was deported what three, four, five, six times? At least. And he kept coming coming back. How do you solve that? You mentioned there's a whole bunch of verses. I'm not going to read all because they're all kind of saying the same thing, but if you want to read along at home or study, do a Bible study, these are some verses you could look to Exodus chapter 22, verse 21. I just read that one for you. Leviticus 19, 33 to 34. Correct. Deuteronomy chapter 10, verses 18 and 19. Also Deuteronomy twenty four rather verses nineteen and twenty two, Ezekiel forty seven, twenty-one to twenty three, Zechariah chapter seven, verse ten, Malachi three, verse five Uh I mentioned Matthew twenty-five, um also Hebrews chapter uh thirteen verse two. These are the verses that get bandied about, and they're and they're cherry-picked. And it's interesting because here's a guy Bishop Michael McKee of the North Texas Conference of the United Methodist Church said that Jeff Sessions, when he used Romans chapter thirteen, did it without the additional context that would make it a more complete picture, more complete reading of Scripture. Because he says that just a few verses after the passage that Jeff Session cited, that the Apostle Paul writes that we're to love our neighbor as ourselves. uh Romans chapter thirteen is talking about the civil authorities and and uh and being obedient to them and not you know not being disobedient as a people, uh as Christian people. So he says that it's just cherry picking of a verse and frankly it's just not appropriate. Is it happening on both sides? Without question. Absolutely. Without question. Are you preaching on this stuff at all? One well we preach on everything from loving thy neighbor, loving thy brother to uh forgiveness and things such as that. But do do I preach on the wall? No. Do I preach on the illegal immigration? No What if you were pre uh uh have you preached on this at all? Uh in and um and it was d I took more of approach of What is king in your conversation? When I mean what is king, I mean what is most important? And unfortunately a lot of Christians make politics I mean politics and religion are two incredibly personal issues that people get very emotional about And unfortunately we get very emotional about our theology, our beliefs, our political views, while our neighbor is struggling with a lot of issues. And we're not we don't get passionate about that stuff. So I think we have misplaced priorities. Without questions. But I think but to to your point though, the church uh the church has to be relevant and lead in the conversation. Nobody's coming to church coming to the church to learn on how to deal with the border wall. They're not coming to the church to learn to hear about how we handle race issues or how do we handle conflict resolution. The church is not uh a le uh a leader in those conversations, but it but it has to be. We have to set that example. But as far as these conversations, listen, unfortunately there's a lot of preachers and a lot of Christians who take a lot of Bible verses out of context and on a daily basis And misapply them to our own lives. And one of them is I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. Exactly. I can't throw a football seventy yards through Christ who strengthens me. And that's but yet every football player to a certain degree has that written somewhere. So That's Morgan Coconau, he's the pastor at Frederick Seventh Day Adventist Church. Uh Tim May also on the show. He's the pastor at Pleasant View Church of the Brethren. And I think we got your website wrong last week in. It's pleasantview dot com. Right. Not we said dot org last week. We didn't say that, didn't we? Yeah. Okay. Uh I I'm I'm sharing it, see? Christian brotherly thing. I'm sharing the blame. We said. org last week. So if you guys were preaching, um Yeah. The the part of the Bible that talks about you know Jesus and Mary and Joseph fleeing to Egypt um or uh passages that talk about you know taking care of the least of these. Would you feel like you know, I probab people might be thinking about the immigration issue, so would you have an illustration or would you make mention of it all? Would you just you're clear of it? Well of course a lot of the time in in sc in sermon writing and and prepa uh preparation for a sermon that you're led by the Holy Spirit. Um I I don't know that I would take those I I don't know I would be including that to make a point about immigration. I I don't think that would be the purpose of my of my message It would be if I preach uh I do preach on all all these uh subjects, of course, but I I don't know that I would, you know, make it Oh, by the way, this could be what we think about illegal immigration. Because I I I I don't think it's applicable. I I really don't. I I think what what what the world wants us to do as Christians is to take a beating on this. Is that Christians should all say, all Christians should say we need to bring everybody in and take care of 'em and and all Christians should say that. But the point is, but we can't You know. I I I want to, you know, provide food for everybody in Frederick County tonight, but I can't. And I know there's people going to bed hungry tonight in Frederick County. I want everybody in Frederick County to have a roof over there and be housed. I want that. Because I'm a Christian. But I can't. And it's not knowing that you y it it's not that we don't want to, it's that at some point there there are limits to what we're able to accomplish What if you're doing a sermon series on Nehemiah? Okay. Mm-hmm. Yeah, uh there's l lots of focus on wall building in Nehemiah. You you would it would be an elephant in the room, right? You'd have to at that point you'd have to You wouldn't be in injecting Wall, right? I that issue. It'd be it would be ever present. People would be almost expecting if you can do a whole series on Nehemiah If you don't mention immigration and the southern border wall in the United States, you'd be leaving some What about Matthew twenty one? Twenty one thirty-three. Let's talk about another parable, the parable of the landowner, who planted a vineyard and put a wall around it, and dug a wine press and built a tower and rented it out to the vine to the wine growers and went on a journey What the heck does that have to do with the balls the walls of uh of Mexico? Absolutely nothing And yet so here's this this is um uh the in the first week this is our fourth week together doing the shows, and the first week I was quoting extensively from a a blog. uh from somebody that I know and respect and think he's wonderful. But I I'm not so sure I agree with him on this issue. But he and I'm not sure I so so sure I agree with quoting from the message translation of the Bible, but he tr he quoted from the message Uh 2 Corinthians chapter 10, verses 3 through 6. And again, this is a deep message translation, so it might if you haven't read that, it's going to sound a little bit weird to you. The world is unprincipled. It's dog eat dog out there. The world doesn't fight fair, but we don't live our fight or fight our battles that way. The tools of our trade aren't for marketing or manipulation, but they're for demolishing that entire massively corrupt culture. We use our powerful God tools for smashing warped philosophies tearing down barriers erected against the truth of God, fitting every loose thought and emotion and impulse into the structure of life shaped by Christ Our tools are ready at hand for clearing the ground of every obstruction and building lives of obedience into maturity. What about building lives into maturity, not building walls, right, Proverbs 25, 28 Proverbs twenty-five, twenty-eight. Like a city that is broken into and without walls. It's like a man who has no control over his spirit. Wow. Even in Proverbs. So we can find anywhere in the Bible, counter to counter, point to point. Any way we want to turn the scripture. It comes down to what is your responsibility as a Christian? And that's what I think we're addressing. Yeah. I wouldn't even go further but I want to hear what Morgan has to say first. No, no, I I uh once again I think that you have to you have to look at context. Um we live we in 2019 we're not really big on context. Whether it's a statement that someone makes an interview, people don't want to read the whole interview to get context or even uh th they'll read their own intent into things and we'll even read our intent into what was said two thousand years ago to say, okay, well in two thousand nineteen is this way, so that's what it must mean in in two nineteen AD. And so I I for me Uh I don't think to be honest with you, I think you look at the Bible and I don't think the Bible's main goal is to tell you how to secure your border or be a sovereign state. I think that the Bible I think is silent on that. and it allows people to look at what is their current situation and find out the best practical. It doesn't mean they do it the absolute right way, but they're doing it the best they can with the whatever the resources they have. But it's it's practical and flexible. But the but the Bible and because even Jesus said, Listen, my kingdom is not of this world. I have a whole other mission I'm trying to accomplish here. And the Bible is not here to be used as some kind of it's amazing when people want to use the Bible. They won't use it daily, but they'll use it for their agenda. And it's a good point. It's slightly different, so I'm going to give my point too. Uh but on your point on the context, absolutely. Uh and I think um part of what you're saying, we should pay attention to what did it mean to the person who wrote it in their context. What would What did they intend for it to mean to his original readers in their context? What does it mean within the context of the whole of Scripture? What is in other words, it's also God's word, Christians believe. So what is God saying in that particular passage in the grand scheme, the meta-narrative, if you will, of of the Bible? So there's that context. Um and then th if it's, you know the Bible we're talking about each and Near Eastern culture, so what is it f in the in the context of all the surrounding cultures, all of that. And once we figured out all of that, then it's how does that lesson apply to me in my context? When we leap straight to our context and we forget all the other stuff We we've we've uh what's it called? Anachronistic? Is that what it's called? I don't know. If if that's not right, you know what I mean if you're if you're a student of uh of uh of vocabulary But even m I was gonna make the point a different contextual point. Even within its own context, I think there's problems with trying to make Second Corinthians chapter ten say what this blogger was trying to say. Because I I kind of did this on purpose. I was trying to read it the way the blogger might have read it. But it says that we use our powerful God tools for smashing warped philosophies, tearing down barriers. And I emphasized barriers last time. And I just stopped there as though there's a period there. But there's not. It continues to say, tearing down barriers erected against the truth of God. What kind of barriers are we talking about? We're not talking about physical geopolitical barriers at all. We're talking about spiritual barriers that have to do with salvation and the truth of God advancing and the kingdom expanding. We're talking about something very different. So even there You're taking it out of its immediate context. It's clear meaning if it as clear as the message Bible can be. And and not even being true to it there. So I think as students of the Bible we have to be careful. Um and if yeah, it your point's a good one. People are throwing these these verses at each other, but when's the last time they even opened a Bible? Or you or you have one, yeah. Yeah, although statistics say that most people have a Bible in their home and church going Christians usually have multiple copies of Bibles in their home. So and and if you don't What ninety-eight percent of the of the country now has access to the internet. So there's no excuse without finding the Bible somewhere. That's very well we've got only a couple of minutes left, so I guess we're gonna uh do what we've done the last couple of weeks because It's coming. We just uh we just had April Fool's Day. We're about uh uh what a week or so away from two weeks away from uh when when is uh when's Palm Sunday? Palm Sunday is right around the corner. It was thirteenth. So it's uh Thirteenth of April. Thirteenth or fourteenth. Well I thought Easter's the twentieth. Maybe it's the twenty three. Easter is the twentieth. Yeah, so thirteenth. So anyway. We keep changing it. So with all of that going on, that means it's time for churches to do passion plays and other sorts of uh uh theatrical performances and uh your church Morgan is no different. So what do you got going on? You know what if it is an opportunity for churches to remember Jesus and to get people to remember what he's done for us and and we're taking a different spin on this. We won't be focusing necessarily on the life of Christ and his death and resurrection. as much as we'll be looking about what our God does for us throughout history. And one of those segments in history is Esther and what God just did for his people. When they called out for him, he had already been in the work. for a number of years. And so we are wanting to recognize that and see that not only did God do this for us, but He can do it in our lives here today. And on April 12 and 13, uh we are wanting to do a p we are doing a play on the on Esther and her uh her uh rising star into becoming the queen of of the Medo-Persian Empire Very cool. So you can get more information by going to ariseforgod. org. That's the church's website and they're gonna have uh I think like a banner ad you can click on and get all the information you need about that. Thank you so much. Morgan Kokenauer from Frederick Church uh um uh seventh day at Venice uh church. Um Tim May, pastor at uh Pleasant View, Church of the Brethren. Perfect. Uh this is the Faith Debate on nine thirty W F M D. Find us online at WFM D. dot com. Key word faith. Till next week, one hundred sixty seven and a half hours from Just about right now. God bless