Welcome to the center of Big Brother City in the heart of Bridellock County. People continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Bank debate on Frederick's News Radio nine thirty WFMD is brought to us by Futless Loving and Heating, Help We Make You Smile, BMC Accounting and Insurance, Proud supporters of New Life Christian Academy and Holidays who happily is sending Bob on a cruise and maybe he just won't come back. He won those intimate three hour cruises day days. Um we're gonna have last week if you were listening, um we we started a conversation that we are gonna finish on this week's show with Fahim Yunus, but And uh to start out the show, we're going to go in a different direction with Arn Björndal, who's with the um Central Maryland Youth for Christ. Um but Jonathan Sweitzer is here as well. He's here pastor of Cross River Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. I want to encourage you to visit us online on WFMD. com. keyword faith. There you'll find all sorts of links to great religious stuff, different uh faith traditions, that sort of thing. And also at the home of the Faith Debate blog. My blog is your blog, so email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel dot com. Pretty much whatever you send to me will be posted with some exceptions. I mean and you'll you'll know when you said it to me that this is probably the exception. He will never post this. And in that case you're probably right. And and we have some people walking by. This is a live in the street edition of Faith Debate. So we are actually in the street at the Industry Festival of Frederick. So you're hearing. this show. I think it might be like December now, I don't know. But I have no idea when this show's gonna air. But uh we want the crowd around us though to hear about the C at the full. That's a big deal. Let's real quick before we get into that, talk about Youth for Christ in general, like in Your your elevator speech, thirty seconds, sixty seconds. What is Youth For Christ all about and why are you involved with it? Alright, uh Youth for Christ is started about sixty years ago by a guy named Billy Graham and he got us started. Billy who Graham are Billy Graham, you ever hear of I'm not sure if I've heard of Billy Graham but sounds like a good Yeah, it's a good name. And uh it's basically an evangelical ministry to reach out to people. People know what he's about. Uh we basically focus on kids and we uh uh invite kids to become a part of uh a church, uh a Christian church. Now when you say kids, what age range are you typically talking about? Uh we're involved with middle school and high school kids primarily. And uh central Maryland Youth for Christ is uh involved in Frederick and Washington counties. So teens and preteens. Yeah, exactly. Sixth grade through twelfth grade. And how many people are on your uh Central Maryland EutherPrist team? Uh volunteer or otherwise? We have eight staff, we have uh eight board members and about sixty to seventy uh volunteers. Okay, so eighty ish or so. folk involved and they all report to you. Uh yeah, something like that. Sort of. Well they all report to Jesus, right? Exactly. That's better. I like that one better. Alright, so this is not connected to denomination or any sort of church uh official church structure or institution. It's a parachurch organization. That's correct. Yeah, we really uh promote uh Christ more than we uh promote even you for Christ. We promote all kinds of things that uh would help a kid find his way into a church, um but not necessarily my church but A church. Are there uh traditions within the body of Christ, within the church, uh that more readily and more often align themselves with what you guys are doing? Uh yeah. I I'd say that one of the big things about us th is uh pretty obvious is that we really believe that kids need the opportunity to express themselves in schools. And I you say traditions th there's some s there's some churches and whatever that don't carry that sometimes uh as an important part of it, but the ones that do they kind of see us as uh promoting their kind of stuff because we believe that they have a an i a necessity to express their uh religious beliefs within the framework of a school system. So as part of what you do uh advocating it on the legal end of things too, like lobbying uh state houses and that sort of thing? Uh not anymore. Uh we believe that where it is now is good. The kids have the opportunity to to express themselves or Under the Equal Access Act, uh kids have the right to like any other club in the in the school to have a a club meeting to talk about God. Uh it's actually uh most people don't realize this, but it's amazing how free a kid is. to express their Christianity or e any part of their faith in school. They have the right to say what they want to say. So you just have to educate people as to what their rights are. People are self limiting more than they need to be. That is correct. Absolutely. Now how long have you been with uh the uh Youth for Christ movement, how long you been with the Central Maryland? Twenty five years. Okay, what changes if any have you seen in twenty five years? Well early on we saw the the Equal Access Cave Act came in and um if I can tell you a quick story the first time I was ever involved was see you at the poll it was over at Lingonore High School and it was a group of kids who were had never experienced uh see you at the poll before and they were um afraid it was actually a little intimidating back then it was around 1988 I believe or night eighty nine and uh we gathered in the uh lobby of the school and as we did a group of kids they said all right we had to go ask permission from the principal if we could do this and And they gathered in the lobby and I I I got there and they said, Uh are you ready to go I asked them, Are you ready to go? They said, Well, yeah, sort of. They were kind of scared, you know, just intimidated. So I said, Hey, what do you say we pray right now? And one guy said, Here? In the lobby? And I said, Yeah. So we grabbed hands and one guy led in prayer. And there were about nine or ten of us holding hands while about five hundred high school students were walking past. And a group of people who were girls and guys and one crazy adult uh to pray that they could have a CU at the poll at their school. And it was absolutely breathtaking to see that how silent everybody got as they went walk past this group of nine or so kids. Maybe many join in or they were just respectful. They were extremely respectful. No one joined in. Okay that that interesting in its own right. So you mentioned you know brought up see at the polls so talk about that. What is that? When is that and why should I care? Well uh again it's a place a lot of people are not sure that um we should have uh kids have the opportunity to express the of religious faith in the uh in school. I believe you should, because it's like leaving something at home that's essentially a critical part of you. And you can't do that. You can't leave behind the the you know the color of your skin, the the type of nationality you bring you can't leave behind the God that you worship either. It's it's just a a basic part of your your being. So C U S poll is just a a movement of of kids spurred by kids, led by kids to pray at their flagpole uh and this year is on September twenty fifth, uh at one hour before school starts at any school across the United States and now acros around the world. What is the official see at the poll day? September Wednesday, September twenty fifth. And is it always is like the third or fourth Wednesday in the September kind of thing? And the idea behind that was to get it get the school year started on the right foot. You wouldn't believe what the kids pray for when they get there. It it's amazing. They pray for the si uh in my opinion the most serious things in life. They pray for their country. They pray for their president, for their representatives, for their governor. It's amazing. It's not just, you know, bless mommy and bless daddy. No, no, no. These are kids who have serious prayer requests that are praying for serious matters. Now if I'm doing the math right in my head, it will be the fourth Wednesday of September. In this case, yeah, yeah. Well it but it isn't it's not always the fourth Wednesday of September as we I believe it is. the next coming school year or whatever, it's it's every year just make a note. Latter part of September on Wednesday. See the pool at the polls going on. So if you're uh so led have your children get involved with that. Appreciate that. Well I'm so glad that you could come out today. Such a beautiful day. We uh will continue to support and appreciate what you're doing. Thanks so much. We're gonna transition now from this portion of the Faith of Eight Show to the next portion of the Faith of Eight Show. And uh basically we we had to do that as a favor to Fahim Yunus because he was so so bloodied and sullied after the the last show. That's right. That he needed a little respite. So Absolutely. And thanks for calling the ambulance for me as well. You know that they gave me a little money to play with. Right. Live in the street edition of Faith Debate, uh actually in the street at the industry festival of Frederick. Yes. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley. church which the last five or ten minutes was the most silent he has ever been on a face to face show. Uh 'cause I was back working on the MTA working again. Uh Fahim Yunus is with Ahmadiyya Muslim community. He writes for Huffington Post dot com. He has his own website. MuslimArican. com of the how the try to break that out by syllables. This is the Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. By the way, I'm Troy Skinner and our sponsor of Putman Clumbing and Heating, BMC uh accounting and insurance and cruise holidays. So last week we were talking about Syria we we started out talking about Syria. Yeah. Uh we ended up getting into uh back and forth tit for tat on you Muslims aren't very nice to us Christians. You focus on the fringe I mean I thought we were a lot more mature than that. And then it was just a little tips. And then on the other on the other side, exact same argument in reverse. The the takeaway from that is Christianity is not a monolithic, Islam is not monolithic. That's perfect. However, I will say that good Biblical Christianity should be somewhat monolithic. We should all be in lockstep on the core teachings of the Bible. So that's the question is So there's an element of that. And so my question would be Vast majority of Islam look at the teachings of the Ahmadiyya community and say, You guys are in lockstep with the core teachings that we agree are core to our strands of Islam. The answer in is yes, if you look at that large majority. You know, you make it sound like Ahmadiyya Muslim is one group and the rest of the one point four billion Muslims are one group. That's not true. What actually is happening is you have hundred groups out there. This is a marketplace of Islamic ideas. When you look at that market, it is controversial among a lot of Muslims I probably because they like to say that unlike Christianity, which has all these different denominations and traditions, Islam is united. We we have no translations of our Quran and it's a very good idea. There is only one Quran but go to Wikipedia and the and you know the the answer is out there. So if you look at the Wikipedia page that splits Islam by I agree with you. I just have to Muslims I talked about. Oh my god And so I mentioned that. But you know you go to Iraq and Afghanistan, so when I asked them, you know, you guys are such good friends, but what was that eight year war between Iraq and Afghanistan weren't those two Muslim brothers? Right. And they said that was an American conspiracy. And I say, okay, tomorrow if your dog is sick, that too is an American conspiracy, right? Because this is like you know, this is the deflection that's going on in the Muslim world that we don't have a problem. It's all out there. And I completely disagree with the question. I mention you and how we do Goldman handshakes and we're good friends and all that. Uh uh he's he's he's that's not Islam. Oh that is beautiful. I just want them to come and take a sh take a table you know, chair at this table. There is no table, the virtual table. Yes I just want them to come here and say that to my face and you know let's split the hands. Yeah, let's just I'm fifty fifty. Okay, we'll make a point to have a show like that with the five years. Absolutely. Why not? Why not because Muslim Kabul c I will say to their to their faith, to their faith, you're my Muslim brother and sister. Sure. You are a part of my family. If they say you're Then I'll say that's the problem why we are still in the fifteenth century. Here lies the problem of the Muslim world. There is no external enemy. We are each other's enemies. And that's one thing our community very Very proudly, Amidia Muslim community we say our motto is love for all, hatred for none. When we say love for all, we mean it. Short of justice, yeah, you know somebody committed a crime, I can't just give him love. I may hang the guy but still give him my love. Justice is justice, but short of that We don't hate people. I don't know if this will be helpful to you, but I've come to a place where I consider the uh the execution of justice to be an expression of love. I agree with you. So I don't see that the Quran. to the person you know who was wrong. So really think about it. So we are a community that still believes in love for all, hatred for none. That is why I was once on a radio show uh in Tennessee and the guy called me out on on radio. He said, Well I spoke to the local Muslim community and they said they don't even consider you Muslims. And I told him, I said, look, I do consider people Muslim. Anybody who says there is no God but Allah and Muhammad peace be upon him is his Prophet. I consider him a Muslim. But you should go and tell them This is the reason why we are still stuck in the seventh century. This is the reason that we are not getting another Nobel laureate. This is the reason we have to come out to the Western nation with our hands stretched out saying, Give us some money You know, we need to introspect and that is the problem of the Muslim world today that we believe everything is an American conspiracy. Yes Yeah. Jonathan and I would probably feel completely different because we're on the other side of that argument when it comes to Christianity, right? Right. In what sense? I'm not following. We would have a Christian somebody who professed to be a Christian who says, look, we're Christians. We're brothers and sisters in Christ. We can differ about these different things, but for you to say I'm not so sure you're a Christian because you would like to say that to somebody, I'm not so sure that what you're espousing is really Christian. Yeah. So I really have to question whether or not you're a Christian or not. And you're gonna be you're gonna be the one saying, I'm not so sure that you're Yeah, like I tend I tend to get the sense that you're on the liberal side I don't know if that's a that's a good term. The progressive side is that you're not a progressive side of Islam. You're the revivalist side of Islam. And and I'm on the side of Christianity that uh that is uh the most fundamentalist. Yeah. But see we are we are the revival of the light of Islam. You know, when there are and Quran says it itself. We don't have interpretation. There's a verse in Quran, chapter three, verse eight. Okay. God says himself But in this book there are some commandments that are absolute. But then there are other commandments that are open to interpretation. Oh really? So three verse eight. And then God says in the perverse of the heart, they will always take the verses that are open to open to interpretations. So when it comes to the four principles, the five pillars of Islam, those verses that God has characterized himself to be absolute, we are fundamentalists. No issue. But then there are verses by God's own definition. That are open to interpretation and we say take the most revivalist so it's most modern, most compatible interpretation. And then we back it up. So you're turning to the Quran and the hadith and things like that. You know, we are not for death. We are saying that but when we say Muslim for life, you open it up, there's a verse of the Quran right in there that whosoever killed one person, it's as if they killed humanity and whosoever saved one person, it's as if they gave life to all mankind. So we take all our arguments from Quran. There's nothing else. Okay, now in the Bible there's clearly a distinction between murder and capital punishment. Mm-hmm. Right? And so that sounds to me like a verse that's dealing with murder, thou shalt not commit murder, but is not dealing with capital punishment. And so for example, Joshua in the Bible is given authorization to wipe out a whole race of people that God says uh that they had lost their right to live, right? And so in that situation, in in a Christian perspective, we're saying that God had made a judgment that it wasn't the killing that it was wrong. Murder is wrong, but that there's times like capital punishment. Absolutely. This verse also has a qualifier. This verse has a qualifier. That doesn't deal with a qualifier. That doesn't deal with when Muhammad went to Medina uh in uh went to Mecca and was in war, that's not dealing with war, that's dealing with killing in the context of murder. Right, this the worst has a qualifier in there unless it is killing for the sake of justice, something like that. Yeah. So it's it may not be mentioned right there. But in Quran there's a clear qualifier. Yeah. But that is who we are. And I think that is important. That when people say you are not Muslims, I say, Okay, if you define Muslims by someone who believes that killing the infidel, killing women, not giving them their rights if all those atrocities that I read in Time Magazine and New York Times if that is what Islam is then honestly I'd rather be not a Muslim. Let me stay where I am because I don't want to be a Muslim if that's the definition. Right. I believe Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him, has given a definition himself. Very simple, plain. There is nothing no no additions. There is no God but Allah and Muhammad is his servant and messenger. That is the core definition of Islam. And we try to twist that for our own political gains, you know, because in Muslim world today religion is a ploy to remain in power. I don't need any power. I see patience for making a living. I don't come here because I have to get money. I don't have any second vested interest, neither do my community. Ahmadiyya Muslim community, we don't take a dime from anybody. We try to keep ourselves very clear of that conflict of interest that the Muslim world is plagued with today. Ever you know, I call it scholars for sale over there. You know, you gave a hundred thousand dollars, you can give a decree of whatever you like. So that is the problem with the Muslim world. Right, and so you're defining the distinction between Ahmadine Absolutely, no question about just political because it's isn't it more than just political? Well there are theological differences, but there are theological differences between Sunnis and Shias, between Sunnis and Wahhabis. Why aren't they calling each other non Muslims. Actually they are. They do. But right, they do. But not with the same fervor sometimes. But if you go to Syria, Alawites who are in power versus Sunnis were the rebels. Right. They're not making it about religion. Now it is about religion after two years. But wherever you put politics in religion, and that is the world problem with the Muslim world today. They're mixing religion and politics. They're using religion to stay in power. And that is true in Iran, that is true in Afghanistan, that is true in Pakistan, that is true all around the Muslim world. Why is America progressing? Because we've successfully separated the two. It was not, and I know he kinda s sort of disagree on that. But you know, when you talk about Danbury Baptists and what Jefferson said to them, there is a wall of separation. Yes, some people disagree with that, but in part it has been. disagrees with the wall of separation. But you know, look at the same thing. And Jefferson never said. So let's be abundantly clear. His wall of separation was that the government stays out Exactly right. So world of different But see that isn't that what America makes beautiful? Because you know, I'm a guy who you know we were walking in here today and I was talking to my friend. I said, you know, either all of these fifty thousand people are aliens or we are aliens. Because there's nobody else who looks like me here. I'm not threatened. Here I am with a microphone in my hand. I cannot do this in the street of Pakistan. Jonathan, you need to understand the plight of the Ahmadiyya Muslims. No, I can't stand that. I have a duct tape on my face. But Jonathan couldn't do this in the streets of Pakistan either. Well right now I'm a Muslim. But you know, there is a reason because there are laws. Right, but the question is where did the laws come from? And that's where when you asked the question last week, the politics what opens up the freedom for separation of church and state, I'm arguing is a Judeo Christian world view built into our Bible uh we have the situation where the apostles were told to stop preaching in the name of Jesus and they responded back and they said, Well you tell us, should we obey God or should we obey man? And they they were establishing a principle that for the Christian religion that our allegiance, our responsibility, our obedience is first to God and then to the government structure. My understanding is that there is very little separation between a political and religious orientation. in the Muslim world. And so when you talk about that, like my understanding is that Shiites and Sunnis they make no distinction between the two. But Christianity from the beginning has made a huge distinction between the two. And when they failed to walk out the clear teaching of the Word of God that That's when they allowed the two to become polluted and to corrupt one another. But the clear teaching of scripture is that the king is responsible to the Lord but that the the king is not to Caesar, exactly. My point is when you look at Islam. All post World War One phenomenon in the Muslim world. You don't see that in the history of Islam and by the way, Quran is what if you look at the Quran, there is not a single verse in the Quran that talks of a theocracy. There is not a single verse that says that you cannot or you should not separate church and state. In fact there is a very clear verse that says when you elect your leaders, you elect the one that is the most trustworthy. And when you run your affairs, you run your affairs with mutual consultation. Those are both democratic principles. In a Muslim country If you are the most trustworthy, I'd elect you in a heartbeat. Now wait a minute. The word theocracy might not a appear in the Quran, but the idea that the government is is ruled by Islam is never mentioned in the Quran. I challenge you on in the world. I'm telling you, no no us, you know don't don't mix ten things here. Now stick to the point. No, no, no, a jizya tax is inherently political. No no no no what was it? It's inherently political. I'm happy to go to these things before. It says go in, make them submit to you, and if they won't submit, make them pay the Jesus tax. How can you say that that's not political? That is or that is a That is for that time. And you know we've discussed if you want to discuss that again, I'm happy to. But I believe that we've discussed it at nauseam before. We have. So we're dealing with Syria. Right right. And we're dealing with what should our response be to Syria. So it's appropriate. We're dealing with a Muslim political approach versus a Christian political approach. And what are the biblical or Quranic principles that come to bear in that? So let me know it is the case the answer, but you know, and it's up to you how long you want to take that. But Jizia. Yes it is in the Quran. But it is for a specific time period in history where Islam was the only system known to that world at that time where it was the most progressive system. You can go back to Many, many. Let's finish. Let me finish and then you can give it a the Jizy attacks on other religious systems. So you can't the only religious system known. Why don't you take your time and then I'll take my time unintroduction. Go right ahead. My p well my point is if you can't just say that unchallenged, the Jizey attacks was imposed on those that had a different religious world view. So to say that Islam was the only known religious worldview, it's a self defeating argument. They were imposing the Jizi attacks on who then? People that they didn't know it existed? Now I have my three uh three uninterrupted minutes. All right, great. So number one, you don't understand that those societies were craving for a political system. When Islam gave that political system of justice, of minority rights, of equality, of people not being discriminated, Islam allow imposes a five two to five percent tax on Muslims just for the state affairs. And then Islam imposes that Muslims can be drafted for war in that system. Now Islam had to deal with all those people who didn't believe in Islam. Why should I be paying the five percent for you and why should I be fighting for your cause? So Quran says those people can pay a non-religious tax. The name of that is jizya tax. And those people will be exempt from the military draft. If you go back in history, they paid typically less than what Muslims paid and they were exempt. from a draft. They're not. So now here's the point. Right, here's the point. Muslims are paying a higher monetary value and they have their neck on the line to protect the state. Non Muslims have to pay lesser and they do not have to be drafted. Go back in history and Read Western scholars. This was one of the most fair system. The problem really is if somebody tries to impose that today, I'm absolutely against that. Because there's no need for that. T Quran talks of immaculate birth of Jesus. That doesn't mean that we believe in every child being born without a father. That's a historic argument for a certain specific time. Jizzy attacks was true for that time of history. Today in a secular world where Islam professes separation of church and state, there's no reason for a jizy attacks. Well Jonathan, I don't think you can do this. We're running short on time. Do you have a final thought you want to say in like thirty seconds? He loves me. Yes. I love you. Uh the bottom line is that we always run into this when we're talking with you, that you represent a perspective on Islam that is very different from Imam Yahaw. Yahendi that's different from the Islamic Society, Frederick. And the result is that things that as we're talking e even their definition of the jiz attacks, I couldn't even get them to admit it on the air. he was quick to admit that it been used extremely oppressively through the years in history against those populations. Pakistan is a classic one where the Christian community was basically taxed out of existence and uh and oppressed out of existence in Pakistan If it ever happened and it's shameful for me, Jonathan. I want to say that on air as a Muslim. If it ever happened to any of my Christian brothers and sisters, it's embarrassing. It's shameful for me. There is nothing like that. It's kind of like his experience appearing on this show. It's is it's a shameful exper embarrassing That he has to come on a show anyway. This is Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMB. Thank you, Fahim. Fahim Unis. My pleasure. dot com uh he's at the Ahmadiyya community of Muslims Jonathan Sweitzer Senior Pastor at Crossroads Valley Church. You can follow him at at at Sleitzer Jonathan on Twitter. That's Chris Roy Skinner, our sponsor of Equipment Plumbing and Heating, How's When Make You Smile, BMC Accounting Insurance supporters of New Life Christian Academy and Cruise Holidays. Visit us online, WFMD dot com keyword faith. What have I been reading? You have to wait till next week. I'll tell you at the beginning of the show what I've been reading lately because I'm out of time. So one hundred sixty seven and a half hours from now, God bless