Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes we can The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Where faith community leaders wrestle over the truth. Yeah, but in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Ooh, how convenient. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble. Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Get a moron And in this corner, Weighing Inn is a pastor, teacher, and founder of Bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder John Sweiser. No, I'm just getting warmed up. On Facebook recently, I had a long exchange with someone holding a progressive deconstructionist view of the world, and during part of the extra Exchange, he wrote I took note of your reference to the quote unquote evil we witnessed in the killing of George Floyd because so many white and conservative Christians have run away from this issue Is this accurate? Are conservative Christians, especially white Christians, running from the issue? Joining the panel this week to discuss what's happening on the streets, in the news, within the church, and throughout the culture. is Darren Gerrell, pastor of Strong Tower Christian Church, along of course with me, Troy Skinner, and Jonathan Sweitzer from Cross the Bridges. And like happens so often on the this show, um Jonathan's out and about and he's part of the evangelical ministerial uh fellowship and he sees different people and and he has an opportunity to strike up conversations. He says, Hey These things we're talking about and you know working together on or debating or whatever, we should do we should talk about this on the show. And so here we are having this panel together, the three of us, to talk about what is one of the hottest hot topics that the Faith Debate has had the privilege and honor of discussing with you, our valued listener. So as is often the case in these situations, let me turn to John first and say, so what made you think that, you know, you, me, and Darren, you know, would do well tackling a subject such as this? Well I've been wanting to get Darren on for a while, right? Darren um and I served uh on the leadership team for the Evangelical Ministerial Fellowship the last two years and then this cycle he got voted to be the president. um and um and has been leading with an emphasis on prayer both in his church and in the uh evangelical ministerial fellowship that has been Um, I don't know how to describe it. I think the word anointed, like uncommon, like a a a season of of drawing pastors and others into uh a moment of just saying, you know, look, God really wants us to seek his face. I think what Darren has said so many times, God wants us to seek him for him, not just for our agendas, you know, political, cultural, whatever, but to really seek God for God. And uh and then COVID hits. And uh and he's been leading a weekly prayer call uh that starting out had like eighty to a hundred plus uh pastors and local saints on the phone call. um in his own congregation has been doing morning phone calls since the beginning of the year. And so the pastors joined in on Wednesday morning with that call. Anyways, it's been going now for three months or so. Uh and in the context of that we had a National Day of Prayer Call that was this amazing, uncommon moment. Uh and all of that was just COVID and then This thing happened with George Floyd uh and uh his murder. Uh uh uh and in the context of that Um Darren and Paul Foss and Ronnie Henry, a couple of guys have kind of been at the forefront of uh helping uh pastors and uh parts of the community just to be responding to this in a way that is is not uh emotionalism, that is not overreaction, but responding in a way that draws us into saying, you know what? Uh if we want revival in the n this nation, then it starts with repentance in the house of God. And what better place for us to do that than around this this uh this division that seems to have been for so long between uh the white and African American part of the church. Uh why not start there? And so, um uh I don't think I could s I I mean I could go another twenty minutes about places where I've watched Darren, you know, uh bearing a weight. I mean, literally like a a week or two ago, his wife took him away for an emergency vacation and h boy did he deserve it. I mean those of us watched him, he'd just been bearing the weight And so um so that being the case, his wife is the the uh better part of the uh the uh the combination, but uh I'm so glad to have Darren on the show with us tonight. So since your wife couldn't be on the show, uh we'll settle for you, I guess. So uh what made you either eager And I don't maybe weren't eager or at least willing to come on uh a show like this and talk ab about this. Uh uh relationship with Jonathan maybe has something to do with that. Perhaps just the moment and wanting to speak to it has something to do with that. But is Well it's great to be on with you guys and um I would say eager is probably not the word for me since I'm sorta introverted, but I feel like the Lord has called me into this space and has called me into leadership and so uh when we sell out to him and we're willing to do whatever and go wherever he calls us. And so uh I think this is a a critical hour. I think that we were called for such a time as this. And I think that the church has a wonderful opportunity to speak into this. I think the church needs a lead. Judgment starts begins in the house of God. God starts with the not with society, but he starts with his church. And so I think that the church can lead in this and we can uh I think that the the opportunity and the the uh is huge because I think that revival and awakening across the church, we've been praying for this for For decades. And it's interesting how it decides perhaps maybe gonna bring it in a way that we did not anticipate. You were a part of some prayer movements in the late nineties led by somebody over at the church that you were attending, an African American woman that passed away. uh who I've only heard about. That was before I was in town. Uh can you maybe just tell me just tell us briefly about like what was going on there? Yeah, so in the nineties, um There was a particular friend of ours uh who was leading a prayer movement. She had a she had a vision actually a prayer meeting happening, a big prayer meeting across the body happening in a key stadium. And uh Dottie Wilson was her name. Dotty Wilson, that's the name. And so uh you know, we've been and many have been praying into that for for for for decades now. And I think that I think now's the time. We we of course we just two weeks ago were uh with uh Pastor Morgan from the Seventh day Adventist Church. I guess about two or three hundred of us were in the the stadium. And I think that's a harbinger of what what is to come actually. Yeah. Yeah. Amen. Yeah, Morgan Kokenauer is uh a friend of the show he's been on a few times over the years. And uh his predecessor, uh Pastor Q Remember Robert Quintana? And we had his predecessor on as well back in the early days. Uh what is then the nature of the conversation? I mean the the EMF is trying to tackle this as a group, uh area pastors getting together maybe on a more one-on-one uh basis as well. What has been Um but this is multiple questions, so I probably should try to simplify it. First of all, what have been the areas that have been easy to find common ground and agreement? And where there's been a a divisive moment or issue, what has been at the crux of that? Well I almost feel like the way to get into it is just to say what happened and what happened that first week. I was on vacation. I left for vacation Saturday. I think it was like that night or the Sunday night that the video came out of what had happened. And almost immediately while I'm on vacation, a group of pastors that Darren and I spend uh uh time with every week uh was having, you know, just conversations about look, something something needs to needs to happen here. And so what was going on that week, Darren, that uh kind of led to, you know Well I like Friday and then you know. I like to go back a little further. Yeah. Uh so in two thousand and sixteen, as you re m recall, Jonathan, there was a group of pastors and leaders who got together. And uh for ten days straight we came well I'm sorry, for uh almost a year we came together to pray together. And kind of led by Paul Black at that time in the context of the EMF again Yeah, and so uh a lot of a lot of connections were made and networking was made between pastors. Yeah. But it kinda but Yeah, come on. But it kinda it was a it was an election year Yeah. And a lot of um the conversation toward toward the election and and that sort of thing and some of the uh the agreements broke down at that point. How do we pray thy kingdom come, thy will be done, as opposed to uh, you know, this political agenda be passed or this political agenda. And so in the context of that, there is like intensive prayer, but then it kind of fizzled because just things got too political. And and too d I I f you know, I was So there was a lot of good there. Like I don't want to minimize the strength of what happened. Absolutely. I think there was a lot of good and a lot of a lot of great things happen. uh that leads us to this hour. But there was one of one of the challenges I sensed that I know that you sensed was that there was the diversity in the evangelical ministerial fellowship had had Come d'un nothing, basically. It was just be pretty much Pentecostals and Charismatics. Right and um right And it was so it wasn't representative of the whole evangelical community anymore. And so by diversity you're not talking about black versus white, you're talking about uh the you know, the theological understanding. Yeah. And I felt that, you know, coming into coming into the presidency, I felt that that was an area where we needed to We needed to do some work. Yeah. And we needed to reach out to our brothers and sisters that maybe w had a different views on some things, but that we didn't structure things in such a way that It was just appealing to charismatics and the Pentecostals. I'm I'm from a Baptist and Pentecostal background, but I I see the bot the value of the body of Christ coming together. That's right. Um Because I I I believe at the core we are we are before an audience of one. Come on. And so Unity is what God sa is unity when God says is unity. When his sp when his body comes together. And so we did some work to reach out to some of the uh those that may have a different perspective. I know that you're always in Donston, you're always in constant dialogue with him. You were very helpful uh in talking with Gary, uh Hicks and uh Peter Kimeney and I've talked to John Armstrong and trying to bring some of them back in and making and actually having conversations with some of our um Pentecostal and Charismatic brothers. Listen, we gotta we gotta come to the center here. So when we come together, let's practice unity. Maybe not practice so So much our distinctives when we come together, but let's practice unity. And by the way, if you're not up on your uh your local uh baseball cards of area pastors, uh John Armstrong, pastor of a uh Presbyterian church, um uh I think they call themselves Faith Church now. I think they they just I mean they're still Reformed, but I think they just call themselves Faith Church now. Uh Peter Kemene is uh Good News Presbyterian, a a different uh very similar Presbyterian views, but a different denomination than John Armstrong's And Gary Hicks um but church Methodist Methodist Church. And we've had all of them on our show over the years, by the way. Yep, everyone. You just you you you name dropped a little bit, which is cool. Sony listening right now is a who are those people? Should I know who they are? If you know who the players are in the local church environment, then you would know who they are, but otherwise how would you know who they are? Yeah, and so So some of the work that was done to bring together pastors, um, even just two years ago, even before uh Darren came into being the president, was uh was gathering some of the pastors together and saying, Hey, when we get together to pray Some of us pray one way, some of us pray another way, some of us want to pray in tongues, some of us, you know, want to uh handle things differently. And we noted that even coming together to pray, if if we don't just do some due diligence, you know, in terms of being respectful for one another, we can end up being rude and unkind to each other. And so we did some some groundwork to make sure that uh that that we um you know, that that we identified where it is and how it is that we could work together. And so all that's groundwork leading into, you know, like what is it what does it look like for the community to to be praying together for revival And our original our original target uh was the National Day of Prayer. That's right. Remember? All that work. Yeah, that we were gonna we felt like we were gonna have a a A event we're at changed direction a little bit because some people were feeling that our National Day of Prayer event that we've been holding has pretty much been a Republican event. Whether real or perceived That's right. Yeah politically. Yeah. And so we wanted to be able to bring others in and and so of course with COVID though we didn't get the chance to do that. But it's interesting the Lord did it anyway in a different way. Yeah, in a in a better way. And in fact, uh it meant that we got it recorded, which we never would have been uh smart enough to handle that well enough to get it out to everybody, but now people can go back And participate in, you know, see the recording of that, which was just a phenomenal hour and a half of the community coming together. This is the faith debate. Not a whole lot of debate so far, but I'm sure there'll be some Jonathan Sweitzer. I'm Troy Skinner. I'm joined this week by Darren Gerald. And Darren's the pastor at Strong Tower Christian Church. Jonathan is heading up a ministry called Cross Bridges. And uh I'm your host and moderator of this show on 930 WFMD. Um Jonathan, you a few minutes ago you talked about You're trying to bridge uh gaps in the membership of the EMF and and and we're making some progress, but then Politics, the election got in the way. Right. And then you're m moving towards bridging those gaps by focusing on the National Day of Prayer, but yet again politics g got in the way a bit. Uh 'cause I've attended some of those uh prayer breakfasts on the National Day of Prayer and it does feel a little bit like a S Pack. A local CPAC kind of thing. At least the times I went. And like pro life is like like a big coming together thing. And it didn't bother me because traditional marriage is a big coming together, you know, but Yeah, I I largely swim in that fish tank, you know, not exclusively, but I largely sw I w but I I couldn't help but wonder how somebody who had different politics would feel in that. So and we've been talking now for the first we've been talking for about fifteen minutes here. Yeah. Um about a desire to give evidence of the unity that we have in Christ and yet we have all these divisive things. So let me start there. We All three of us would agree that there is unity in Christ. Right? That unit the there is a oneness. There's one body, one bride of Christ that has an accomplished by the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Yeah. And yet we don't live out that reality very well. Yeah? Christ Christ forged the unity, but whether or not we keep the unity that he forged is the question. Okay. And is that how you would say it? Because I would s I would I would push it. I would agree with that. Yes. I I would say yes. I it would think about the distinction you're about to make though. If you're gonna make the one I'm thinking you're gonna make. I I passed I passed a multi ethnic church. as as a a black or African American uh pastor is a multi ethnic church. And so th even this conversation that we're having Uh because I think I think by and large our perspective, my perspective would be that the Y Evangelical Church is pr as you were perhaps asking earlier, has been pretty silent on this historically Um I am from South Carolina. I think so. I think that's true. I'm from South Carolina and uh so just the history of of what happened in the South. and the burning of churches and that sort of thing. Uh the church did not take the lead on that. And I think we have an opportunity to reverse that and take the lead on what's happening. And Part of the part of the dialogue and part of the discussion, and I've had pushback in my own church and I've had pushback. I know that some of our pastors who are preaching uh this message are having pushback. And in listening to the pushback, um, there th one of the one of the chief problems would be the the whole Black Lives Matter movement. Right. Are we looking at it as a moral movement or uh but the people we're pushing back are looking at it as a political movement. Yeah. And so I'm finding myself having to spend quite a bit of time kind of unpacking that Because as a as a believer, if you look at the platform of Black Lives Matter, abortion and and so on and so forth, yeah. Those issues I'm with that. Marxism E funda police, you know. So I mean but yet there is a moral issue there that I think that we need to be able to speak to and and it becomes some problematic a little bit with language. But uh but the people that in the within the church seem to be understanding that but but yet there's a differentiation and there's pushback out to that. Yeah and And I don't I'm I'm not trying to get hung up on semantics, but I for me it's a foundational thing is important. Yeah, and it and and this is uh uh for me a fun foundational semantic uh distinction. And I and I think you're agreeing with me, but again the way we phrase it is at this time in history really important. I'm of the my view on scripture is that Christ has accomplished the unity. And it's not up to us to keep that unity because it is forever kept secure by Jesus Christ. He is Lord and King. And he's not going to lose control over the unity that he has accomplished for us. But we do need to live in it. We need to walk in it. But we can't create disunity. Anything that we would do that would create disunity would have us outside of the unity that Christ has accomplished. I know it's probably getting into a weird esoteric philosophical view. But I want I want to make sure I want to make sure that anybody who identifies as a Christian understands that we have Unity. It has been one for us. And so we start there and anytime we've got fracture points that would have us feel like we're experiencing disunity, that should be an indicator to us that we are walking outside of the lanes that Christians should be walking in. If we're not experiencing a unity, We aren't walking in what Christ has won for us. So I'm going to throw one thing in and I'm going to let you go. Ephesians 4 verse three says we should be endeavoring to keep the unity. The unity of the spirit and the bond of peace. And so that's where I get my term from. that that he is the one that created the unity in what we're doing as we're working on. I'd want to look at the Greek on that because I'd be the willing to bet that the keep has to do with protecting and and and holding up. Rather than guard it again. Yeah. So yeah. But in the sense of we should be walking in it. It's never to be lost. If if if if the church fails in this, Christ still still want unity. That's that's my point. Well I I think that I think the scriptures teach we're one body With many members. But I think Paul makes the concession that that sometimes some members of the body are are out of alignment and not feeling like they're part of the body. I would have draw that analogy to what we're experiencing today. 'Cause 'cause I I would gently push back a little bit. I don't think you know, uh we were t we've been talking about this whole idea of reconciliation. Well Yes, Christ has formed us into one man, one right, he's broken down that middle wall of partition. Uh yet from a pr from a a practical level, we've never been as far as ethnicities and race, black and white if you will, in our country, we've never been conciled in the first place. We've never been in agreement from the foundation in the first place. So therefore uh while I understand the term reconciliation, how can we be reconcile, how can we be in again conciled when we were never conciled in the first place? I think the issue The issue that the church needs to speak into is uh the dehumanization of a a group of people. Just like it was with the Nazis. or with the it was within Rwanda with the uh Hutus and the Tutsis. Uh in the Nazis they were called rats, the Jews. How how do we get to that place of dehumanizing, being able to kill millions of people We have to dehumanize them first. The same thing happened in Rwanda. Uh and so when you look at the history of our country and the the history of slavery and Jim Crow and segregation and all of the thousands of images and of of of and the comparisons and evolution and and b black and brown people being apes and segregation and redlining and and education. You you've seen the systematic And I know that's a troublesome word, but you've seen the the the the dehumanization of a people which has brought about trauma in that group, but also I believe it within the deep within the psyche of of the American church uh I think it is it is uh created some biases that we need to address. Yeah and we and we'll begin to talk about those in more m with more earnestness uh next week as we're wrapping up on this thing. I w uh I'm gonna I'm gonna steal the last word or which I rarely do. Uh only because we're out of time. And we can and we can pick this up next week. But uh I would push back on the idea that we can't have reconciliation because we never had conciliation to begin with. My point is we ha we do have conciliation to begin with, and it was won at the cross by Jesus Christ. And so uh if we if we say we never had it then we're then we're diminishing the accomplishment of Christ of the cross. I think we have to start with what Christ has won and then we need to live in that and then it helps us to to to uh parse out what it means to be a Christian and what Christians should believe. And we'll get into all of this sort of stuff probably or not next week. Anyway, uh thank you to Darren Gerrell, the pastor of Strong Tower Christian Church, Jonathan Sweitzer with Cross Bridges Uh I'm Troy Skinner, listening to the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD online at WFMD. com. Keyword Faith takes you to the Faith Debate page. Till next week, 167. 5 hours from right now. God bless you