Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County. Well preaching within fact is like plowing pavement. Primarily because people continue to place their help in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Miles. The Frederick Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com keyword faith. You've heard me say this before, my blog is your blog. So email me. If you go to the Faith to Bay page, you'll find links to all sorts of things. You'll find the podcast for this radio show. You'll find news items and you'll find the Faith Debate blog And that vlog is made up entirely of the thing that you send me. So send me stuff at Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. Troy Skinner at ClearChannel. com. I post whatever you send me Forty five log updates go up each week. Nine per day, Monday through Friday. I encourage you to pop in, see what other people are sending. You find all sorts of interesting stuff. You'll find uh political commentary religious stuff, uh recommendations on books to read, sometimes recipes, sometimes jokes, sometimes uh fun or interesting photographs or you know, whatever. I mean it's uh it's it's kind of a hodgepodge potpourri of a whole bunch of stuff. um that at least usually vaguely has something to do, if not directly with religion, at least with, you know, a theological worldview at some level But not always, so. Anyway, Faith Debate Show today. Well we're in the the midst of a special series of Faith Debate shows. Every once in a while we have some some uh Scheduling conflicts and and things like that. Uh I think I've alluded to this on the air before, but in case not, let me tell you a little bit about how the the show works. Uh we get a panel together, Jonathan Schweitzer from Crossroads Valley uh for almost a chapel, formerly known as Crossroads Valley Chapel, now known as Crossroads Valley Church. Jonathan Sweiser is the senior pastor there. He and I have been doing this show for whatever. I think was it nine years, something like that, coming up on coming up on ten years. And uh we get a guest or two to come in the studio with us and we typically will do a series of shows in a row. Because we get some momentum and we're talking about some heady, deep stuff and after twenty five, thirty minutes you're like, Oh, we were just starting to scratch the surface. So we'll do a series of shows, three, four, five, six shows all in one session uh in in uh typically in a weeknight evening. And then those shows, you hear those play out over the course of a month or so. Well when we can't get together, when Jonathan and I and a guest can't get together, we've got like a month or so of shows that we have to worry about getting on the air. And so in times like that I've done sub s uh different kinds of things, including what you're you're hearing the last few weeks and what you're going to hear this week and next week, and that is Because of the show that I do and other reasons I guess I don't I get invited to to uh share messages from the pulpit on occasion, uh i throughout the area. Uh maybe on average uh once a quarter, something like that. Sometimes it might be uh two or three t weeks in a row and then it might go six or eight months without but anyway. And in many of those cases, uh, you know, with today's modern technology you end up recording stuff. And so, uh a lot of the messages, most of the messages have been recorded. And so whenever I have a slot like this that I have to fill, figure let's fill it with with uh something that uh that hopefully would be encouraging and and helpful for you and give you an insight into my take on things and where I come and land on theological issues. Uh no better way to find out uh what somebody thinks about the Bible than hear him preach about it. Or hear preach about what's in the Bible. So anyway The uh what you're gonna hear, what you've heard the last uh few weeks, the first few shows w this is uh week five of this series, the first three weeks the audio quality was not the best. It was tolerable but not the best just because of the dynamic in which it was recorded and the equipment that was used. Last week's show was much cleaner and better. And the next two weeks shows will be better and clean as well. And uh these next two shows are actually the same message split in half Um some church services do like twenty thirty minute messages, other church services will do a uh you know 35, 40, 50 minute message or whatever. And so I tried to customize what I'm doing to fit what they're used to hearing in their church. So this was a longer message. This was close to forty or so minutes. So we're splitting in half the first twenty minutes or so and the second minute twenty minutes or so. And actually this message lends itself well to that. The first half of the message uh is really kind of getting into the nitty-gritty of the of of of a particular uh passage in the Bible and then there's an extended illustration to drive home the point of what's being talked about uh in the message And that extended illustration takes up the final half of the message. And so that'll be next week's message. All right. So without further ado, here's the first half of a two-week message here on the Frederick Faith Debate. Oh I guess I should probably hit play here, right? That'd be good. Good morning. Yes it's true sometimes the inmates do get to run the asylum. Thank you all for coming out. Um some of you know me very well, some of you know me pretty well, some of you know me by name or face. Some of you, this is the first time you are ever seeing me. So, let me introduce myself real quickly. Some of you might know me from the radio. I host a radio program called the The Frederick Faith Debate. Some of you might know me from being here at Mosaic or out in the community. Some of you know me because we're the family with Tyler. And we're going to hear a lot about Tyler today. We're going to hear a lot about Jesus. We're going to hear a lot about Tyler today because it helps us to understand more. About who Jesus is and who we are in relation to him. I'm not going to give you a big biography about myself. The most important thing you need to know about me is that I am a wretched sinner. If you only knew a horrible, depraved sinner who is saved by the blood of Jesus Christ. And my hope is that this morning, when I'm done, you will say the same thing about yourself You will recognize the truth of your sin, and you will accept Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, washed clean by his blood. Before we go any further, let me pray. Father, we praise you and glorify your name for who you are, what you've done, what you continue to do, what you will do in the future. We ask that your Holy Spirit open our hearts to receive your truth as you open my mouth to deliver it. I pray that you will keep me faithful to your word and make up for the shortcomings I bring to proclaiming the message of the gospel. And put at rest the distractions that face so many of us today. We are here to worship you in fellowship, gathered in this place. Help us to do both well, worship and fellowship. In the name of our one and only hope for salvation, we pray. In the name of your eternal Son, Jesus Christ. Amen. Daddy, tell me what it was like when you were a kid. Mommy, read me a bedtime story. From the time we were little children, we loved stories, tales of long-ago ages and faraway places. The best stories are the true ones, especially those that still affect us today. This is why when company comes over, our sons and daughters are so eager to Encourage us to share the stories of our how we met, our courtship, our rush to the hospital we were born And if your children are anything like my daughter Danny, or if you as a child were anything like my daughter Danny, quick to correct any mistakes you make in the telling of the story. Hanging on every word. What's your favorite story? It might be something like Lord of the Rings or Harry Potter, uh, perhaps Star Wars. There was a time when my son would have said his favorite story. Tyler, my son, his favorite story that uh a few years back was Speed Racer. Now his favorite story is Peter Pan. I think if you asked my daughter, she'd probably say pitch perfect. These are all examples of fictitious stories. Not all stories are fiction, of course. Maybe your favorite story is that of the Reformation or the American Revolution or a biography about somebody like Gandhi. Stories rooted in historical reality like that. What kind of a story are we given regarding Jesus? This morning you're going to hear about the greatest story ever conceived. And you're going to hear a personal story that illustrates in an intimate way. How this greatest story ever told continues to be retold in new and wondrous ways, even in the lives of those seated around you. After this message, you will know my family quite a bit better, and by God's grace you will know in the marrow of your bones what it means to be part of God's family. It's a powerful, powerful truth. To be honest, I have barely been able to contain myself with excitement leading up to this moment when I could share this once upon a time. with you so that your heart will beat stronger for the happily ever after that is the truth. If you have your Bible, I ask you to turn to it. Luke chapter 2. If you don't have a Bible, there are Bibles in the back. You can go grab one and read along in a moment. And if you do not own a personal Bible, I understand the Mosaic allows you to take a Bible home with you and keep it as yours. So no excuse for not having a Bible and reading it. And while you're turning to Luke chapter 2, Luke is in the New Testament, Matthew, Mark, Luke, so it's the third book in the New Testament. While you're getting there I'm going to allude really quickly to a portion of Matthew in chapter 1. If you're really quick at finding places in the Bible, you can go to Matthew chapter 1 now if you want. I'm not going to read there, but I'm going to point out that in Matthew chapter 1, we're given a genealogy. It's broken out into three sets of fourteen generations. From Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob to Judah, David, and Solomon, through Ahaz, Azor, and Joseph, and wrapping up with Jesus himself. And then In Luke chapter 3, one chapter beyond where we're going to read from in just a second, we're given a genealogy working backwards through 77 names, including Levi, Amos, Judah. Boaz, Jacob, Isaac, Abraham, Shem, Noah, all the way back to Seth and Adam before wrapping up with God Himself. And in Luke chapter 2, it begins: In those days Caesar Augustus issued a decree that a census should be taken of the entire Roman world This was the first census that took place while Cornerius was governor of Syria. And everyone went to their own town to register. So Joseph also went up from the town of Nazareth in Galilee to Judea, to Bethlehem, the town of David, because he belonged to the house in line of David. He went there to register with Mary, who was pledged to be married to him and was expecting a child. While they were there, the time came for the baby to be born, and she gave birth to her firstborn a son. She wrapped him in cloths and placed him in a manger because there was no guest room available for them. A very familiar story that most of us in this room have probably been been familiar with for years. What's one thing we can gather from the long list of genealogies in Matthew and Luke and from this little story in Luke chapter 2 about Jesus? Jesus is a real life human. This is one of the reasons the Bible gives us genealogies. It gives us Jesus' genealogy specifically. It gives us the details of his birth as well, says why, so we can see that he is truly human. Like you and I, Jesus had grandparents and great-grandparents and great-great-grandparents, and so on. They truly really existed. They were people living in real history. Just like Jesus. Just like us. Stories about Jesus are presented in the Bible as historical. He really lived in the real world This isn't a story in a make-believe land, once upon a time. It's a story that takes place within historical context And like we just read in Luke, it's when Rome ruled the political world. It's when Augustus was Caesar. It's when Quinerius was governor. This is not a mysterious land far, far away. This is Nazareth in Galilee. This is Bethlehem and Judea, just like us, Frederick in Maryland. The Bible gives the story of real people in real locations taking place in real time. Jesus is real. Like you and I are real. Jesus is human. He was born a baby. He grew and became strong and was filled with wisdom, as it says in Luke chapter 2, verse 40. We're not told much about his childhood, but we're told enough to know that he had a childhood. And we know that he lived as an adult, even from sources outside of the Bible, like the ancient historian Josephus. And of course, we know about his adult life with some detail from the Bible. In the Gospels of the New Testament, we can see that Jesus lived a life much like ours. Went to parties. Even turned water into wine. He needed rest, even sleeping during a violent storm while he was on a boat. He ate and drank before and after his resurrection from the dead. He felt stress. Perhaps coining the phrase, never let him see a sweat. Blood. He got angry overturning the money changer tables in the temple. He cried more than once. And ultimately, even died. Absolutely, Jesus is a man This is what the Bible tells us. And most will actually grant this point, saying perhaps only that Jesus is a great prophet and a wonderful teacher. But in addition to this, Jesus is the real life-giving God The writers of the New Testament tell us that Jesus is God by his words, and they show us that Jesus is God by his deeds. Matthew 1. 23 tells us even that Jesus' name means God with us. And we see this demonstrated over and over again. Three dozen specific miracles are recorded for us in the four gospels. We have twenty uh each described, twenty or so in Matthew, Mark, and Luke, but not all the not all different miracles, although we have sixty combined, but there's some overlap in what are called the synoptic gospels. And there's eight miracles specific for miracles recorded for us in John. Most of them are unique to John. But the point is God authenticates his word throughout Scripture with supernatural occurrences, with miracles, like the plagues in Egypt. vouched for the truth of what Moses said. Like fire from the sky proved that Elijah was worshiping the one true God. Like the great flood, the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah, the tumbling down of Jericho's walls, the pregnancies of Really old women. Jesus is the word, and he is authenticated by his miracles So, what we see throughout the Bible, we see specifically with regards to Jesus. And this shouldn't be a surprise: the entire Bible, we're told, is about Jesus. Jesus himself tells us this. The Bible is, of course, about God and his relationship with man. And this relationship centers on Christ. The whole Bible is about Jesus Christ. So some ahead from Luke chapter 2, if you're still there, to Luke chapter 24. While I get there, I'm going to read a short verse from John's gospel account. John chapter 5, verse 39 says, You study the scriptures diligently because you think that in them you have eternal life. These are the very scriptures that testify about me, says Jesus. And then in Luke chapter 24, we're going to look at verses 27 and 44. They say, beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he explained to them what was said in the scriptures concerning himself. He said to them, This is what I told you while I was still with you. Everything must be fulfilled that is written about me in the law of Moses, the prophets, and the Psalms. Now, the law of Moses, that's uh a reference to the Pentateuch, the first five books of the Bible. the prophets and the Psalms as a shorthand way of making reference to the rest of the Old Testament. In this phrase, Jesus is talking about the entire Old Testament. And we still use shorthand like this. For example, if you say, from New York to Chicago to LA, You're talking about the entire United States. So in this phrase, Jesus is talking about what was the entire Bible at that time. Of course, the New Testament is all about Jesus. So consider, the Bible is about Jesus. So what does it say about him? Heck, what does he say about him himself? Jesus claims to be God Nineteen times he says in the four gospels that he is the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecies pointing to God saving his people. Twenty-three times he calls himself the Son of Man, which is actually a most powerful claim of deity when it's understood in the context of Daniel chapter 7 with the image of one like the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven. Sixteen times he says he's the Son of God. Thirteen times Messiah, Christ, Savior. Only God saves. Twice he says he has the forgive the uh ability to forgive sins. Only God can do that. Three times refers to himself as Lord, and dozens of times he says, I am. The name that God announced to Moses from the burning bush in Exodus chapter 3. Jesus says of himself that he is God. And he backs up what he says about himself with his miracles. And ultimately his resurrection and ascension to heaven. The resurrection is sometimes said to be God's greatest miracle. Like to think of it more as his second greatest miracle with the greatest being creation itself. I mean think about it. He made everything out of nothing. And everything he made He created the space in which to put it. And he brought order. Without him, there's chaos. Well, the opening of John's Gospel tells us that Jesus performed even this greatest of all miracles. If you want to flip ahead from where you are in Luke chapter 24, it should just be a couple of pages of your Bible. John chapter 1. I'm going to read John chapter 1, verses 1 through 4, and then verses 17 and 18. And there we read, In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God, and He was with God in the beginning. Through him all things were made, without Him nothing was made that has been made. In him was life, and that life was the light of all mankind. Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. No one has ever seen God, but the one and only Son, who is himself God, and is in closest relationship with the Father. Has made him known. From before creation, Jesus has been God. Amen? Amen. But what I want us to remember in earnest at this moment is that Jesus is Lord, Savior, and King. Right now. Right now. Back then, yes But also right now. In the future. Yes. But also right here, right now. Jesus is Lord, Jesus is Savior, Jesus is King right now. And that is the end of the first half of uh the message that we're going to listen to this week and next week. Um next week it's I gotta say I I've had a chance to share the message you're gonna hear uh next week uh on on a couple of occasions. And uh Um n not always in a sermon format, but just you know sitting around the coffee table or whatever and and talking with friends and that sort of thing. And it is uh without exception uh emotional. Um I have a similar uh reaction, uh s lesser but similar uh reaction when I have an opportunity to share um uh my experience on on nine eleven happened to be on Manhattan Island uh when the uh planes flew into the buildings uh on that day and I get emotional every time I can't help it. Although I will say I I I'm able to contain my emotions in the message you're gonna hear next week quite a bit better. than normal. So uh I'm encouraged by that. You won't be distracted by any sort of hyper over emotionalism on my part. Anyway, I want to thank you for uh putting up with me during this regular series. Next week, again, it's the it's part two of the message you just listened to. uh or began to listen to. And then after that, uh God willing the creeks don't rise, we're back to the regular format of the Faith Debate Show with Jonathan Schweitzer and a in a a and a panel format which we'll be d discussing and debating. uh things that have to do with uh spirituality, theology, um, and uh basic worldview assumptions and that sort of thing. The things that you hopefully have come to appreciate about the show. Want to thank our sponsor, Putman Planckman Heating. How can we make you smile? I've got uh the the first half wasn't quite as long as I thought it was, so I've got like two minutes to kill. How am I gonna kill two minutes? Should I even kill two minutes? Oh, I know what I wanted to say though. This this isn't me trying to kill so I'm glad that I had two minutes to kill. I want to remind you, the shows are always available on podcast, typically within about forty-eight hours or so of air So it's Sunday morning right now as you hear this. So typically by Tuesday morning, Tuesday afternoon by the latest, almost always, the podcast is available. So in this particular case you just heard part one of a two part message. Uh next week you if you have a chance to listen to the podcast you could listen to one and then, you know, next week you could listen to next you can listen to them back to back, kinda hear the kind of the whole message sort of uh in in its original context or something close to it anyway. And you can f can do that with all the series we do, as I mentioned at the start of uh of the show today. Uh you know, we have a tendency to do arcs of shows where we have the same panel in place for three, four, five weeks in a row or whatever. Uh download 'em and you can listen to the whole arc of the conversation. You can you know take it like two hours to listen to four shows and Most of the time it's about four shows, I think, that we have our panels uh together. So anyway, uh thank our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating County Make You Smile. Thank you for listening. I encourage you to Visit us online at wfmd. com keywordfaith and email me troiskinner at clearchannel. com or whatever you email me. Uh I post on the well wi with rare rare exception, I post on the blog because my blog is your blog. So check that out. Till uh next week. God bless.