Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement. People continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman, Flooming and Heating. How do we make you smile? The Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com keyword faith. There you'll find links, podcasts, news items, and the Faith Debate blog. My blog is your blog, so email me at troyskinner at clearchannel. com. I'll post whatever you send me after removing all the naughty words. Forty five blog updates go up each week, nine per day, each weekday. I encourage you to pop in and see what other people are saying, and if you don't email me. On the Faith of Eight today, a special edition again, as uh we don't have a panel, and I hear a message that I was uh uh graciously invited to share uh recently in the area. Hope you enjoy it. Additional square footage was added to the house, they had to add a new HVAC unit because the original unit couldn't handle the new square footage. So this guy hired a company, people owned by the people he knew, owned by a Christian family, and you know they were conscientious, they didn't Okay job, but the work was slow in getting done and caused all sorts of delays and held up the entire project for a couple of months. But they worked through it in the end. But I figured it was worth it was worth the tension with the contractor, was worth the the extra extra costs for the job because well he figured he was helping a Christian company and he was told that this new heating and air system came with a full ten year part and labor warranty. So he figured, hey, other than regular maintenance, you'd never have to put another penny into this for at least the next ten years. That's a good deal. Well, this past winter, just two years later, the HBHC unit in this guy town stopped working. So calls the company up and says, hey you got to come out here? So they sent a couple of technicians and when they arrive they happen to be there. They do their work, when they're all done, they hand them a bill. A bill? Okay, what in the world? Was the warranty a lie? They held up the project for like two months and they lied to The guy was not happy. In fact, he whipped out, was not, demanded an explanation. He raised his voice, but he was careful not to swear. Not one first word. Instead he used interesting vocabulary, like the word for cleft. Seriously, the guy said he was the first one. He went off on these guys. There were two service decks there and he he hollered them both equally. They tried to explain the fine print and the warranty and he would have none of it. So he hit on the phone, they called their manager, put the manager on the phone. Manager on the phone, by the way, is the one to whom this guy used the word reclint. And he used some other words and said some other things like Not very nice. It's the Christian guy I know that did this, freaked out like that. You know a guy like that? Clearly I know a guy like that. Maybe you guessed I'm that guy. Not sure why I told you that story. Of course I'm kidding. I told you that story because it helps illustrate a lesson that we learned from Psalm 127. Read Psalm 127 and ask God's blessing upon our exposition and our understanding of it. Psalm 127. Says, unless the Lord builds the house, its builders labor in vain. Unless the Lord watches over the city, the watchmen stand guard in vain. In vain you rise early and stay up late, toiling for food to eat, for he grants sleep to those he loves. Sons are a heritage from the Lord, children a reward from him Like arrows in the hands of a warrior are sons born in one's youth. Blessed is the man whose quiver is full of them. They will not be put to shame when they contend with their enemies in the gate. Father, we thank you for revealing yourself your wonderful patient, nature, your plans for us individually and collectively, we thank you for this song, leaving it for us to wrestle with, to grapple with, to apply it to our lives. We ask that you would help us to understand its meaning and to put it to teaching a good use. Christ's name we pray. Amen. So at the start of verse one, we can see right away a connection with my opening story. Verse one starts, Unless the Lord builds the house, its builders labor in vain. Now this half verse is loaded with imagery. The first thing I want you to notice is the image of building a house. Can you see what the Bible's doing there? And can you see it? In talking about the building of a house, it's talking about the building of a house. I know, right? But there's more than just this to see you, of course. But before we move on to those things, we'll talk about them in a moment, but seriously, let's not overthink this. The psalmist wants you know to call to mind the building of a house. So let's do that. Why? Do we build a house? Protection? Shelter? A place to keep our stuff? An environment in which to raise our family, host our friends, a place from which we can kick out those who annoy us. Get out of my house! Build a house. So no place to go. I think I'll go home now. We build a house for all these reasons, for tax benefits, for an investment, for the realization of a dream, for social status. We have a lot wrapped up in our house. building it in vain. This was my problem with the HVAC people, right? My wife and I put in a lot of time caring for our house. A lot of money in the repair of our house. A lot of energy. We need the government Cleaning the floors. We all do these sorts of things, don't we? But when we forget that God is the builder, we labor in vain. And I had forgotten that God was the builder. We didn't think so at the time, of course. Didn't think so for quite a long time. convey too hard on myself, but consider the way I responded to a bill on an HBAC unit. It reveals something about what's going on in my heart. When we labor in vain, we will embarrass ourselves and we will forfeit our positive Christian witness to others. In part because we've worked at our positive Christian witness to ourselves. If you open up my psyche for a moment, I wonder if you will be able to see yourself at all. I put a ton of my personal identity in my house. Not just cash. and time and energy, but my identity in my house, in my addition. And when the new HBAC unit stopped working, I was aggravated. How could my house let me down like this? Disappoint my hopes. I was also disappointed in a Christian company. The people who own this company, they're part of the church. How could the church Disappoint my hopes like this. Instead of recognizing my identity in Christ, I saw my identity in the house and in the church. Sort of. Church, sort of absent of Christ. imagery for the word house in this verse, by the way, alluding to the temple, to God's house, to the church. Unless I realize that God is the builder of my house, I build in vain. And unless we recognize that God is the builder of our house. We build and labor in vain. What is a church without God after all? It's an idol factory. It's a cult. The synagogue of Satan. In our personal lives In our corporate lives, in our lives of the body of Christ, let's be sure that in our heart and at the heart of what we're building, we know that we're doing what we're doing, with Jesus as the focus. We have our hope in him. He is the foundation. He is the cornerstone, the capstone. He is the stone the builders rejected, the builders who were building in vain. And he is the one who was forever accepted by the true builder, God in heaven. But we have a similar story in the last half of verse. One. It says, Unless the Lord watches over the city, the watchman stands guard in vain. A simple survey of American history actually will teach us this lesson. Our nation won its independence in large part by the use of guerrilla style military tactics makes me more heavily armed and better trained British. But we can't always count on those sorts of tactics working in our favor. Just a couple of hundred years later, less than a couple of hundred years later, America got itself bogged down in a conflict with the North Vietnamese who used guerrilla stuff military tactics against us. In another case, World War II was basically ended when the Americans dropped a couple of atomic bombs. But what hope is there in that? The Soviet Union made atomic bombs of their own and thus started the 40-year Cold War. Recently, we strengthened our homeland security policies. We have beefed up our terrorist surveillance. We have developed new and interesting bombs. And yet, two brothers bypassed the surveillance. And they blew up not only the finish line of the Boston Marathon, but they blew up the illusion of complete national security, that hopeful illusion. They did this with new and interesting bombs of their own. We can pretend that we have everything under control, anything's far away, but our guards stand watch in vain unless The Lord is watching over the city. And the city image in this psalm might also be understood as Jerusalem, the city of David, the city of our God, as it's called elsewhere in the Psalm 48, the ancient capital of God's chosen people. The Israelites placed their hope in this city and stood and watched over it, and they watched, as it was attacked and sacked, and overrun. by former powers. This happened because they watched in vain. They didn't place their hope in and trust in God as they should. In the New Testament we learned that There's a new Jerusalem on the way, a new city that God watches over. And Christians are already citizens in this city to come. So we put our hope in that, acknowledging that God is the true watchman. Otherwise, we stand watch in the name. It's the city that God brings to us. It's his city that he builds. Unlike an infamous building project that we find recorded for us in Genesis chapter eleven. In that case, people said, let's build a great city. will put a gigantic tower that'll reach all the way to heaven. They had it backwards, people in Babel, because their hope was backwards. The Tower of Babel story, the people said, we want to make a name for ourselves. They want to make a name for themselves. They're hope. wasn't in God. And so they built in May. Don't think too smugly of these ancient sinners. As contemporary sinners, we do the same thing. Even with the church, we have delusional hopes that we will build heaven here on earth rather than being the living stones in what God is building. So even our church activity can be in Maine. If we forget that God is a building. Everything we do is in Maine. It's absolutely God. Our homes, our nation, our work. Verse 2 of Psalm 127 says, In vain you rise up early and stay up late, toiling for food to eat, for he grants sleep to those he loves. This verse Kind of sounds wrong. It feels right. It sounds wrong because we know that God doesn't reward lost. Laziness is bad. We should work hard. This is what the Bible teaches. Some might say more importantly, That's what America stands for. We win because we outwork the other guys. Wanna be successful? So successful Get up before dawn. Be sure to burn the midnight away. We're gonna candle at both ends of the badge of honor in America. Tomorrow at work or at the store shopping or at school or wherever, ask ten people how they feel. And of those who don't just give that generic one, fine, count how many of them answer with tire or Stressed, or having better. Part of this is a result of the curse that we brought upon ourselves. In Genesis chapter 3, we learn that Adam sinned and thus worked his heart. And we continue in this path. The curse for original sin. Sin makes work hard, and we make it harder still, with our own sin and our misplaced hopes. We insist on putting our hope in running the rat race. We run on empty. We are sleep deprived. How many cups of coffee have you had today? How many caffeinated soft drinks will you have this coming week? How many times in the coming year will you be overheard saying, oh, but could I use a jolt of caffeine or sugar or both? How many times? What is wrong with us? I heard someone once say we beat our brains, we tire our spirits and we rack our conscience. Yes, we do. We refuse to rest, even when we lay down at night. Oh no, of course, sleep. Our heads are spinning with plans and obligations and deadlines. False hopes. Building our house, our church. Our career, our nation, it's all in vain. It's all in vain, it'll drive us all insanity unless we turn to and place our hope in the one who loves us and grants us sleep. And the one who grants us. Rest, who invites us to rest, provided for us examples of rest. Jesus rested. In Mark chapter 2, verse 27 tells us that the Sabbath was created for man, not the other way around. Several times in the Gospels we We have Jesus withdrawing from the crowds for prayer and rest. One of the most famous stories of Jesus at rest is when he's sleeping during a storm and then he combs it. Matthew, Mark, and Luke all tell the story, and Mark is down in chapter 4, beginning with verse 33. Read. A furious squall came up, and the waves break over broke over the boat so that it was nearly swamped. Jesus was in the stern, sleeping on a cushion. The disciples woke him and said to him, Teacher, don't you care if we drown? He got up. Buked the wind and said to the waves, Quiet, be still. The wind died down, it was completely calm. And he said to his disciples, Why are you so afraid? Do you still have no faith? Why are we so frantic? Why are we so frantic too often in our lives? Why won't we rest? And trust God to give us the desires of our heart while we sleep. He did so for Solomon, who many think wrote Psalm 127. In 1 Kings chapter 3 was in a dream But the Lord appeared to Solomon, and in this dream, Solomon famously asks the Lord for wisdom, and the Lord grants him historic wisdom while he slept. To sleep is to be at peace. Stressless, stress, we don't sleep so well. How many people fall asleep? Peace. God gives sleep to those he loves. And those he loves are those who hope in him. I wonder if we might have here a metaphor or even death. In many ways sleep is like death. When we die, we die to the worries of the world. With that in mind, consider that Christians die to self and live by Faith in Christ who lives in the belief. Jesus brings peace with God, so we can say death where is by staying. Christian need not be so afraid to die and will not be so afraid if hope is resting in God. The true God, not the little gods of fabricate, no world. Here's a purposeful compare and contrast in the opening lines of Psalm 127 that the original audience would likely have noticed. We don't see it in English, but in the original Hebrew, there is an interesting word choice. The word vain is used three times in short order. It's not the same word used for vanity in Ecclesiastes, it's a different word. It's the word shaw, which sounds a bit like shalom, which of course means peace. What we want is shalom. Instead we have shalom. That is, unless, of course, our hope is in the Lord. By the way, before moving Moving on to verses three and four. I want to take a moment to make a distinction. She might have heard a woman named Jody Arias, recently convicted of brutally murdering her boyfriend. And after the verdict was rendered rendered, she granted an interview to a television station, and in the interview, she said said that she hopes she'd be given the death penalty because for her death is ultimate freedom. Let's be clear on what God's word says about this. Since we're talking about sleep and rest and death. Let's not be confused. For Christians to live is Christ and to die is gain. So we want to live because this is Christ. He is the way, the truth, and the life. But Christians also realize that when God's plan calls us to our physical death, as believers, we have the privilege then of having our spirits go to be with the Lord. But this is not the same as desiring death, and it's certainly not the same as the faith. That awaits those who are non-Christians. It's important when we're wrestling through all the things that are in the news these days, that we're clear on these sorts of things, that they're properly understood. Now looking at verses 3 and 4 of Psalm 127, there might appear to be a sudden turn From the verses 1 and 2, the theme seems to shift. But there's no shift. Verses 3 and 4 say, Sons are a heritage from the Lord, children a reward from him. Like arrows in the hands of a warrior are sons born in one's youth. So earlier in attention is drawn to building a house and building a city and building a career. And now our attention is drawn to building a family Of course building a family, building a house to kind of go together, part of building a home. So we can draw this connection, even in our American English understanding of things. But you could really draw it in a more striking way, looking at the Hebrew poetry. There's a pun at play in Hebrew. Not a pun as in, oh that's so funny. But rather A pun as in a plan word that involves a word that has more than one possible meaning. The word builders in Hebrew uses the same letters as the word for sons So the words funds and builders sound almost exactly the same. Bahn and Onen. As do the words for daughter and house, by the way. Baht and bayet. Also the plural daughters and the singular build. Banot and Bana. So this verbal connection between children and building brings to mind a theme that is recurring throughout the Bible A great example of this is seen in 2 Samuel chapter 7, which has such an emphasis on building God's house, which is ultimately a house of people, and in God's provision in doing so. Reading to 2 Samuel 7. God says to the prophet Nathan, Go and tell my servant David, this is what the Lord says, Are you the ones who build me a house to dwell in? Wherever I have moved with all the Israelites, did I ever say to any of their rulers whom I commanded to shepherd my people Israel, why did you not build me a house of cedar? I took you from the pasture, from tending the flock, and appointed you ruler over my people, Israel. I have been with you wherever you have gone. I have cut off all your enemies from before you. And now I will make your name great. Like the names of the greatest men on earth. And I will provide a place for my people Israel, and I will plant them so that they can have a home of their own and no longer be disturbed. I also will give you rest from all your enemies. The Lord declares to you that the Lord Himself will establish a house for you. When your days are over and you rest with your ancestors, I will raise up your offspring to succeed you, your own flesh and blood. And I will establish his kingdom. He is the one who will build a house for my name. I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. I will be his father, and he will be my son. When he does wrong, I will punish him with a rod wielded by men, with floggings inflicted by human hands. But my love will never be taken away from him as I took it away from Saul, whom I removed from before you. Your house and your kingdom will endure forever before me. Your throne will be established forever. You see here that God promised to build a house for David. And it's not a house of bricks and mortar, but rather of children. And you note the strong allusion to the Son Jesus is the true son. the true offspring. Of course those who are converts who are Christians are sons and daughters of God too. We are the people in this house that God is building. As Christians, we are the living bricks and mortar if you will. The church is God's house that God built. And we're not talking about the physical building that mixed people with God. We're not even talking about the institutional religious system. We are not talking about that. Stop thinking like that. You know the Old Testament tells us about the people of Israel? How they lost sight of this? And as a result, the house of Moses devolved into something that was to be maintained by legalistic adherence to ceremony, tradition, but religious institutions, even the religious institutions, of the church can fail. It fails all the time when our hope is not in God, as the one we trust to build and guard his people. And he does build and guard his people through the Spirit sent by his son. Experience God's blessing in our church and in our family. Psalm 127, verse 5. Says, Blessed is the man whose quivers full of arrows. They will not be put to shame when they contend with their enemies in the gate. The arrows are children. Contrary to observation. Europopulation growth advocates might say children are a blessing. Children are an inheritance, not an encumbrance. God uses them to do his work. God uses them to help provide for their parents in old age. the soil so that we can eat the fruits that we reap from it. These children aid in defending the family, aid in defending the city, even when enemies are storming the gate. To put a New Testament twist on that phrase Children prevail in the fight at the gate of hell. See, the case was earlier. Imagery in these verses layered on thick, as you'd expect in a poem. It's talking about children. Blessing the family. It's talking about the sons and daughters of Israel being a blessing to the nation. And we can also see this talking about God's children, the sons and daughters of Christ's Church. There is great blessing in the numerical growth of Christ's Church. And the spiritual love too for that matter. Children like arrows can fly where the father sends them. Children go where the father aims them. This is true at least when the father has done his job of forming the arrows in his hands before he places them in his quiver. Remember, they start as mere sticks. But the children who bring blessing are arrows. They're not twisted, crooked sticks. And so it is to the children of God. Jesus Christ is the straightest of arrows. And God is forming his brothers and sisters in his hands and conforming them to be like him. To be straight arrows. Can. And we are being conformed. Heading down the home stretch now. Think about how we're being conformed when the Apostle Peter was conformed. To be like Jesus. Peter performed amazing works in the name of Christ, that's to be sure. But in episode Acts chapter twelve shows exactly what we've been talking about here today. In Acts chapter twelve, Peter's in prison, scheduled to be killed, and an angel shows up and leads him out of prison right past four squads of four soldiers each. Now what did Peter do to make this happen? Nothing. Peter was sleeping The angel had to wake him up. Peter wasn't sure he wasn't even dreaming. Now, God's people were told the church was praying to God for Peter, but Peter was simply at rest. His hope was in the Lord. God answered the prayers of the other believers who also have their hope in the Lord on behalf of Peter. Because people, you know always do this very well, do we? Even Solomon was given great wisdom by God and his subjects in Israel didn't always do this very well. Solomon's temple, his kingdom, Family is marriage all ended in disaster because of failure to trust God, failure to maintain hope in God. Are we any better? And Solomon? And the Israelites? No, we're not. So where's the hope? Well, first Corinthians chapter fifteen, the final two verses of that chapter, tell us that it would All be vain. But thanks be to God, He gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, my dear brothers and sisters Stand firm. Let nothing move you. Always give yourself fully to the work of the Lord, because you know that your labor in the Lord is not in vain. Our labor of the Lord is not in vain. So it all comes down to this. Hope in our building efforts, our work, versus hope in God's grace and Christ's finished work. It's okay to have hope for an HBAC unit that will properly heat and cool as it should. It's okay to hope for Christian brothers and sisters to do right like you. It's okay to hope for a solid house, a flourishing career. obedient children, it's okay to hope for those things. But we need to place our hope in God. There's a difference. Reorient your identity. be oriented so that you are understanding yourself to be one who is beloved with Jesus. And when your hope wanes as sure it will, and when you falter in your walk as we all do, and when you might even be tempted to doubt your faith as We wrestle with from time to time. In those moments, recall that he is faithful and true And he has sent his spirit to guide and comfort us. As a Christian, you are a child of the Father. And he will always protect you, will provide for you in the way that he knows is best for you. Remember this, and you'll have the words of the God. Proverbs 3 to strengthen your hope. When you lie down, you will not be afraid. When you lie down, your sleep will be sweet. Have no fear of sudden disaster or of the ruin that overtakes the wicked. The Lord will be at your side and will keep your foot from being snared. There's our hope. And there's the end of our show. Thanks for listening. Till next week. God bless.