Welcome to the Face Debate on News Radio 930. WFMD, I'm Joy Skidder, and we are continuing our newfound Odyssey of doing the show in a different way than we have in the past. This is show number two from our new remote super secret location, deep in the bowls of the dungeon. So as I lose you and lastly show up here listening, uh we're now doing the show no longer in the Delphi F Studios, but probably a brand new studio setup that we're still kinda getting used to and so in the process of of getting used to all of this we are going to um uh do a bit of a extended experiment these next couple of weeks anyway. I'm going to be using some audio from an interview I did a number of years ago. It's got to be close to five years ago now with Ray Faba. He uh runs an entity called Evangelical Dark Web. And as I mentioned last week, just because I appear in somebody's show doesn't mean I endorse everything and anything they've ever done or said. Uh so I just wonder Remind you there. We had a nice conversation back then about uh plagiarism and uh sermon preparation and presentation of sermons and that sort of stuff. It was a long conversation, so you're only going to hear part of it today. You'll likely hear other parts of it in future weeks. So let's listen to the first section of this conversation. Again, you're listening to the Faith Debate, you can follow us along at WFMB. com where there is the Faith Debate page. You can also go to Household of Faith in Christ. com, where there is also a faith debate page dedicated. Look in the uh resources section of the min yeah, I think it's resources or ministry special. I should know that. But it's easy enough to find. If you go to Household of Faith in Christ dot com, you can find the faith debate and find all sorts of other stuff related to the show and things I'm involved with as well So here's the beginning of the conversation that I had with Ray oh so many years ago. My name is Ray. Welcome to the Evangelical Dark Web. Today we'll be discussing more on Sermon Gate And we have a special guest with us, Troy Skinner. I'll introduce him more momentarily, but just to set up the context for this discussion, we will be discussing Sermon Gate, which is the scandal that has somewhat plagued Ed Litton, the new president of the Southern Baptist Convention. And, you know, since he got elected, it was exposed that he has been a serial sermon plagiarizers specifically uh mostly doing live as I would call it live Disney live action remakes of J. D. Greer's sermons, and J. D. Greer was the outgoing president of the Southern Baptist Convention, which draws more irony to the situation, but It does appear that um he's been plagiarizing J. D. Greer's sermons since at least 2015, which would be before J. D. Greer was president. And it does appear that J. D. Greer is not the only person that's being plagiarized. by Ed Litton. But we want to use SermonGate as a launching pad to talk about a much broader issue of this industrialization of sermons and you know this is just one facet of Big Eva as we like to call it, big evangelical so That's why I have one of my guests, uh, Troy Skinner here, who's a pastor. And, you know, uh welcome to the program. How are you doing? I'm doing well. Thank you for having me on. Um, so you know, one thing I like to do just as an icebreaker is certainly to glorify God is to, you know, just have new guests. introduce themselves and tell 'em how they came to Christ just as an icebreaker and you know, certainly to share the gospel in that way as well. Yeah. Um Um my testimony isn't one of a dramatic uh conversion experience where I could give you the setting and the and the the date on a calendar and that sort of a thing. Mine is uh is kind of uh a gradual awakening and an evolution in thinking where I came to a place where I realized, aha, I think I got something here. I was raised pretty much a denominational mutt. bounced around a lot. Uh the short answer to the question somebody's asked is, Oh, did you go to a church to as a kid? What kind of church you go to? My short answer is I you know, I was raised Roman Catholic. But that's really a cheater's answer because I was only in the Roman Catholic Church for maybe a half a dozen years. I spent time in the Episcopal Church, I spent time in Baptist churches, Presbyterian Church, uh Dutch Reformed Um I'm I'm sure I'm leaving some out non-denominational, community Bible church kind of things, um, church of God. uh a charismatic church along the way. So I've of kind of a denominational mutt. Uh my thinking got clarified or began to really get clarified probably about twenty years ago when a then pastor of mine had the patience to sit down with me and walk through all of my con confusion 'cause after spending all of that time in all these different traditions and teachings I had way more questions than satisfactory answers and he helped me to kind of see my way clear. And I was at that point able to realize, okay, this is all true. It's what I believe Christ is my Savior. He is the Savior. I'm totally dependent on Him and His provision. I didn't do anything to save myself. He did everything to save me. And I now recognize the truth of that fact and then all of the different questions that I had, the theological conundrums uh from the different traditions have played themselves out in the intervening twenty years where I've kind of tackled them one issue at a time and tried to wrestle them to the ground to uh you know at least to a cognitive rest point where I keep get my hands all the way around the issue to get my fingers to touch as best as I could So in answer to the question if this is part of what you're asking me is when did I become a Christian or when was I saved? Well I think you kinda shared that. Yeah, I would say one, I was saved from before the foundations of the earth. In the w in the you know so there's that. Uh I would say more fully I you know you you can ex expresses itself in that I was saved at the cross. Or, you know, I I I was saved at uh from the moment that I was conceived and God had a plan for my life. Or I was saved when I had the awakening and all my confusion. began to finally uh looks like my camera's shifting on me. Let me try this. Sorry, I'm drifting. Um so I think a better qu and I'm not going to get into all of this in my answer, but I think a better question that we as Christians should ask each other when we say, hey, share your testimony. I think the question we should be intending there should be share the testimony of your current walk with Christ. What's your walk with the Lord looking like now? What's your testimony of living a life for the kingdom? That's a better question then. What was your conversion story or how did you come to be a Christian? I think that's more dynamic. I think it's more helpful and edifying to believers. And it takes the pressure off because I've wanted to some people that say, Oh, you don't have a conversion story What you don't have a moment where you hit rock bottom and you've all of a sudden you saw the lights and the angels sang from heaven accompanied by harps. You don't have that kind of a story. I understand where you're getting at. I like to use boring conversion stories as I like to call 'em, to glorify God. Like I think there's something about a boring conversion story that's glorifying to God. Yeah. And in ways that people don't really realize it's really kind of boring. Hey. I mean, you know, just the way you describe it is, you know, Christ does the saving, and I think that is uh pretty much sums it up in one way. In in a way you just shared the gospel by sharing how this all came together for you. And you know kind of how I like to start this. What you're doing here with this, you know, this internet broadcast and stuff. One of the key moments that I do recall, it wasn't the moment of conversion, but it was a moment of clarity. I was it was a radio ministry. I was driving to work or from work, I think it was from work, and I happened to have a radio station on that was broadcasting a pastor's sermon. And he said something about the gospel, and I can't remember exactly what he said, but I do recall that it was like one of those clarifying moments when I realized, oh It's about what Christ has done. It's not about what I have done. And I kind of already knew that, but I don't know if I really truly internalized it. And so somebody doing something through a multimedia, electronic media kind of a thing had a profound impact on me. And so hopefully, you know, what you're doing with your channel and what other people like you are doing with their channels is maybe being used in the same way. Alright, that that was well said. So let's uh get back into Sermon Gate. Since you are a pastor, I would also assume And it's fair to assume that you are very familiar with the qualifications for a pastor, whether laid out in First Timothy three or Titus. or 1 Peter chapter 5. So you're pretty familiar with those passages, I would assume. Um do you believe that plagiarizing sermons is disqualifying? Yeah, so uh I don't want to get bogged down on the wheez, but with a question like this and as hot a topic as it's become in the last couple of weeks, uh I think it's important for us to try to be as precise as possible and to root our answers in what biblical teaching is. And so I'm and um so I'm not plunting, I'm gonna swing back around, but I do wanna I wanna take the time to to um articulate our understanding of our terms So if by plagiarism, what we mean by that is someone stole someone else's work, stole someone else's intellectual property then absolutely it's a sin. Um is it disqualifying? I would leave that up to the uh the board of elders and the leadership in a particular church to make a determination if it was a one off or if it's a habit, if there's repentance, if this is part of a combination of a cocktail of sins in the pastor's life or something. For us to get into the habit of every time a pastor sins, he's disqualified. So does misrepresenting someone else's work as your own, does that rise to the level? Um it could, but I don't think that it must. It might be one of those situations kind of like when I'm doing commercial counseling. And one spouse has cheated on the other spouse, and they would have biblical grounds that would allow them to biblically sue for divorce. But the Bible doesn't require that they sue for divorce. And I think there could be a way to navigate through that and come out on the other side with a better pastor, a better congregation, a better commitment to the truth and protecting everybody's stuff. In this case, you know, one plagiarism, intellectual property. However, plagiarism doesn't necessarily um I think properly understood plagiarism whoa, my stuff's fallen down. I have my foam here my camera propped up and uh the weight of things has fallen down. So we're having a uh a fortunately kind of wardrobe malfunction like at the Super Bowl a number of years ago, but we're having that Let me see if I can get this to stay. Doesn't want to stay for some reason. Anyway I I think our common understanding of plagiarism though isn't necessarily as simple as stealing. I think some in our common culture, our discourse, people will broaden the understanding of plagiarism. Uh is borrowing somebody's work plagiarism. If you gave me a sermon and said, hey, I wrote the sermon for you, Pastor Troy, why don't you read this sermon to everybody and you don't have to tell them I wrote it, just read it like it's yours. And you gifted me that sermon and I didn't say that it was a gift. Technically I'm using somebody else's work, somebody else's intellectual property, but if it was gifted to me, well that's not a sermon, that's not a a theft. There was no stealing. Is that a sin? So I think we've got to be very careful of how we define our terms here and not chase after ghosts and make sure that we're being firm on enforcing God's law, but make sure that we're enforcing God's law and not our own understandings of what we might like to think God's law is I I think that was pretty well put and let me just add since this is a live stream, that means w this is also a live discussion. If you are watching this discussion live, feel free to submit questions into the chat and I'll try to incorporate those into the uh stream. I often do, so uh take that as encouragement because I didn't write that many questions So uh you know along the lines of one of the concerns that I had was specifically you know, specifically with Ed Litton is the ability to teach because one of the things that I observed and someone else pointed this out, but I also pointed out the other side. So between two observations that I one I made and one I saw someone else make, there was a contradiction in what Ed Litton was teaching. For instance, in his Sermon on Romans 1, we saw that Ed Lytton was basically teaching against unlimited atonement. Which I I assume it was because, you know, he's Arminian or whatever, so you know, he doesn't believe in unlimited or limited atonements. Sorry, my bad. Um ask you to clarify. Uh Limited atonement because he said, you know, he quoted and I believe Tim Keller, who is supposedly reformed, was the one who originated the quote, you know, uh God doesn't send people to hell for homosexuality. How do I know that? Because God doesn't s You know, because being heterosexual doesn't send you to heaven, which is a logical fallacy in and of itself, but it does kind of ignore the idea that God does punish people for their own sins. Gh, logically speaking. And Keller is too careful a thinker that it makes me wonder because Tim Keller has done things like that in the past He's such a careful thinker. When he does something like that that's kind of sloppy, logically speaking, it makes me wonder, okay, did he do that on purpose? Like is he trying to I'm just kinda credit uh I believe Tim Keller was the originator of that quote Which would be an argument which would contradict the doctrine of limited atonement as understood by Reformed theology But when you see Ed Litton's sermon on Romans eight, he's actually making an argument for limited atonement. And that was directly flagiarized from J. D. Greer. And I don't know exactly where J. D. Greer stands on this, but the person who made that observation They said that J. D. Greer wasn't a fool Calvinist or anything like that, so he doesn't actually believe in the doctrine which he's articulating. So I think that's one of the issues that comes about from making a habit of plagiarizing is you're contradicting Your own beliefs and theology because you're using someone else's. Yeah, there's a f there's several things in you know that uh I think maybe deserve some comment tied to what you were just saying in your comment. So one I'm not sure that I would say that that gobbledygook that might have originated with Keller and then made its way to Greer and then ended up in the ears of the congregants at Lytton I'm not so sure that that is an argument for or against any sort of limited or unlimited atonement. I'm not sure that I'm making that connection. Maybe Uh but I we don't need to take time on that because that's not the point of our discussion. But let's just say for the sake of argument that I cede that point, say it is Well that's not a problem in the Southern Baptist Convention because you don't have to be reformed in your view on that. You can be Arminian or Calvinist in the Southern Baptist Convention. So that wouldn't be a game changer. Right. My point is that the contradiction of the teacher. Yeah, and I would say that the app to teach part, you're absolutely right, that that is one of the preeminent necessary requirements for an elder is that the elder should be able and gifted to teach. But does that mean that in your giftedness to teach that you couldn't borrow somebody else's ideas and incorporate them into your lessons? That's what this is this is muddled I do want to say this though, so I don't want to come across as weasley or wishy-washy or being squish on this. It would appear I mean I've only seen maybe you've seen more, I've only seen one very clear example of Lytton lifting practically word for word the words and the structure, the outline of a Greer sermon. I mean Side by side, it's shocking how exact they are. That's clearly him using Greer's sermon. Now I don't know if Greer gave him permission. Puri said, Hey, I hate to have this great sermon you should preach it, or if Ed Sotten said, Hey, JD, do you mind up to use your sermon? I have no idea, and that would be a a an addition Now if you've seen other examples where he clearly lifted those, but I do know that a whole bunch, dozens, over a hundred, I guess. sermons suddenly disappeared from their website or other media platforms, which if it was at least a hundred and forty-three Which adds up to nearly three years worth of sermons. And the timing to do the math is suspicious and boy, at the very least it does give rise to the uh potential for an appearance of evil. And so if they didn't remove those sermons because they were plagiarized sermons, if they didn't do that, then boy, the wise counsel would be for uh Ed and his church to re-release those videos or provide some detailed explanation of why they happened to take those videos down when they took the nuts. It doesn't look it's not a good look, that's for sure. No, it's not. And I think the other issue is that You know, there's a lot of really bad messaging in those sermons that they didn't want to get out there. They didn't want And that would be a big they didn't want Ed Litton on woke preacher clips daily. Yeah, well that's even a bigger problem and that gets to the point you were talking about having being apt to teach, having the gifts of teaching. It's one thing to lift somebody else's words. It's another thing to lift somebody else's words and they stink. But you know, why would you want to have a non-gospel or confusing or some message is antithetical to biblical truth and have that be what you steal? Like do you not have enough discernment and wisdom and educational chops to discern a lie from the truth. Because that's ultimately that's why the elders are required to be good teachers. It's not that they should be winsome or articul- uh I mean being winsome is fine. Being articulate is fine, being able to build a nice construct, a good outline, and a good three-point sermon or Whatever those things are, that's all fine. But the reason that the teaching is a requirement is because the pastors, the elders, they are under-shepherds for Christ's flock, and they are taking on a responsibility to help protect the flock from the lies and to edify them in the truth. And so it's about discerning the truth, proclaiming the truth, heralding the truth, advocating, fighting to the death for the truth. That's why the teaching is so important because the people need to hear the truth and they need somebody they can trust to do that consistently well. Maybe not perfectly well, we're all frail and fallen, I get that, but that needs to be what the consistent study diet is comprised of. And so if you got a guy who's not even writing his own stuff, but is grabbing somebody else's stuff that is not Christian That's a huge problem. And then I don't even know what that says. Again, I'm not Southern Baptist, so I you know I I don't have a dog in this flight, but boy, this raise questions If you've got the president of the convention who doesn't have this level of understanding of what the truth is, what does it say about the denomination as a whole, the convention of churches as a whole? You know, if we're not careful, we're gonna stop calling it the Southern Baptist Convention, we're gonna start calling it the Southern Pagan Convention. Yeah, like I think if you were a Southern Baptist and you wanted to plagiarize a sermon, you know, like Adrian Rogers would probably be your go to. And yeah, I've actually heard I believe it was Kevin E. Zell I heard was had plagiarized. I don't know how long ago this was, obviously 'cause Adrian Rogers is no longer with us, if I recall. So, but someone and was on a different show pretty much retounted a story of I guess there's two back-to-back weeks and one week Kevin Ezzel was the guest pastor at a church and then the next week Adrian Rogers was the guest pastor and they both preached the same sermon. And the pastor described that they, you know, sunk down in their or Kevin Eazel was sinking down in his um seat. Yeah. And I've been in situations at churches where I heard the same sermon from the same pastor, like a guest visiting pastor. He preaches a sermon, he's invited back several years later and he forgets that he preached that sermon and he gives you the exact same. You know, that's cringeworthy enough, but to to have a situation where you're like, oh, somebody stole somebody else's work. But I gotta tell you, you might know this already. In fact, I I'm pretty sure you know this. I don't know if everybody who's listening to us and watching us right now knows this This is a pretty common happening. Now I was about to ask. It and I'm not talking about somebody stealing somebody else's work. That's probably more common than we would care to to acknowledge or admit as as Christ's church. But um I spent thirty-five years in the radio business and there's something that happened in the radio business. A lot of particularly morning shows are dependent on what are called show prep. services. It used to be they would fax you over the stuff and before that maybe they mailed you stuff, I don't know. And more recently is there's a website, a link, and some of the stuff that radio shows will use for show prep is just like a free forum open sharing kind of thing. But most of the services the radio stations pay a fee and their morning shows use it. And so you end up having morning shows talking about the same topics in the same way. In some cases they're doing word for word the exact same bits. And they're I guess in effect they're plagiarizing somebody else's work, but they're paying for it and it's an open well, it's a secret from the audience But it's not a secret in the industry. It's an open secret, if you will, within the industry. And it's not considered plagiarism because you're buying somebody else's work and they're letting you use it. The same thing is true with pastors. There are websites where pastors will go and there where s in some cases it's free. People can go and they can get illustrations or outlines or in some cases full sermons and it's just open sharing. In other cases, people are paying a fee, or maybe it's a per instance charge or something, to preach sermons that they did not prepare, that somebody else prepared. But they're paying for it. So is that plagiarism? And that's a so that's a related but different question. Because they didn't steal it, they pay for it. And yet they're Preaching somebody else's work and pr and more often than not passing it off either as their own or at the very least not owning up to the fact that, hey I didn't spend twenty hours this week preparing this message. I spent twenty minutes downloading it and uh and reading through it once before I shared it with you. And you know what? Before we make the mistake of thinking that this is a modern internet era problem. This problem goes back generations and generations. There was a time in church history when the people that were pastors or the priests They were unqualified. They couldn't read Latin. They were unable to prepare the messages. It was a real problem for the larger church. And so, you know, Central Command sent the sermon to the various pulpits, and every congregation in a particular region would be hearing the exact same word-for-word sermon from those preachers because they didn't have the chops to prepare it themselves. This goes back hundreds at least hundreds of years. Maybe, maybe who knows? Maybe they were doing this two thousand years ago. I don't know. And so that's going to put a wrap on the first session of the conversation, the portion of the session of that I had with Ray Faba of Evangelical Dark Web. You can Check out what he does online. He's got a website, Evangelical Dark Web. He's active on social media and that sort of thing. And a number of years ago he and I would have seen eye to eye on quite a few things. Not everything, but quite a few things. In more recent years, he has gone in a in a sharp uh Christian nationalist kind of a direction that brings with it a whole bunch of uh difficulties for me. So that's why I emphasize the beginning. Just because I'm on his show from five years ago doesn't mean that uh I agree with everything he says and the fact that he had me on his show doesn't mean he agrees with everything I say. I'm pretty firmly committed that I've got a biblical view on some of these particular questions that he and I would disagree with, but I'm sure he would try to argue otherwise. Maybe we'll have an opportunity to to hash that out on his show or mine someday down the road Anyway, you can continue to follow this conversation in upcoming weeks. You can listen to it again or other programs by going to Household of Faith. in Christ. com or going to WFMD. com and both of those places, find the Faith Today page, and there you go. You can also find the podcast on your favorite platform for listening to podcasts. It's on most of them The ones I would point you to specifically would be sermonaudio. com or odyssey. com or Christian Podcast Community. org. I think Christian Podcast Community dot com might take you to the same site, but the official lips, I'm pretty sure, is Christian Podcast Community. org. Anyway, this has been the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks so much for spending part of your valuable time uh with me here this morning or if you're listening to podcast later whatever time of the day it is it's very much appreciated until one hundred and sixty seven and a half hours from right about now God bless