The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. Welcome to the face debate on News Radio 930 WFMD on the AM at 930 AM, on the FM at 99. 9 HD2, and on the Internet. And I just lost that's weird. Is that not playing anymore? That's odd. I mean I hear me, so everything's fine. I did not fade out that music. The music just stopped for no apparent reason. Why did that happen? I'm curious. There it is again, magically reappeared. I don't know if that that's that's really odd. We're under satanic attack. They're trying to stop the face debate. They've thrown their best at us and they can't stop this show. We've been doing it for eighteen years. Actually, uh as we hear the show now, we just passed our eighteenth year and I realized I was thinking about this The Faith Debate has never really recognized or celebrated in any way any of the benchmark shows. So even though we've done way more than this, today we're celebrating our 100th show. We've done way more than a hundred show. But we're celebrating our one hundredth show today. Uh I'm Troy Skinner, uh longtime host of the Faith Debate, also the Pastor of the Household of Faith in Christ, you can uh find my church and all of my social media and connections to everything that I do. It's kind of a one-stop shop at household of faith in Christ. com. Joining the studio this week, as is per usual, Imran Razby. uh founder of Concord by Love Ministries online at concordbylove. org. He's also a house church pastor in the Thermont area. And uh back for another go-round not too long ago we had Steve Jurger on the show. He's with the Shabbat Gathering in southern uh Pennsylvania and kind not too far away from um Gettysburg. And I can't remember exactly family matters, I think, and things like that last time you were on. And coming out of that show, Steve said, you know, uh I would love to talk about a few things and he suggested some topics and we're going to be tackling some of those uh over the next couple of weeks beginning this week And chief among them, as you can imagine, he's got a congregation uh that it's called the Shabbat Gathering, so they're all about the Sabbath. Yeah, meeting and worshiping on Saturday. As it turns out, the Rasby Church also uh gathers on Saturday. And as it turns out, Household of Faith in Christ worships on Saturday. David Forcey, who's normally a part of this panel, uh his church meets on Sunday. Uh and I've pastored churches that that uh meet on Sunday. In fact, uh right now, the last couple of years is the first time I've ever uh than pastoring a shepherding a flock where we met on Saturday. So I'm gonna throw it to you guys first because I'm not sure exactly where I I I think I know what the conviction is, but I'm not sure what the source of the conviction or the strength of the conviction is, so I'd be curious to see. You guys meet on Saturday because, in your view, it is the Sabbath and that's when you should meet. Is that is that Well the Sabbath is a day of rest. So it it doesn't say that uh you should worship on the Sabbath, you worship every day. But I th for me it's clear that the Sabbath is have been given b by God to us as a day of rest. That we should observe it. It was there from the very beginning and it's also there in Revelation. So it hasn't gone away. And when I became a Christian uh a long time ago I was maybe a little bit naive. I decided to believe the entire Bible. I didn't just decide to be believe the New Testament. I decided to believe the whole Bible. And as I grew closer to God I I started you know questioning traditions, qu questioning what uh the cultural churches do and and again trying to find what God wants for us. And so there's there's many different things that brought me to move um my belief that Sunday is a Sabbath to Saturday is Sabbath. You know, we've often heard that hey so one person holds one day holy, another person another no another day holy, and things like that. But I couldn't really find anything in the Bible in Scripture that stated that the Sabbath, the day of rest, was now going to be Sunday instead of Saturday. So that's where I come from. So let's uh talk about it But what Steve, what do you want to start? Well, I was brought up uh for many, many years and taught that the Sabbath was on Sunday. uh from as little as I remember from different church congregations, different places that we lived in different parts of the country. And the local church we would go to That was the conviction. That was the the day of rest. It was Sunday. And as my wife and I started looking at as he said the whole word of God I started looking at the uh seven days of creation. You know, day one, day two, day three, consequently all the way to day seven. And God says that on the seventh day he rested. And it's not like God needs to rest, but God was giving us a prophetic shadow picture of him ceasing from his works. So When Jesus was on the earth, he said, Follow me. You know, do as I do. I do nothing except what my father tells me or was made known by my father. So, consequently, if you follow Jesus' life, he celebrated the Shabbat on the seventh day. That's the seventh day of creation, the seventh day, the day of rest. Jesus also said he was the Lord of the Sabbath. So basically, Jesus being Lord of the Sabbath means that he's the one who interprets it. If we're going to look to any interpretation of man, any interpretation of the commentators or the theologians, go look at Jesus' life. He's the Lord of the Sabbath. He kept the Sabbath. Jesus said, follow me. Okay, so the early church followed him. The twelve disciples followed him. They kept the Shabbat on Saturday. After Jesus died and rose again, the early church kept the Sabbath. So we have a very strong historical footprint. So Steve, when did it change? When did it go from uh Friday night to Saturday night as a Sabbath to Sunday daytime? Okay, there's that's a good question. The Catholic Church, in their writings, basically said that they are officially changing the Sabbath from Saturday to Sunday. And the reason they did that was because if you keep Sunday, their Sabbath, you are actually under the covering and the authority of the Catholic Church when you go to church on Sunday, according to the Catholic writings. But also there was a gentleman in born around 1880 A. D. and his name was Marcion. And Marcion was a gentleman that uh uh really promoted teachings that the Sabbath was done away with Yeah. In a couple of weeks we're gonna actually talk more specifically about Marcionism and uh so I mean alluding to him now in this context is totally fine, but it's mu ac obviously the the heresy of Marcionism has goes way beyond the confines of uh what they should be worshipped. Uh in fairness, I mean the the the idea of the Faith of Howe over the years is to try to provide a you know a a robust dialogue where different perspectives have a fair hearing. We're not able to do that super well today 'cause there's at least four, maybe five significant views on the Sabbath that are out there. And there's only three of us. We're not going to represent all of them anyway, even if we each had a different view. Uh but in fairness I want to try to at least touch on some of those. So one of the views would be you know, we have complete freedom from any and all sort of legalistic requirement uh in Christ. And so the Sabbath is Sabbath Shabbat. Doesn't matter when we meet, if we meet I don't need to gather and have a day of rest. I don't need to gather and worship. I don't need to do anything because I can get what I want on my own, on my own schedule, my own time Nobody in this room advocates for that, and I'd be willing to bet that everybody in this room would speak sharply against that. It's not biblical, and you are in disobedience to your Lord and Savior. He's not only your savior, he's your Lord. And so there are some things we are expected to do to honor, not to earn our salvation, but to honor his name and to be good examples for uh other believers and for the world that has has a watching eye on us, to be a good witness around us. So That's not going to get a lot of attention other than the last sixty seconds that I gave to it. Another one would be, well, we have great flexibility. So s and a lot of church a lot There are some noteworthy examples of churches that they might have some sort of a gathering on Sunday, and they m might even call that a Sabbath in some regards For a lot of them they would call uh that just an evangelistic day. It's a work day for the church, if you will. They have a gathering and all the people are there to witness to the lost who are coming to hear what Christianity is all about is the idea. And then they would have some other day in the week like a Wednesday or whatever day where they gather and they treat that as kind of their holy day during the week. Uh I'm not a big advocate of that necessarily either, but I will say that functionally there are some pastors that will treat Monday as their personal uh day of rest because they're the Sunday's a really, really hard work day for them and so Monday they're kind of catching their breath before they get back into the sermon prep and and and all those sorts of things. So All of those aside, let's go back to the uh what most people Uh you listener hearing this show right now, you might be heading to church right now. And you're thinking in terms of you're going to church because today is the Sabbath day, and that's what Christians do. It's now on the first day of the week. And so if David Forcy were here I'm trying to think of the kinds of things David would say to advocate his position, because I think that he would hold the view that Sunday is a special day that and that his family, I believe, treats Sunday as their day of rest as a family. And I think that he would say that, uh, in response so now we're having some dialogue here again. I in response to what you said, Steve, about well, follow the example of Jesus, I think that those that advocate for a change to the first day of the week from the last day of the week would say that Well, of course, Jesus uh went to synagogue and had his Sabbath on the last day of the week. He hadn't died and resurrected yet. And so and that's the point when things from a first day of the week, sabbatarian, they would say that's the point when it changed. And then they would use some some writings from the uh from the uh some of the patristic fathers. Um from the some of the examples they would point to uh the opening of the book of Revelation and John says that you know on the on the Lord's day he was taken up in the Spirit and they they refer to that in their way of thinking as Well, the Lord's Day was Sunday, and so that's an example from Scripture that it changed. By the way, I I'm I'm not a fan of using that part of Revelation that way. But that's part of their argument. So what do we say? And I'm not even I'm not even on your page by the way, so I'll give you what my view is in a second. But you know what would you guys say to to that sort of a retort? I would like to read uh two scriptures. This man went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus, and he took it down and wrapped it in linen cloth and laid him in the tomb and cut into the rock where no one had lain. And it was the preparation day, and the Sabbath was about to begin Now the women who had come to him out of Galilee followed, and they saw the tomb and how his body was laid. Then they returned and prepared the spices and the perfumes, and on the Sabbath day they rested according to the commandment. So here we have a direct time shot of history and context of the Sabbath day mentioned Right after they were at the tomb. And this is after Jesus. We're not sure if he's risen yet or if it's still in between those three days. But here we have an understanding of believers that follow Jesus keeping the commandment. Okay. What about the people that will point to what uh Paul uh writes in Romans chapter 14 about no day. I think you might have even alluded to this earlier, Amran, about, you know, no day is different than another day, that kind of thing. So that was you know, we're talking about holy days and that's fine. The the thing is, in the very beginning in Genesis You you begin with the Sabbath and in Revelation you end with the Sabbath. So Sabbath is there throughout. You can have holy days, you can have special days, you can have th this or that, but that doesn't change what God decreed But this is one, God doesn't change. If he wanted it to be the first day, he would have made it the first day. And because that's when Jesus was going to rise. He he knew that, right? He knew exactly when Jesus was going to die and rise. So he could have easily made the Sabbath the first day and said, Hey, I first rested and then I created. No, he didn't do that. He made a plan and he s set it in place Because he knew exactly what his plan was. So w as far as I understand, God does not change. And those that say God changes is directly contradictory to the Bible where the Bible is very clear that God does not change. The same today, yesterday and forever. And so people that say, well, once Jesus rose, that now became the Sabbath. No, it became the day that Jesus rose. It didn't become the Sabbath. The Sabbath is still the Sabbath. And but yeah, you call the Lord's Day, the day that uh Jesus rose, that's another day, special day, but it's not the Sabbath. Right. Well well God doesn't change. But again, I I'm I'm trying to absolut play the role of David Forcy if you were here a little bit and I hope I'm doing an okay job because There's part of me that's very uh agreeable to what David would say, even though it's not my view. Uh I pastored in that context for a long time and so I uh you know you learn what the arguments are because people ask you, why do we meet on Sunday and not on Saturday? Why do we treat Sunday as our day of rest and not Saturday? Well, this is what the tradition teaches and this how we understand scripture and that sort of thing. Uh I think it's possible that somebody who's uh pro The first day of the week is now the day as opposed to the seventh day of the week is the day, which might say in response to what you said, well God doesn't change But he reveals things differently over time. God's outside of time, so therefore he doesn't change. He doesn't isn't changed by time, but he works inside of time. Uh for example, the people, uh his chosen people, those that were his covenant people, were marked physically by the circumcision once upon a time. And Now we're told in the New Testament very explicitly that that's no longer a requirement. Well, God didn't change, but the requirement in time upon his people changed. So couldn't the same thing be said for the day of the week upon which we would worship? Particularly if the seventh day was was leading to the promise of the first day, which would probably be a broader application of what the first day advocates would say. Well appreciating uh how we've been taught for many, many years, myself included Um as I started testing the teaching of the first day of the week being the Sabbath day, I came across a scripture in Deuteronomy four that says, You shall not add to the word which I am commanding you or take away from it. that you keep the commandments of the Lord your God which I command you. Now, again, God says he changes not, so we have to follow an example Jesus himself even said, I have come to do what was written of me. If he deviated from that, he would be stepping outside what he was called to do He was to be the spotless Lamb of God, sinless. At any point in time, if he would have deviated from that what was written of him in the scriptures, he would be missing the mark. then he would no longer be a spotless lamb, then he would not be able to qualify to be our Savior to take away the sins of the whole world. So he had to walk this walk. that was uh and it was known of exactly he says, I know what I'm supposed to do. I've heard from my father. My father's told me, you know. And so there's really Uh we have to look at the consistency of Jesus' walk and compare our view with what how what he said, how he walked. what was important to him. Then you can start comparing when tradition of man or tradition of uh religion or different things that have been added or taken away over the over the millennia. Uh sometimes we have to get back to the simplicity of the Trevor Burrus. In fairness to those that would disagree with the the the position you're advocating, I, on their behalf, haven't quoted a tradition of man. I've pointed to Romans chapter 14. I've pointed to uh Revelation chapter one. Uh I've pointed to the example of uh circumcision in the Old Testament, not in the New Testament. I've been I've been using on purpose scriptural arguments because those are the arguments we should be making. What do we do, for example, with the uh Jerusalem Council in Acts chapter 15, where they have a chance to hold people to particular rules and regulations that would have been part of the uh uh Judaic law. And they pare it down to basically um going off on the top of my head here, but they pair it down to avoid uh eating food sacrificed to idols, avoid blood. uh and uh basically try to live a good life. But there's some other path. But there's no mention of the Sabbath there at all. There's no mention of of a whole bunch of the of the the Jewish law there. It's almost as if it's abrogated in in some sense. So what do we what how do we handle that in this context? And with regard to the Sabbath Again, Romans 14, one person regards the day above another, another regards the day every day alike. Each person must fully convince in his own mind whether he observes the day for the Lord and who he eats. This is something it's called observance. This is not looking at the command which the Lord has made. This is talking in context about if you decide you're going to fast on a particular day. If you're gonna worship or honor God and and and do a special offering, you know, you have that ability to do that, but at the same time, in the Greek that word day is hemorrah, it's it's not Sabbath. It's just as day. So people infer that and say it's the Sabbath day. So you might want to have to look at context and culture and see how that's actually Um it's tangential, but it's might be related a little bit to this. I don't want to go off on a huge rabbit trail. And uh I don't know. Imran and I have known each other for a while. I don't know his view on this and I only met you this year, Steve, so I don't know your view at all on this How do you guys uh view the festival days? Feast of tabernacles and feast of weeks, things like th things like that. Do you guys feel like Christians should be observing those days or that that's not something that's for the church? That was something specific to the Old Testament? So that's that's actually probably topic for another whole another show 'cause that's goes off topic of Sabbath. So I think we should definitely address that. My thing is First of all, um and I I we will answer I think we should discuss it on on another two topic, but another a week. Uh w what I'm concerned is many of the people that I grew up with or in the church after I became a Christian. Um they they said Sunday is a day of worship. But not almost nobody really kept it as a Sabbath. So first we had to find what is Sabbath Sabbath to me, from my studies and my learning, is a day of rest. So on let's say it's Sunday. Let's say the church says it's Sunday. Sunday's a Sabbath now. So do people actually rest on Sunday? No. They they uh go to their own pleasures, they watch the football game, they uh do lots of different things, sports and activities. They they're not resting, nobody's resting. In fact that was when when I first started um God started moving in my heart towards keeping the Sabbath, I was trying to keep Sunday as the Sabbath and we started resting on the Sunday and say, Hey, this is our Sabbath, we're gonna rest. Yes, the church says Sunday is the Sabbath, we do that. So that's the first step. And so on Sundays we would not do anything, we'd not do sports, we would not go watch sports, we would uh be at home and fellowship and worship God and and talk about uh his word. And we did that for a while and then God moved in me and said, okay, some when did uh he say that the day of rest that he gave us, the one of the ten commandments is no longer there. It's it's a Sunday now. He never said that. So I looked throughout a lot of studies that uh you know went through you know m my favorite Google Google search, uh everything and studied that and I couldn't find anywhere that was definitive that God said the day changed Sunday. I saw people said that. I but I never saw the biblical s thing. And when you compare different things like circumcision We're not talking about circumcision. Circumcision also is not a one of the Ten Commandments. S the keeping the Sabbath is a one of the Ten Commandments. So one of my friends said, Hey, are you a ninth commandment person or a tenth commandment person? What do you mean by that? I said he said, Well you do you keep all the Ten Commandments? I said, Yeah. He said, No, you don't. You're not keeping the Sabbath. The Sabbath is the last day of the week. After a full day full week you rest on the Sabbath. That's what God teaches. He never changed that. So why are your nine commandments? Christian. So that's really where I came from, you know, all the way over to being a new Christian, not really knowing what I'm doing, to following what the church says and and meeting on Sundays and try and then from there trying to keep Sunday as a holy and separate and special and and restful day to why am I doing that? God didn't command me to rest on Sunday, He commanded me to rest on Saturday. Within the context of the commandments and what you said earlier, Steve, about the example of Jesus and he had to live a sinless life, and he recognized the seventh day, not the first day, as the day of rest. Um so is it your view that the Christians and the churches that are uh having their wors not only their worship on Sunday, but are are calling their people to recognize Sunday as the day of rest as uh functionally as a Sabbath, uh are are they in sin? I would say yes. Um and that you will get a lot of hate mail and a lot of people angry with me and but I think we have to stand up for what the Bible says. And that's what God has brought to my heart that I believe that it is it is a sin not to keep the Sabbath and the Sabbath isn't on Saturday. Now if you say, hey, Sabbath is on Sunday or it's on Tuesday or it's on Wednesday I challenge you to say, where does God say it is that day? And if it is, convince me. I'm happy to change because if you can convince me th through the Bible, through God's Word, I'm very open. I want to follow God's commands. 'Cause w what d God says is that following his commands is not going to save you because obviously he didn't save anybody. Jesus saves But if you love him, if he saved you and you love him in return, for then you would follow his commands. And his commands are very clear. It's not just follow one command or follow the New Testament commands or it says follow my commandments My commandments means the whole Bible. So I am desperately, honestly, every day trying to find what I'm not following, what I should be following, and trying to change. And the the church has done abysmal job in teaching me what are God's commands. All they've taught me in church really is, hey, God forgives all your sins and you're okay. You can do whatever you want. You're forgiven, you go to heaven. That doesn't have any meat. It doesn't have any any any structure. It's just hey, you're all forgiven. Just so long as you're you say the repent uh r uh repenting prayer and you're okay. Well I'm gonna have to uh start to draw this episode to a close. We uh there obviously I didn't even have a chance to share, oh uh with any specificity my view. And I know you guys are chomping at the bit to hear my view. Of course you are. Everybody wants to know what I think. My microphone doesn't want to know what I think right now. It's not cooperating. There we go. So we'll do that next week and then maybe we'll transition into some broader uh Marcionism uh stuff because it is it came up this week, maybe we'll talk about that next week. And if you have other thoughts that uh you didn't get to share this week, we can carry them over and talk about them next week. So it'll be kind of a a two-part bridge here. So a little teaser. Next week you'll hear my view for what it's worth. And then we'll go from there. So this is the Faith of Imran Razby, uh founder of Conquered by Love Ministries, online at conqueredbylove. org. Uh the Shabbat gathering uh is uh is blessed uh by uh leadership among others uh from uh Stephen Jurger. He's he's part of a team of leaders there. I'm Troy Skinner, pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. And you can find us on online at householdfaith in Christ dot com. Until next week, 167. 5 hours from right now. God bless.