This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The faith debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with a master of divinity from Reformed. Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Oh. Yeah. Troy Skinner. You are about to hear part three of a message that's now spread out over a month and a half. Part one, air. back on March eleventh. Uh then we were interrupted in this little uh series um by a wonderful s slate of shows on the state of the dead which ran for four weeks. And last week we heard part two of the message that began on March eleventh. And now we're The message is shack it up based loosely on third John verses thirteen, fourteen, and fifteen. So we're going to hear the last part of that message now, and then I think they will hear the first part of another message is also about the book in the movie, The Shack. So hang in there with me. Thank you so much. And if you want to hear these all kind of in sequence, you certainly can do so The way to do that, of course, would be to go to the website wfmd. com. So anyway, here's part three of Shackin' Up. So we're not to learn to hear God's thoughts from the Bible or the preached word, even though our thoughts are lower than God's thoughts. We should just open ourselves to whatever might come into our minds. Ignoring the example of the Bereans in Acts chapter 17, verse eleven, where they tested everything against what was written in the scriptures. Now there is so much more that I could quote from Young's I think hero, Bruce Coburn. Let me give you just one more. He begins by quoting scripture. In my father's house there are many mansions. It was suggested to me years and years ago that that was a reference by Jesus to reincarnation. I feel like one lifetime isn't enough, but I kind of assume that we have more than one life. I feel like death is some kind of graduation ceremony and we're on to the next level of education after that, whatever it is I'm not sure if we can come back in human form or whether the bundle of energy that is in us goes somewhere else. Again, this is a guy who I believe has a fan in William Paul Young. The cynical snarky part of me is tempted to do a mic drop and say, I don't need to say anything more. But there is a lot more to be said, both positively and negatively, about the Shack, and so I will continue, but that we'll have to wait until next week. So let me just wrap up this week. Let me add a quick point. If you have read The Shack, watch the movie And you enjoyed them, like my wife did, for example. That's okay. If you haven't yet watched the movie or read the book, but you intend to, well, that's okay too. Just be careful as you read and as you watch Of course, this is true of every book that you'd read, every movie you would watch, every TV show, every magazine article, every radio program, every website. Be careful Test it against the scriptures. And if at this point in your life you simply do not feel equipped to wrestle with the theological questions and implications of the message in the shack, then You don't want to read it and you don't want to watch it? Well that's okay. There's no requirement to read it. But uh I there's a buzz out there in certain circles and it might come up in conversation. And so I want you to kind of know, either way. Whatever position you want to take, that it's a well-informed one, I want you to know that the shack, it it does have plenty of good aspects in the story. It truly does. I'm just not persuaded that a biblical understanding of who God is is one of them. The biblical understanding of God Lest you'd need to be reminded, and don't we always need to be reminded each and every day? The biblical understanding of God is one of justice and mercy, not at odds with one another. The biblical understanding of God is one of law with love that avoids legalism. The biblical understanding of God is of righteousness mixed with grace. We have a Father and a Son and a Holy Spirit that is our creator and our King and our Comforter. This is the biblical view. of God. And the biblical view of Jesus is that he is Messiah, He is Christ, the Redeemer, He is Lord, He is Friend. He is the perfect Israel, the perfect Adam, the perfect prophet, the perfect priest And he loves you. And he saves those who are his. And Christian, he will ultimately bring you into his glory. And he will bring you peace. Forevermore. When you see him face to face. Like John says at the end of Third John, that relational, personal, intimate connection where you know someone, you see them face to face. That is the hope that is held out there. If we stand Strong in love and stands strong in truth. And lastly, if you are seeking to read a book that helps us to grapple with great loss and evil in the world and who God really is, I would recommend a story that we find in the book of Job in our Old Testament. It is so much better than the Shack. Read that. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for revealing yourself to us. By your very creation, we can see you. But we can see you with more specificity in your word and the light. We thank you for eliminating illuminating rather our minds through your Holy Spirit. We ask that you would help us to stay fair-minded as we deal with others. Who might disagree with us on certain points, but in our effort to be fair-minded, we do not lose sight of being God-minded, word-minded. Help us when we have doubts about what the truth is to turn to your written word. See what it can tell us, to turn to those who have been trained up in studying that word to help us to navigate its truths. Forgive us for times when we take stands on the wrong side and give us the courage to then back Up and say, you know, I used to say this and I was wrong. I now understand God's word to say this. Help us to have humility. But as best as we can understand it, help us to be bold in standing for the truth. Help us not to be lucid. warm. Help us to know that you, God, have given us a way, that your son is the truth, and through you there is life. Help us to bring this message of life to those who are otherwise stuck with death for eternity. Help us to point people to Jesus Christ. It's in his name that we pray. Amen. And so that's the conclusion of uh three parts message as it turns out, called Shackin' Up. We've got some time obviously left for this show, so I'm gonna transition into I did a another message, a follow-up message at the same church, also on the book of the shack, 'cause there's so she said and this one is is based loosely on the all of the epistles of John, first, second, and third John, trying to capture the theme of what John's writing in these uh messages that use the shack, the book and the movie, as an extended illustration. And so here's part one of a message called Shack Attack. That uh yeah, I guess Shack Attack is kind of the direction I started to go there, right? So it might be an Apro Pro name. First John chapter two says I write to you not because you do not know the truth, but because you know it, and because no lie is of the truth. I write these things to you about those who are trying to deceive you. 1 John chapter 4 says, Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see whether they are from God. For many false prophets have gone out into the world. Second John says the elder to the elect lady and her children, whom I love in truth, and not only I, but also all who know the truth, because of the truth that abides in us and will be with us forever. 3rd John says, For I rejoiced greatly when the brothers came and testified to your truth, as indeed you are walking in the truth. I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in the truth. The epistles of John Emphasize the fact of Jesus Christ's identity as the Son of God. These letters emphasize the importance of obedience to this Messiah, our King. The Apostle John also emphasizes the importance of mimicking the love of our Lord and Savior. Last week, if you were here, you might remember we took an extended peek at the very successful book and movie and phenomenon that is the Shack. And we lauded the shack for highlighting the love of our Creator, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. But we also drew attention to some reasons for having some concern about the Jack, for potentially having having an unbiblical bias and therefore having a potential unbiblical agenda. This is important for Christians to grapple with because the Apostle John In the three letters that we have of his that have been preserved for us in our New Testament canon, in addition to all those things I mentioned a second ago, he emphasizes the truth. The importance of the truth does Shack teach the truth? Some, yes. But not all. A quick refresher. The shock tells the story of a man named Mac. His six-year-old daughter was kidnapped and murdered in an old shack in the woods. And this causes Mac to enter into what the author describes as the great sadness. You might relate. Mac feels inside out. He doesn't feel normal anymore. If he ever did feel normal. He questions what he was taught in church and at seminary. He wonders if it's all a dream, a hoax, a hallucination, a nightmare. Is God toying with him? His relationship with his wife and his other children, it is weakened. Mac finds no answers from his pastor or from the fellowship of believers gathered for corporate worship on Sunday mornings, mostly because his congregation is more of a Sunday morning social club. And so he is not certain of anything. He's not even certain of the distinction between the irrational and the rational. And it's at this point in the story that Mac receives a letter from someone named Papa. Mac wonders, is it the killer? Or is it God? Some readers might wonder, is it the devil? Max says on page 71 of the Shack, part of me would like to believe that God would care enough about me to send a note. And he wonders if Papa will maybe have a long white beard, perhaps be a bright light, a burning flame. Anyway, with this we conclude our sad recap setup of the Shack. This is an achy breaky heart sort of story. A story of hurt and doubt. It is so relatable And this is part of what makes the shack so popular. It is a powerful scenario, this story is. And this is what makes the shack dangerous if what it teaches about God is not true. The book does admit to the presence of evil in the world. It honestly acknowledges the brokenness and the deadness of living in an evil world. It calls attention to the dead and empty and evil horror of the demonic. It dares us all to shout at God, I hate you! To blame God, to shout at God, to think of him as indifferent, to doubt that he even exists, which would mean that we exist in a black chasm of Darkness that sucks away any last vestiges of hope that we might have remaining in our heart. Max only hope is for God to come and Find him to show himself to him as a God who brings life and order out of despondency and chaos And this is kind of what happens in the shack. Maybe Mac is dreaming, hallucinating? But in the shack, he has an encounter with God. At least, this is what William Paul Young, the author, intends for us to understand. But is it God? The real God, the biblical God In some ways, yes, but in other ways there is reason to have doubt. In the shack, there is at least some truth. If it's okay that I should say that without upsetting the author. After all he does quote Albert Einstein at the head of one of the chapters saying Whoever undertakes to set himself up as a judge of truth and knowledge is shipwrecked by the laughter of the gods However, attempting to follow after the noble character of the Bereans in Acts, I will press forward with great eagerness to examine the scriptures and see if Paul Young In the shack says what is true. The truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, I guess, is what we're after. Now again, the book presents the idea of a God who brings order out of chaos, especially order out of the chaos of our lives. Our lives are filled with emotional pain. And it's a pain that is often best dealt with by pressing into the hurt. The shakh does a good job of this. And the shak indicates that God is able to take what is bad or dangerous and to use it for good. And good does not always mean that which will make us feel good. Shack does a pretty good job of this. And the Shack it says that there is such a thing as good, distinct from evil. This is confirmed as true in the Shack. The book illustrates beautifully these things, as well as illustrating beautifully that we are all, each of us, co-laborers with God in our lives. The book pokes a little hole in that phenomenon that was, what would Jesus do? And that's a good thing in my book. And there's a little bit of ink that is spent on the benefits of leaning on God, because depending on things that are absence of of good, well that's that's depending on evil. The book highlights that the Son of God is one who did not grasp after his own rights, but was willing to Serve instead. He chose instead to serve rather than grasping after his own rights. And there is a lesson in this for all of us. Are you willing to surrender your rights to serve, your rights to life, to property? To fill in the blank. And while it is fleeting, there is a fleeting moment of reverent heavenly worship in the book. It's on page 138, if you would like to find it yourself. And there is a Trinity, for example. There's Papa. And Jesus and Sarayu, the name that our author gives to the Holy Spirit character. And so there is a lot that is true and good in the shack. Now I just mentioned Papa, so let's take a look at Papa. Papa is described in the shack as a large African-American woman who Max sees face to face and who wears his mother's perfume. There are some dispute points to note here. Well God is spirit, as we know from John chapter 4, verse 24, and therefore God is not a man or a woman. The Bible does pretty consistently refer to the Father in the Bible in masculine terms, you know? And I think that it's there for a reason. This helps us to better understand some really important themes in the Bible, like uh federal headship. understand the customs of the ancient Near East, the context within which the Bible a lot of it was written. Practices related to inheritance back in that time, uh and adoption and questions of leadership and order. However, despite all these big theological issues that can get raised, I don't think that Bible-believing Christians should get all bent out of shape because Papa is presented as a female in the book I mean Papa is, after all, presented as a male later in the book for a short period of time. What's more concerning is that Papa is seen at all. In the Bible, no one ever sees a father face to face. Never If you'd like to study this out later, good places to start might be John chapter 1, verse 18, 1 John chapter 4, verse 12. So Mac sees the Father face to face when no one else does. And this papa seems to be a construct of Max's own imagination and his desires. Remember that Papa wears his mother's perfume. And Papa tells Mac, that's okay, we'll do this on your terms. And you might remember from last week how I wondered if maybe the author, Paul Young, is a pacifist. It could be, because Papa seems to lean in that direction. Clearly anti-gun. Papa disdains even holding a gun. And we're gonna pause our our attack on the shack. Oh uh or more uh g more accurately, I guess, more fairly to myself, the shack attack will take a pause. That's the name of the message. Well we heard the tail end of Shack Enough at the beginning of today's show, and then the first part of Shaq Attack and I'm not sure where we're going to pick up the Shack Attack because we've got some other things planned. So I think next week's going to be a panel discussion and it'll probably be for the next few weeks. At some point we'll swing back around. We've been talking about the shack a couple of different times. Um we did it late last year. Well we we began we we ran one show back in m uh middle of March and now a few shows here in the month of April. So uh we'll come back. It's it it's not Not as hot a topic now as it was last year when these messages were first uh conceived and then shared, but hey, the shack's not going away anytime soon. People are still reading it and watching the movie on D V D and that sort of thing. So anyway, thanks so much for listening. Look forward to talking with you again next week you can visit us online at wfmd. com, keyword faith. That takes you right to the faith debate page or you can find a little drop-down menu of the programs on the website and you'll find the faith debate listed there uh as well. You can find podcasts and a listing of the upcoming shows and that sort of thing. So anyway, thanks so much for listening. Until next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless.