Welcome to the Frederick Space Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Brought to us by footman, forming and heating, helping make you smile, and Deer Valley, landscape, hardscape, masonry. Jonathan Sweiser, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, on the show again this week. And Dr. Fahim Yunus, who is the Secretary of Education for the Ahmadia Movement. Muslim community in the United States of America. And last week I got chastised by Jonathan for reading a bunch of Christian literature novel stuff. Don't I ever read anything heavy, he says So if you want a little something a little more heavy, here's something by KA Kitchen. I would recommend it if you want to Wait, it's a heavy book by somebody some guy by the name of Kitchen. K. A. Kitchen on the reliability of the Old Testament Uh-huh. Alright, so that's that's heavy. That's it's heavy, it's heavy, yeah. It's not light reading. And he claims it is reliable? And it Yes, he does. He does? Fanatic he must be. Would you rather read a heavy book by somebody that doesn't believe that it's uh Oh sure, I read I read the country and points of views all the time. Yeah. Absolutely. Just so I can give a nice laugh. No, it's important to know what the other side thinks, right? Yeah. It challenges what you think. There have been times when it causes you to dig deeper into Hmm. I disagree with that, but he's making a good argument. I better sharpen my argument or else or else I need to agree with him. Yeah. Um and so I don't run out of time again, another book. This is uh not heavy reading, but it's not light reading either. Uh a book called Real Sex by Lauren Winner. If uh y particularly if you're raising young children, it's a must-read. An absolute must read on the proper approach that uh we as families and it's particularly speaking to a Christian family, but I think anybody who believes in moral standards uh uh would appreciate reading. Now the the the title might scare you away. Real sex is kind of a scary uh title. It's it's not It's not um offensive in any sort of uh sexualized sort of a way. But it doesn't pull any punches either. It's it's it's it's probably the best book on the subject I've ever read. That's very high pre-statement from me. Pushing the self. Limits. Lauren Winner's the author. Lauren Winner. Yeah All right. And I don't think I would agree with her theologically. And she doesn't say where she stands, but I think she comes from a slightly different place than I do. Mm-hmm. But doesn't matter on this issue. Anyway, so we're talking about um Muslims in America. Christians in America. We've spent three weeks now talking about that. This is week number four. And finally, after almost three weeks, toward the end of last week's show, the word Sharia came up for the first time, which was I think interesting that it took that long to get there. And we I have in my hand a Ahmadiyya Muslim community uh pamphlet or brochure. The uh front cover has an American flag waving in the wind. It says Muslims for loyalty. Um and it has uh United States of America right on here. It's a very patriotic type of a thing. He opened it up, it says, Should Muslims living in America be loyal to America? And it's got the word terrorism with the uh the big no stamp, you know, like the no smoking size. Boom, no terrorism. We're against terrorism. Um it talks about the the importance of uh believing and obeying God, uh subscribing to the teachings of uh of God's messenger And then it has this quote from uh uh the Prophet Muhammad, love of one's country of residence is part of faith. And so you read something like this, like, oh, Muslims can be good Americans. Good constitutionalist Americans? And then there's other people who say, Yeah, I've heard about Sharia law and you guys are just trying to sneak in and infiltrate our our nation and take over and get into the the ruling powers of government and institute Sharia law so you can have it become an Islam uh Islamic nation, a Muslim ruled nation So it seems from this brochure that that would not be a fair characterization, at least of Amadea believers. That's exactly right. Now let me ask you this though, is the Amadean view the same as the Sunni view and the Shiite view. Whatever they say, but as long as they are living in American taking a paycheck from an American corporation, I think their actions are in line. If they loved Sharia that much, why wouldn't they move to Saudi Arabia tomorrow? Right. to bring the influence so that they can change the United States to being Sharia law. We had the guy from the Islamic Society, Frederick, here in Frederick, that said on the air that his hope and his goal is to see Sharia law established in Frederick. So that's exactly what he claimed. Really interesting because the imam that that that I debated down at uh uh down at uh Johns Hopkins University, he said the exact same thing. We would like to see Sharia law established in the United States. That's in the openly sir. Let me ask you, you know, next time you see him, ask him this question There are probably over seventy sects within Islam and no two sects seem to agree with each other. Which Sharia are they going to implement? Out of those seventy possible versions Because whichever Sharia they bring on, the other sixty nine Muslim groups are going to shoot 'em down saying, No, no, we don't agree with that Sharia. Right, but that's precisely what they're trying to do in their in their country. They want our country to be like their countries You know, whichever one they are. They they want us to be more Muslim and that's re in fact what they told what they'll say to us is that that uh that they've never required or forced people by the point of the sword to follow Islam, but what they do is they use the point of the sword to force people to follow Sharia law. And that's the distinction that they make and that it's okay to force people to follow Sharia law because it's righteous in their eyes, but it's not okay to force people to follow uh a religion which to me is a hair split that is very angering. Just tell me which direction they're going so I can run in the opposite direction. Sure. That's you know, I want to distance myself to the maximum from such people because I think one they don't understand Islam. I have yet to meet a fundamentalist Muslim and I don't consider you that that is is able to make their peace with a liberal democratic society. In Islam, there is no requirement for share first of all Sharia is not just about the the laws about justice. You know, Sharia has moral components, it has ritualistic components So just me saying my five daily prayers is me following my sharia. Sure. What does Sharia mean? Sharia means a path to water That's all it means in path to holy water, water of life. That's that's the context, the philosophical context. It's it's a way way of life. Right. But it's a personal issue in Quran over and over again. Which is very interesting because in the story of Abraham and Ishmael When when according to to the Bible, when when Hagar ran, they were about to s the to run out of water. Surah was the name of the place. Shiraya, Surah. And uh on the road to Sur They ran out of water and an angel showed up and showed them the the water at uh Beershiva. Very interesting that uh Sharia means the path to the water. And even if you look Sharia and then Torah Torah is also that the same word again has to do with water. So I think it but the point here is Sharia law is not at all, you know, first of all it's not a requirement. Islam over and over in Quran says the principle of absolute justice. That's what the Quran strives for. It says when you have to elect people from within, elect those who can do justice. It does not say elect those who are Muslims, who are Christians, who are Jewish. It categorically mentions But justice as is defined by No Absolute Justice. You know, those are the basic same old ten principles, whether you look at Ten Commandments or US Constitution Uh to me the US Constitution and I'm not trying to mix separate uh church and state here, so first of all disclaimer because some people can misunderstand that. I think the US Constitution is more Islamic than many of the constitutions of Muslim countries. I feel more at home with the US constitution as a Muslim. And I mean it. So as you understand it, the the because uh maybe all I get is the caricature of it, you know. Maybe that's all Americans get of is the caricature of of Sharia law. uh or and a misrepresented caricature possibly. That's what I'm gonna ask you here. So we see stories that Sharia law would require women to wear burkas. That's not your understanding what Sharia law is? My wife is a physician. She wears a a hijab, she you know, she wears a outer garment by her choice. That's her personal choice. if it's you know, why should I be bothered about other Muslims or other neighbors for that matter? You know, I think of I I love Jefferson's quotation where he says You know, I don't care whether my neighbor believes in twenty guards or no guard, because that neither injures my leg nor picks my pocket. And to me that's v again, that's very Islamic. And I can live with that without any conflict. That's very you know, that allows me to to blossom. So th what you see on TV about the the Taliban and all that is is just the same mutated version of a beautiful faith that billions of us practice. Well my okay, m my sense of again of the history of Islam is that that they were comfortable with people that worship one God and that have uh that do so according to the Bible or, you know, Judaism, but that they've never been comfortable and that they have had very little patience for those that worship many gods. And so all I'm saying is that that historical Islam has hated idolatry with such a passion that that they have uh that it would appear that, you know, they they would they would let Christians and Jews live under Islam according to uh jizya tax, you know, and according to uh to the um the demi? Yeah, the demi demi status. But they would not let a idol worshipper. Dhimmy is someone who lives under Well Dimmi has to do a law. Yeah, but but Dhimi is a minority. I am a Dimmi in America. Believe me. Except I don't make you pay Let me interestingly say that. I pay much more taxes, much higher taxes than I would be paying as a demeanor. And I'm once again it's gonna come across wrong, so let me very clearly say in Muslims in Islam Well I'm a Republican I don't think you should be paying that many taxes. Okay. Well yeah I'm glad I I hope you get in the office. Two point five percent is the charity that every Muslim has to pay. It's a fourth pillar of Islam. Adhimi, someone who is a non-Muslim, if there was, if there was an ideal Muslim government, by the way, does not exist today. So let me just once again, there's no country in the world today that has that government where I would like to move as a Muslim. If I have that opportunity, you know, nobody's stopping me. I'll pack and leave tomorrow. I find this as the best country. S in some strange We I find myself more American because every morning I wake up and I make a conscious choice to pl pledge allegiance to this flag So, you know, I I I truly have learned to love this country, to see the commonalities. But if there was a a very ideal Islamic society, Muslims would be paying two point five percent tax in that society. non-Muslims would be paying less than two percent as the jizya and listen to this, they would be exempt from military service. That tax is just for their protection and breakfast. There just happens to be in history record after record after record of Christian communities and Jewish communities that were taxed to the point of uh b b barely being able to survive. Yes yeah I um I'm not gonna answer those questions because those are vague. They are history has always two versions. And I I would love to talk about today, I would love to talk about Quran and the tradition of the Prophet where we have authenticity. If I pick, you know, authors from two sides, there's no end to that debate. So I in fact you know what? I'll concede that point to you. Nevertheless. I'll concede that point. I have no problem. Because I'm not here to defend every Muslim ruler in the past fourteen hundred years. I'm sure many of them probably did evil things Now I'm not here to defend them, but at at at the core. See just like Christianity though, we we we we have to go back. You know, that to today's society is trying to say Christianity can't be right. Because of the Crusades, because of of the uh the um Inquisition. Inquisition, thank you. Uh because of uh witch hunts, this sort of thing. And Um we we have a responsibility as Christians to uh to give an answer for those things. And the reality is that uh is that those things were indefensible uh and the manner in which those things happened uh needs to be addressed. We need we need to work through whether or not uh that was a genuine reflection of Christianity or whether whether it was not. And that's a big part of what happens today because because the impression from fundamentalist Muslims is that it's right for them to kill in the name of uh of promoting their religions right for them to kill uh in the name of defending against you know uh uh globalism that the United States represents And and if that's the case then their whole view of history represents that. But there is no Christian group in the world today that I know of. that is defending the right to kill in an Inquisition kind of way, or that is defending the right to kill uh uh witches, you know, and to go on witch hunts. And I'm just saying that that that happens to be a modern uh differentiation. And exactly. And just to to make sure that we are clear on that, I would say you write down the sentence or the paragraph or the book to condemn those people who are converting and pushing their agenda on with force in the name of Islam and I'll sign my name to that. I'll I'll agree to that. So you know honestly that's what I mean. That I'm just saying that in the West, if you're not willing to deal with history And with with the records that come down from history, then I think you're gonna find your message is doesn't have as much uh your argument is is not as strong. uh in our eyes as it could be otherwise. But that's what I was saying, Jonathan. So my point was again that why not I agree, I talk about the principles And whoever deviated from those principles in the past fourteen hundred years, I think you we will have no disagreement. Yes, zero disagreement. This is the Frederick Faith debate with uh Dr. Fahim Yunus, Secretary of Education of the Ahmadiyya Muslim community in the USA, Jonathan Schweitzer, senior Pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel here in Frederick and also co-founder of the Faith Debate Show. I'm Troy Skinner. And I want to use uh a current you know, modern day example that I've heard. I don't live there, so I I haven't seen it firsthand, but I've heard the news reports about what's happening in places in Europe, in Britain, for example. where there are enclaves of Muslim communities that are sanctioning off sections of towns and saying, Sharia law rules here. And Uh it flabbergasts me, I can't quite get my head around why they would allow it, but the judicial system in Great Britain has said, okay. Appalling. Appalling because of their definition of Shirai or appalling because the liberal society should not allow for two standards. I think first of all I'm again I'm gonna talk from a Muslim angle. I think in Holy Quran, in the first twenty verses you see, O you who believe, do not create disorder in earth. Terrorism is twenty steps ahead of that. Sure. Quran stops believers from even creating disorder. So I I'm a believer that if if my prayer, if my wedding, if any of my ceremonies are creating a disorder in the neighborhood To me that's unislamic. I gotta pull back. That's not my way of practicing my faith. It should neither pick the pocket nor injure my neighbor's leg. So I think when these things are happening. No, but see this is Islam. In Islam you don't create you you are supposed to be in sync with your Chris with your creator, with the creation. You're supposed to be harmonious and all this disorder, you can give any name to that. You can call it Islam. You can put any label on it. It's wrong. So my my my understanding is harmony in the society is extremely important. And who runs the show We do want to live at peace with one another, but it is true that Jesus said uh that I've not come to bring pre peace, but to bring sword, and a man's enemies will be the members of his own household. Interestingly enough. Right. But for me, I think my understanding of peace in Islam is peace at all costs. Sometimes you have to pay a very heavy price for peace. Many people don't understand that a few years before the demise of Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him, they had an agreement from Mecca he wanted to go to or from Medina he wanted to go to Mecca to make a pilgrimage of the Kaaba, this black cube that sometimes you see on on TV And he was stopped at the outskirts of Mecca and despite an agreement they said, No, we're not gonna let you come in this year. And there was a big dispute over it and it was unfair and uh but the Prophet said, Okay, let's come to a peace treaty a peace treaty was presented which was extremely in favor I'm not gonna go into details, but it was tilted completely in favor of the Meccans and the non Muslims And the companions say, How can we sign this treaty? He said no, that's fine. It's still a peace treaty. It allows us no fear of war, no fear of attack. I'm gonna sign this treaty. When he's signing the treaty, he wanted to sign Muhammad the Prophet of God and the Kamak and say, We don't consider you the Prophet of God. You can't write that. You gotta say Muhammad son of Abdullah. Peace be upon him. And he said, I'm okay with that. I will just go ahead and say Muhammad, peace be upon him, the son of Allah. What sort of peace are we talking about and what are the costs that are appropriate? Because some are going to say the cost might be killing all the enemy and that's the cost and the guilt uh and shame that uh that I'm gonna endure by having done that, but it was worth it because it brought peace. I mean if I kill all the other people in the world, I won't have any conflict. So you know, was was that the right kind of cost? You would argue obviously no, and so would I. And one of the differences between uh Muslim teaching on this point, I think, and Christian teaching And Jonathan, correct me if I'm wrong, but Christians would kinda sort of agree, but I think we would change it and say it's peace at infinite cost. And that cost has has already been paid. Right? Totally. And it's been defined as having already in a particular way of how it's been paid. And so uh the the Christian message is one of clarifying the truth of what that cost is how it's already been taken care of, price paid in full. But it seems like what I'm understanding from you, uh on these series of shows is In the Muslim community, there's room for some ambiguity and well, I'm not sure I agree with you, but I'm not going to really censor you too harshly on that and it it just seems like it It would leave m room for more festering of disharmony when the goal is harmony, but because you won't call it what it is in very direct, harsh ways You can't have peace without victory. No, see that's the see the thing is in Islam human beings don't control the destiny. We feel you know much of the anxiety. Well Christianity believes that too. Right, but mu much of the anxiety comes from the fact that you feel somebody's gonna get away with something. You don't get away with stuff when it comes to God in spiritual matters. So I think you gotta it's it's a matter of self security and in fact interestingly I hope that your listeners can make that distinguish. uh distinguish the fact that whatever they see on T V about Islam, I think Islam is tr probably quite the opposite. And you you know, you seem to disagree with that very liberal freedom kind of approach. Uh would you rather take that Islam which By the way, they are practicing in Afghanistan where they are going in a very harsh manner and saying, No, you're gonna do A, B, and C or you're not Muslim. This is precisely would you rather take that? This is precisely the concern because it seems like You're saying an either or. And fundamentalist Christians made their peace with liberal democracy two hundred years ago at the founding of our nation. I mean, uh I'm not saying that the that the nation was founded as a Christian nation. I'm not saying that. But I'm saying that there certainly were fundamentalist Christians that were a part of the Founding Fathers that had no problem with with a liberal democracy. And so it wasn't an an either or. What they set up was not was not a a tolerance um that that says, okay, we're all just gonna act like we're the same and and you know, there is no right and wrong. But they set up a system where the where there is freedom of conscience. So you can worship according to your conscience, but people were still free to look each other in the eye, you know, and and and tell 'em that they're wrong. And so that's exactly true in Islam as well. You know, we agreed on that. We agreed, and then Islam You know, you y in fact the prophet said that when you have the ability you see something wrong. But what I'm saying is that is that you don't have to be liberal to to not be what fundamentalist Islam is. Sure. Fundamentalist Christian is neither liberal and it's neither fundamentalist. You know, it's i there that it's peace loving and uh and morally upright and uh and and we're very comfortable living next door to somebody that's an atheist. Right. Right. Liberalism and conservatism. See uh it's not for me to pick. There is a book of God with eight eighty thousand words in it that we Muslims believe in the Quran. And it's it's laid out there. So I'm just that's why I keep going back to the scriptures as a verse in Quran that says Lakum Din Lakum Walya Deen For you your religion, for me my religion. So it clearly lays out those fundamental principles that you're you're not gonna out there to force people into believing something. You are going to invite people, you are going to convey the message, you are going to practice it in the right way. You know, what is people say where are the moderate Muslims? Well, how do you define a moderate Muslim? What is a moderate Muslim? Right? To me a moderate Muslim is someone who first of all believes in the separation of church and state, number one. in my opinion. Number two, he considers religion most of the time a private matter. Number three, he empowers women. Number three believes number four he believes in freedom of expression. He's not there to control other people's freedoms. Like When when somebody comes and mocks the Prophet of Islam, Muhammad, peace be upon him, I abhor that. You know, that's hurtful, painful for me. That's like you've stabbed me. But you know what? I'm not gonna give a decree that this person should be killed. In the end he still used his constitutional right. It was painful, it was hurtful. Uh just like the Muslims who were trying to push for the mosque near Park 51 in New York. It was technically technically was their constitutional rights, but they were pushing for something that was hurtful, painful So why are we doing as two communities, as two people of faith, why are we poking each other at the areas where we both have told each other by the way that it hurts? That's not going to bring us together. That's not going to establish peace. It's interesting. On several different points throughout the series of shows, you talked about the the personal nature of the faith. And Christianity would agree with that, but would add on top of that a layer of of corporate faith That there's a body of Christ and that we're all in it together in unity. And that's why it becomes important to define who's in and who's out over the corporate. Maybe there's not that sense of I think we are No, no, I think we are uh my take is we agree on ninety nine percent it's all semantics. My take is we are not disagreeing. The only thing where I still see that is that you believe we worship the same God as well. That's right. And I think my disagreement in the end is that I will never call someone who says I'm a Muslim, I'll never say that no you're not a Muslim. That's that's something I'm very clear about. Other than that, I think we all agree on everything else. So I I like the fact that that you are a moderate Muslim and that that uh that you represent that and I I'm comfortable saying that I feel like you've made your peace with uh with liberal democracy. I'm not comfortable with saying that you're anywhere close to the truth, but um I'm I'm glad that that you are a voice in Islam that that uh is helping them to moderate. Thank you very much. And on that golden handshake note, huh? We have uh Dr. Fahim Yunus, the uh uh medical doctor. And he proved himself an intelligent man. Secretary of Education for the Ahmadiyya Muslim community in the USA. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Lun Troy Skinner. Our show has been brought to us by F Put my plumbing and heating, how can we make you smile? And Deer Valley, landscape, heartscape, and masonry until one hundred