Once again I begin with a disclaimer and the reason I'm beginning with a disclaimer is Jonathan doesn't like that I open the show this way. However, this isn't the place for truth. And so I'm just sharing the truth. We're broadcasting from the police state that is Frederick City in the Gridlock that is Frederick County, just outside the Capitol of the former Republic of the United States of America. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Fleming and Heating. How if we make you smile. Find the show online at WFMD. com keyword faith There you'll find all sorts of uh great links to different religious persuasions and uh even Jonathan's uh blog page I think he updates every once in a while, right? I'm on Twitter now. It's on Twitter now, he's White Sir Jonathan, follow me. He's cutting edge, baby. There it is. All right. And uh I'm not quite that cutting actually. com and I'll take what you're doing. The cool thing about Twitter is that it's like, you know two sentences at the most. Yeah, I can't say anything. That's all they have to do. Yeah, yeah. I'm surprised you can do Twitter. Yeah but you have a lot more followers that way. When's the last time you said anything in two sentences? Come on. Just this morning. Seriously Anyway, email me Troy Skinner at ClearChannel. com and what you email me I post on the blog page on the Faith Debate page. So my blog is your blog. Nine postings every day, guaranteed, unless I'm out sick or on vacation. So thirty seconds ago. I know. But that's me. I'm old school. Yes, old school. Oh Facebook. Yeah, that's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and uh he always loves to know what I'm reading. Uh Concise Theology by J. I. Thacker. A guide to historic Christian beliefs. Very nice. Zaya Packer's good stuff. He knows what he's talking about. I can give that with two thumbs up Yeah. That's that's like very dated too, right? Two thumbs up, that's like from the seventies or something? No, that's always good, right? As long as there are humans, there'll be thumbs. Uh and also on the show this week, uh Neil Achampong back for uh a third round of abuse. Uh he is the pastor of the fourth round. Uh what did I say, third round? You did. No, well the first round wasn't abusive. That was a good recovery. Yeah So we're talking about kids as we kid around. Yes. Um and we've been talking about uh how the church can reach kids, how the church can help parents to reach kids, how the church can reach parents uh uh reach kids that maybe don't have parents that are involved, uh all these different dynamics, broken families. It's you know we talked about the ideal of what it should look like, but we live in a fallen, broken, fractured world, so the the ideal is is is uh is hard to to approach sometimes. So we're dealing with the practical realities, all that sort of stuff. And we're talking about giving advice and having mentoring programs and and giving guidance and teaching on uh helping our kids to think better, to speak more clearly and articulately, to understand their world better, to Maybe perhaps you didn't get into this, but I imagine maybe some managing of finances or you know we talked about sexual issues last week, all that sort of stuff. We haven't spent a lot of time in three shows now talking about how we impact the youth today, those who are little kids, you know, five, six, seven, eight years old, or middle school age kids, or even the high school age kids, how do we impact them with the gospel message? What are strategies? Because Kids don't like to be preached at, right? They don't like that. But they need to be preached at. They need to hear the gospel. They need to have the message preached. So how how do you How how do you handle that uh conundrum? I feel like the number one issue that that has to be dealt with early on is why should they trust you more than their parents. And once kids are teenagers, once they've hit puberty and the hormones are going, they're thinking for themselves and they have already had twelve years with their parents And they're just not sure that they trust their parents' spirituality. Many of them. The ones that that are hardest in my experience are those who have lived with parents that are claiming one thing in public and they're not seeing it lived out. Uh Neil asked in between uh the shows, he asked the question, how do you keep why is it the pastors' kids always seem to run away from the gospel. And uh I'm a pastor's kid, and none of my brothers and I ran away from the gospel. And I'm convinced the number one reason for that is because what my parents preached and what they taught out in public They held themselves accountable to in private. And so when we saw in private, they weren't perfect, but when they failed, they didn't hold one, they didn't hold us to a standard that they were not holding themselves to And two, when they blew it, they would come to us often with tears in their eyes and admit that they too were blowing it and that they too were at fault. And the result was that I wasn't trying to be like my mom and dad I was trying to discover the God that loved them for who they were. I was attracted to the God that they were attracted to. I went down to uh Mexico And I was mi we were just doing a mission trip down there uh and uh the the pastor of a couple thousand member congregation down there His son was like selling drugs into into D C into uh the United States and running guns into the United States. And everybody knew that he was he was, you know uh distant from the Lord and he was backslid and all these kinds of things and I had the chance to ride with him. And a after about five minutes I was like, you know what? And and I I looked at him and I spoke very firmly to him. I said, You know, I know what your problem is You spent your whole life seeing your dad one way in public and another way in private. And it's time for you to quit being a coward and go look him in the eye and tell him And ask him, Dad, why was there a difference between the two? And and pfft the kid opened up tears like that night he came back to the Lord, he gave his life to you know back to Christ. There's a You know, there's a big to-do about it. And and I and I've had several situations like that where I've interacted with kids that grew up in the faith But they wanted nothing to do with it because their experience of Christians, meaning their parents, was that there was hypocrisy. If you want to get the the the attention of kids in a youth group Then deal with the issue of hypocrisy. It sounds like then what you're saying though is that the way to reach the kids is to get their parents to live Christian lives. Yes. It's not about direct ministry to the kids. It's kind of what I was talking about in the very first show or two. But we gotta get the parents to be authentic Christians and then the par and the kids kinda take care of themselves sort of. Yeah, I'm just saying as soon as you do that you quit preaching and go on to medland. I mean as soon as as soon as you pull the parents in and you and you win 'em to the idea and say, you know what, I think the the biggest problem with our kids is that is that they they think They see hypocrisy or they are seeing hypocrisy. And if uh and and I want us to win them together. So how about we all sit down with our kids And you let me lead lead you through as families a discussion process designed to draw them out. But you gotta set some clear boundaries with something like that ahead of time. One, you'll have a bunch of parents that are gonna be like You're telling me that I'm the problem? You know, I'm going to a different church now, you know, that that are just not going to want to hear it. But also, you're going to have a lot of uh Uh, you're gonna have a need to set some boundaries 'cause some of those parents might go down that road and they're not really serious about changing and living for the gospel. So what do you do? You can't. That's what I'm saying. At that point at at that point, if you want to win the child, you have to win the child apart from their parents' hypocrisy. But how do you win it? Because they can't see you in your private life to know whether you're a hypocrite just like their parents Right. You have to challenge them to to see you for who you are. Like Pastor had said, you do all you can. Um every once in a while we we let our kids do um do some kind of little drama or sketches and stuff like that at church. Um I don't know if you I like watching the cartoons with my boys. And uh there's a program called uh he said Monkey Do What Monkey Sees. Yeah, Monkey See, Monkey Do, yeah. And um we we model little things like that at church all the time. And we call it They're watching. Meaning that you ought to be very careful as a parent. Now, you get offended if Pastor said it, but are you gonna get offended if it was modeled to a drama? Which was acted by our own kids. And um we have sessions where the kids impersonate us. We intentionally do that in a drama. And then you're just showing it to us how we are. Wow how embarrassing that might be. Totally. Right. See this the problem is that the the the private laundry The the kids the the kids that have been dealing with hypocrisy their whole lives are dying for somebody to finally show them the truth. And once the truth comes out, it means that the dirty laundry that the parents have been like, Don't be showing that stuff in public. That's our family. Has that happened though when you've done these dramas? Have you had the kids impersonate their parents and it ended up being like they revealed some dirty laundry that the parents were horrified about? What we do is all these things are pre-planned. So when we put out the show, we want to make sure is those are your parents. And then when they say yeah I said okay then somebody else is gonna act that up, not you. 'Cause we still wanna send a message. But we're not going to put you at odds with your parents. Oh, I hear you. Oh, so they so they impersonate their parents without when their pres parents are there. No no no no. Their parents are going to watch it at church. So your daughter would impersonate my son's parents Following that? Your son. Okay. Meaning your daughter would put up and act like you she would impersonate me. But how would she but nobody knows it. But how would she know that she's not a big thing? Because my sons told her. Straight on. I remember the last one. No. Okay, just I want to be very careful. I remember my five year old picks up a microphone and he stands there and s and then he starts preaching, right? And everybody's excited. Then he pauses in the middle of it. And then he is there quiet. And then another a girl walks in acting like my wife, acting Humor question and he is ignoring her to remind me that's what I do uh home. Huh. True. That when when I mean the deep thinking But in that case you they it was your kids Yeah. Showing you up. Yes, it's my key. For me I'm I'm okay. But with the other parents we want to be very careful. What I'm trying to say is we use every other means to communicate to them rather than me saying it because people get offended easily And we still want to remind them until you become real, the kids don't tend to follow you. How quickly do the kids gravitate to this idea? Are they do they like Oh yeah. They do. Because it's like we've been looking for ways to tell daddy. private. Yep. And something like that would be a major threat. I think if it's other for the things that I think it is honoring, right? That are very public that they would Enjoy it and it'd just be a a beautiful thing. Like I know the cultures that are represented. Yeah. And so we we do so but Let me still reiterate some stuff that the pastor brought out. Um if parents are gonna be real, if we will be real. For example, I pray with my little boys. And um I remember somebody actually pastor They don't have no at I said, don't worry. Anytime I have a problem and I know I don't have the faith to pray, I said, Kids don't have a problem with faith. So I called them. I said, You're gonna talk to God and you're gonna tell God this that you need some money And it it would amaze you how they go up and down pacing like I do. And then in an attempt they are praying. So every morning they wake up and then they say, Daddy do you have money today? And I said, No. Oh, then we have to pray and talk to God because that concept is given to them. Right? And when I disciplined the child and I know I did not do it right, I called him and I apologized. I said Daddy disciplined you today. I did not do it the right way. Would you forgive me? And next time I don't repeat them. When the kids realize we real and that we're not something else elsewhere and they're not home, it's a different story with us. I I strongly believe that they they're gonna follow our example. God has fashion it that way. But then when they realize there's the hypocrisy the pastor is talking about, they just want to look for something elsewhere because they think nothing is real. No, it's not a good thing. I think you know, we know in God we don't know where everybody's heart is So we know unfortunately some will not come to Christ for whatever reason, you know, the hardness of their heart. But if they're winnable, they're winnable because because they're looking for the truth And they're looking for somebody that's gonna speak the truth about what their situation has been. And if their situ i if if their situation has been full of of lies and and hypocrisy and things not being, you know, in public the way it is in private, then there is significant pressure built up in their soul about the gap between what is said and what is lived out and and and what's going on in their lives, looking for somebody to speak the truth about those things That can draw them in. Yeah, and and in dealing with them, let us not demonize them and make ourselves look better. Meaning demonize parents. No, like demonize the kids. Oh, you're such a crazy kid. Yeah. And then all these things you keep doing That's not how I used to be. I mean well you were crazier then I've seen some studies um I remember there was um there was a young girl there in a church and the parents were finding it very difficult to deal with her And so they told me, Pastor, would you step in? I said, I'll prefer my wife do it. So my wife steps in and my wife says, No, it has to be you. So I said, Hey, would you want to go watch a movie with Pastor? Oh, Pastor, you asked me out on the date? I said, Yeah, why not? Come on, let's go Your parents are aware, you're going out and we we're just going to watch a movie. So we set out and then we we he said, Pastor, you really want to watch a movie or you want to talk to me? 'Cause I understand you do this a lot. You talk to people all the time. And I said, So you want to talk instead of watching a movie? He said, Yeah, I said come then let's talk. I I figured out maybe if we watch a movie we can bring the relationship closer so we can talk. But if you can do it without it, that's fine. So we sat down and then she began to tell me why she's doing what she's doing. Right. And the long and short of it was that here parents who are requiring her to live a certain way, but she sees that they're living directly opposite. Right. Right. So we had we had a chat and then after that I said, okay, um do not follow what your parents are saying, just follow God's word. at this point because they're not telling you the truth. Okay. And then we had to go through a few things and then finally have to bring the parents in. and then show them a few things and then gradually the family has come back together and they're walking. But anybody that's been in youth ministry for a while will tell you as well that kids kids will be quick to start downing their parents in front of you. Yeah. And so everything that I've just said about addressing the truth of these things, uh the the place that you fall off on the other side of the of the path is that you're a place for them to go and down their parents. And Uh you just cannot allow that at any level whatsoever. You have to build in the responsibility that they have to honor their parents. to obey their parents, to submit to authority, and to maintain the balance of those things if you're going to be effective uh and not just, you know, end up being a magnet for complaints. He's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crosshouse Valley Chapel. Neil Echampong is the pastor of Covenant Family Church in Frederick. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. We're still talking uh a a lot about behavior things, exposing hypocrisy, standing up for the truth, don't do the bad things your parents do, d you know uh Uh, don't follow their example, that sort of thing. We're still talking about a lot of moralism kinds of things, right? There's nothing distinctive about the things we've been talking about so far to Christianity. These are things that we taught in a Mormon church. I'm assuming the gospel mad at me but the point is the gospel deals with sin. Which deals with with uh people not not measuring up. It deals with how people deal with sin in the context of their home. How's it how do they do do they just cover it up? Do they deal with it? Do they come before the Lord with it and and and uh and receive his grace? Do they extend the grace of the Lord to one another and forgive them? It's still about the behavior for those who are saved. It's still a behavioral focus. I'm talking about how do you get these kids to recognize what the truth of the gospel message is when they don't want to be preached at. And you've got to tell them that They need to hear that okay, yeah. You know what? Your parents are sinners. They're the worst sinners in the world, but guess who's the second worst sinner in the world? You. You need a savior You need to hear that. You need to know it. Well I think you just want to do that. Deuteronomy six seven is the answer to it. What's that? Deuteronomy six seven. Okay. He says impress my word on their hearts. And I want to focus on the word impress. Now it comes out of the word imprint. Anything that you you'll be if you're gonna have an imprint, there has to be a contact. And it can be just a casual contact. It has to be very long contact. For example, you're at a sea shore, right? And then um if you're going to make imprints on the sea, there has to be some form of contact. And as parents, we need to consistently engage our kids with God's word in a very meaningful way. Uh you know how your kids learn. I have one of my boys, all he does is he wants to draw So I give him picture, I said, can you draw Jesus with the woman of the well? Draw Jesus here, draw this woman here, and I'll tell you a story for your drawing. Because he and since it's his own drawing, he appreciates me telling the story from John chapter four from that. And so we need as parents we need to be creative. Know how your kids learn, right? And then send God's word in consistently it has to keep going consistently. God's word must keep going. But we can y always use the medium of just preaching. But it is important. Jesus I believe is the greatest um the communicator of all times. And if you watch Jesus, he was not doing expository salmons. He wasn't doing textural salmons. He was always telling stories. And personally I like reading stories and then find asking myself, where can this story be in the scriptures? What are the natural things that have parallels in the scriptures? And when you talk to people from that angle, it's always very easy to deal with them. For example, I dealt with a college student who says, Oh, I don't believe God is real. And that is a a pastor's kid And the pa and the father said, I don't know what to do with my boy, can you help me out? I said sure, I will do with him. And um I said, Hey, you guys studied some logic in college? He said, Yeah, I said sure, and let's talk logic. He says, What does that with logic got to do with God? I said a lot. It's got so much to do with God. And um I said, Whatever things you've done with logic and he began to tell me about uh coming up with a selecism I come up with an argument drawing some conclusions and doing stuff like that and I said, Perfect. Now that I know that you understand logic uh let's do some natural stuff. And I said in logic there's something called the law of non-contradiction, which simply means that it's either all That is how logic states it. And I said, Do you understand that? He said, sure, sure, sure. Really we and then he began to give me a lecture about when he read through it and I said, Perfect, at least the two of us Can agree on that. Right? Then through the law of non-contradiction, what it simply means in real life is that when you are crossing the street, it's either you or the car, not both. It can be both of you. Because you look this way, that way, and then if there's no car coming, you cross. But there's no way you're gonna cross the street same time. And I said, it's a natural law and it's obeyed in many aspects of life. That's only one example. And I said, son, if you go by that law, it becomes very clear then the truth It's either all. And he says, Uh-huh. I agree. I said, Yeah. I said you can't have so many other truths all being truths. It has to be one. All the rest. It can be all of them. And I said Jesus puts it very clearly in John 14, 6. He says, I am the way. I said that's the law of non-contradiction right there. He's saying it can be me. And Buddha and Mohammed and somebody else. And I guess the key to that conversation is that you um by what doing it, tap your microphone again there. Thank you. We have a little RF issue. Um The key there is you you identified uh an interest with this with this young man or child that w that he would stay with you on a long discussion about logic. Yes. Now if that child didn't have that sort of background, didn't want to l engage in a long discussion about logic or anything else because everything in them is a hundred and forty characters or less. Yes. Uh and and snippets and sound bites and whatever. You gotta do things quick hitting. I guess you figure out some strategy To meet them in that area and share the gospels. And that was what I was mentioning that I would let my little boy draw pictures because I realize he likes drawing. Then I tell their stories from Right, but there's there's a there's a there's a leap in between that. Like the the young man you described is a very mature young man. Yes. And the the drawing pictures is a very young young man. So you got somebody in between in their maturity spectrum and it seems like they're the ones that are really. Study how how they learn. What are the things, where are their interests. You see, you have to do a little bit more work. You find out what their interests are. And then you begin to use like um my mentee mentioned that he liked uh Peyton. So I decided to go ahead and sit down and read so much about Peyton. Then I said, what can I use about Peyton? Because he almost Peyton. And I'm not gonna read it. Okay, Peyton Man and the quarterback? Yes. Okay. And I said, I am not going to bring Jesus into the picture right now. And um so as I read about him and as I studied his biography and all that, um, I had a few things that I could talk to the guy about. So one day we sat down and I said, Why do you really like him? So he started talking and I said Do you know these other things about him? He said, no. And I said, so the real important things about this guy you don't know Why do you tend to focus on what is not really important about him? And you don't have the other important stuff. Don't you think these other things are important? There you said, hm So so how is how is you're you're saying you were saying earlier that moralism that it's moralism and it's not the gospel. I mean the gospel is that we have sinned. How is that not a moral issue? No, it is, but the the answer to that moral issue isn't to go do better and be honest about the hypocrisy you see around you. That's not the answer. The answer is to submit to Christ and Him paying the penalty for you. Yeah, and the essence of the gospel is that is that the light comes into the situation and you realize, oh, I'm a sinner. And the and the question is whether or not we're claiming to live in the light, but really living in the darkness. Meaning that, oh yeah, yeah, I'm a sinner, you know, but I've been saved, you know, but you're not really honest about your ongoing struggle with sin. You don't really deal honestly with those things. That's not moralism, that's Me taking up my cross daily and following Christ, me waking up every morning and saying, Uh, you know what? I I still need the grace of God today, but you're talking about presuming the young people are identifying as Christian. What if you've got young people that don't identify as Christian? Oh. And then all we're doing is telling them to do better, don't don't pay attention to the hypocrisy in your life, and you're asking them to just do better on their own apart from being saved in Christ. Why was Christ so such a dynamic preacher Because he engaged the society. Because he called out the Pharisees. He called out all the issues. He didn't he didn't uh he didn't waffle on the issues and then he allowed people to see him, you know, for who he was, that that he's walking in the light You know, e even uh Paul he says he says, you know, I I lived my life before you uh with uh with total transparency. You know, we hid nothing from you. And that was the basis for him winning their trust for his appeal to them, you know, to to uh come into the ministry of reconciliation that it's about that that openness that not hiding you're living in the light. And for all the youth they're they're struggling with, that's that's what the essence of the gospel is. All of us, there's a certain amount of darkness and we're we're just trying to hide from it. We're trying to act like it's not there. We need to deal with the truth. I'm a sinner. That's what the darkness is. I sin, the other people are sinning. We're surrounded by sin. Who will save me from this body of sin? Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord. And so I don't know, I d I I'm not sure if I'm seeing the distinction that that you're seeing on that. I mean the gospel is the answer to the darkness and they're living in darkness but you we hadn't been saying that earlier. We are talking about exposing the hypocrisy for what it is, being honest about it, doing better, not following the faulty example of our parents. And like there was no dis discussion of no no through Christ all of that. So that's the part of this. Amen. Anyway, we're going to wrap this up because we're running late. Jonathan Sweitz, a senior pastor of Cross of Valley Chapel Neil at Champong is the pastor of Covenant Family. I'm Froy Skinner, our sponsor is Footman Plummy and Heating. How can we make you smile? This is the Faith Debate on WFMD. Thanks for listening. God bless. Faith and hope, words that walk hand in hand through the lives of everyone touched by breast cancer. Footman Plumbing honors the courageous battle being fought by the special women in your life by donating $10 from every October service call. Look for our technicians wearing pink bow ties. Putmanplumbing. com.