U. S. sending military supplies to Ukraine. I'm Salji Ingrasso, Fox News. Russia denies plans to invade Ukraine while the White House promises to impose economic sanctions if it does. And while the standoff continues, the U. S. is sending arms to Ukraine. They came in overnight, the first portion of a major allotment of military aid given by the US to the Ukrainian military. They call it lethal aid. Basically it's ammunition destined for frontline Ukrainian troops facing off against Russian-backed separatist in eastern Ukraine. Now outside of Ukraine's borders, that build-up continues with some 125,000 Russian troops, tanks, and other hardware, including the deployment of Russian jet fighters to nearby Belarus, all posing the threat of a possible invasion. The latest Fox poll shows six in ten voters would back someone other than President Biden if the twenty twenty-four presidential election were today, with forty-seven percent approving his job performance and fifty-two percent disapproving. A New York City police officer is fighting for his life and his partner is dead after they were shot Friday night. The city and the NYPD are still in shock after the killing of rookie police officer Jason Rivera I see people all gathering outside the police precinct in Harlem remembering the twenty-two-year-old as a caring, happy man who loved his job. Provera's partner Wilbert Mora and the suspect were also shot during the incident. Both remain in critical condition. The suspect with a long rap sheet was on probation at the time, and there will also be a wake on Thursday and funeral services. Friday for Rivera at the famous St. Patrick's Cathedral. Fox's Ashley Strawmeyer, the officers were shot while responding to a call about an argument between a woman and her adult son. America is listening to Fox News. WFMB Weather 9. 30 W FMB SkyScan Forecaster Frederick and the surrounding counties. Good morning here on your Sunday morning. Mostly cloudy. Our daytime high will creep up to 34 degrees. Partly cloudy for tonight, low 17. Tomorrow Monday, partly sunny, high 35. Monday night, mostly cloudy, low 27. On Tuesday, a chance of rain and snow showers between 8 a. m. and 2 p. m. Another chance of rain showers after 2 p. m. Mostly cloudy high 41. Mostly cloudy on Tuesday night, chance of showers. Pink Jane's roofing, when it comes to your roof, we've got you covered Visit pjsroofing. com. I'm Jim Tice. The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. Welcome to the Face Debates on the News Radio nine thirty WFMD. online at WFMD. com, also on the FM at 99. 9 HD2. And we're on Facebook So if you're hearing this on the radio late you miss the Facebook, we can go back and watch it, I guess. But we have people on Facebook right now watching us live. We look good. Don't we look good? We look good So we're we're down a man today, so um you guys have to step up your game. Imran Razvy, Daniel Razvi, I'm Troy Skinner. We've got to step up our game because David Forcy, who's normally part of the panel couldn't make it today. So if you had anything you wanted to talk about him behind his back today is the show to death. So what's going on in the world today Finding a hard time figuring out like what's what, which way's up, which way is down, which way sideways, left, right. I mean we're living in an inside out Totally screwed up world right now. Somebody today Tom at this advanced like we're living in the Truman show. You know, it's it's crazy And I said, yeah, they say that life imitates art, and if that's true, we're living in a Picasso right now where nothing is the way you would expect it to be. Part of that, I think, is shifting cultural connections. And by that we're talking about all the things that have changed the way in which we connect as people and and with our culture. So this would include um the things that come along with all those dictated cancellations. You know, we've got the lockdowns and a lot of sports gatherings got canceled, uh or they played but they didn't have fans. You know, the Olympics got postponed, things like that, things that will knit people together. You go to you know, you go to the office after the Olympics, hey did you see that wonderful Olympics performance? And you know, if the Olympics are canceled, then that chance for connecting in that way is lost. Uh in many places, even this year, certainly last year more, Thanksgiving and Christmas as far as gatherings as families and friends got canceled. A lot of weddings and funerals. So many people were not going to church in person anymore. And still aren't. Exactly. Yeah. And then even if they are gathering, you know, they've got the the the mass requirements which puts a layer of of distance between people and and and the mandates making people question each other like I don't want to get too close to you do you get the shot? Did you not get the shot? Lots of things that are disrupting our our connections. And you know Conservatives, they they used to connect, quote unquote conservatives, uh used to connect with and trust the military and law enforcement. And now you're hearing people who have a conservative background and you think of them as conservatives, they're concerned because can we really trust what's going on with our military? Look what happened in Afghanistan. We we left Americans behind. Uh General uh Mille, you know, apparently called the president, uh called China behind the president's back. Um you know, feds are calling parents at school board meetings terrorists because they don't want their kids to be taught pagan ideology. They they want them to to to to maintain some sort of a Christian biblical worldview. And of course the once high regard for the office of president has been replaced by chance of let's go Brandon, which is very controversial in church circles because people feel, okay, what you really mean by that is something really gross and offensive and Christians shouldn't say it. So that's the opening salvo of all these things that have disconnected us. Discon disconnected us, and the last one is part of the disconnection because it's disconnected us from what maybe a few years ago would have been our our moral compass. There are people that three or four years ago would have never been comfortable saying, let's go, Brandon, who today are proudly saying it. There's been a disconnection from what was going on. So you guys are pastors, you know. Uh I'm a pastor. By the way, I forgot to mention I should plug our website, household of faith in Christ dot com. If you want to connect with any of us, that's the easiest thing to do. Is probably go to the website. And if you want to get in touch with me, my phone number and email are there. And if you want to get in touch with these guys, I can get you in touch with them. Or um I think the Conquered by Love uh ministry uh dot or yeah the website for you guys conquer conquered by love ministry or no conquered by love dot org but it's conquered by love ministry right it's the organization I think that's linked there too and they can connect with you through that I think so Anyway, go to the website and you can do that. So what do you guys think about it? So my two cents first of all, when you were saying that about conservative viewpoint I think more we want to talk uh about what is the what does the Bible say? Not so much conservative, but biblically what does God say about what's happening in the culture of the disconnect and why is it happening? And I think that when you look at it from that world view, um, you'll see a d a difference. Not neither conservative or liberal. It's more of uh God is all about relationships. Love your neighbor. How can you love somebody when you can't smile at 'em? Right. Yeah, and and I I guess particularly on a radio station like this, it's going to be really important to uh clarify, you know, how we're using our terms. Me in my o in my life, I don't use the word conservative as a political label so much as as a worldview ideological label that includes politics, but is primarily a framework of preserving what is right and good. Yes. You know, and we know what is right is and good based on what the Bible tells us. And so I think you another euphemism for traditional values. People say conservative as in you dress conservatively, you dress modestly. you listen to conservative music meaning traditional music that's not you know uh full of cursed words and things like that. So that There's that conservative doesn't just mean political. But so that we're not misunderstood, it's a good catch. So from a biblical point of view, from a traditionally conserv uh uh Christian's word doesn't traditionally Christian point of view Uh what is it that you guys, you know, as you're pastoring people, as you're out and about in the community doing what it is you do, and people are probably sharing with you their concerns about all of this stuff I just mentioned. Uh what are some of the things you're hearing? What are the th some of the things you're saying in counsel to those sorts of things? I think really the the biggest The the biggest problem with a lot of the separation that we've had in in the culture over the last couple of years is the lack of fellowship of believers. That That's where believers thrive and I mean Hebrews commands us to fellowship with each other, whether that's every week at a church service or some other way, but there's been so little of that because of the uh pandemic, whether whether it's because of mandates or whether people were just worried and afraid, whether some churches just closed their doors. I th I think a lot of churches are still closed when we're recording this. They hadn't even haven't even opened back up. They're still online only. And you really need human connection. And it's it really has to start with the church. So the church is dropping the ball in other words. But I think the church dropped the ball way before the pandemic Because people would go to church, listen to a sermon, didn't even say anything but hi or bye to somebody. There was no fellowship. It was just listen to a sermon for fifteen minutes and get out of there. And uh the home church movement came out of that where people were longing for fellowship, longing for actually a deep dive into God's word. What does God actually say about this and how do we relate to people? And I think that was uh that almost came out of a push back against social media and uh f you know, f friending everybody and not really n actually knowing anybody, the home church movement allowed you to have that relationship that's a deeper a deeper connection to your fellow person And uh that's where that's one of the reasons you we have a home church. Uh to be able to have that fellowship and to be able to g really get concerned about our um uh the our friends and know what's going on in their lives. We can't do that in this culture, so the home church is a great way. And uh any of you guys listening, we uh strongly recommend small groups, home church, host people, bring people into your house and actually talk to people. Get to know them. One of the best places to hide is in a church, particularly a big. The bigger the church, the easier to hide. And that might sound attractive to somebody, like, yeah, I want to hide. I don't want to be noticed. I want to be the wallpaper. That's not what's best for you. That's not healthy. You you were made to be in relationship and you need accountability and you need to provide accountability to others. That's one of the things that gets Mr. think a lot of times. Well, I don't need to go to church. Well Just for the sake of argument, let's agree that you don't need to go to church. Just for the sake of argument, let's agree that. The church needs you. You bring something when you go to the church. You know, the if if the church typically has twelve people and all of a sudden they've got fifteen people, that's encouraging. Like, hey, we've got more people. If they typically have fifty and then they all of a sudden have seventy, that's That's encouraging, like we're reaching and pick impacting more people. So you're bringing at the very least by your mere presence some encouragement. But you're also giving an opportunity for somebody to Cry on a shoulder, seek some advice, uh exercise uh their knowledge and and insight by giving you counsel if you should need it. You bring something to the table by attending yourself. You don't want to be hiding somewhere. Right. But don't just fill a seat, actually participate and be involved. Not necessarily teaching and preaching, but just really paying attention, hearing God's word, fellowshipping with other believers, discussing theology on a deep level. That's what we need to do. Iron needs to sharpen iron. And when churches decided that they were gonna either because of mandates or because they were afraid uh to sh to to shut down and do virtual church. Man, didn't they just reinforce the problem we're talking about with these uh shifting cultural connections? People aren't connecting with individuals even before the pandemic, as you said, Enron, because they got their face in their screen all the time. And now doing virtual church, you're just encouraging more screen time. More screen time and and honestly, if you just were sitting there in the pew before and never spoken a word to anybody while you were at church, what's the difference? Might as well sit home and watch it on TV. But that's and that and that's also part of the problem. We we need more fellowship, more discussions, deep theological discussions. Why do you believe what you believe? Not just are you a Christian? Oh yeah, I'm a Christian. No, why do you why do you say you're a Christian? What does that mean to you? And what is your stance on all these different topics? And and doctors and people have to answer. And this this is new and scary to you, I would challenge all of you that are listening to pick just one person in a week. To find out more about them, to pray for them, to spend some time getting to know that one person and see what happens to you. Just take one person, pick anybody at random, and just actually listen to that person what's going on in their lives and pray for them. I would I would really put forth that I think you would get a lot more out of that than you would think. And if you happen to be somebody that's comfortable in a social situation with lots of people around and you're You know, you you y you can get chatty with somebody rather easily and that sort of thing. Sometimes, you know, you're gonna gravitate towards other people that are also comfortable and gifted in that way and you just spend the whole time in your little insulated circle. You might want to think about if you're one of those people that's very comfortable, make it a conscious effort to show up and look for somebody who looks a little uncomfortable. Somebody who's kind of on the edges, their eyes are down, they're they're like screamers like, oh I hope nobody comes and talks to me That's the person you want to go talk to and say, Hey, by the way, my name is you know what's your name? How long have you been coming here? Oh, you've been coming for ten years. Wow, shame on me for not having introduced myself before. The other thing that can be a challenge i is people I think in a previous culture we were probably better at this as a people, but most people aren't good at remembering names. I'm not sure exactly why we're distracted maybe when we're hearing the name or we're so nervous what we're gonna say that we weren't listening to the name. I don't know what it is But we're really bad at it. Just own it. Know that they're bad at it too, probably. And so a lot of people don't walk up to somebody in church or in any situation, but we're talking about church. That they recognize, uh I don't remember Daniel's name. So I don't want to go up to Daniel and not know his name. That's gonna be embarrassing, so I'm gonna avoid him. Just walk up and say, I'm really embarrassed. I know we've talked seven weeks in a row now and I still can't remember your name. What's your name? I'm gonna do my darndest. Turn it into a joke or what just own it. Put it out there. Eventually you'll come to know the name. If you talk to the same person Eight weeks in a row, fifty weeks in a row, eventually their name will stick. So and sometimes you can even overcome that, right? I've had people do this. People said I I do know their name, but they're not a hundred percent sure if I'll know their name. And so they'll walk up and they'll stick their hand out and you know they'll shake your hand and say, By the way, I'm Troy which yeah, I don't know if you remember me. Oh yeah, I know I remember you. And sometimes the ones that's a gimmick to get them to you know have the name get volunteered back. No, I remember you and I'm I'm Steve, remember me? Yeah. So th there's a lot of things, a lot of tricks and things that we've lost because we're so much involved in our own thing and life has gone so fast. The these electronics is supposed to make life easier, but they've actually isolated us and made life a lot more difficult. And uh and we were just talking uh recently about uh just um the styles of film these days. Everything is so fast paced. So if you if you're used to watching movies that came out recently and then you go back and watch something that came out in the eighties, it feels like it's so slow. And then watch a s a sixties movie and it'll feel even slower Because not that not that they're any worse or any better and there's whole topics to be you know terminated on that. Everything's much more fast-paced now because we don't have time. Every is the age of the tweet. If it can't fit in 140 characters or two hundred and eighty characters, then it's not worth saying, not worth reading, not worth spending time understanding. And that's what I'm saying. I really appreciate the old movies, the old black and white movies from like the forties and fifties, and part of it is for pref precisely that reason. Uh the story ours i it's allowed to breathe. You know, and it's not dependent on editing choices, it's dependent on the character development and the acting chops of the people on the you know, a lot more single shot camera angles and things like that and you know the but the pacing and the music and the all that sort of stuff it's way and I have a you know uh developmentally disabled challenged adult son he so much more prefers those movies because it's so much less stimulus you know, stimuli into his brain to have to process. He likes the old movies too. Yeah. I mean you ever read an article and see the T L D R at the beginning? TLDR. It's a it's um text language for too long didn't read, meaning so it's so it's a one-sentence summary at the beginning or the end of a news article. Next time we'll look uh if you see TL semicolon DR. They it's at a whole a whole bunch of blog post articles and so on, meaning if you're too lazy to even read this three hundred word article Here's the one-sentence summary that tells you all you really should know. Really? Yep. It's the tweet version of the article. TLDR. Wow. Alright, so here's our TLDR for this episode of the Face Debate Radio Show. It's the best show ever. That's all you need to know. Right. And that's the way it is. Let's talk about the other motivator though. You know, we're talking about the the the family celebrations that got canceled, whether they be Thanksgiving or Christmas or weddings or uh downsized funerals or whatever. And also the church downsizing or going all virtual or or segregating the the the congregation based on whether they got the the uh injections or not, didn't get the injections or whether they're willing to wear a face covering or not. Um, a lot of that is driven by fear, it seems to me. Yes. So I'm not sure I've read the Bible a few times. Does it Say anything at all about fear and whether we should have it or not. I can't remember. We should have we should have fear. We should have God. But uh the the issue really is if you don't know where you're gonna go when you die, then you will be fearful. And if you do know where you're gonna go, then yes, you can have fear because the flesh rules over you, but you can let go of that fear knowing that you're going and you're saved and you will go in eternity and be in heaven That's a big, big difference between somebody that saves and knows where they're gonna go and where they're not gonna go. There's many people that attend church, you know, that did or attend r regularly before or maybe still attend regularly, that really don't have a full understanding of what salvation is and they don't you know don't have confidence of where they're gonna go when they die. Put it simply if the basement light is off it's much more scary to enter. But the basement light is on, it's not so scary to enter So the same thing, if you understand and know what God who God is and what He's done for you, the light is on. You no longer have to have that fear of the unknown. Yeah, the biblical worldview helps to answer all of that across the board. You think about the the the main touchstones of of the gospel message. Um, you know, a classic way of presenting it would be, well, in the beginning God created. He made you. He he made you in his image, he made you special, he made you for relationship. But if you don't have that, if you have uh you know, things just somehow sprang into existence in some shockingly undefined way and uh therefore there's really there's no meaning or purpose behind everything springing into well our whole life then is just an accident within chaos and if it sprang out of chaos, couldn't it just spring back into chaos just as easily? Like what's the keep that so there's this insidious subliminal fear hanging underneath because you don't believe in the creation narrative, so there's that. And then you don't understand the world around you. It's like Why are all these bad things happening? Why can't why why can't I why'd that guy steal from me or why am I not safe? 'Cause you haven't come to the grips with the reality of sin and what that all means. And then like, okay, so how do we get out of this? What's the rescue? There is no solution outside of Christ. If you don't have Christ, like there's no hope. And so you can see how the whole way along. And then what gives your life meaning and purpose? Like you want to live a really good life, like uh you know Betty White uh passed recently, right before her hundredth birthday and And um, you know, people are saying how she had a wonderful sense of humor and she had a really good legacy of her career and that sort of thing, but seriously, three hundred years Five hundred years? Maybe in a hundred years maybe? Will people talk about remember Betty White? How much meaning did her life really have? uh if it's outside of a biblical worldview. But every individual life has meaning inside of a biblical worldview and in a Christian life where you're trying to walk out your faith and build it th build out in your sanctification, ultimately getting to the glorification point at the end where there's there's a promise that's held out. All of that's missing and that's a long lead up. But that's the kind of thing, particularly these last couple of years, people need to hear. And churches, pastors, I'm talking to you, you've dropped the ball big time. Big time. People when they most needed that, at least in our context, in the American context, when they most needed to hear it, you said, ah, it's all right, stay home. Mm-hmm. You they've taken away the purpose. I mean what you Troy what you were saying is God has a purpose for each one of us. And if you know that purpose, if you're following that purpose, if you're following and seeking after God and glorifying him, then there is great things that can be done. That great things, the great purpose. that you will have an impact. And without that purpose, and if you're not showing up at church, if you're hidden behind a mask and you're hiding from everybody, not communicating, not talking to anybody, not having that relationship Where's your purpose? Our purpose is have relationships. Why why did God send his son Jesus to die for our our sins? Because he wanted that relationship with us. And if we're getting up relationships voluntarily? And then you have people who they try to find some reason for hope and purpose, like meaning in their life, and they'll hang on to something and then they get disappointed at every turn. Oh, if only everyone would wear a mask our problems will go away and then the problems don't go away and it causes all sorts of other angst with people or if everybody gets the the the shots everything will go away and that hasn't proven. Well if only we would support our defense and military and then you know something embarrassing like Afghanistan happens and you lose your confidence there. All these things you want to put your your faith in a political party. Or anything of the world in your job you know, and all of a sudden people are not able to keep their job because of some of the nonsense and weirdness that's going on right now. And so all these f false things for hope fail because they're nothing but idols. Right. And again, church leaders, seriously, if you've closed at all You know, shame on you in my opinion, but I have some grace. So if you if you closed it first 'cause you just weren't sure what was going on, then we'll talk about back in twenty twenty. And it took you a couple of weeks to figure it out and and maybe it would have taken a couple of weeks to restart the engine depending on the size of your church and all that sort of stuff. a month max. If you were closed for more than a month, I mean shame on you. And there were some closed for more than a year, or some closed for more than a year open and then closed again and some are closed. Well a lot of them went out of business closed, right, that way. And some of them are they're still at church, I guess, but they're not actually meeting yet. Shame on you. I mean the Bible, you know, it's famously been said that the Bible says fear not three hundred and sixty-five times. There's one fear not for every day in the year. And yet the the the church pastors are not telling people, hey Fear God and if you fear God as far as the worldly concerns, fear not. And we're not giving that. By the way, we have a few minutes left. I want to make sure we touch on this because I This could maybe be a whole show, but I don't want to well we can't. If we if it's that interesting, we'll carry it over into next week's show. But let's go Brandon Chant. I do want to get your take on that. Do you think it's appropriate for a Christian to say, let's go, Brandon? Absolutely not. And do you agree with that? I would say that People know what what it actually is supposed to mean. So, you know, you're you're basically saying curse words. Uh it's one thing to agree with the sentiment, but to actually say it I I think the a more obvious answer would be, for example, the guy uh re uh recently, you know, a few weeks ago or whatever, st um said it to Biden's face. That I would say is definitely disrespectful and nobody should be doing that, regardless of what you think and whether it was a joke, whatever. You know, don't don't say something d just like you wouldn't say uh uh just like that that guy uh a few years ago who yelled you lie at Obama in the middle of a congressional speech like It's that's not the time and place. Have some respect for the office whether you hate the guy or not. You don't you don't speak like that. Um, you know. It says uh Michael, the archangel in Jude, says, when he was arguing with the devil, he didn't even bring a mailing accusation against the devil. He said, the Lord rebuke you. He didn't curse at the the devil himself, which, you know, that that's excuse me, that could be a whole nother show. But No, I I I don't think Christians should be going around cursing at people. Um uh and it's one thing when when you have a euphemism, you know, it's kinda like when you bleep out words but you're still saying them. Everybody knows what you're saying. In in the words, so I'm I'm not a big fan of crass language. Okay. Yeah, well it's interesting 'cause I've I've I've I've heard not a number of people share your point of view on that. I will say as far as the UI thing uh Clearly it was culturally inappropriate. Um but I don't think it was I wouldn't in in a in a religious sense I wouldn't c called that a sin Um he was speaking out in a way that was out of the norm, but I don't think it was sinful. Uh and the let's go, Brandon, you know, it's I think it's a complicated question. I don't know if I have time to Uh we're not going to have time to get into the complicated. Maybe we'll kick off next show, just finishing our thoughts on this. Because I think there's some complex I don't want to use a leftist kind of a term because I always get squeamish when other people use, but there's a nuance uh to this that I uh I I think um I'd like to get your take on the nuance. Let's put it that way. So uh the one who said sure was Daniel Razby, the one who said absolut Absolutely not. Just a little while ago was Imron Razley. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. You can find us online At WFMD. com and you can find us personally online. Probably the best way is to go to household of faith in Christ dot com. You can connect with us through various means on that website. Until next week That'd be about 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless