This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table grab bag with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the good doctor. Is there a doctor in the house? Punishment is retribution is uh the nature of God. And you need to lay your life down for your brother sometimes and be the hero. The faith debate is on the World Wide Web at WFMD. com keyword faith, sponsored by High Low AutoZ. Sometimes when you see six black murderous gang members kicking your brother's teeth in, you need to be the hero, jump right in there and start swinging and breaking jaws. and you need to be you need to lay your life down for your brother lose your own life so your brother can live. In this corner weighing in with a master of divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary mix Master Toy Skinner. In this corner, weighing in with a PHD from Westminster Theological Seminary, the good Dr. Jay Straudhurst. So during the show opened today, we heard the voice of a skinhead With a message that most hopefully would likely find repugnant, the racial even racist viewpoint that the spouse in the name of Christ seems to be at odds, seems to be With the biblical message. However, if that preacher, quote unquote, were on this show today Instead of or in addition to our guest, Pastor Howard Chuck Copeland III from Hosanna Worship Center in Dickerson, Maryland, then that preacher, he might argue that he's merely being relevant to the skinhead culture to which he belongs. He's sharing the gospel with people in a way that will resonate With them. Is this what relevance comes down to? What is the point of relevance? Why are we even talking about relevance? This we've been talking about for three weeks. We're back at it for a fourth week. Jace Broadhurst, uh Chuck Copeland, and Troy Skinner. Here for your pleasure. Thank you for joining us. So would that guy have a leg to stand on if he wanted to make that kind of an argument? And Would that argue that much different than some of the things we've been talking about for three weeks? Yeah. Where is the love? Relevance is important. That's in our discussion. But so is truth. Right? I mean, we want to be truthful, and I think we've been saying that. You shouldn't lay down your life for your brother? Um yeah, I think that's a beautiful truth. Even if your brother happens to be a white guy getting beat up by six murderous black I'm not convinced that violence is ever the answer, but that could be a different show on pacifism. Watch it, I'm a retired corrections of the colour. Alright, that we we've been asking for some miracle discussions on that one. Yeah. Oh boy. Anyway, so so we're talking about relevance in the church week. This is the fourth show uh on that topic of We started talking generally about what the dialogue and the discussion is like for pastors uh in today's uh American context in Maryland primarily as kind of our cultural reference point. Maybe you kinda lose the baby with the bathwater if you're not careful. I think that was kind of a general mood of of the room with the three of us over the last three weeks. Um We talked a little bit about music and things like that, but I wanna I'm gonna start there. We began a game, kind of a word association, a loose word association game last week. We should play more games in church. That would make it relevant. People love games. If we could turn it into like a video game, it'd be perfect. So Jason like that. Oh no, what have I done? I've given him an idea that's something to regret. We're gonna blame you for that. So let's uh Let's go back to music for a second. Um again, not you can expound as much as you want, but generally what I'm looking for is pretty good Not so good. Doesn't really matter that much. All right? Yeah, you know that's all we're gonna say. So organs uh b n not our internal organs, but w the instrument organs being played in churches. uh replaced in large measure by most churches today by uh by guitars and drums. Mm-hmm. Good or bad generally, do you think? Um well I'll just say we have guitars, drums, and an organ. And they blend together quite beautifully. So you know, sometimes we, you know, go out a little bit less with the drum and sometimes a little bit heavier. So I I don't know that I have a You're like a Neapolitan fan, right? Yeah. Why have just chocolate and strawberry when you can have vanilla too? Your dad plays drums. You know, you have issues with musicians, so right now we just use tracks. You know, we use musical tracks and our praise team sings to those. Only time we sing with those are hard to deal with. Yeah, that's part of the thing. But here's a question for you then. Um that uh Tyson stuff I was gonna bring up earlier, but it just didn't seem like it's fit the context of the conversation. But now I have an opportunity. Okay. There's a book from years ago, probably fifteen years ago maybe, I don't know. Um Marva Dawn, I think was her name. Yes. Oh. I've I've only read one book by her and it was this one. It was very good. All about worship and you know and the the book spoke to me. I really oh I I read it, I mean uh over a decade ago I read this book and it's one of those books that comes to mind a lot and it came to mind a couple of shows ago. She's of the opinion that churches should have as much variety in their music during their worship service as their congregation has ability to play. So if you have a a jazz m musician in your church who happens to be a member and is willing to serve the church musically, you should have jazz music during the worship service. If you have somebody that plays, you know, African drums And they're in part of your church, you should have Africa drums as part of your music. Like you should be as diverse as your congregational musical skills will allow. Now here's how I have the chance to bring it up. Your church um Plays tracks. Have you ever thought about using tracks that are completely unusual? Like having jazz tracks and Asian sitar music tracks and Well, we do I mean some of the songs that we do sing, some of the tracks that we pull down are jazz. They're they're jazz based. I mean they're they're praise and worship songs, but they're played in a jazz arrangement, you know. Um N I don't think well my my dad's one of the older members, but my dad's a drummer and he was a jazz drummer, so he likes them. I don't think my mom likes them too. Some of the other ones of the other um members but um No, I don't think anything's wrong with that, but you can't I feel like you kinda have to pick sort of a direction musically and stick with it. You don't have to be like so um Like Jay said, they they they'll play hymns and they play contemporary music as well. I think that can be done. I mean, I think it can be done. I just He's had some rap at his church too. We've had rap, we've done Swahili, we've done Spanish. I mean I think it can be done. I mean I blue blue blue I had one guy, he wanted to do rap and he wasn't good And he thought he was good. That's why he said it to the best of their ability. Exactly. So I was kinda like, no. And I mean he was really trying to push to do that. And I was like, no, we're not gonna do that as well as I didn't want to go back in the direction of doing a lot of gospel stuff. I try to keep our music R relevant. There's that word again. But you know, just the stuff that, you know, people are generally listening to when they turn on a Christian radio station. Um Songs that I feel touch me. How about a cappella? We did a cappella song last week. And I'm imagining that's probably what the church had until Organ music became a thing like a thousand years ago. Right? Well they played other things. Yeah. What I don't know what we're what we're talking about. Okay. Yeah. But I I I I mean you say organs, like at one point organs weren't cool, right? You couldn't use those and then you could and w at one time you know, I I understand I'm not a historian but I believe Luther is one of the ones who is credited with saying no that th this is okay. He's using um you know, pub songs, local bar songs and turning them into And you know what, I'll tell you the truth. I can't it's funny, I've never said this out loud. It's the first time I was saying this out loud. I wish I never learned that. Because from the moment I learned that that was the case, I always hear these b beer pub songs in my head during the mouth. It's like I I don't even know what the words were, but I'm on the mass like, yeah, I can hear that as a pub song. It sounds like a Yeeho, let's get drunk today. I feel like it's like, yeah That's totally a pub song. Oh you're not cracking open a beer, you fine. As I understand Luther spent a lot of time at the pub. He said that he had a mug that had three rings on it. He said that they were the uh the father, the son, and the holy ghost. And he used to uh brag that he could drink all the way down to the Holy Ghost. I'm sure he liked those songs. Oh man. Who knew Luther was a party guy? And a fine guy. Well well you know he had a potty mouth, that's for sure. You ever read some of his stuff? Holy cow. I love his stuff. Man, he'd be he dropped the radio. We'd be fine by the FCC if I read his stuff out loud on the radio. Anyway, so uh continuing our word association. Actually you have a story for this one. Oh boy. All right. Uh it's becoming more common for churches trying to be culturally relevant to do some things that wouldn't have even been thought of many years ago, like skits, for example. Oh yeah. Mm-hmm. So I'll start with you, Chucky. You guys have ever endeavored to have any skits in your worship service? Um only a few times, but Uh you know, it actually my my wife loves to do those. She likes to plan those kinds of things. We haven't done it recently, but we've done it in the past, you know, to help the uh I I guess to to to kind of mix it up and also g give a different flavor to this service. Yeah. You know, um, sort of as a as a visual a I mean, people learn in different ways. So yeah, we've done it. I don't I don't it's not incorporated on a regular basis, you know. Uh uh in that regard our church services are much more traditional. Like I know you guys were talking earlier about a pastor that, you know, plays U U two and, you know, Metallica. Uh we ain't doing that at much. So I I've been involved in a lot of skits over the years at different churches. This church doesn't our church doesn't do as many skits here. Um but we have done a few. We've had monologues and different things like that here and there, maybe once a year, once every couple years. But we do a lot of um to keep things flowing, we do a lot of uh like long longer illustrations. So like I've had one pastor um you know, do some bike tricks in the middle of the congregation and and ride a tandem bike down the middle of the uh Middle of the Isle for instance, yeah, it was Chuck. Um, with his flower uh I didn't see it but I heard the podcast of it. We don't have we don't have to be. We don't have to put that out pictures on Facebook or something maybe. And one one time many years ago, and this is what you were probably you know, we did a an an underg underground church thing where we chained the doors of the church and we've got to make it. Yeah, we had to come down into the basement where we never meet and there's spiders and stuff like that and everything was dark and everyone had to be quiet. We didn't sing with any instruments, we just and we had to mouth it because we had to be very quiet. And we had the secret police come in and break it everything up and k take somebody out in chains and I came in in a hoodie. It was one of the times that I actually wore a hoodie. Um in a church service, you know, just to stay quiet and I you know, I preached very quietly and It was just a different you know, uh brothers and sisters have to go through these. So it's bigger than just a skit. I I'm trying to illustrate something much larger. And so yeah, those are ways to do things like that. We had you know, we had uh the some of the mothers shot their children with bows and arrows just two or three weeks ago. Right? 'Cause the sermon was on shooting our children. Right? And of course, you know, we changed around. We're shooting our you know, they're quiver, they're full, and we're shooting them out at the enemy and stuff. So I had them just for the Mind Association. So those things are relevant, those are fun, and they as long as the illustrations or the skits draw us to the point so that they don't just say, oh what cool illustrations. Wasn't that fun, but they say, oh, this helps me remember what the point of this sermon was, what they were trying to get at. I think that's pretty significant. And and I still wonder, like you you know, is that a good w use of my relevance? Uh yeah. I'm yeah, I I'm not opposed to skits, but I don't know that I'm quite as comfortable with using skits as the two of you both seem to be. I I I'm fine, like I'm not gonna storm out, I'm not gonna f argue against really. But I will say that I always feel a little bit off. When I'm at a church that has skits, I always feel like okay, I don't feel like I'm worshiping anymore. I feel like I've entered into something different. And so it just it always nags at me. So that's I'm kind of ambivalent. I haven't thought it well enough through to really, you know, have a strong opinion. I just it makes me feel a little bit icky. I guess I feel like I feel like preachers are always actors to some degree So, you know, like I practice my sermons. Yeah. Because I want to be able to say things with certain passion and and you know, go to this place. It's not all figured out ahead of time, but there is something to Yeah, and if you're using it as an illustration in the sermon, that doesn't usually make me feel as icky. But when the when there's something separate from the sermon brought up as like a five or ten minute skit that almost a lot of times feels disconnected from everything else as well. That's the problem, yes. That just I'm like, why what I don't say I feel like that we're we're doing it for show. Usually the kids are involved and the chance for the kids to be shown off and It just bugs me. Anyway, this is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. Uh the the one who talks about the the strange skits, that's uh Jace Broadhurst. He's from Poolsville Baptist and uh Chuck Copeland. Uh he does some skits too. Now do you act in them by the way, or do you just have other people do that? Only once. And my wife says I'm not a good actor. So okay Uh again this elongated word association. Ready? Here we go. Dramatic dance. Um every week uh with me. I uh I'm up there and I do Um Jay's gonna cut a rug for Jesus, baby. I do a little two step Oh, that's just for my Dallas friend. Um no I don't do that at all. Uh I uh I don't I don't know. I we don't do it. Uh 'cause we're you know, the the culture of our church just wouldn't wouldn't do that. Um I don't know that I would automatically say because I mean creativity is what our God is all about. Absolutely. And could we use some different ways of glorifying God? Yeah. Uh I've seen it done at some churches where I thought it was phenomenally just really sensual and just like, okay, this is creative all right. This is God I am nothing about God right now. Um and that's a little bit dangerous. Don't do a good Baptist Come on, trust me. I'm I'm a man too. So I have no idea what you're talking about. Yeah, yeah, Troy Troy's no clue. Oh lost. Okay. So I don't know that I would do that, but I I wouldn't automatically storm out of a church that did it. Um if it was every week that you know, I just I I guess I'd always be asking, what what are you what are you getting rid of to do these things on a regular basis. Did you just shorten your message to four minutes because you did this or my concern with that is what are you drawing attention to? For your point, I mean it can be too sensual or whatever, but still even if it wasn't sensual, are you really drawing attention to Christ? And if you are If somehow through the dance you are and you're bringing people to the cross and and and and somehow helping people to understand their need for a a rescue from their plight as a sinner Okay, but I have a hard time knowing what that dance looks like. But there's almost no difference than that and just a special during the offering where somebody who does folk music gets up there with the guitar and sings a folk song. Right. That happens to be about Jesus. It's or maybe it's about Jesus or maybe it's about a boyfriend. You're not exactly sure what it's about. Yeah, well those that was a bad song selection. Yeah. Anything can if it draws away from what you're trying to accomplish there, then yeah, then it's not good. I think it's cultural too, because you know, being an African American, d you know, m my ancestors came from Africa. Some of them came from Europe as well. So full disclosure. But you know, um dance is a part of the w worship experience in a lot of different um not not you know, it's I'm not painting with a broad brush, but Um, dance is a port important, you know, uh moving to music is important, you know, in in African American culture. But um like I have two daughters that are very into um liturgical dance. And um every time they do it, every time I watch them do it, it moves me to tears. And I can see, you know, how the expression of what they do is is is moving people in a way that I've never seen anything else that has been done in church do it. I think But w I I remember my wife and one of the ladies that trained my middle daughter, they were very, very in they were very, very uh um intent upon them making sure they were covered properly with their with the dress that they wore that things weren't too tight and also, you know, making sure that it wasn't like You know, like you were going to see the Alvin Ailey dancers, you know, in in in New York somewhere, you know, uh uh uh uh these sensual, you know, whatever, you know, moves, you know, none of that was has ever been involved. Um But, you know, I have seen those fances like what Jace has talked about where you kinda and I'm you know, I'm sitting there and I'm used to seeing, you know, what my daughter daughters have done and also what other um I've seen other people do, other liturgical dancers do, you know, really, really uplifting. Um I don't know, it's just it's just something about um the the nonverbal communication, the nonverbal um worship experience. You know, nobody's saying anything. You're listening to the music and the words but you really it's blending in with the the the the the you know um expression from these people that are just expressing themselves, you know, in their um I think I'd like to see that 'cause if it's if it's the way I'm imagining it in my mind, then I could see that being of benefit 'cause it provides some quiet time where You're kind of visually distracted just enough that your mind could wander and maybe it kind of bumps into God. And you can begin to pray and and you have that moment of of silence. What I've had happen in my experience is that people for me, if I can just say from what my experience has been, is I I hear the song that's playing and I hear the words And then I look I l as at the uh simultaneously I'm listening to the words of the song and listen to them e uh watching them express the words of the song. in the dance moves and it just hits me. You know, it hits me in a place that nothing else really ever has. And so But I've also had the experience that Jesus had. I've been to places where, you know, you're like, wait a minute, where is Jesus in this? Right. Hey, time out. You know? So it's gotta be done appropriately and done with the everything's gotta be done with Jesus as the point. I wouldn't do it every Sunday though. And I know churches that The pastors are like, we're not doing that. You know? And to each his own. That's the way I see it. Oh how about churches and their decor, for example, churches that self consciously have the American flag on display? Or churches that uh self consciously make the entrance look like you're walking into a Starbucks or those sorts of things. Is that Not that big of a deal, it's a huge problem or a kind of a problem, or it's yeah, it's not it's actually a good thing. What do you think? And we're running a little short. We got about, you know, yeah a little over a minute to the two of you to answer this. Alright, so I think the comfort uh we we're doing we're talking about the comfort again. That's the Starbucks, you know, approach. You know, let them come in and feel like they're they're involved in everything else. Mm-hmm. And I I think that's fine. If if the point of it is to make them feel welcome and comfortable, if you're not going to compromise your message later on, it i it's it's okay. Maybe it's getting a little bit to the world, I d I don't know. I'm not gonna get too hung up about that Self con um you got something else on that one? I'll go to the American flag 'cause we only got a minute. No, go ahead. So um well and do you want to do it? No, I concur. show in this arc. Yeah, I feel like we need to do that. Sure. So if you want to hang on to your thoughts and you'll have a chance, because there's other things I know that you guys are chomping to we've talked off the air with uh in between shows and stuff and I know there's other things that you want to try to get to and we're out of time. So we can we can do this. So save your American flag bashing for later. All right, I'm ready. And actually I think if this works out, we'll be doing it on Memorial Day weekend. Doctor Jace Broadhurst, Pastor Poolsville Baptist Church, uh Pastor Howard Chuck Copeland the Third. Uh Chucky Baby From Hosanna Worship Center and Dickerson, Maryland. I'm Troy Skinner. Our sponsors, our Hilo Auto almost an old sponsor from that we had for many years. Hilo Auto Sales online at HiloAutoSales dot com. And uh Tire Pros of Frederick. We uh that you would hang on tight for the next, oh, I don't know, 167. 5 hours and tune back in to the same great station then. Till then, God bless.