The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. You ever thought about adopting? Have you recently adopted and you're struggling? Well, this week and probably next week's show will might help you with those kinds of questions. This is the Faith Debate. I'm Froy Skinner, pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. Our Church's website is House Household of FaithInChrist dot com. com. We've been spending the last few weeks and we're gonna be spending the next uh uh at least next couple weeks and and perhaps quite a few more weeks after that talking about family issues with the Razvies. They've got a ministry they've been doing for a long time. They pastor a house church as well, by the way, the north end of Frederick County. And their ministry is Concord by Love Ministries and their website is ConcordBylove. org. And Particularly given what's been going on in the world these last two, three weeks uh two three weeks. Two, three years. Uh wish it was two three years. Um, there's been there a lot of our society has has felt like it's come unglued, unraveled and a lot of families are really struggling. There's lots of uh pressure from the culture and what kids are being exposed to in in the media and social media and if they go to the uh government funded uh schools Like I like home to pagan schools or they go to one of those schools, uh they're they're they're having all sorts of challenges and I know some people in my life, you know, that I'm uh ministering to or that are just people that I know tangently or they're related by blood or whatever that I mean it's not unusual for people to be really struggling managing their own situation. Um to to manage a situation that has children that aren't biologically yours just as an additional complicating factor. So the first thing I wanted to talk about as we address the adoption question is should someone adopt just because? Yeah, are there certain uh dynamics that should be in place, certain personality types, certain uh realities that are set before somebody really takes on? the responsibility of adopting what are the kinds of questions somebody should think through before they do and I'm giving you a lot because I want to give you a can have a kind of a free form response on this. So what are some of the things we should be thinking about? Let's say I was going to adopt What are some of things I should be thinking about to adopt? But also what should be some of the things we think about that we'd be like, you know what? There might be a knockout blow. Like I got all these sort of things in place, but because that's not really there I shouldn't adopt. So kind of the the ups and downs on these. So some of these things that we'll talk about is is merely our opinion. Okay? So we're gonna tell you this is what we feel and other people have done it differently and have been very successful at it But we're we're gonna tell you why we did what we did. Now it's interesting, I wanna you don't have to get into the weeds on this, but everything that we do on this show is pretty much our opinion, but you felt some need to say that. Is it have you gotten pushback in the past from people who get angry with the the way you say things about adoption? Yes. Really? Adoption is a very, very um emotional subject. And uh th there are some things that other people are have been gifted with and c are capable of doing that we were not bab able to do. And uh so we did ours a little bit differently than some others might have done and they've still been successful. So that's one of th one things. For example, there's open adoptions and there's closed adoptions. We wanted a closed adoption and we can get into reasons why. And other people have done open adoption has been very successful. But we are we didn't feel comfortable with an open adoption. Open adoption means that they still have communication with their uh family that may st may be in jail, maybe in with drugs, maybe w wha uh abusive and they sell communication and and they have that But now you're competing with that other family as uh for the kids and the kids' attention and well what's the right thing to do and how to behave correctly because uh you know i it there's always a competition there. So we chose a closed adoption where the children can you know learn about their adopt their um birth families at when they get older and emotionally stable enough to go do that and search it out and do that. But while they're young, they don't have any influence from there. But but let's back up for a minute because you asked who should adopt, should an uh can this anybody adopt? The most important thing is start with prayer. You really need to search deeply and find out is God calling you to adopt? Because He doesn't call everybody adopted and it is a hard thing. Um it's not just a plug and play. It's not like you can get a plug-and-play child is that they're gonna be perfect. So just like uh uh you know uh you always wanted and No, th this is a decision just like when you're gonna have a baby, you're gonna get married and have a baby. Um but there are s uh some some different types of factors to really think of. But how about if I doubt the five year old? I don't have to worry about diapers anymore. Wouldn't that be great? Or maybe a teenager because I don't have to worry about any of the uh adolescents and no no no no things and uh so people have these dreams. Maybe we'll send them off to boarding school and Yeah. And that doesn't do anything for the child So the first thing is you do need to pray, spend time and especially um you know, there are single people that can adopt and have the resources and be able to do that. I think it's important to have a family, have a spouse, and uh because you need help. It's not easy. And if you're single, make sure you have support and help to be able to do that. Um I think and this is very controversial, especially in today's day and age where uh there's a lot of adoption being done by gay couples, uh by um people that are emotionally unstable. And I think uh that causes a lot of problems for the children. I don't think that's a good adoptive situation. I think it's putting children in a bad situation and we've had uh people get very angry with us about that. So those are things that, you know, again, as I said, that's my opinion and that's based on what I provide from the Bible. To be to be the best emotionally stable child, ideally you have a father and a mother And there are exceptions to that where just it's not possible, you know, maybe the maybe the father's father passed away or the mother passed away or whatever, uh even if it wasn't your choice to to have it this way And in that case, you definitely need to make sure you have support from, you know, if you if you're a single mother, you have support from strong male uh role models that the children can look up to as well, or vice diversity other way around. So God ordained a family. He said there's a father, there's a mother, and there's children. That is the ideal. And so it's the closest we can get to the ideal the better off it is for the adoptive child. Right? So first we gotta pray, we gotta spend time and make sure both spouses are on the same page. If one spouse wants to adopt the other one does not, then you shouldn't be adopting. You should all be on the same page. And then You know, what uh kind of child do you want to adopt? You want to adopt a baby. And babies are harder to adopt because there's more people that want a baby, right? They feel the baby has less baggage. And and that's actually not quite the case all the time. Um we we found that even though you adopt as a baby, there has uh d in the womb the baby um creates an emotional connection and with the mother. And so if they're if they're put up for adoption immediately after birth, they may not be old enough to articulate the feelings that they have, but they are are missing a lot of those emotional needs right away that you're gonna have to work extra hard to make sure they feel wanted, they feel secure, and all those things because it's not the the the birth mother, the biological mother that they were they grew through the womb with. And so a lot of people miss that and they assume that they're gonna be the same as any other baby and and with with the proper care, yes, you know, a a God works miracles. through through that whole process, but you do need to be aware. So study what are the needs of adopted children that are you know, maybe a little bit different than the birth children In your experience, what different age groups have you taken a child into the house in an adoption? So the first adoption we did was a sibling group of five children, ages four to twelve. And we chose to have uh uh adopt children that were younger than my eldest son because we wanted my eldest son to still be the eldest son, because we felt that God ordained him to be the eldest son and wanted him to have the same position as that. That doesn't mean we love him more, it just means that th God put him as as the eldest in there. And I know some people that have adopted children that are older than their birth children and this worked out fine Uh we just like I said, there's a lot of opinions and but we felt that God order in place for certain. Did having uh you know a a uh an entire gaggle of kids come in together make it easier or harder? It was chaos. It was definitely chaos. You have a h um lack of better word, herd mentality, okay? If you bring in a child into three or four children, then they start adapting to that herd. Okay, they become part of that herd. But if you bring five children, you only have three. Now the herd goes the opposite direction. Because there are the m there are more on the other side. So you need more practicing, more emotional help with the children. That question raised up a good point and the it's very important uh to protect the uh you know the story and the privacy of the of the story. Something that should be considered is if if somebody is going to adopt, are they equipped to deal with all of the range of potential emotional angst there might be? Sure. because somebody maybe they had their parents, you know, killed in a car accident or they went to jail because of some bad things, bad choices or whatever, and they're dealing with all the the anger and the turmoil or whatever, it's not like you're bringing in Oh w I really loved when my daughter was five, so I'll adopt a five year old. You're not getting your daughter. You're getting somebody who's got a lot of baggage. Right. Uh uh almost every adoption there are challenges. Okay. No adoption is is uh hey, this is what how life should be, right? It's because something didn't work out. That's why they're bringing it up. Life is not like TV. Yeah. One of the things that came up uh early, I can't remember it was the one of the first I think it was one of the first two things you mentioned was about the uh the money. We got the money, we can write a check But that's something you gotta think about. Can you write the check? Because adopting is expensive, right? It can be. It doesn't have to be. A lot of people care about oh it costs thirty thousand dollars or fifty thousand dollars to doubt. Well yes it depends right depends on what you're what you end up doing. Um usually if you adopt from overseas, that is a very expensive and very long process. And also a lot of ti uh a lot of times uh if you're trying to adopt a baby, there there's a lot of uh fees involved to get the you jump through all the right hoops because there there's there's a lot, uh frankly a lot of demand for babies. But there's a lot of groups of children, hundreds and hundreds of thousands of children in the US that need homes that Doesn't cost a I mean it it's gonna cost uh as to raise a child just like any other child, but there's no not really any additional cost. A lot of times uh this there's a category category called special needs. And you think special needs, oh maybe they're have some strange needs or whatever, but maybe they're crippled or whatever you think. But it really does what it means is that they're over uh five years old. Okay, or they're they're a sibling group or they're not white, okay, those are all considered special needs because there's less people adopting those categories than there are white babies White babies are not a special need because there's uh far fewer white babies than there are people that are willing to die. So if they're in a special need category. The government starts tearing down barriers because they know there's so many uh that need homes and they try to make it as easy as possible. So if they're in a special needs uh adoption, then you have you pay a couple thousand for homesteady and things like that, but then most of the adoptive fees will be covered by the state. Because the state knows that they can either keep paying a foster care uh there's thousands of dollars every month to take care of and there's a big business for that. And they know once they turn eighteen they'll probably have to pay for their jail time because most uh or many adopted children if they age out in foster care they'd go to jail. They're in foster family And many of the foster families, you know, they're doing it as a business. And I'm not saying that they're uh they're inappropriate. I mean many of them have a great heart. That's something I could not do, and I applaud those that have the strength to do that because you know, they're loving these children and these children leave. And so it's a tough, tough position to be in. But at the same time, you know, when they turn eighteen they're out. They're gone. They're the government's no longer paying for their care. And many of these foster families can't afford to keep caring for the these pe these children that are now eighteen, nineteen. They might not be ready for the world, but the world has to be is out there for them And so if they get adopted then they actually have a place to come back to for Christmas or Thanksgiving. Even if they go out to the military, go out wherever, they actually have a foundation, a family. you know, rent a kid. Uh but they're not renting they're they're being paid to rent a kid. And the ones that want to really make the lifelong commitment, they've got to pay all these legal fees or It seems like if if if if there's monies there to pay families to take care of foster kids, why wouldn't there be monies there to pay families to take care of adopt Sometimes there is, and the government can help, and again a lot of times that comes with strings, so just be very careful with that. But the It it doesn't have to the point of with all the all this the financial part of it is it doesn't have to be a financial barrier if you want to adopt and you are financially able to take care of the children. That's gonna be the most important thing. Uh if you have very specific demands and I need somebody that looks like this, that's this old, that's from this country Yeah, then you're gonna probably end up paying a lot of fees to try to figure out the other thing. And there's a lot of people that can't or are not able to adopt, but they're willing to support somebody adopting. They may support financially, they may support emotionally, they may support respite care, uh, but they are not going to be permanent parents. And that's that's something y you know, if you have a heart for adoptive children and you don't feel that you can adopt, you can come along somebody that has adopted. One of the greatest things that my wife's sister Karen did When we adopted Sydney Ru Five Children, she threw a baby shower. Who thinks of throwing a baby shower for adopted children? But they were new to our family and they're uh it was great and we there was a lot of things we did not need and did not have and needed And things we were not prepared for, right? We weren't prepared for all these things. So having that baby shower really did do a couple of things. One, we got a lot of support We got some things in place and we we felt the love of the community and the family coming alongside us. That's that you normally get when you have a baby shower. That's a good good uh point you just brought up because even if you were not called specifically to adopt You should be able to minister to adoptive families. And that's one of the ways you can do it. I mean really treat the adoptive children as new babies coming into family. Anything you would do for uh somebody in your church that had a baby, do the same thing when they adopt. Yeah, bring meals over, uh you know, uh give throw a baby shower, you know. Offer to clean up a little bit because there was the time was taken up by this new new baby. So somebody's going through the process of thinking about this. If there's a couple and and and they're on the same page, they want to adopt and they've got the resources and everything and they're ready to go. But there's they still have a little bit of uncertainty 'cause they just want to get a better sense of what they're getting into. Is there a elongated process where you can kinda get to know different kids at different ages and get a feel for what would be best for your situation? Or you kinda just Tell some agents they want to adopt and you kinda end up with a sort of a lottery. uh perspective adoptive kids. Usually that's a lot later in the process 'cause again you don't want the children to get false hope. False hope and feel more rejection. Oh well this family came around, oh no, they don't want me. Oh whatever. And and and they start to get more jaded and more feel more rejection. So usually you don't actually meet or talk to the kids until you're you're really pretty far along in the process. But you do get to see uh and information and and and learn about the process they're sharing things about their personality and their background. So you've got to get a sense if it's a good fit for what you can handle. There's a lot of information. Now th that information is not um complete. Many things are hidden, many things are not known. So you have to expect that whatever you read in there is gonna be the sales pitch, right? So the adoptive uh agency, the social worker is trying to quote unquote sell you this child, meaning that they want you to get the child because their job is to get the child placed. And so they're doing giving you all the best qualities, the best things about this child and sh and telling you how good it will be and not all the bad things because that's they're trying to place the child. So you have to exce expect that no matter what you learn, there's gonna be other problems, other issues, other challenges. So you just have to be really ready and willing to meet those challenges no matter what they are and have a support group that can help you with that because you can't do it on your own. And there are people that are single mom, single dad that want to adopt and have done a great job and but they've got support around them, a church, um you know f other family members and sisters or brothers or parents that can help and come with support. And those are very important. It seems like intuitively the older the child gets the harder the situation would be to be the adoptive family. Is that True. That's it. They have more of a story. Well Right. Which is which is which is often often the case. Not always, but you're you're right, it is often the case. The the almost universally when we see people and we counsel people that are thinking about adopting or have just adopted and now are realizing that they were mistaken in this They expect, Oh, I adopted an older child and they're gonna act their age when they come. They're ten years old. They should act like a ten year old. No, they're not act like a ten year old. They were not taught and trained and emotionally uh helped through that time period. They're not ten years old. Emotionally they're a baby. So we'll tea we'll talk about this a little more next week, but it's it's really important. One of the most important things you can do when you bring your child home is to give them at least three years, minimum, three years, literal years, of infanthood. Treating them like a baby, not belittling them like but actually caring for them as if you were caring for a baby Take as much time off of work as you would have if you had a baby. Take spend as much time you know morning, night, in the middle of the night getting up and playing with them, putting them back to sleep, help helping them, comforting them, all the things you would do with the baby for the first three years because it's so important and almost without exception, if somebody is in the p position that to be adopted, they have not had those full years. Maybe they had a little bit, but they did not have those full several years of infancy. that is key for emotional and spiritual development and you need to give your child that. So you need the oldest ch uh a child is up could be up for a doctrine. Seventeen? I'm surprised at seventeen. They're so close to them being Most of those older older ones do not get placed. They and once they're that close they kind of age out usually. They age out, they get into a halfway home and things like that that that are really not stable. And so there are some f some organizations, some families that try to place older children that are eighteen, nineteen into some family ed mentorship type thing, which is phenomenal because it's needed. And there's so many children that age out of the adoption uh the foster care system without any family Yeah, you mentioned at the beginning about the closed and open uh kind of adoptions. Open it sounds like there's some dynamics that are similar to if you if you've got a divorce situation right and you've got these blended families and whose rules are really in charge. If you if you've got a d divorce situation and you live half the week at mom's house and half the week at dad's house and then you you know mom and dad have different rules and you know how to get around and and and uh and get away with things It just creates more complexity and it's already a really traumatic experience to to be adopted or to to to adopt and and to deal with all those talents. And oftentimes it puts the child in in a position of power. you know, well if if you don't do what I want you to do then I'm gonna go to dad. Or if you don't want you don't do this, then I'm gonna go to mom. And so you're trying to please that child and you're not doing anything for their character. You're actually hurting them So that's kind of good advice I think for uh marriage and parenting in general rather than j uh just for adoption. But yeah. So are are there yeah, if you were talking to somebody who knows that you're you know, have some expertise in these sorts of things and they're kinda picking your brain and they ask your opinion Are there some things you would want to find out from them that could be knockout blows like if this or this or this are realities in your life, do not adopt. Are there any things like that? I I would say i if you don't feel like you're in the position to actually treat them like an infant for three years, that would be a knockout thing right away Do not expect that you're gonna adopt a five-year-old and they won't need to have their diaper changed. Don't expect that you're gonna adopt a ten-year-old and he'll know how to read. These these things are are are usually not the case in ma many adopted situations. You you want to be able to have the time commitment wi uh with your family and and and so on that you can give just like you would give to an infant and it really is difficult for most people to grasp that they are the same thing as an infant. Yeah. And the ten, twelve year old should be able to take care of themselves. I mean they can make them their own luds and get their own water, but no. They can't. You have to do that for them You guys have um a series of books that kind of fit into the introduction to adoption category. Next week the the plan is to talk about kind of living life with a uh in an adoptive family situation. Uh some of the books that uh I I seem excuse me uh seem to uh fit in the category here, Steps to Adoption. I know an adoptive family, I've considered adoption, but uh the beauty of adoption, how it reflects what God has done for us. Two real quick, we've got a few minutes left on the show, just a just like a couple really. So you can pick one I guess. I know an adoptive family. Right. Well that book is really designed for people who say, Well, I don't think I'm called to adopt, but I do know people who adopt. How can I serve that serve them and help them in my church. Right. But almost those who are thinking about adopting, it makes sense to try to connect with somebody who has adopted and you can learn a lot before you make the full plunge, right? But one thing I'll tell you right now, one thing you should definitely know if you know it off the family, don't ask them Who's your birth children? Who's your adopted children? They're all my children. They're all the same. They're all the same. But we get that question every time we go anywhere to speak, well, who's your birth child? Which one are your birth children? Is this one a birth child? It doesn't matter, they're all my children. They're all the same. They're my children. Troy, are you are you the real real gospel? And so if you believe that as a believer we're all one in in Christ Well, I'm not more of a believer than you are, Troy. If we're both saved, we're both equal in the kingdom of God. Even we may have different roles to play. And you may have gotten saved before I before I was born. But but but that's the that's the thing. You we are all so God God adopted us. He wanted us, he he took us out of sin and he gave us a home. He grafted us into a family of God And so we are adopted. So it's a beautiful reflection when when you when you consider that. Yeah, we're gonna talk uh more about adoption and kind of the the the nitty-gritty the day in, day out. kinds of things because I'm sure there's specific challenges that they could uh provide some insight the Razby scan. The last voice you heard before mine was Daniel Razby. The other voice on today's show is Imran Razby. And uh their ministry is Conquered by Love. You can go to their ministries and go to their website This is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner and I'm the pastor of uh they're pastors of the House Church Crew. I haven't been mentioning that as much in this context of shows when we're talking about the the specific ministry that they do, but they've got a house church in the north end of uh Frederick County up in the Thurmont area. And uh I'm the pastor of a house church of kind of essentially located in Frederick County called Household of Faith in Christ My website is household of faith in Christ. com. There you can link to their ministry. You can also link to the faith debate and a whole bunch of other stuff. Trust and resources, that sort of thing. Uh next week more adoption talk here on the show. Want to thank you so much for listening. Uh tell a friend if you've got a topic you'd like us to tackle. uh let us know that too. Uh until next week, let me check my watch. Yep. 167 and a half hours from now. We're back with you. Until then. God bless, thanks so much for listening.