This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a three-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The fate debate is on the World Wide Web at WFMD. com. Keyword fate. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with a Master of Divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Oh Troy Skinner. Hey, thank you for tuning in and spending uh part of your maybe breakfast or brunch time with me here. on Sunday morning. Appreciate you uh all these years. Almost 17 years now of doing the faith debate with you. I am Troy Skinner. I am the pastor of the Household of Faith in Christ. And uh by now to be honest, I mentioned this a couple of times and and by now we've expected To have a website up and running. We've run into some snags and slowdowns there, so it's not quite ready. But soon enough, you'll find us online at the household well, not the household, at www. Household of FaithInChrist. com. Don't look for it today, it's not ready, but maybe within the next few weeks it'll be up and running. You can learn more about what we're doing. I mention that in part because what you're going to hear today is something that uh ties to that. We we we uh launched uh in an informal way sort of the household of faith in Christ uh almost exactly a year ago And at the time, uh, we weren't exactly sure what was going to look like and what form it was going to take. And so what we started off with was I took questions that people wanted answers to. And just spent, you know, time answering them. And one of the questions, uh that you can imagine this time last year, even now it's a relevant question, the question was, should churches be open? Should they be open or not? Should they be closed? This was of course in response to the the lockdown mandates from the government about churches shuttering their doors, or some churches just uh on their own deciding whether they should shut their doors uh in light of fears about uh coronavirus, covet nineteen, whatever you want to call it. So this is uh an answer to that question. It's gonna come in two parts. So we're gonna answer begin to answer it this week and finish it answer finishing Finish answering. There we go. Next week. So here's uh part one of Should Churches be open on the Faith Debate on 930 WFMB. So I want to read something. It's the uh the opening portion of something that's titled Dear Pastor, Please Open Your Church, written by Joel Levin out in California. And uh the the the first couple of paragraphs have a subtitle called An Urgent Plea for Unity. So let me start with that and then we'll have our joke and some official formal announcements, I guess. I want to begin by clearly stating my motives for this letter. One, to persuade all Christians, the church, not merely individual believers themselves, but the gathered assembly of these believers on the Lord's Day for the administering of the ordinary means of grace, is the most quote-unquote essential thing on the planet, and two, to achieve and preserve unity among followers of Christ In regards to achieving and preserving unity, it's important to note that there are at least two methods of accomplishing this task. One One method is by extending charity in the midst of reasonable disagreement. And due to the unprecedented nature of the recent events surrounding COVID-19, I believe that disagreements among believers in this season is certainly reasonable. However, by making this statement, I'm not saying that the Bible doesn't speak to the present challenges we're facing. Undoubtedly, there are both right and wrong answers to our questions. And therefore, in our attempts to extend charity toward one another during this season, we must be careful to avoid the type of language that affirms the moral relativism which faithful Christians have worked so hard to fight against throughout the previous years. And two, the other method of achieving and preserving unity in the church is powerful and persuasive preaching. Charity in the midst of disagreement certainly helps to preserve unity. But the greatest way to achieve unity in a local church is for its members to actually be persuaded of the same position. For example, my local church, the Response Church, located in San Diego, California, currently possesses an incredibly high degree of unity in regards to our views of soteriology, which is the doctrine of salvation. This is due in part to the fact that our church allows for its members to disagree with a few specific doctrines which relate to soteriology, such as unconditional election. However It's fair to assume that the lion's share of unity which our church currently possesses on this matter is due to the fact the vast majority of our members actually hold to the same doctrinal positions. And so the question is this. Did all of our members who agree on these particular issues initially arrive at our church already in agreement? The answer is an emphatic no. It is true that many people come to our church precisely because they are searching for a reformed church. However, it's also true that dozens of our members strongly disagreed with the quote-unquote doctrines of grace when they first arrived. And yet over time, these individuals were won over through multiple conversations with their pastors, as well as conversations with fellow members. However, in hearing the testimonies of dozens of both past and present members, it is blatantly apparent that the greatest factor in winning over these individuals has been powerful and persuasive preaching. Powerful persuasive preaching is a fine art. It's incredibly difficult to achieve the art of persuasion while carefully avoiding unhelpful dogmatism at the very same time. That said, I ask that you would please extend charity toward me as I attempt by God's grace to make powerful and persuasive arguments for why churches should resume gathering on the Lord's Day while doing my best to maintain charity toward those who disagree with my position. In short, my goal is not to merely win an argument. My goal is to win you. And so This is 930 WFMD. News Radio 930 WFMD. But what we're doing this week and the weeks to come, and maybe for a long stretch, as long as I get questions through AME, we're going to tackle questions people have on their mind and provide what we uh intend to be, hope to be scriptural responses. And so this week the question is, should churches reopen uh right now. Another question that we'll tackle next week is if Jesus were around today, would he wear a mask? And then in the weeks following that we're going to uh We're gonna tackle the question of uh what happens uh to us, with us, with people, uh humans when they die. Uh they immediately go to heaven? Do they do they sleep? Do they immediately go to hell? We're gonna talk tackle that question. And then we're going to talk about uh end times uh perspectives. Uh the most dominant view uh in America on end times is dispensationalism Uh the most dominant view worldwide would be uh millennialism. Historically for a long time the most dominant view was post-millennialism We're going to talk about what some of those things are so you understand what people are saying when they talk about uh the last days. So those are things that are coming up in the weeks ahead, but for this week we're focusing on the question of should churches be open and if they're currently closed should they open back up. And I'm using now I've talked about this at length, to be honest, for over the last month and a half, two months, something like that. uh recurringly. Much of what I've had to say in my thinking on this is represented by this this article that I've begun to read, this letter, this open letter to churches everywhere and Christians everywhere There's a couple of things that are mentioned in here that are different than what I have shared, or in addition to some things that I have shared It's very thoughtful, very measured, and uh references a lot of scripture. I think it's going to be very helpful. And so the the question, um As we know, there are there's there's a battle going on. Uh pastors are being fined, um maybe even imprisoned for deciding to have their their worship services in spite of what the these civil authorities are saying. Is that right? Is that wrong? What are we to think of this? What does the Bible have to say about it? And I think this captures that pretty well. So I'm now going to read the next section of this letter. I just read the opening part to start. And this section is subtitled, Church is Both Essential and Unique. Allow me to be abundantly clear. I firmly believe with every fiber of my being that the church, not merely individual believers themselves, but gathered assemblies of these believers on the Lord's day for the administrative of the ordinary means of grace. is absolutely essential. However, this statement is not meant to convey that I believe the gathering of the church is essential under any and all circumstances. For instance If the police arrived at one of our Sunday gatherings and informed us that there was an active shooter attempting to pick off members of our church with a sniper rifle We would immediately and happily comply, submit to these civil magistrates and their instructions. Let me provide another illustration. If the mayor of San Diego announced on a Saturday evening that there was a tsunami of biblical proportions heading straight for the city and that anyone who remained within the city limits would be wiped out entirely, we would immediately and happily cancel our Lord's Day gathering so that all of our members could divert their efforts towards getting out of harm's way. However, an important detail to recognize in both of these scenarios is that under these circumstances All other institutions, grocery stores, drive-thru restaurants, parks, and so forth, would be deemed non-essential as well. However, in the case of COVID-19, churches have been deemed by the civil authorities as non-essential, while other establishments, grocery stores, drive-thru restaurants, parks, and so forth, have been deemed essential. Sadly, it's quite possible that one of the reasons there has been so little pushback by the American Evangelical Church in regards to this decision is because many Christians in our nation have held a low view of the gathered assembly on the Lord's Day. To our shame, many Christians in our nation have actually been completely content to miss multiple Sunday gatherings. for a whole host of substantially lesser reasons, vacations, sports, travel. If a person is comfortable with missing upwards of ten Lord's Day gatherings in a year for such petty reasons Certainly they will struggle to understand why pastors such as myself are making such a big deal about missing six or seven weeks of church in the midst of a pandemic. However, even if Christians are convinced that the weekly gatherings of the saints is essential, they may still remain suspicious of its true necessity. This is due to the fact that although some Christians may be willing to confess that church is essential, they still fail to recognize that church is unique. In our day, there appears to be an alarming amount of Christians who are simply unaware of the fact that what occurs in the gathered assembly of the saints on the Lord's Day is categorically distinct from what individual Christians do all week long in their personal practices of piety, which might include scripture reading, prayer, fasting, catechizing their children, etc. Therefore, pastors must labor diligently to teach their congregations that when we come together on the Lord's Day We do not merely experience the heightened benefits of individual Christian practices due to the reality of being surrounded by many other brothers and sisters in Christ Instead, what takes place in the gathered assembly is a spiritual reality which occurs in no other context. According to Scripture, when true churches, Orthodox churches faithfully proclaiming the gospel message, gather together on the Lord's day and rightly administer the ordinary means of grace, which is publicly preaching the word Publicly praying the word, corporately singing the word, and corporately seeing the word in the sacraments of the Lord's Supper and baptism. Christ Himself begins to walk among the lampstands, and the lampstands are the churches themselves. And hold the angels of these churches in his right hand. The angels are the gospel ministers who have been tasked with the faithful proclamation of God's word. And as these gospel ministers begin to preach, while being held in Christ's right hand, a double-edged sword is extended from the mouth of Christ himself and begins to pierce the hearts of men. There's an allusion there to Revelation chapter 1, verses 10 through 16. In addition to this, in Matthew 18, verses 17 through 20, we find another biblical text Which illustrates both the essential and the unique nature of the church. If the independent church member currently under formal church discipline refuses to listen to the two or three witnesses who have confronted him, tell it to the church. And if he refuses to listen even to the church Let him be to you as a Gentile and as a tax collector. Truly I say to you, whatever the gathered assembly of the church binds on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Again I say to you, if two of you agree on earth about anything they ask, it will be done for them by my Father in heaven. For where two or three are gathered in my name, a true church There am I among them. According to Jesus, two or three baptized believers who have made a public and credible profession of faith and have covenanted with one another to fulfilling the Great Commission in unity, which includes following all of Christ's commands and teaching others to do likewise, constitutes a true church And when true churches gather in Jesus' name, there is Christ among them. In other words, Christ who is always present with believers, all believers, by virtue of the indwelling ministry of the Holy Spirit. Is present in a unique way only in the context of the gathered church. So when the saints physically gather with one another in worship on the Lord's Day They are doing nothing less than coming together to meet with Christ in a particular way, which does not occur anywhere else on earth And not only are we gathering to meet with Christ, but we are gathering to offer him our worship and receive from him a word. 1 Peter 4. 11 says, Whoever speaks should speak as one who speaks the very oracles of God. And Matthew chapter 4, the first four verses say When Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil, and after fasting forty days and forty nights, he was hungry. And the tempter came and said to him, You few are the Son of God, command these stones to become loaves of bread. But Jesus answered It is written, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God. Therefore, according to Jesus, if physical bread, i. e. grocery stores, are deemed essential, Spiritual bread, i. e. , every word that comes from the mouth of God, must be deemed as even more essential by the people of God. Now, it's unquestionably true that Christians have been granted the immense privilege of receiving a word from the mouth of God in the context of their private practice of piety. Again, reading the scripture at home as individuals or with family and friends. However, as we have already seen in Revelation chapter 1, verses 10 through 16, there is a word, a double-edged sword, which comes from the mouth of God. Out of the mouth of Christ, when the lampstand is lit, the church is gathered, and Christ begins to walk amidst the lampstands. Jesus is spiritually present with the church. in a unique way. When Jesus says to Satan in the wilderness that man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God He does not specify which word he's referring to, and therefore it is both reasonable and prudent for Christians to assume that both of these words are vital for the sustaining of our souls. In order for Christians to spiritually survive, much less spiritually thrive, we must not only be diligent to study and meditate upon God's word privately. But we must also humbly and joyfully receive God's word as it is publicly proclaimed in the assembly of the saints on the Lord's day. In fact, a convincing argument can be made that for almost fifteen hundred years, followers of Christ were only able to receive God's word in the Lord's Day gathering. This was due to the fact that the scripture had not yet been translated and copied into the common language of the people. And therefore, when we survey church history, although There were some very dark times where the church immensely suffered by not having the scripture available for private use. It appears that God has sustained his people through the administering of the ordinary means of grace on the Lord's day in a way which he has not through private scripture reading, apart from the gathered assembly. Furthermore, Jesus also says in John chapter 6, verses 27 to 35 Do not work for the food that perishes, but for the food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. Again, if Christ Himself is the true bread of life, which all Christians desperately need in order to spiritually live. And Christ promises to be present in a unique way when the church gathers together, as it says in Matthew 18, verse 20 Then certainly this gathering must be considered both unique and essential by those who profess to be followers of Jesus. In 2 Chronicles 7, verse 14, we find these words. If my people who are called by my name humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways. Then I will hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and heal their land. Of course, there is a sense in which the people of God may humble themselves and repent of their sins individually. However, there is also a sense in which this humbling, repenting, and seeking of God must be performed corporately. Ironically, it seems as though one of the most effective ways that the people of God can work toward ending the destruction of the coronavirus as well as the destruction of some of the foolish reactions to the coronavirus, is by carefully gathering together on the Lord's Day Crying out to God in humility and repentance and pleading with Him that He might heal our land. Section that I'm going to share with you from this open letter that I've been reading is has a subtitle of A Word About Submission to Civil Authorities. Now, in terms of the Christian's duty to submit to civil authorities, it's important that we rightly interpret the whole of Scripture on this matter. Firstly, it's important to recognize that Romans 13 says absolutely nothing about Christians being required by God to submit to unrighteous rulings handed down by the civil magistrate. Instead, Romans 13 clearly describes God's ideal purpose for civil governments, and therefore it assumes that Christians would do well to submit to these civil governments. However, when we survey other scriptural texts, we quickly discover that there is a clear biblical principle for Christians submitting to civil authorities even when these governments hand down unrighteous rulings. For instance, Rome was undoubtedly taxing its citizens at a rate that was wicked in the sight of God. It was clearly unrighteous for the Roman Empire to demand that its citizens submit to this unreasonable taxation. And yet, when Jesus was questioned about this, he responded by saying, Render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's in Mark chapter 12, verse 17. Therefore, although it was wrong for the civil magistrate to enforce such burdensome taxation, it was righteous for Christians in Rome to submit to this civil law. So we can say that Christians are biblically required to submit to the civil magistrate when it is ruling righteously, but also when it is ruling unrighteously. However The question which still remains is this, is there ever a time in which Christians are not required to submit to the civil magistrate? In order to answer this question faithfully, we must once more survey the whole of Scripture. In Exodus chapter 1, verses 16 and 17, we find these words. When you serve as midwife to the Hebrew women and see them on the birthing stool, if it is a son, you shall kill him, but if it is a daughter, she shall live. But the midwives feared God and did not do as the king of Egypt commanded them, but let the male children live This was certainly a righteous rebellion on the part of the Egyptian midwives against the king of Egypt, the highest civil magistrate in the land at that time. Also Rahab refused to report the Hebrew spies and righteous defiance of the civil authorities at Jericho in Joshua chapter 2. Furthermore, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abegnago righteously rebelled against the king's edict when they were commanded to bow down and worship the golden image of the king in Daniel chapter 3. And in addition to this, we see that Daniel himself was also willing to righteously rebel in Daniel chapter 6, verses 7 through 10, which say, all the high officials of the kingdom The prefects and the satraps and the counselors and the governors are agreed that the king should establish an ordinance and enforced an injunction that whoever makes petition to any God or man for thirty days, except to you, O king, shall be cast into the den of lions. When Daniel knew that the document had been signed He went to his house, where he had windows in his upper chamber open toward Jerusalem. He got down on his knees three times a day and prayed and gave thanks before his God as he had done previously. Therefore, when a decree of the king was ordered that forbid Daniel from continuing to act in obedience to his God, Daniel courageously chose to ignore it. And lastly, although more examples could certainly be given, it is important to remember that even the apostles chose to righteously rebel against the Jewish Council, which served as both a religious and civil authority for the Jews at that time. And we're going to pause there and pick up next week as we finish with part two of the our look at should the churches the open here on the faith debate. uh about this time last year, but it's amazing how little the political landscape and the considerations have changed in the last year. So hopefully this is helpful to you. We'll finish this up next week. You can find us online at WFMD. com keyword faith. You can find us on the uh WFMB Facebook page Facebook page as well. And of course if you wanted to see what the Household of Faith in Christ is all about, our website should be up soon enough at Householderfaith in Christ dot com. That's uh still I I think a few weeks away at this point. Anyway, till next week thanks so much for listening until 167 and a half hours from right now, God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com, a service of partners in care, upscale resale