Welcome to the Fred. Frederick Bates Debates. I'm the moderator of this new program on Frederick's 930 WFMD. And the name of the show kinda gives away what the show is all about. Frederick, the local show for everybody in Frederick. discussing issues of spirituality and religion and debate, meaning an open exchange uh of ideas, where we're not going to necessarily try to agree with one another. We're going to openly and honestly talk about the things on which we might disagree. And if we agree, we're going to say that as well. Again, my name is Troy Skinner. For the next uh half hour or so we're going to talk about an issue that's on a lot of people's minds these days on the heels of the presidential election where George Bush defeated John Kerry leading up to uh that uh uh important election day. Uh I had decided this first show would talk about what has now since become the national conversation and the role that uh morals and uh religious uh religiosity if that's a word uh play in people's decision making when it comes to national or local politics. So we're going to tackle that question today And our uh panel of experts, our pastorate panel today, John Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel, uh Peter Kemene from Good News Presbyterian, and uh Jerry Price from Marinatha Community Church of God. And I thank you all for being with us. Uh it's good to be here this morning. And do you want to say it's good to be here too, John? It's good to be here. The the question I want to tackle right now is uh should pastors or religious leaders, uh because uh different uh faiths might not have pastors, they have different names for them, but should religious leaders talk politics And I'm gonna kinda leave it there for now and we'll expand on it later as we go on. Uh Jerry, do you want to start? Well, I uh stood in my church uh the other Sunday and uh was sharing with my local congregation how that I thought it was a little unfair that uh politicians could stand in the pulpit when they're running for presidency. And uh I am not by law able to stand up and tell people who I'm voting for. Um I personally believe that I should have that freedom to do it and not lose my status with the IRS. Uh but that's not what the law is right now Uh I believe that the church should be very much involved in the political scene. Uh that we it's a part of our lives. It affects us in great ways The scripture talks much about it, and like Romans 13, when it talks about governments and that they're there to help us and protect us. You look at the Old Testament, and I'm sure you gentlemen, uh John and Peter here under uh know about n uh Daniel. Yeah. Being in the political scene, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abendigo, a lot of the old prophets of old were involved in the political scene. And yes, I think we should. Now what are the rules as far as the government is concerned? You can you can be you can say something political as long as it's not from the pulpit or not on your church grounds, or where do where is the line drawn? Well I think uh uh uh you guys can help me here, but I think the line is drawn on me uh pushing a certain candidate. Uh I can talk about political issues. Uh but ever like you and I talking right now you can't say people should vote for this person you because I'm not in the pulpit I cannot stand up in front of my church and say people should sh uh vote for so and so. The point is the pulpit seems to be a symbol of the church authority. And as soon as the church looks like it's advocating a specific party, then the IRS at this point has chosen to decide that that that that individual standing in that pulpit, then all of a sudden his entire church organization is automatically become a political organization and is doing political activity that under their 501 C three status they're officially not allowed to do. And so we could talk about abortion homosexuality, we could talk about uh whether or not we think the government should uh be involved in welfare and different things like that. But as soon as we say that I think that you should vote for this guy because the other guy is clearly not following scriptural mandate, then at that point apparently we stepped over a line. That's the separation of church and state, like you're saying, John. He's right on with that. And again, uh even though that's my conscience and even though as you saw During the campaign there were several uh well there were candidate a candidate in different churches that were allowed to go there and present uh their form. Uh but yet we are not. So th there's a double standard there. Uh but at the same time I think people and I think you guys would agree uh if they didn't know who I was voting for uh you know, uh it would really disappoint me. Uh right. I told him to look at my bumper on my car, I told him to go drive by my house. And I also told him I have a lot of bushes in the yard. So that you can so that you can tell the players uh with the sc without a scorecard here, uh Jerry Price is the voice you just heard, uh pastor at uh Maranatha, uh Crossroad Valley Chapel's uh pastor uh Um John Sweitzer was the other voice you heard. And we haven't heard much from uh Peter Kennedy from Good News Presbyterian yet, but I know he's chomping at the pitch to throw his two cents in. So Well, you know I I agree with Jerry and John in that it's not the government's role to uh tell the church what it can and cannot teach. In fact, the First Amendment teaches Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof. And so this idea about the separation of church and state It's to keep the state out of the church, not the church out of the state. Although I'm a little I would be uncomfortable as a pastor. telling people who to vote for. Now they can see the bumper sticker on my car. That's right. And I can preach scripture and I can say the Bible uh teaches that abortion is a moral evil. The Bible condemns this and that and it talks about other things which are noble. So I believe that as a pastor, even though I think biblically, I can have the freedom to say from the pulpit, I think so-and-so would be a better candidate Nonetheless, I'm gonna resist that because the church has gotten into a lot of trouble uh by aligning themselves with particular individuals and politics. Right. And when this individual falls, that brings the church down too. Well you bring up a uh a point that uh raises a question I was gonna ask a second ago anyway, which is There are a number of uh like it seems to me a lot of these Southern Black Baptist churches align themselves with some high-profile Democratic candidates pretty consistently. Uh and we saw a lot of video footage on the news of John Kerry at black churches, for example. Um seems to me that there's some sort of a legal line that got crossed there. Uh how do they get around that? I don't know. I don't know either. I I think it's I think it's a double standard uh that the uh popular culture and the media holds to uh conservative churches as opposed to I don't I mean black churches certainly are more conservative than theologically liberal Uh but nonetheless that uh group of black churches which which stand with liberal political candidates, um they seem to get away with a lot more. You know, I uh it's interesting because the the the black church uh phenomenon I think is going through a significant change right now going along with what you were just saying there, Peter, about who they should support and why they should support. I know that uh Jesse Jackson got up in a black church and he asked the entire congregation if a if anybody there is homosexual to raise their hand. Nobody raised their hand. And then he asked if any of their children are homosexual. Nobody raised their hand. And then he and then he raised the issue and he says, well If that's not our problem, then why are we worried about voting that direction? And yet, my sense is that most most people that are going to those churches really care deeply about the moral issues, even if they don't necessarily automatically have people like that in their families or people that are that are close um uh friends that are struggling with that particular problem. And it seems to me that the black church historically because of the civil rights movement wa uh uh was in great debt to uh a particular political party And as a result, for whatever reason, I think that's our society was given a lot of leeway to that group of people to be given the freedom to do whatever it took. to have the political power to to get uh a little bit of a a hand up. And uh at some level I think that was righteous, but we've seen a major transition. in this election dealing with whether or not they're going to continue to support a democratic party that is advocating homosexual rights and these other things and standing, towing the line along those lines. And uh uh I'm seeing just a dramatic shift all the way down the line. So I'm thinking that We're gonna see a shift i in some of those churches even as to who they support and who they will allow on their pulpit, and then we're gonna see whether or not There's really a um a double standard going on here. The voice of uh John Sweitzer from Crossroad Valley Chapel. Uh you're listening to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm acting as the moderator of this uh program. I'm Troy Skinner. Also on the panel today are uh Peter Kemeney from Good News Presbyterian and uh Jerry Price from Maranathic Community Church of God. People like Reverend Jesse Jackson, Reverend L. Sharpton, uh Jerry Falwell, Pat Robertson, good for the religious cause, bad for religious cause, good for Christianity, bad for Christianity. Well, that's loaded to me. Um Yeah. And yet you spoke first, so you get to go first. Uh you know I I I'm disappointed. I I I wish there were some guys that would take the Rev off uh out in front of their names. It insults me. Uh so I guess you know how I feel about some of the rest. You know, uh uh I I think uh the the other side of the of the equation there, uh there's always uh Extremes on an in on any side. And I think you probably hit well at least touched on the extremes of both sides. On purpose. Yeah, you I know you did that, Troll. You're a good guy. I I think it's I think it's good for uh debate to be there. I think it's good to have discussion and I'm sure that this develops discussion. I think the uh being a pastor and I agree with uh Peter here a whole lot I am free, at least right now we are, to preach the word. And uh if I preach the word, our people will get the truth and be able to make decisions no matter who's out there. uh rattling on or whatever the case is. Uh so the truth will make you free. And so when we share that truth, now of course I understand, I don't know, you all may have helped me here, that in California right now, uh that it is against the law. t to preach some of the scripture. And uh one certainly is in Canada. Yeah, I don't know, but I've heard in Canada, I haven't heard in California, which that's Well, but I don't know for sure. Against uh it's against law to preach against homosexuality. So it's hate speech, probably is what they would call it, right? And so uh and I understand some pastors have come under fire uh because of it. But if that happens then I told my uh my church that They can start a jail ministry and come see me. Because I will not tolerate uh or compromise the word of God. But I I do I do think it's good to have the discussion and have the debates I I l I would like to see it a little more balanced but you know we have a a lot of liberal uh media out there that's slanting everything and and I and I listen to both. I I listen to like Fox and I listen to CNN and some of these others. But you can see the slant. It's so evident uh of what they're doing. Uh even though they did lose this time. Right. Yeah. Uh Peter, earlier you had brought up you know the First Amendment right and that you can preach about the issues from the pulpit. Um When you're up on uh when you're up preaching on abortion uh or uh certain right-to-life issues that might touch on stem cell research. Right. Um or or the it was really hot this election season, gay marriage. Um are you preaching that in such a way that that should be uh kind of a litmus test for your congregants to uh uh as they're making their decision as they're pulling the lever or punching the the touch screen or whatever, they should should they ever vote for a candidate that supports gay marriage, for example, should they ever vote for a candidate that supports abortion rights? Sh uh or are those knockout punches for a Christian voter? Should they preclude that ever. Should they never, ever, ever vote for something like that? Or is it a bigger picture than that? Okay. Well let's um you know this question about uh litmus test and uh single issue voters Uh those who call themselves enlightened tend to say that's a little bit narrow-minded to be just a single issue voter. But I want to ask those folks the question. If there was a political candidate and he said uh it's okay to be a waif beater Uh they'd probably be single issue voters against that candidate or if they said that rape or child abuse wasn't a crime. Uh I don't know anybody who would vote for that candidate who was a reasonable person So we're all single issue voters, uh, if the issue is important enough. And um I know honest people and honest Christians can differ, for example, on the uh issue of abortion But personally I am persuaded from scripture, from Psalm 139, from Jeremiah 1. 5, and a number of other scriptures that tell us that the child in the womb is a human being. And I don't even have to be a Christian to have uh a stance against abortion. I can look at the the scientific data that the child in the womb is in fact a human being. And so uh I feel like that's a reasonable issue uh on which to take a stand against a candidate uh if he's for abortion. Now somebody might say, Whoa, whoa, whoa, throw their hands up and say, I vote Democrat all the time, straight down the line, and I know most of those are gonna be pro choice, and I'm a Christian, so what are you saying to me? What do you guys say? Well no guy I believe your allegiance should be to Christ if you're a Christian and not to a political party. I'm not gonna vote uh Republican or Democrat. Uh I'm gonna vote along the guidelines of the scripture. Um in fact I'm changing uh my status, I'm going independent. Uh independent on the word. Uh so if I have a candidate no matter if he's a Democrat or a Republican, but if he doesn't stand by the word then I I'm gonna have trouble with him. I will not support him. Uh and I ni I need to do that. I have to do that. That's my conscience Now that's the kind of a response that both of you gave, and I'm sure that John would would echo that those sort of sentiments that lights a fire under some people and they it's intolerant, it's narrow minded, it's hateful, it's whatever, and yet From what I'm hearing, and by the way, in f in the uh interest of full disclosure, I would agree uh with what you're saying. We're talking about sin, we're not talking about the sinner. Right, okay that that's a that's a big point because uh God hates sin, but he loves the sinner. All right, well now what issue are you talking about there? Well the I'm talking about any issue. You talked about the uh issue of homosexuality. Oh, I see where you go. God ho hates homosexuality. So you're not saying that. You're saying that I believe it's a sin to vote against the Word of God as a Christian. Okay. Okay, but what Peter was saying there just a minute ago, right? When you were saying that there are scriptures and issues that are plain in scripture that come up in these elections by candidates. Go ahead. And we need to respond according to the word of God. Um I would add, just so that I'm not misunderstood, we're not misunderstood, is that uh I think there are issues that are are moral issues that a Christian should uh be informed of scripturally. But in our church, not everybody votes the same way. In I understand, honest people have different understandings of some of these scriptures. I feel like my job as a teacher of the Bible is to try to teach it as clearly as I can and in in fact to persuade people on some of these issues. But I can't I'm not gonna uh judge somebody in the church if they ha if they come to a different conclusion uh about these candidates. But nonetheless, you know, w I mean if a preacher's anybody I think he should be somebody who tries to persuade people from scripture about uh o a world view Can I persuade it? You know my view. I have a lot to learn and like I said, honest people can debate and disagree But nonetheless, as a pastor, uh my job isn't just to be a do-gooder or a nice guy, but is to attempt to uh teach the scripture as it was originally given and apply it in concrete ways uh to our lives and to our culture. Can I jump in here? Go ahead. I I think the debate at this level um is which particular issue um is the most important biblical issue. Like most people that I know that are Christian that have voted democratic historically have done so because they feel like uh anybody, be it the state, church, individuals that are wealthy, somebody needs to help take care of the poor. Somebody needs to to help those that don't have health care get health care. And even though I personally, from a worldview standpoint, think the state has no business doing that and that those nations where the state does that Uh people tend to look to the state to be the answer to the problems instead of to God. Nevertheless, those people that have voted Democratic have a very strong biblical background to say that you know what, we need to take care of the poor and so we need to have policies that's gonna help that that will help the poor. And it seems to me like that's where the debate arises because if you've got people starving or if you've got people that uh are um not getting jobs and they're stuck out on the street. Isn't that possibly going to create an environment where there's more violence or create an environment where people are having children that that aren't going to be wanted? And that's been the the the crux of the debate. uh about whether or not um Democrats are voting Christian or not. And I guess my point is just that that like Peter was saying, I think that there are plenty of uh Christian Democrats that have voted Democrat for very noble and uh and even biblical reasons even though I think personally that they're voting that way was a um misunderstanding of the big issues and a misunderstanding of what it is that causes a person to to need to have an abortion or misunderstanding of what causes drugs in those kinds of things. Well you know the responsibility of the church I think uh has to step in and minister to the poor. Amen. And we need to be much involved in that. But I I want to bring up one uh side street here, but you've mentioned it. Uh and as pastors certainly we have to we need to teach the word. That's what we're there for, to help people understand the word no matter who they are. And let that become the most important guideline in their life. Uh but I believe one of the problems we face in America, and maybe, just maybe, there's another reason why some people do not vote seemingly biblical is maybe ignorance of the Word of God. Because a lot of churches have become social proclaimers. political proclaimers and they haven't really taught the word of God. I got an email on our other program from a person who who was asking me for a referral to a church that teaches the Bible. They they said I've been visiting, they're in this area, uh across the mountain here, and they've been visiting churches in the area for two years. and have not heard one message on salvation. I've heard that from people actually too. So that's uh that's the church problem as ministers of the gospel. Right. Because we need to teach the word. Yeah. And um You know, w the question was raised before about um Jerry Falwell and Pat Robertson and Jesse Jackson and these other ministers that are highly involved in the political process I have some questions about that, and it centers on the fact that a minister's primary role and a church's primary role is not to lead political movements. The church's primary role is to teach the Word of God to equip Christians uh to be good citizens. I mean to bring people to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ and then to equip us uh to live as soul and and light in the world. And so as a pastor, my calling is to teach the Bible uh to people and to be a pastor. Yeah. Now I pray that as our the folks in our church go our churches go out into the world, they'll be saw and light as Christians in society. So in I don't know, the other day somebody said to me, uh, why do you have a political bumper sticker on your car? If you're a pastor And I said, I'm a pastor and I'm not going to bring politics into the pulpit, but I'm also a citizen. And in that sphere of life, I should try to interact and have an influence on my culture. That's fine. That's right. Well again, playing devil's advocate a little bit, i in the uh Jesse Jackson, whether you would agree or disagree that he stayed true to To it, at least uh the beginnings of his of his involvement in politics are rooted in the tradition of Martin Luther King And Martin Luther King was a pastor who decided to take a stand and make a political statement and push a political agenda forward for the betterment of an entire race of of uh of underclassed, underprivileged people in this nation. So and J so j somebody who supports Jesse, or if Jesse were here, he might say something like, you know, I'm I'm doing the work of the Lord. I'm doing what God wants me to be doing. Sure. And he's not asking me to pastor a flock per se. He's asking me to lead a charge. I mean uh So is is there a way the two come together or or do they do they reflect? This is clearly a touchy area because you're asking us to take stands on individuals that uh I'm sure there are plenty of Christians out there that are strongly attached to. Uh but I guess that's the point of the show is that we we try to get honest about some of these things and maybe uh uh go some of these places. The question is this is are the uh whether or not these people are advocating truly Christian biblical teachings, are they advocating actions that line up with scripture or not? And plenty of people, uh thinking people on both sides of the line, uh there's some people that would say that that Martin Luther King uh was looking in the wrong place to attempt to get the government to solve the problems that were out there, to attempt to use law to change people's actions In fact, uh most people today would claim that the judiciary is out of control because they're trying to uh legislate from the bench. And that that is what happened back in the sixties and the seventies with the civil rights movement the uh judges were legislating from the bench and they were uh advocating uh whole uh law systems of law based on that and the question is is not whether or not Martin Luther King was advocating the right thing that we need to take care of the poor, that we need to lift up the oppressed, that we need to um care for those guys, but whether or not he was encouraging the right group of people to take responsibility. And all I know is that everywhere around the planet that the state is responsible for that, those people are cold to the gospel. You look in Europe, Germany, Great Britain, Canada, the the places on the planet that are coldest to the gospel, look to the state. to solve their problems instead of looking to God to solve their problems. And uh even though I totally agree with Martin Luther King's uh attempt to get our society to change its perspective toward an entire group of people I believe we were racist. I believe that we we really were holding them down. We weren't giving them genuine educational opportunities. We weren't uh helping them along. But I personally think that Martin Luther King uh was attempting to get the job done through the state. which actually ends up being bad spiritually for the nation. Um I think I think uh some of these other guys, Pat Robertson and uh Jerry Falwell have fallen at times into the same problem. Where like Peter said, what we need to do as ministers is we need to teach the gospel. Well that's a pretty prov provocative point on which to end the show. But we're going to continue this discussion on politics and and uh and the role that pastors and the church should play in it Uh I want to thank John Sweisser, Peter Kemeney and Jerry Price for being part of uh this very first inaugural show of uh Frederick's Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Part two of this discussion will take place place next week the same time on the same station. Thanks for listening.