Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like Plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? The Faith Debate is online at wfmd. com keywordfaith. There you find links to podcasts to news items and the Faith Debate blog. Our blog is your blog. So email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel dot com. Monday through Friday you will find eighteen blog posts updates every day. That's what is that, ninety a week? My math is correct and most of them are pretty darn good lately. I gotta say there's been Oh yeah, you're improving on it? Well you No no they are improving. Yes, you the listener are improving. It used to be I'd put, you know Well I used to put nine up a day. Yeah. And there might have been one or two that were like, ah that wasn't pr that was pretty good. Now I'd say it's more than half are pretty darn good. More than half meaning they're about like faith issues and they're they're insightful or Or at least focusing on some sort of a worldview thing that uh if you take what's being said and apply something about religion or faith or Christianity or the Bible into it. It's it's a little more thought provoking than some of the stuff. So some of these people that send things in, do we have like uh like um repeat customers like maybe we should should begin to uh you know uh put some of these guys up and and say hey thank you so and so you have sent fifty blog posts over the last fifty weeks. They're not doing it for the glory. How do you know? Maybe maybe they've been waiting for their moment. I know they're not because you and I are silking up all the glory for ourselves. We're not sharing any of that. That's Jonathan Sweitzer, he's senior pastor at uh Crossroads Valley Church, and we're joined this week by Dr. Neil at Champong. Last time you on, I don't think you quite had your doctorate yet, so congratulations. Thank you. Much belated. It's about a year ago you've had it, but I think it's been a couple of years maybe since you've been on the show. Yeah. And uh you will if if you don't already recognize the name, uh as he begins to speak a little bit more, you will recognize his voice, I'm sure. He's part of the uh the Sunday show lineup here on Delhi. Awesome. Nine thirty to ten o'clock every Sunday morning. So uh hang in there for another hour from now and you'll hear him speaking again. That Sunday morning lineup has really been uh growing. There's uh there's uh several different uh ministers that are regularly speaking on this show on Sunday morning. Yeah I'd have to look and see but we might be close to like three solid hours of of yeah Christian content for the most part. Yeah so that's pr that's uh that's pretty cool. That is uncommon. So The re the reason we have this panel assembled is exactly what we're talking about. These these radio ministries uh on Sunday mornings and there are television ministries out there and there uh some of some are very famous. There are people like uh like Joel Olstein or uh Andy Stanley or Charles Stanley, uh Ravi Zacharias uh has a ministry. Um Chip Ingram. There's all sorts of folks out there that are are doing uh on a global scale, I guess. What we're involved in doing on a local scale. Jonathan Sweitzer's been doing this Facebook program with me. Maybe we should. Well, on the World Wide Web we are. You know, you know, we had we had the the Sikh on the show, uh one of the uh he's a doctor here in Frederick, and every time I see him, he says You guys should go w uh with a larger audience. You guys need to syndicate and you need to go with a larger audience every time we see them. So there you have it. Yeah, well you know the death one's all it takes, right? The death threats will come to a minimum when we're just here in Frederick. Anyway, Jonathan and I have been doing the Faithwait show. It'll be ten years this fall. Wow, that's great. And uh Neil, you've your uh church has now been uh uh um uh having you on the air on Sunday mornings for um I think a little more than that I think maybe. Might be six Six months, something like that. Yeah, well as this show airs, because you know, uh people who pay close attention will know that uh we don't do this show live on Sunday mornings because the pastors are busy on Sunday mornings. Uh but uh As these shows air, uh they're gonna air uh I think today is July twenty seventh. So so it's a good seven seven, eight months. That is a good seven, eight months But you so very nice. So anyway, what gives you guys the rights to be doing a radio ministry? Right. Right in the Constitution? It's Christ. Okay. Well okay. Those are two very interesting answers. One goes civil on me and one goes theological on me. So let's let's start with the theological. I mean it's it's I say it playfully Wait as a but now as a serious question. Seriously, what gives us, the three of us, the right to do what we're doing biblically? Why don't you talk to that, Neil? I think that um Christ gives us a command about us sending his word out uh to the entire world. And uh the whole concept of us preaching the scriptures, uh it's more about storytelling because that's what Jesus Himself did. Uh and that if we are going to go into things like this, I think we need to get to a place where we are telling the story right. And sometimes you can't tell the story from your room and it can't always be told from the pulpit And so we have to take it beyond those walls because the people we are trying to reach are not always in church. And so I believe that it's this becomes a very good medium by which we can reach out and then talk to as many people as we can. Um there are people on the beaches who will listen to radio and people in hotels who will listen to the radio, but then we might not be able to get to all these other places. So Um, I believe that the mandate is from Christ, but then the medium is what we are choosing to reach out to people because it's the way to reach them. And I think the world is more prolific in this area than the church is Uh I trust that as we continue to do this we will get better as we go. Yeah. Um I don't want us to turn this whole thing into, you know, First Amendment rights and all that, but I think that's where you're going, Jonathan, right? We have the right to say these things. Yes. Yeah, say, you know, in China or uh North Korea in Muslim nations, uh interesting thing, uh I know a gentleman that came over from Lebanon uh fleeing for his life because he had gone on public television with his testimony, spoke negatively about Muhammad, and so literally his brothers and sisters uh because they were feeling shame from the rest of the Muslim community came to try to kill him, so he had to flee for his life to come here to the United States. And so certainly it's the case that in the West where there's freedom we end up not just having a divine mandate but we also have the you know a a freedom that that is granted by uh the you know by our constitution, by by our civil authorities to do that. And the reality is that that uh civil authority is not necessarily something that is set in stone. You know, you hear language um coming even, you know, among uh leaders in the United States about how that should be, you know, uh managed, how that should be you know, there's there's too much freedom for this or that or Or are people agitating the wrong way? And at some point the you know, somebody like in Canada or like in Denmark is gonna say, You guys have no right to be talking about things like say homosexual marriage in a negative way because it it offends those that are listening. And so the point is is that those civil rights don't mean that Like if we don't have the civil rights, it doesn't mean that we should stop, but it does mean that that, you know, we end up being limited uh in terms of what we're granted authority by the state to do. So at least the freedom helps once we have the freedom to be able to speak it. Yeah. Yeah, but then that gives us um That brings on a responsibility that we use the freedom right. And um I'm a big fan of the fact that there are many pastors who have the uh the airwaves who are still not telling the story of Christ right. We are not telling that story right. I'm saying we are not telling the story right because sometimes we want to pack a whole church service on the airwaves. Uh I'm not only just going to speak to radio but I'll go beyond it because it's all multimedia now. And um sometimes if you look at the world and um pop culture You realize that they're able to reach the culture much better because they understand the culture better. But then the church would put a whole church service On the radio and people don't like it. The phrase that I've heard is that politics is downstream from culture. Mm-hmm. Right? And then you hear, you know, I've heard phrases that what it what's being taught in the you know, in the universities in one generation is what is being implemented, you know, in the next generation. And so there's a sense that, you know, if if If the songs that are being sung in one generation are being sung about God and Jesus Christ, then there's a sense that that that the culture is moving in that direction. But if the songs that are being sung are about you know, sex, drugs, rock and roll, then it leads in in another direction. So this whole question is is is the church you know, it even brings up the question whether or not the church has been spending too much time trying to manipulate politics or force things through at a political level instead of engaging in uh cultural influence through movies or or music or, you know, radio of some sort. And so the question is, you know, what's the right way to go about preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. Where do we start in uh what's the right way to go about it? Now legally we have the right in this country to do what we're doing. Yeah. And uh technologically we have the ability to do what we're doing. So practically speaking, there's nothing in our way. Yeah. But it still leaves the question, just because we can, and in this nation we can rather easily Should we and obviously we've all the three of us have answered yes to that, but how much soul searching have the three of us done examining that before we decide to endeavor on this? Did we really think through are we really supposed to be doing this? Do we Are we running the risk of the medium becoming the message? You know, that uh cliched phrase that's out there. Should we put our worship services on the radio? Because is that really what worship is? Shouldn't worship maybe be the the gathering of believers coming together as one body to worship in unison, and is that somehow missed when it's on the radio or on television, for example? Obviously we've decided that we're okay with it. But what are our reasons for those that would push back and say you shouldn't be doing what you do on the air? And I'll give you some other examples later, but I can see you guys your needle your uh your noodles are starting to spin a little. So let's just share. when Paul had to engage the Greeks. On Mars Hill. On Mars Hill. Now he comes from a standpoint where Paul really understood the culture of that time. Okay. And as a as as Christians, if we actually going to um bring a message to this world, we must go of the notion that Morality is going to be taught from the pulpit. That thing is far gone. Because not many people go to church these days. So then we need to start looking at what are the mediums through which people would listen so that we can take this message there. And this is one of the things that that's motivated me to say Let me get on there and not put my entire church service there because people won't sit down to listen. Today everything is in a thirty minute with window. Now the average person in America takes a hundred and forty characters to a Twitter. That's what he wants to see And so everything is in a sound bite. Now, does that mean the church can change that? We're not gonna change that culture. But how best do we use that and still minister? It's like teaching the uh first century message in a twenty-first century method and still making it relevant without compromising the principles of it Okay. And so Hollywood and all these other people are making impact on young people because of the medium, but the church is not going abreast with it. So on the basis of the scripture that I use from from the apostle Paul, he understood the culture. And when he began to speak to these people, he started mentioning the Greek gods. It does not mean Paul believed in those gods, but he was saying, listen, there's something you know that I know. And there is a common ground and I understand w what the way you guys think And that uh text itself, what Paul was doing was using the way they they think as a medium through which he was going to minister to them. And so today, our music Um the way we send messages to people like church announcements. To me, it has to go beyond just people speaking into video announcements. People must receive we must use every aspect of technology. The church must get involved and not allow the world to just um keep using that. So until we come to that place where we understand that the medium is not necessarily the message, but we need it as a way of sending the right message, the people will hear the wrong message. So basically what you're saying is that is that A lot of people in the West listen to the radio. If we're going to understand our culture, we're going to connect with them through a medium that they're already using. So why don't we go and and use it uh as effectively as we can to connect with people. Yeah, it it yes, because in twenty ten, right, there was a survey that says that most people had sought for some kind of counseling or guidance uh through a radio ministry were people who had to listen seventeen times Average way before they ever made a decision for Christ. So if you get on there and they were not interested, I can't quote the whole server, but they were not interested in other parts of the service But then the part where they were receiving some form of guidance. So um our radio ministry should not only be like the way I do it, just preaching, uh putting my Preaching messages on there. But there should be things about uh some form of documentary, some form of um interviews with people where we are dealing with real issues that actually affect people's lives. You know, things like that they become um I think there is a philosopher and he made this statement, I've forgotten the name, but let me say what he said. He says whenever you come up with a logical approach to a message, it only ministers to the human mind. But if you tell a story, it hits the heart And so and that is what Hollywood does. That's what the world out there does. They put everything into the arts and the media because it's a faster way of weeding their stories and sending out philosophy. And sometimes Christians are telling your children, don't watch this or don't watch that. I perfectly agree because sometimes the messages that are woven into some of these things that the kids watch, it's it's bad Unless maybe you can see it, you know. So the church must also get to that place. How do we take the scriptures and weave it into movies, into stories, into things that will captivate the mindsets of people that would want to go for it. Because until our message becomes captivating, they will always call it unimportant. So you know, I I get really excited is Jonathan Sweitzer, he's senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church and The voice you heard right before that that got chan so darn excited was Dr. Neil Achempong, who's the senior pastor at uh Covenant Family Chapel uh in Frederick as well. And so what what got you excited there, John? Well, I was gonna say this gets me excited, but also it throws up a really big warning flag for me. And this is why, right? Because um there's a clear sense that we're given from Christ You know, from from Revelation all through scripture that that the message of the gospel is not a message that the majority of people are going to accept. Right? Even though Christ died that none would be lost, the reality is that it ends up just being a few that find the straight narrow way. It ends up being a remnant that find Christ. And so so the part that concerns me, I'll hit that first, is that somehow we start thinking to ourselves that if we just get better at using cultural media, using movies, using, you know, television and radio and and internet and this kind of stuff and Twitter. Somehow that means that we're going to you know, end up creating this movement that our entire nation is going to end up, you know, wide is the road that leads to life And many there be that find it. And I I think that that is a very dangerous mentality because it leads to, I think some things that that you were referring to earlier, the tendency for us to change our message. But at the same time I get really excited about it because it is true that that God's uh calling on the church is to preach the gospel. with anointing, you know, to all nations, that everybody would hear the message of the gospel and have the chance to respond, and that the gospel, the kingdom of God is like yeast. that it works it way its way through the whole loaf and the whole loaf rises that there's a there's an impact of the gospel even among those that that don't respond that ends up affecting culture and affecting things around us. But the question is like what is our goal? Is our goal that somehow we're going to end up, you know, creating this heaven on earth because we're so good at what we do? Or, you know, and this of course gets into eschatology, what is it that we believe at the end that we're going to bring in this great kingdom? Or that really we're not gonna bring in a king a great kingdom that things are gonna get darker and darker and then the end's gonna come. And so it it it really plays into in my mind what exactly is it that our eschatology is. Um Let me let me add a a couple of things to what John is saying. Um it is important that we are careful, but again, it should not make us shy away from using mod modern methods. My thing is this, we have to stay focused because we have a message. For example, on an average Sunday morning, if I step in the pulpit and I'm preaching, I always give the church members a theme. And I never stray away from whatever I'm saying. In that same vein, if the church gets and uses all these modern methods in reaching out to the world, we must understand we have a message. And the message cannot be compromised. But then the medium through which the people it's like um I remember going on vacation with my wife, right, at Atlantic City, and while I was there, I felt so passionate there were too many people here. Let me go talk to them about Christ. But they are swimming. So they're not gonna listen to me. So I'm just I'm just asking myself, how come they have an opportunity here? There are people around But they wouldn't hear me because at that time it is not the best medium to minister the message I have, even though I have the right message. Right? So At a tail down in the evening, I just went around the whole place, you know, just looking around and I realized all right a few people were gathering a few places and I said, All right. So I just went back to the hotel and I told them, Hey, I have a few things here I would like to print. Do I have a place that I can print? They said, Yeah, I made up my own tracks Now instead of just putting it in some of their mouth. Now when I say, okay, they won't listen, but they will take this into their rooms. So what I'm trying to drive out is that the church must seize the medium out there And you and research it will be the proper word to use. I like researching into stuff. How can we use this medium the right way? Because the kids are out there. They're on the Facebook. You can run away from it. That's where they are. And so how can I be able to do that? And they're using Instagram. Instagram and uh the things, yeah. So what what I'm saying is that the the average church must be thought that multimedia ministry is important. And that it ought to be researched properly and we have to use it as a way of reaching out to this culture because that's where they are. And that we must stay focused on our message. And I'll echo what I said initially. We should still be preaching the principles of Christ as it was preached in the first century, but we must remember we are in the 21st century. And without compromising the message, we should be able to lay down the principles of Christ using this modern medium. So I don't know that there's a lot of controversy here. Does it do you think it matters much what the um focus on the messages and and the medium? Do you think that we should does d does it play better if it's mostly an apologetic, or if it's mostly evangelistic, or if it's mostly preaching, or mostly teaching? Do you think that that matters? Uh I I would look at it this way. It should be what Christ did, tell stories. Because when Christ came, the Bible says He He told stories, which we call parables. Sometimes we we we teach people things uh that they don't understand. It's too complex for them Now, if I'm going to teach a child, I need to begin from a level and so to speak to use the word a child. Anybody who has not come to receive the Lord. does not have the propensity to understand most spiritual things. So then you need to begin from a level where they're gonna grasp and people would always receive a story. So how do I take the salvation message, weave it into a story that is truthful to the Word of God and put it out there? Jesus told many stories. Now he comes to the concept of forgiveness. He uses a story. Right. Okay, so then then what you're what you're advocating is is like somebody on the air telling a story? You're advocating like um uh you know, where there's different actors that are kinda acting out a story, you know, like on the radio. Not not necessarily about not necessarily about movies. But even if it's pastors preaching, our focus should be in weaving a story to the world out there because they would not run away from it. For example, in my radio program, if I'm I'm teaching a subject, I'm always looking for a story in the scriptures, not necessarily in real life that actually illustrates that topic without having to deal so that when people leave they can relate to something. Like for example declined in the direction of preaching. Even though we even though we do it by telling stories. Yes. I teach a lot, but I do it through telling stories. Like for example, I'm carelessly teaching on how to win. when the odds are not in your favor. But then I used an old testament story where four lepers were able to overcome the odds that were against them And everything, every principle that I'm dealing with is from that story. And often I'll go back to that story. Why? Because I want the story to that is how you you minister to people and get them to begin to understand. And I have done a lot of soul searching to come to this understanding that Jesus did not use very sophisticated methods in communicating his message. He used very simple things and it was um a rich man was traveling from here to there And this person was going from there. It was always some form of story. And so it puts a little bit of strain on us as pastors to go an extra mile to look for what what stories can I use. And To be on the safer side, I know normally don't use life stories. I always like using scriptural stories in the Old Testament. Because I believe that The Old Testament is God teaching us principles in a story form. It comes into the New Testament. He gives us the actual principles. Okay, that's interesting because Jesus didn't do that. I'm just saying. He told some stories from the Old Testament, but most of his parables were like brand new. And so his principle was that a teacher in the kingdom brings old stuff And new stuff out of you know, out of uh the storehouse to bring to people. So I'm I'm not sure that I'm convinced that just Old Testament stories are necessary just because Christ is necessary. I am beginning to to go that route and I want to stay on the safer side before I start adopting stories that I I don't understand fully. Because whatever concepts that you use from a story is going to illustrate principles that you're gonna use and you have to make sure that they are the right story. And I will say there might be something to be said for, you know, the different cultural contexts. You know, Jesus is speaking in a culture where they probably knew their Old Testament pretty well And Neil is preaching in a context where maybe they've never even opened their Old Testament. So that's that might have you know, so you give them a chance to learn the Old Testament stories. And maybe we learn something about our show here, John. Face debate would do much better if we just told something. You would tell a story from time to time. Got any good story? Then you can share one next week. All right. I'll share a story next week. I do want to spend some time on this topic in next week's show too and and talk and deal with more of the devil's advocate kind of questions that are out there, the negative side. We kind of explained why we're comfortable doing what we're doing, but I'm going to try to think of the different kinds of things that people who aren't fans of what we do might say to us and give us a chance to respond to those. Long time partner in this show. He started when he was eight. He's gonna be eighteen this fall. And uh Dr. Neil Atempong, who is the uh senior pastor at uh Covenant Family Chapel in Frederick, and you can hear his show uh and about A half hour from now, uh 9 30 till 10 o'clock here on WFMD. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. What have I been reading lately? Principles of Christian Worship by Raymond Abba. Good stuff. Oh, there we go. Where'd the music go? There's the music. Thanks to our sponsor, Bumma Punkin Heating. Help me make you smile. Until next week. God bless.