Welcome to Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I am your host and moderator, Troy Skinner, joined this week by Jonathan Sweisser, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Tom Cooper, who is principal at some school somewhere. No, I know. He's he's a principal with Bright Hill Group. You don't hear that title all the time, principal. You don't no. So if you call somebody's office scary. So I like that. Anyway, that's the Faith Debate Show is brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating How can We Make You Smile. And Deer Valley, Heartscape Landscape and masonry. Did I get the order right there? Nailed it that time. That was that was solid as a rock. That was good. Oh very good. Yeah, baby. Yeah, they're gonna use that. Alright. So what are we doing the show about? Well we're doing the show about things that matter to me. Uh-huh. Thank you very much. And of late, things that have mattered to me have been questions of leadership. And I met uh Tom a few months back and uh he and I had developed a bit of a of a rapport relationship. I'm proud to call him friend. Just like I'm not proud to call Jonathan friend. That's right. And uh he just hangs out with me. We're not friends. We're just Together often. So many people would say that. I had to say it because people were thinking it. It's not, but other yeah, yeah, yeah. Thank you for clarifying. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So so so anyway, um Bright Hill Group, uh if I get anything significantly wrong, feel free to correct me. Uh but Bright Hill Group um and what Tom does specifically is health uh business people to be better leaders and develop leaders within their business and so that they can conquer the world and be the evil co capitalists that they all yearn to be home. That's right. So anyway, well at least we're on the right radio station for that. Yeah. So we were talking about this and I said, Well, you know, you could use this stuff not just for the evil capitalists, right, but for the the evil church leaders. Right? Rat Burt and Dog Bert and all the other Burts. So um A guru that uh of of leadership that is accepted by secular folk and religious folk is John C. Maxwell. I looked it up by the I wasn't sure how many. You know how many books John Maxwell has written? Uh I'm betting it's uh over thirty-five. It is over thirty five. It is over thirty-five. It's over sixty. Wow. He's written sixty-one books uh as of uh the beginning of this year anyway. Has he released a book this year? One coming out next month. Okay, well that'll be number sixty two apparently. So how many ghostwriters do you think he has working with him? But you know, we were talking about this, Tom and I were talking about this just the other day. He's basically written like two books. Just, you know, like thirty versions of each. You know? Though he does tend to have uh additional uh nuances to the leadership game that that he can draw out of the various books and so uh about leadership as a as a response In terms of your personal leadership, leading yourself, leadership in terms of leading teams, leadership in terms of leading organizations, and uh relationships, equipping, attitude, all sorts of things like that. So Yeah. Now if you're not familiar, these are some some of the titles, all right? We've got uh twenty-five ways to win with people. Uh talent is never enough the difference maker. And then he's got these uh he he likes to use things like irrefutable and all that sort of stuff. The 17 indispensable laws of teamwork, these seventeen essential qualities of a team player, the 21 most powerful minutes in a leader's day. So he's he's not given f uh hyperbole or anything like that. The twenty-one indispensable qualities of a leader, the twenty-one irrefutable laws of leadership. I mean these are the It's kind of the I leader or the E leader. Yeah. So and he is very well regarded within Christian circles because as I understand it, he's a Christian. That's true. And he writes with uh Pastor of a Large Church. He he actually owns multiple companies and is uh responsible for for overseeing those organizations. He built one of the largest churches in the US uh in his twenty plus years as a pastor and then he stepped away from that to go into leadership development. He has uh international organizations that develop leaders around the world and he has uh an organization that helps raise funds for uh churches that are trying to build buildings. So here's the question. Okay. John Maxwell, very he's twelve million copies of his books have sold, all right. So he's got a few floating around out there. That's right. Very influential. Number five all-time seller on Amazon. com. Which one? Alright. So that makes who's the top four? I don't know. Ask you hard questions. Oh, sorry. Five five. No, I know it. All right, so anyway, so he's pretty popular. Like I said, he's popular within Christian circles, particularly Protestant Christian circles, right? And Protestant Christian leaders will use these books To model their own leadership. So the question is, should they? Are his books and his and his ideas about leadership, are they biblical Some of them maybe are, some of them maybe aren't. I'm going to start with Jonathan to get the the fire stoked, and then uh as you're comfortable, you can either defend um Mr. Maxwell. Tom. Or you can agree and say, Yeah, you know what, actually this is a pretty fair point or whatever. I mean you don't have to defend him. Um but I know Jonathan well enough to know that he's going to have some issues with with uh churches basically taking on a CEO mentality and embracing the Maxwell model of leadership. So what would what would be some questions we would have? If Mr. Maxwell were here today, we would ask him what about? Well I guess my my biggest question would be um for him would be uh with all these megachurches that the statistics are coming out that have failed to accomplish genuine discipleship and genuine transformation in their people, uh what what is the problem? Because we certainly have uh a plethora of uh leaders that stepped up to follow in his footsteps and to lead. But this is what I was saying earlier. You were saying that you don't see leadership in uh in the government because they're they're just all stalemate and they're all just fighting and bickering with one another. Yes. And yet this is precisely the problem that I see is that it's a question of vision and where you're leading to. Because certainly, well, Proverbs says that that a uh it's a problem for a king when he doesn't have any followers. And yet the King of Kings, Jesus Christ, went to the cross and he had nobody that followed him at that moment. And he was all alone. And it seems to me that that Spiritual leadership always has to deal with that moment and with that reality that what needs to be said is something that nobody wants to hear, and there is simply no Good way to say it. Christ himself said that if you are like me, no student is above his teacher, they will hate you just like they hated me And that looks to me like like a like a failure of leadership if we didn't have Job way back when to teach us that sometimes the righteous suffer when Satan himself is is uh is attacking and refusing to allow righteousness to move forward, that the righteous themselves will suffer. If if we didn't have that teaching about Job When Christ would have arrived, we all would have said, you know what? Failed leader he was, and we would never have gotten it. And I feel like the problem with the leadership movement in the United States, just like Solomon himself said, at the end of the day everything's meaningless, and at least three of those chapters were dealing with kings that were ruling according to wisdom. And as a result, they were great leaders and they had great prudence and they thought things through and they spoke with wisdom and they acted with wisdom. But at the end of the day, Solomon had to agree that this too is meaningless, precisely because If you're not if you're not leading in the right direction, if you're if your focus isn't on fear God and obeys commands, then you could lead all you want. You can have you could have Stalin, you could have Hitler, you could have followers galore. And you could be the American church and have followers of the Lord, but you are a failure as a leader, as a spiritual leader. And that's my concern. Well I don't think you uh have accurately uh described the concept of leadership from a biblical perspective. I mean I think that the uh there definitely have I described biblical leadership yet? Well I I think you've said here's a here's a model of science. What do you hear me saying? Yeah. So it sounds to me like like you're saying, well, there's this there's this Jesus was a biblical leader and he had at the end no followers. biblical leader. Without question, he's the word, right? Okay. Absolutely. Sometimes leaders need to go where followers won't go. Yeah. And and so but the flip side of that is he who th he he who thinketh himself a leader, yet hath no followers, is merely taking a walk. So But that's my point. When Christ was hanging on the cross He had none. But then he was able to bring the disciples back together and they spoke with power. They he brought the Holy Spirit together. They certainly did. But my point is that was he then at that point not a leader? He was, for sure. But but if he had if he had said, hey, we're all gonna die, follow me, you know, I'm not sure that that's a great leadership trait. He said that. Again, he said, follow me, take up your cross daily. He said that again and again. That's my point. That is what Christ said and he was the leader. Am I wrong about that? Well he he did say that as the world hated me, they will hate you also. No, he said take up your cross daily and follow me and unless you're willing to give up your life You will not find it. I mean that was that was his message all the way through to his disciples. Follow me, I'm going to the cross. Absolutely. And and I think if you look at the American Church, we definitely are Fat, dumb, and happy. And so I would say that the the cultural ideas that go along with leadership and success are not necessarily