This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table grab bag, with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the good doctor. Is there a doctor in the house? We're trying to get to the core of the question why are young people not attending church anymore? Maybe boring, I don't know. The faith debate is on the world wide web at WFMG dot com keyword faith, sponsored by high low auto sales and tire pros of Frederick. Whenever you think of church you think of it associated with older people. So it's not it's not useful, is that making I think it's about adapting to a modern a modern audience to maintain. Religion used to be about community spirit, all of that kind of stuff, yeah. Look around nowadays, no community spirit no more. Yeah. In this corner, weighing in with a master of divinity from reform. Theological Seminary mix Master Toy Skinner in this corner weighing in with a PHD from Westminster Theological Seminary, the good doctor. She's brought hers. I think it's also hard to fit it around. um sort of your lifestyle out. Like what the church gives you has a big impact. And if the church seems is very traditional and you don't quite get it because you're lost in that sort of time of in the past, you know, with all the original scriptures and you don't quite understand I think people need to bring it back to what they're actually trying to say rather than reading off the passage. Young people have statistically stopped attending many churches. The contemporary movement of churches has started to attract these younger people, often with the result being that they these churches attract no older people. Or they attract only young white people or young Asian people. There are black churches, house churches, mega churches. We'll talk more about what's happening right now in the church, um in today's world, uh as this show progresses. But we're gonna start But um turning a corner from what we've talked about the last couple of weeks, instead of talking about what the local pastors have to process and deal with, we're going to examine what churches have been processing and dealing with over the years, with some examples maybe from church history. Uh right now we've got churches that make sanctuaries feel like movie theaters or concert halls. That's kind of a new concept, but the motivation behind it is not. Passion week is just a few weeks behind us. So maybe we start there. We have Pastor Howard Chuck Copeland III, Chucky Baby, from Hosanna Worship Center in Dickerson, Maryland. And uh he joins Jace Roddhurst and me. Hey. So Jace, Chuck, uh what we now call Easter is maybe a good example of uh the church attempting to be more culturally relevant. Right? There's Easter, there's Christmas. Uh these are things that have their history rooted in trying to be relevant to the culture around them. Uh uh with Easter there was already uh an ostara uh s celebration that uh took place over the course of a month or so and it was right around the same time as uh when Resurrection Sunday falls and the Jewish Passover takes place and so they kinda co-opted it in an effort to be Culturally relevant to make the the uh the gospel a little easier to swallow perhaps. Same thing with Christmas, you know, with the uh uh the the sun worshippers uh paying attention to the days finally starting to get longer. The sun god was being reborn. So let's uh celebrate Christmas on that day or near that day. We're trying to be in a tandem bomb. The the Christmas tree is g connected to that. Now The Puritans kicked back hard against some of that. It felt like the the the church had sold out. It kind of lost its soul on those issues because it was they tried so hard to be culturally relevant that it lost its saltiness, lost its distinctiveness. So Last week I think Jace brought up the idea of uh people going to churches and wanting to hear organ music or not wanting to hear organ music. Well organs weren't around in the first century to my knowledge. I think around maybe a thousand years after Christ, organs finally started being used in the church. churches and now that became that becomes the norm. But that was was that an attempt for the church to be culturally relevant at the time? And I don't know enough about it, but these things that we take to be just standard operating procedure, of course we have a special service on Christmas Of course we have a special service on Resurrection Sunday and by golly we're not gonna call it that. We're gonna call it Easter. You know, by golly we're gonna do these things. Have we sold out? Are we going to look back years from now, five hundred years from now, and say, what was what were they thinking when they decided to make worship centers, worship sanctuaries feel like a night at the movies? Or a night at a good concert or something. Are we are are we setting up norms that are just bad? Do you think? Gosh, I think that's a fantastic question. I don't I don't know that I have a great answer for it. I've thought about it many times. I know that for Good Friday service, my family and I, we love to go to a higher church. It it means something different. It feels more sacred. It seems more purposeful. And the churches are created with this um this vision of heaven in mind where the the the parishioners, the the congregation are seated on one side and they enter into a a closer you know, the closer you get to the to the word and to the cross and to the altar, depending on the church. Right, that you've entered into the place of God, into the place of heaven. And and there's something to that. There's something beautiful with all that symbolism that just doesn't work in my basketball gymnasium. you know, that we just threw some chairs out and then, you know, we've put 'em away and we've played basketball. That there's a sacredness that seems to be missing. And yet I don't want to put too much stock in that. Um, just as I don't want to put too much stock in the clothes that someone's wearing Um you know, we have one person in our church who wears a three piece suit every week and wears it everywhere. Especi if if he meets with me, he's very he he does it on purpose. He's like he won and I was like, you know what, it's okay, I'm in a t shirt and and flip flops. It's not a big he's like, No, no, no This is a respect thing. There's a and in his culture that was that's very respectful. And I I I see that. I mean my parents asked me, you know, we have to dress up for church because there's something the clothes in some sense make the man, even though God looks at the inward appearance and not the outward. I feel like there should be some blending, or we should at least be wrestling. But even the high church example does not go back to the days of the apostles. That's right. Those are those are house churches or the apostles were running for their life. So I mean we can't I don't know what we can take too much from them. But I mean establishing the whole high church thing really doesn't get going until after Constantine, right? I mean they It couldn't. Right. So the first four hundred years of Christianity basically underground. What you know, this this great sacred holy space to come and worship didn't exist for four hundred years. And then finally they got it right? Yeah, that's a little bit hard to say. Yeah, exactly. So I I mean I don't uh again, I don't I mean we're we're wrestling with this 'cause we need to but outside of the confines of a faith debate radio show, I wonder if again, going back to a theme from last week, if we wrestle with it just too darn much Maybe we wrestle with it too much as leaders in the church as we're thinking about these things. But I guess I'm thinking about that person who's right now driving to church. It's nine o'clock and you know they're going to Sunday school or something like that. Or they're thinking about it. And and I wonder, do they even think about that? Or do they simply think, well that was fun. That's the reason I'm going to church is because it's fun and it helps me to be a slightly better husband during the week or a better and that's really all that they're looking for. They're looking for to feel a little better. And I I guess I would just plead with them at least. These are things that you should probably wrestle with. This probably does does matter at least some. So they're looking for Tony Robbins, right? Yeah. Some people are, yeah. Yeah, well why would we want to play into that? Why do we want to give them more Tony Robbins? Yeah. I mean sometimes I have to tell people, listen, I'm not here to make you feel better all the time. You know, I'm here to look out for you and and give you the truth because at the end of the day, the Holy Spirit is going to is going to be the one to reveal to you what you need to know from what's being taught today. You know, what's being given to you. And something we haven't touched on yet, and now we're you know, we're two and a quarter shows into this arc, this series of programs on the church trying to be relevant or working to be relevant or being relevant and not realizing its own relevance. And therefore making itself not relevant anyway. Well part of the calculus that goes on in your mind, right, is is whether or not the service is a worship service for those who are already claiming to profess to be followers of Jesus Christ or is it kind of an evangelistic service where you're g you're trying to couch things in a way that the non believers, the admitted nonbelievers, would come in and you're you're trying to reach to them. Yeah, sure. I mean that that was Willow Creek's thing, right? Bill Heibel said, We're gonna have our service for the unreached, for the those who don't go to church at all. Um, uh unchurched. And that was their main service. And that to me sounds like not the best plan. Like, okay, you know, this is worship. And you've got a bunch of people who don't know God. They technically aren't really worshiping. They don't know God yet. But then they have to worship on Wednesdays or something. Exactly, right. So That th that shows, you know, not enough information on my own part, but they did have a different service for for the Christians, I guess. Mm-hmm. And so I mean I guess I can see I can see the you know, I have some some theological battles with some things about, you know, why it's Sunday and stuff like that, but I get that. He's trying to re and that's what you know, that's what you said. You you're trying to reach those who have never been in a church before. And I I probably um tend the other direction. Yeah. I I tend to be speaking to those people, my congregation. And Hopefully I'm never gonna be just talking to them. Like it's open enough. I'm still gonna give the gospel, but for instance I don't do altar calls. I don't call people up to the altar. Right. That happens. That's not a real church. But even to the stage, I don't call people up. But that's not that's not usually it. But I always You know, I always hand I always say, Here's Jesus. Yeah. You know, here's the cross. Everything always culminates in the cross. But even here's Jesus talking about being culturally relevant to and trying to contextual and over contextualize There are churches, and we have Chuck here that can maybe speak to this m more intelligently than I can. I'm not gonna speak to how intelligently Jace could speak to this. He can speak better. There there are there there are a whole bunch of churches, a whole movement that that uh teach and preach about the black Madonna, the black Christ. Yeah. trying to be relevant to a black community saying, hey, he's your savior too. Yeah, I never got with that. I always tell people he was Middle Eastern. Well yeah, I mean it seems like the record would seem to exactly say. But you know what I mean? Give me a break. Uh I mean I I I think I think in some instances people can go and Jace mentioned mentioned it a few weeks back, they can go maybe we could say of a of of too far one direction or too far in another direction. And I think I I know for for for us at Hosanna what what we prepare to do and what I I ask my ministers to do when they go forth is To have a relevant word and we do we do series, you know, so we'll do a series for a month or maybe two months sometimes because it makes preparation easier. But What what I try to do is not necessarily gear it towards seekers. You know, w we try to uh make it a comprehensive service, but as far as the word is concerned, um I just as f personally I prepare the word and and and just teach it to people and you know I'll s I'll slip in there when I'm when I'm talking to the congregation when I'm talking to my people, those that I know, you know, are walking. you know, with the Lord, I'll I'll let I'll say things like, you know, if you've given your life to Christ, this applies to you, you know. And if you have like um the one time we did communion at Poolsville Baptist when we had our joint service. And you know, I always let Jace do it. And he told me this time, he said, I want you to do it. I'm like, okay, I'll do it. You know, and I said, so how do y'all do it? He's like, What do you mean how do we do it? I'm like, Well, you know, and I and I and um I saw him The first few times I saw Jace do it, I saw him, he took a timeout. And you don't always see pastors do this. He took a timeout. First and foremost, for people to ask forgiveness. And secondly, he explained, listen, if you have not made a decision to follow Christ, this is not for you. And we do that. I do that. You know, and um it was it was kinda it came out of my training and study from the word, you know, and what what is a physical person has no idea how much stress that can cause. Oh my goodness. I have uh had the uh the the occasion to um uh to lead a communion service in a setting where I had never seen them have a communion service before. So I had no idea what they were used to. And not all churches do it exactly the same way. Exactly. So what are they expect what's their cultural norm? What are they expecting? And I have no idea So I I kind of guessed based on the kind of churches they were, the kind of people that went there, what they might have been used to, and went through my various experiences of how the Lord's Supper Supper has been handled and said, well, uh this will probably work for them I guess wrong. Because I had some people that they were gentle and generous about it, but I had a couple people after me afterwards calling me just asking why I did it the way I did. Yeah, we've never seen a pastor do it that way before. You know that they've only seen their particular way of doing it. Why did you do it that way? And why didn't you do this? And why didn't you do that? And so I explained why, mm-hmm. And thank goodness I'll as we talked about a couple of weeks ago and why I'm a Bible guy. So I was able to defend myself, you know, saying, Well, I I did this because I'm a Bible guy and you know That's all you needed. And uh end of discussion. That other stuff you were doing wasn't in the Bible. And and and and so the things I feel like that need to happen are you know they're kind of prescribed for us. But the rest of it there's a lot of so the stuff that kinda needs to happen, we did that. And the other stuff is kind of subject to taste, you know? Salt to taste. So But that I can I don't know why you asked Jace that question, because you know, if you did a completely different way. That's the last thing I want to do is go in there and, you know. Although that might be why he wanted you to do it Yeah. It was, it definitely was. And I would love to have a uh the Lord's Supper done differently every few times. That would be wonderful. But yeah, the planning, the f you know, the thing. Yeah, all that goes with it. Yeah, you know what I mean? You kinda have to go back to the routine and it's like, Oh darn it Yeah. I mean when I grew up As an aside, I uh uh my dad went to one church. My dad went to a Baptist a Methodist church. My mom went to a Baptist church and Nobody ever told us that we needed to ask forgiveness. Nobody ever mentioned that if you haven't, you know, made a decision to follow Jesus Christ, a personal decision that you shouldn't take this. Nobody ever said that It wasn't until I made that kind of decision myself, began to study the Word of God, God teach you know, teaching in those areas and and, you know Until uh and it hit me like a ton of bricks, you know. I was like, whoa. Once I really realized what And now you are a ton of bricks. Yes I am. Big strong man. Don't mess with Chuck This is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. We're on nine thirty WFMD. Um The one who was just laughing, that's uh uh Chuck Copeland. He's the pastor at uh Hosanna Worship Center. Right? That's the name of it, right? Love always comes first. Uh in um in Montgomery County and also from Montgomery County, uh Chase Broadhears of Poolsville Baptist Church. Uh I want to do kind of a variation on um on like word association. I'm going to give you a word or a phrase or a concept. And I just want to kind of get, I don't want just one-word answers necessarily, but I'd like to kind of get your take on some of these. You know, mostly good, mostly bad, mixed, whatever. So pastors, today, happy Mother's Day. Uh today is Mother's Day. Happy Mother's Day. Happy Mother's Day. So pastors that go out of their way to make sure that they do some sort of a mom's day message on a day like today, generally good, generally not so good, doesn't really matter. Um I don't know that it doesn't matter. I would hate hesitate to say it doesn't matter. But I don't know that I I don't know that. You're afraid of all those moms, aren't you? I'll say this. We have done a Mother's Day service. I've been in at the church for eleven years. Um we've done probably two of them. Uh and the other times I've just continued with my series. This w this year I'm continuing with my series. And I'll say Happy Mother's Day to everybody, but I you know, for me, Hallmark holidays are not uh I I don't generally include those as church. Yeah. But I don't there's nothing wrong with that. You can preach on mothers. There's some great mothers in scripture and and sure. What would be wrong with that? It's perfectly fine, I guess. But do you agree with Jace? Mm. Yeah, I do. Um uh I I was in a church that, you know, they made uh as an assistant for years and they made a huge deal out of Mother's Day. And the pastor asked me to preach on Mother's Day and I was like, okay, but I'm not preaching about Mothers. He was like, what? I said, I'm not. He was like, okay, alright He said, But you know I'm gonna take a lot of heat for this and I said, Well, I mean come on, uh you know, I'm not inspired uh I I don't I don't think it's anything wrong with tailoring you know, your sermon, you know, uh your lesson for certain occasions, but, you know, obviously we have to talk about You know, the resurrection on Resurrection Sunday. You don't want to stand up there and, you know, give a sermon on Christ washing people's feet when we're talking about him getting up out of the grave. You know what I mean? But Um and like Jay said, for f in in our I don't you know, we've been in existence for four years and Every Mother's Day, the I definitely my mom goes to my church, so you know I gotta kinda acknowledge my mom. She sits like right up front, so you know But yeah, and we definitely acknowledge it and and also um I I um my wife is really big on because she's really super traditional and I'm not. You know, so she's big on making sure we have flowers to hand out to the mothers or something. She usually has the um the young people, the children's church, for a couple of weeks before they'll make up special gifts to hand out to the mothers and she'll have 'em walk around and do that. But that's about the extent of it. If we're in the middle of the series, which we almost always are, that's I just keep moving. Can I can I just bounce off something? I know you got more words associated with it. Yes, I would. But you said um we're talking about relevance and you mentioned the resurrection. Of course you can preach the resurrection on Easter Sunday, which uh we're Resurrection Sunday, sorry, Troy. There you go. It's not Easter Sunday. Um this was just another pastoral thought that I was You know, again, those people who are driving on the road or they're thinking about going to church or they're looking for the right kind of church, I I guess I would just encourage people uh you want something to be relevant, of course But the resurrection is something that is central to everything that we do. It's not a it's not just an Easter or Resurrection Sunday sermon. So if you're in a church and you're you know, you're like, I wonder if this is the right place or not, I would think at at least there's lots of things you should be considering, but you should at least be saying Does this does this come to its climax, this sermon, this message, this worship service in the cross and the resurrection of this? And and not as a tag on. And that's that's always my little I'm a hermeneutics professor and you we don't even get into that. But i you know, it's not A thirty minute sermon and then That means he's a professor of one student, Herman Mr. Nudic? Yeah. Yeah, Mr. Herman Nudic. It's not a thirty-minute sermon. How am I going to recover? Um and then like at the end, like Oh yeah, by the way, if anybody wants to become a Christian, here's the gospel message. It's every story is heading for this. It's a Christotelic approach. is this center point in history. And so look for that. It doesn't have to be a whole sermon on the resurrection. Everything comes to that. Mm-hmm. And if if you've gone to it two or three times and have just told you how to be better at your finances, better at your husband and stuff, and haven't showing you how the resurrection impacts that, how it moves that. And I I feel like you might be missing out. I I would say Maybe a little stronger than that. You are missing out. No, no, that's that's that's good. So we'll do we'll You guys are agreeable to do do another show next week? Yes, sir. Alright. I'll be here. All right. So we bring her. had to do with uh another holiday is coming up, m Memorial Day weekend. Oh yeah. And the pastor um didn't do a memorial service on the Sunday before Memorial Day. You know about this story, huh? And the church was expecting that the pastor would spend the entire sermon the entire sermon was going to be basically uh kind of a nod to those who were part of the church who had passed away during the previous year. And uh there were like four or five people that have passed away, so they're expecting like, you know, three, four, five minutes on each person kind of in memorial, and that was supposed to be the sermon. Mm-hmm. Uh that pastor is not the pastor of that church anymore. Mm-hmm. Because they were like, you preach the gospel, you talk about the resurrection, you made it christelic You did some something with Mr. Nudics and talk about Herman? That's it. You're out of here. And so yeah, this it's this is a real thing. Sadly, it's it's it's a real thing. Anyway Another real thing that's not sad, we have sponsors, thank goodness for that. That's a good name. Yeah. Hilo Auto Sales. Online at hiloauto sales. com and uh tire pros of Frederick Uh thank you, Dr. Jace Broadhurst. Foolsville Baptist Church is um sure glad to have you. You'll be preaching later today uh about moms, I'm sure. And uh Pastor Howard Chuck Copeland III From a Hosanna worship service in uh Dickerson, Maryland, thank you so much for being on the show again. See you next week.