This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table grab bag with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the good doctor. Is there a doctor in the house? Um if a lot of people have become cynical, I think there's enough history Probably by now to make people very cynical about organized religion. But faith debate is on the world wide web at WFMG. com, keyword faith, sponsored by high low autosnails and tire pros of Frederick. some sort of formal training. I mean you'd like saying I can educate myself and not go to college and that's true. But ultimately, you know, church provides a structure. So, you know, the bottom line is your personal relationship with Jesus, but after that you need to plug into something where you can kinda have structured training and mentor. In this corner, weighing in with a Master of Divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, Mr. Master Troy Skinner. In this corner, weighing in with a PhD from Westminster Theological Seminary, the good. Doctor, she brought hers. The word religion in Sanskrit always meant what was sacred. And if people don't find it in churches anymore, then they probably have to look elsewhere. Modern lifestyle, the archetype word sort of forced to follow isn't one of spirituality, it's more of one of material game. I think that that's probably a big influence on younger people leaving the church. As we begin this program there are droves of people streaming into local churches all across the land, all across the world in In fact, but in places like Europe and North America there are droves are looking smaller, representing a much smaller percentage of the population than in years past. Giant old church buildings are being turned into museums in the European Union. Middle sized church buildings Are increasingly empty in the United States. What is the church doing about this? What should the church do about this? There's a raging debate on this subject, and today the faith debate jumps into the prey. Stepping into the studio with Jace and me is Pastor Howard Chuck Copeland III from Hosanna Worship Center in Dickerson, Maryland. And so I'm going to turn right to you right away, Chuck. What's your take on the uh current debate over church relevance? The current debate over church relevance. Well, I think that um the onus is a little bit on the is is a lot on the uh leaders in churches to sort of figure out what they need to do. That would be you and Jace, I think. Exactly. To reach out to the people. To actually reach. Yeah, we're gonna figure it out. Um to reach, you know, the people that are there. You know, um, you know, how do we reach them? You know, we can't I just don't believe that we can continue with the same sort of um formula that's been used in the past. I mean of course the information is still it's relevant, of course, you know, what we have to say, the good news is still the good news. you know, and it still has the same relevance, you know, over over time. It th that it passes, you know, the generations, but I think that, you know The people that we deal with now, they receive information differently. Um they have a different attention span. They have a lot busier lives. So and and there's a lot a myriad of other factors that go into it. So I think that, you know, it's really important, you know, to have the conversation. I don't know the answer Okay well And what you don't know the answer. No. We get it somebody else in here, Trey. Let's let's let's first uh let's just make sure that we understand kinda what But some people are either well you began to uh point out what some of the challenges are, what some of the problems that the the church, I would say culture at large, is facing some of those attention span, things like that. And there's been a a debate, a dialogue about these things for years and years, maybe as long as there's been a church, I'm not sure, but certainly as long as I've been paying attention, there's been a debate and dialogue about this. Uh But maybe I'm aware of it because I pay attention to these things. I do the faith debate show after all, and you guys know about it because you're pastors. I'm not sure that somebody listening right now is totally familiar with what that debate and dialogue is Face how would you describe it? They would know it in in an intellectual and academic sense what this conversation is about, but they know it when they walk into the churches. So, you know, somebody who is church hopping or you know has decided even over the last five years have been to two or three different churches They're going to go into a church and they're going to say, Oh, that wasn't relevant to me. That wasn't helpful for me. Um, that was too high church. We might not even be able to speak in those terms, too lofty, too you know, the word of God is coming out to us. And and we want we want practical stories about marriage and about how we can raise our kids. I mean it needs to meet me where I am. That's what they mean when they say relevance And I think to some degree we would probably all agree with relevance, and yet I don't think we necessarily want to spoon feed everyone just because that's what they want. And you almost you know, uh belied of perhaps prejudice in your mind of how you think people are thinking about church today when you when you said that, you know, the high church would be s maybe not relevant. There are people that are craving High church, lots of liturgy, the the kind of the a top-down style of of worship, you know, that feels old school, it feels traditional, feels like this is the way the church has been for thousands of years, kind of thing and they're craving that and that makes it relevant to them. Because there's a secret sensitive movement where it feels like you're going to watch a movie, grab a bag of popcorn, right? Kick kick your feet up. You know? Step out for a minute, grab a cup of coffee, come back in whenever f you know, whenever you feel like it kind of thing. It's just very cash. Right. And you got some hipster looking guy up a up Up there, you know, walking back and forth with one of those uh Well wouldn't you think Some skinny jeans, dude. Yeah. They don't make skinny jeans for me. Yeah, I guess I didn't mean I didn't mean that I I wasn't trying to uh say I go in either one of those different directions. I'm trying to say When people think of the word relevance, they're thinking uh or at least that my immediate thought is, they're thinking about something that applies directly to something they need to hear. Like, here's my take home. It's how to help me ten steps towards financial freedom. Yeah, I think they want something they can use. Yeah, and most people unfortunately don't think, you know, if I'm just gonna preach a sermon about the resurrection That's not relevant. Uh obvious I mean well maybe not obviously, but maybe I betray myself there, but I I think that's incredibly relevant. Oh my goodness. It's how we get it to them, which I guess is a bit of a Th there are a lot of high profile pastors and they end up having their own little uh gaggle of followers, you know, unofficial followers, you know, they're Oh, they're successful and popular and their church has grown exponentially. I'm gonna do what they're doing. Yep. Uh you know, the Willow Creek model or or uh you know Rick Warren's church. But then others that I think are well known um To a lot of people, maybe not the mainstream listener, but John Piper's pretty well known, Tim Keller's well known, Matt Chandler Joel Olstein. Right. Yeah, they're all pretty big names. These are big names. So are they setting the tone for what's what people like you are thinking about well, you know, if if uh if it's good enough for Andy Stanley, it's good enough for me. I'm gonna maybe try Andy's approach or Mark Dever's approach or whatever. Is is that happening? Does that happen for you? Do you think, well, maybe I'll steal something from you? Well it definitely ha happened for me because um when I was you know, thinking about planting a church, you know, I had this vision and I started writing things down that I felt like, you know, the Lord was showing me. And I just happened to p I had never heard of Rick Warren. I was on the computer fooling around many years ago and I saw um purpose driven church. And I just clicked them. I'm like, what is that? You know, and I started reading it. I'm like, oh, that sounds interesting. So I went and got the book. I read the book. And that's a Rick Warren book. Yeah. And um, you know, I I was impressed. I felt like a lot of the not everything, you know, but a lot of what he was saying in that book was it was it was relevant like like Jace was saying, it was relevant to me. And I felt like, you know what, this could be it it kind of fit my experience. You know, and I think that's kind of, you know, um Because one of the things I really um that drew me to the book is the points that he made. He was backing them all up with scripture 'Cause I'm I'm I'm a b I'm a Bible guy. You know, I preach right from the Word of God and you know, I try to you know, make the word of God relevant to people and so when he was making his points it wasn't just some hokey um stuff he was coming up with. It was the interpretations that he got from the things that Jesus has said and what does that say about the current state of the church, by the way, that a pastor has to go out of his way to point out that he's a Bible guy. Yeah. Yeah, I mean case in point. And that's part of the dialogue and the debate actually is people look at somebody like you know, Joel Olstein and say he's not really a Bible guy and he's not maybe even a gospel guy and he's watered it down so much to in an attempt to be relevant. And so they Critique him, I think, and a and a a lot of people that critique him negatively do so out of the purest of motives, and some might critique him negatively out of jealousy because he's got a forty thousand person church or something like that. You know Uh but forty thousand people he's leading where would be where those who are critiquing truly from their heart, not out of jealousy, say, Where where is he leading these people? Is he leading them anywhere good? That's really the debate, right? Is is Is is a compromise with the culture around you watering down the message, the gospel, the what the church is supposed to be? is not watering it or not watering if uh not compromising to culture is that being stubborn and stiff and not loving and caring about the community around you? Because those that's kind of the caricatures Right. One guy's the flabby non-gospel guy, and the other guy's the stern wrath of God guy. And there's like nothing in between. Yeah, I mean I think I think you're right. That's the problem is that we have given these these two extremes and that's all we've got. So I why can't we So what do you guys uh Jace, what do you do at uh Poolsville Baptist Church in in in an effort to strategically or you know self-consciously be relevant Well, okay, so I'm a Bible guy, um, much like Shock here. Um so I want to stick with the Bible. Put that in your business card. Yeah, I know. I'm a Bible guy. Good business card. T shirt. Yeah. Um So I want to stick to the Bible, but uh the great thing, I think the Bible is in in and of itself relevant uh because it's telling here's what I do. I think I think the Bible is telling us a story. It's a big, long story that took place in history. So for me, I want to give that story out to everyone and I want them to figure out where they fit into the story, into God's story. I know that sounds cheesy, but I I don't think that it's necessarily ten steps to success in this area or to dating or to although I don't know that those necessarily wrong or th those could come up there. But I want that story to come across. I want us to see how everything is pointing to the cross. Now how do you make that relevant? How does that fit in? Well, I mean the cross is is the goodest the the best news. The goodest depends the goodest is the uh I have a PhD. Um apparently not in Korean Um literature. It's it's the best news that that we can imagine. And it does penetrate every area of our life. So it is relevant to dating. It is relevant to how I raise my children. It is relevant. My job is to show them in that application that that story is. that that biblical theology it does touch does touch them. So instead of me taking a headline, like that's not normally what I'll do. Here's the new latest headline And then trying to find some verses to back it up. And again, I'm not necessarily saying that's the wrong way to do it. I'm just trying to focus on showing them that long-term story. and how it all comes to a climax with Jesus and his church and how they're what what they're called to look like in that. Copeland from Hosanna Worship Center. Chase is the pastor at Poolsville Baptist. I'm Troy Skinner, the host of the show. That's well, my business card should say. I am the host of the show. A Bible guy. A Bible guy. And you're looking at you're not a Bible guy. I am a Bible guy then. I know, but what do you put on your card? Yeah, I know. I don't know. Not a Bible guy. But in today's world you have somebody who isn't really a Bible guy, but they say they identify as a Bible guy. Yeah they Very nice. That was tough. You have to identify how you were born again. So we'll get into uh we're gonna do a series of shows on this general topic and we'll probably get into some of the specific things, tactics that churches are trying to do to to be more relevant. I don't wanna spend a a lot of time on that right now because I wanna talk about who it is we're trying to be relevant to when we do these things. Mm-hmm. So um I know Jace's congregation pretty well and I've actually seen uh a good portion of Chuck's congregation and I know that they're very different. Yeah. And so what's relevant to one might not seem quite so relevant to the other. So how do you decide what's relevant to who? And by the way, the code for that is you know Chuck's church is predominantly African American. And Anglo Saxon, you know. Well, I I mean, There are differences, definitely, you know. But I think at the end of the day, you know, I think and and and I think mm Jace and I have I mean it was made it's been made apparent to me a long time ago because, you know, I I grew up in a predominantly white neighborhood. And so a lot of my friends were were were were um Anglo Saxon. Okay. So, you know, that's been a part of my experience. You know, um of course most of my family is African American But, you know, that's been a part of my experience. So I don't have the same quote unquote prejudices as other African Americans would. You know, I'm I feel more comfortable around all kinds of people because that's how my parents raised me But, you know, for my congregation, because we we are, you know, it's actually you know, we're getting a little more cream in our coffee. Okay? Nice. Okay. And so, you know, um Our motto is Where Love Always Comes First. And so uh I I like Jace. I try to I I try to deal directly with the word. I don't do the headline thing. I'm not talking about politics. I don't, you know have I don't have you know, I I I just try to keep it focused on on the Word of God and the gospel, just just like um Jay said. Um but I think there are differences, but at the end of the day, I think most of the Most of the same wants and needs and and desires that people have are the same. You know, uh uh most of the most of the you know, we're all worried about our kids. We're all worried about, you know, family. We're all w we all wor we all wor we're all worried you know, marriage problems and things of that nature, uh marital problems and and whatnot. Um and it's it's funny because is the more Jason and I talk, the more we realize we have the same issues You know, and I'm looking at this guy like, oh my gosh, Professor Jay Sprouthurst When he first told me it was a professor, I'm like, You're a professor? I called my buddy, I'm like The goodest news ever. Yeah. I call my buddy, I'm like, Hey man, did you know Jace was a professor? They're like, That I get that response from a lot of people. Now you guys have focused a lot and good, I'm glad. on like the the point of the message, the the words you're going to use. You're gonna take the Bible and you're gonna talk about it. And that's good. And if you were doing other than that, then that'd be a different kind of conversation probably. But it's not just that In order to be relevant to your the the surrounding culture, the people you're trying to appeal to, style points count. So one p preacher might stand up there and say, Jesus Christ is Lord of the universe. And another preacher's gonna say on this, Jesus Christ is your son of the universe Yes a chuck chuck asked for a lot of amen. You gotta get it. I don't get any. I'm used to hearing people talk back to me. I gotta pull some bad or something like that. Am I getting through? And then when I'm done everybody's like, ah, it's in the message. I'm like, Well, guess I got through. Either that or that was important to me. And w I haven't changed my m my style or I I've kinda done the same thing. Um I haven't changed my sermon topic. If I was online for this topic then that You know, we did family last time and I figured your families are like my families and they need to hear that. And it was an amazing I mean people came to me I had some of my leaders come to me, uh and one one in particular And he he came to me and he said, Man, that that message had an amazing impact on me. It challenged me You know, I say, Yeah, me too You know and I kept hunching my wife It's like Stop hunching me You know but it was really it was really good. You know, I think I think the word kind of turns that if if you have people that are really willing to listen, but people can kinda let those little differences, you know, impact their I do think style is important. I mean I I don't wanna Because I mean I think about this all the time. So I'm I'm in a rather conservative Southern Baptist kind of church. We're probably the least conservative of Southern Baptists, but still we're a Southern Baptist church. When I got there, most of us were in suits and ties. Okay, almost no one does that anymore unless you're over seventy. I still do that from the pulpit, but I'm thinking like Can I get a wear with jeans and a t-shirt? Would that be okay? Can I can I be Steven Furtick up there? Can I wear a sweatshirt and be super cool? Why would you want to though? Um because that's what we're talking about. If I'm not sitting in with the people that I are there in the congregation, if they're all wearing Hawaiian shirts and I refuse to wear a Hawaiian shirt, then Am I really connecting with them? So if I've got the youth wear you know, they're wearing their stuff, then should I not can I can I open doors by um by being accepting of them by doing what they're doing in some sense. By being a part uh without compromising the gospel. I don't think God cares an awful lot about whether I'm wearing a t-shirt. I'm good grief I'm in shorts and a t-shirt right now. What's the difference Yeah, but but seriously, you know, for half a second. We were joking before about, you know, Jason's a professor and he's got a doctorate degree and he he and he says things like Gooder and Goodest, you know, or what but All seriousness, the fact that you are the pastor of a church, you know, you are the shepherd of that flock, you have great, you know, responsibility before God for the people that you're given charge to care for. Should you d worry about dressing like everybody else? And do the Roman Catholics have a point here when the they're wearing their their long flowing garments and the the big funny hats and uh you know just made a bunch of enemies now. Whatever they call those things they put on their heads. Catholics, uh that's a Troy Cena. I know they're not officially called Big Funny Hats. They have some sort of making it. But maybe they have that part right. Yeah, the robes and the reverend. Not we're above, but when we preach the word. That's why the the pulpit is raised in certain ones. It's not because it's not just a I can see them better. Sometimes you have to climb stairs up there. It's not because the priest or pastor is somehow holier, but when the word goes out, when it's proclaimed, there is something there's something else going on there. Maybe sacramental, like we talked about in our last shows. So there is something to being set apart in that way I guess. Well for me, I mean I I I preach in hoodies, man. I I'll be wearing jeans. I'm trying to get him to wear a hoodie the next time I Next time we do it in a couple of weeks, yeah we'll all we're all wearing hoodies. Did you learn nothing from Trayvon Martin? That's another show. Only I'm only where I'm the church. No. I I I just you know I I I Our church isn't really casual in that way, you know. I mean we have a order of service and we're not expecting people to be walking out and getting a cup of coffee and coming back when they get good ready or That type of thing. But you don't have a Starbucks in the lounge? No. We do have a little coffee machine next door, but you know, give me a break. Yeah, it definitely is. And that wasn't my idea. But I I I from my experience, you know m I really wanted a place where people that did not know anything, people that were truly unchurched when they walked in, they felt comfortable You know, and I've had people look at me and say, so you're the pastor? And I'm like, yeah, yeah, yeah, you'll find out in a few minutes. Yeah, so let's talk about that, that whole idea of comfortable Because that's that that's something I struggle with. Not so much comfortable but welcomed. That's what I mean when I say comfortable, not you know Gather your thoughts. Alright. Save them for the next one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours. I'm ready. And then and and we'll talk about comfortableness. And I'll do what I can to make you uncomfortable as quickly as possible. We're always up. In the next episode of the show. Yeah. Just being in my presence makes you uncomfortable, right? Yeah. I walked into that one I guess. And I realized being uncomfortable, I'm gonna have somebody mad at me, I forgot to mention our sponsor at the beginning of the show, so I'll mention him twice at the end. Our sponsor is we have two sponsors, Hilo Auto Sales and Tire Pros of Frederick Um so Hilo Auto Sales, online at hiloautosales. com and Tire Froze and Ferguson, they got their two mentions. Just pretend that one of those was like twenty-five minutes ago. I think it was in your in the beginning part in the bumper. It was in the bumper? Yeah You paid attention. Three times we mentioned them because they're that awesome. Oh we gotta charge them more now. That's right. Send them a bill. Anyway, thank you, Jace. Uh thank you, Chuck. Thank you, listener. Thank you for listening to the Faith Debate. You can visit us online, WFMD. com, keywordface. And I think by now maybe you can start to podcast the show or keep our fingers crossed and hoping. Until next week, God bless.