The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. I promise the guys we'd do a ho ho ho I didn't want to let him down. By the way I should have Stephen Jurger do it because he's got a deeper voice than me and he kinda looks the part You know? I'm sure you've been told that. You look like the uh the old Santa Claus version of Santa Claus, a skinnier version, right? The The the the uh Yuletide Carroll guy or whatever, I don't know what his name was. But the not the big jolly guy that's on the Coca-Cola merchandise these days. I was so disappointed when You know, my mom and dad said, you know, you gotta Santa's gonna come down the chimney and I was maybe about five or six years old and I tried to stay awake and I fell asleep and all of a sudden It was like, oh, you fell asleep, he came and left, and I was so disappointed. That explains a lot. He's damaged goods. That's what we're dealing with here today on the Faith Debate Show. I am Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD, on the FM at 99. 9 HD two, and on the web, of course, at Wfmd. com. You can live stream, take us wherever you go. And if you miss us live or if you just want to hear us again, you can find us on podcasts. You can find us through the website for the radio station. You can also find the podcasts. uh on on my platform, household of faith in Christ dot com. It links to all of my sermons, all of the shows. Everything ends up there eventually and usually pretty quickly. So you can follow along with everything that has to do with the show, with uh with the churches that are represented here, at least in some fashion, through Household of FaithInChrist. com Household of FaithInChrist. com. You'll see Imran's picture on there if you go there. And uh if you want to contact Imran or Stephen or anybody else that's ever on this show, you can reach out to me. All my contact information is on the church's website. Uh Imran has a website as well. It's conqueredbylove. org. Conquered by Love Ministries is the entity that he and his wife founded, I don't know, two, three decades ago, something like that. And Stephen Jurger is uh representing the Shabbat Gathering. It's uh a church that's just over the line in Pennsylvania, uh not too far away from Gettysburg. Uh I don't think Santa Claus goes there. So any little kids listening, you live outside of Gettysburg, you could be. I'm just kidding. He doesn't go anywhere. So um That's that's uh an interesting thing we'll talk about too. Let's talk about from a Christian perspective, uh what we should what a a biblical Christian perspective, what we should think about this time of the year in two weeks from today. It will be Christmas Day, December twenty-fifth. Today's the eleventh. So what should we think about this? I've been on an odyssey on this question over the years. I've I've held multiple views, some of them rather, rather aggressively. actually to my own shame. Um now I'm kind of squishy probably to my own shame. Uh you guys can help me think through this and figure out where I should land. How how should a Christian think about Christ uh Christmas? Well first of all, is this gonna be the last Christmas you celebrate before the Lord comes back for real? I don't know. It will be for some. It may. Right. Well we know for a fact it will be for some. Right? I mean tomorrow's guaranteed to nobody. So and by the way, I'm not gonna name Mayne's, it's not my place to share his business. I I I I actually wasn't even gonna say anything, but now it popped in my head. I feel like I probably should. There's somebody that's been uh behind the scenes, an important player on the faith debate, been active in helping support the the social media and the podcasts and things like that that have to do with the the Faith Debate Show who's um who's got some medical challenges and it it it According to what the doctors are telling him, you know, this could be the last Christmas that he spends. Uh so he he's got some dire news. So Um if you're Christian, please pray for the support staff behind the scenes at uh I I would say his name except I don't have permission from him to do so and I I don't think it's my news to share that specifically. But Uh just when you pray to God, he knows. Say the the guy who helps with the faith debate stuff online, if you could, you know, uh give him comfort in Christ, help him to really understand uh with an absolute fullness and robustness of faith who Jesus is. and that he and his family get through this. So anyway, a little aside during this holiday season. But yeah, so you were asking kind of playfully, right, is this the last Christmas? But for some people it will be. So I mean there's there's a couple of ways and that's that's the normal cultural way. Peop s you know, people live and die and and that happens uh through all the different uh things in in this world. But what if We are hitting tribulation. What if it is near the end of the world? What if that is the end? Are you ready? So Christmas really is a time where you should look within yourself and say, Where are where do you stand? Um, are you just doing this as a holiday to give gifts and receive gifts or are you actually thinking what is it that Christ's gift for us is? Uh we're celebrating Christ's birth. And was it actually on on the twenty fifth? Yes, there's a lot of argument whether it was or it wasn't, or it could be in October, it could be whenever. But that aside Let's just pick a date. Pick any date. If you're gonna celebrate his birth, what does that mean? And I think that's something that's worth studying, w worth looking at. And uh you know the funny thing is, even in Islam they uh have Christ being born of a Virgin Mary and uh being there. So that might be something you might have in common with your uh Muslim brothers and sisters. It may be a a bridge point to have a conversation about the saving grace of Christ. So think about that. I think it's all you need to point to what God did for us and why we can be with Him forever and not be separated. Yeah. Uh so let's let's like think of it from a puritanical point of view, because the Puritans rather famously, you know, really were not into Recognizing celebrating Christmas in any fashion. Are there merits to that point of view? Or were they out to lunch and you know they were way too dogmatic and legalistic about how they handled such things? Well I think uh their point of view was that the birth of Christ was was nothing compared to the death of Christ and resurrection of Christ. We are saved by the resurrection of Christ, not by the birth of Christ. But without the birth of Christ you can't have the resurrection. And the birth of Christ was definitely prophesied and shown to happen, it's gonna happen, and so that is all part of God's plan. So I think the disregarding uh some part of it is disregarding some of the gospel. So I think it's important that we do recognize it and do celebrate it, but to what extent? To the commercially commercial extent that we have today? Probably not. Uh I think if we focus on you know what it means and and how we can actually impact other people, I think that's very important. Yeah, I I think kind of where I am now, as squishy as I am, uh I think where I am now is I do not make a huge deal about it. We recognize it. We have members in our extended family that make a bigger deal about it, so we we participate in some of those things, but at our house we don't make a huge deal about it. When our kids were younger we did do the decorations and all that sort of stuff in the house because the the kids liked it and that sort of thing. But now my kids are grown. We really don't decorate the house for Christmas anymore. Just not a a big thing. I'm not trying to diminish it But I got so soured to what you talked about, the commercialization of it. And I and I do one of our traditions we do have as a family is there's one area not far from our house where there's like a dozen houses in a row that really deck out, like with zillions of lights. Bunch of houses in a row. It's kinda cool. So we it's a thing. We we pick an evening somewhere around Christmas and we go drive through that neighborhood and see you know the uh that street and those houses and stuff. So we do that I guess But I don't want to I don't want to ever diminish or lose the the fact of the importance of the incarnation. I mean that's huge. So yeah, we're not saved by the incarnation, but to your point, we can't get to the death of Christ without the birth of Christ. But him condescending to take on human flesh go truly God becoming truly man, I mean, there's a gap there, a gulf of reality that I mean you wouldn't even think it's possible to span and yet he did. So we c cannot, should not minimize that. So I do want to recognize it But the Puritan view was, well, the Bible doesn't say it's it's a festival that should be recognized. There's no command to to celebrate Christmas. Uh I'm not sure there's a command to celebrate uh Resurrection Sunday either, actually. Uh you know, so uh kind of where I am now is I I think recognizing it for what it is is good. Buying into the commercialization sours me. Like I mentioned, those lights we drive past. It's almost all Santa Claus and snowmen and reindeer and sleighs and and uh well there's a star on occasion. There's stars, so there's that's good. And sometimes there's angels, that's good. Uh and every once in a while there's like a manger scene or something, although uh second commandment violation uh concerns uh enter for some people there of if whether you can never have uh uh a baby Jesus in the manger. Uh I'm I don't get caught up in that because I'm uh we're picturing Jesus in his humanity there, so it doesn't bother me, but sets an aside. Uh so as long as it's about like we do have the one thing we do and I'll stop silo my soloquy here in a minute, the one thing that we do, we don't decorate the inside of the house anymore, but we do have these little I don't know what they're made out of. They're they're like a really, really, really rugged, heavy plastic life size almost figures of uh of a woman and a man and a baby. And so when you put them and you put a spotlight on them it you know, the idea there is it's Mary and Joseph and the infant baby Jesus. And so there's a bit of a manger scene, if you will. So we do that. So if somebody's going to decorate and it's going to be religiously themed, I'm okay. And I used to be okay with the idea of the of the the Christmas tree for what it was supposed to be. You take all these pagan roots that are behind the the tanan bomb and all that And but they repurposed it for Christian reasons. I'm okay with that. But I feel like now the tail's wagging the dog. Yeah, we didn't take the tree and Christianize it. Now we've taken the Christian stuff and commercialized it. We've we've lost. You know, the the me the the reason for the season. We've lost it. It's about presence. It's about neighborliness. It's about love. Well, yeah, no, really, it's about Christ and the incarnation. That's what it's about. So let me put it this way. Um I I I absolutely agree and understand what you're saying. I d I do. Uh but let's go back to the Bible and when David was bringing the um um back into the Israel, the uh covers covenant. He was dancing with joy, oh yeah making spectacles. He was so joyful and so much overcome with joy that that the covenant, the gods y is is coming back into Israel. The Ark is coming back. That it was just he was beside himself and in fact so much so that his wife was embarrassed and hated him for it. And God punished her with a barren life because of that. So being joyful for God I think overcomes anything else. So if you're reason for the season is joyfulness in God and and God coming to here and and saving us and you're just celebrating and enjoying and and the relationships and your family and everything. You should do it with But if you're doing it To celebrate who God is and what God has done, that's one thing. But is that what most people are doing these days when they've got that that most people aren't Christians. Silly thing, uh you see those blow up versions on people's front lawns. It's nothing at all. But in in this country, more people celebrate Halloween than Christmas. So they're the same people. They're not Christians. They're they're celebrating because there's a there's an excuse to spend money and to and to do stuff they have no understanding of But there's a point in which you might try to mean well, but if you're sacrilegious Even if you're sacrilegious with joy, uh I think you can be in trouble. I mean the uh right before this uh the where David's dancing and the Ark of the Covenant is coming back, right before that they tried to bring the covenant the Ark of the Covenant back And uh they did it improperly and Uzzah reaches out to steady the ark so it won't fall off the ox cart, which it wasn't so the on in the first place. And what happens to Uzza? He's struck dead instantly. Whose fault was that? Uzza's David's David's It was David's fault because he allowed the man to touch the ball. And he was he was there. He he and he should have uh known how to carry the ark. That's uh was very clear. How the the Levitical priesthood Yeah, but he wasn't a Levite. The the Levitical priesthood knew better. Correct. But he was responsible because he was the king. He he the king every Oh yeah, okay, I'm not gonna let him off the hook, but but Uzzah's not uh let me say this, Uzzah's not dead merely because of David. He's also dead because of the lithophysical priesthood. He's dead he's dead because of himself. Right. I mean he he shares responsibility. Yeah, scrolls were read all the time. Well, that kind of thing. But anyway, so in the spirit of Christmas I if if if you're a Christian, a professing Christian, and there's no Bible in your recognition of the season, you're doing something wrong. Right? If it's about Santa coming down the chin chimney and spoiling Stephen's childhood, poor guy You know, and by the way, uh uh we handled that differently in our house. We our kids were not told uh such tales. And we got a lot of failure, that's for sure. And we got a lot of grief for it. From from family. Like we were killjoys and you're ruining the child. It's magical and it's like all that nonsense. But I gotta tell you I was able to play the uh the Christmas card with my daughter Uh I think I may have told this story once before to Imran. I'm not sure if it rings a bell. Yeah, uh you know, teenagers, they get to the point where they realize their parents don't know everything. And then they misunderstand and think that means that their parents don't know anything. And so it was one of those kind of uh disagreements kind of thing and she thought I was trying to cover my tracks on something by, you know not being forthright with her, being a little bit deceptive and dishonest. And I was able to look her in the eye and I said, Young lady Have I ever one time in my life lied to you? One time. How did we handle the tooth fairy? How did we handle the Easter Bunny? How did we handle Christmas? We told you the truth about all of that when there was a lot of cultural, societal, family pressure to do otherwise, but I would not lie to you. You think I'm gonna start lying to you now about this? Are you kidding me? And she did not have a retort. And so less important, I won the argument. More important, I won my daughter. So for any parent listening right now, I'm telling ya, Jesus Christ is the truth. He is the way, the truth, and the life. You need to be ambassadors for truth because then they go to college and the college professors are telling them that God's a fantasy, it's all myth. The earth is zillions of years old and it just came together by chance, whatever that is. And like, well, my parents lied to me about these other things. Maybe they lied to me about the big old grandfather in the sky too. Like you gotta be careful. And I would interject if you're Christians Don't send your kids to school or to college. It's not necessary. Well when somebody is, you know, older and they can navigate the minefield, maybe I'd I could somehow make an argument. But I'm telling you younger, you cannot send them to school. And it changed. Public school. Even private schools. Even private schools these days I've got I got I I I think if you really really change If you really, really vet it, maybe there's a rare private school out there that'd be okay. But I'm telling you, I had this conversation with my daughter recently, and because she now has a young one, and she's starting to think about what life's going to be like in a few years. And I and she said, But I haven't been out of school that long. I said, It changed it was beginning to overnight. It was beginning to change while you were in school. We barely navig thread of that needle and and only by God's grace did we. But right after she finished school it's like bang. Kinda Obergafell is kind of the beginning of the end. And then 2019 or 2000 what whenever the MLK celebrated, 2018 I guess. Everything went crazy. Everything just went absolutely crazy. So o'Burgefell uh cut the foundation of truth out of the uh the the biblical truth worldview. out of the picture anymore because it redefined what marriage is and it yeah that's a very foundational kind of understanding of reality. That changed everything, opened the gates wide and then boom the horses ran right through it as God said. On on MLK's uh anniversary of his death. And it has not it has not been the same and that's almost three years ago now. Or uh five years ago rather. So it happened about four or five years ago, where like you said, Emma, it happened overnight. Yep. We were still disorienting. And there were so many Christians saying it's gonna happen. We're going sliding down, slippery so slippery so for years, and people just didn't believe. And then uh all of a sudden overnight they wake up and like the world has changed. It is a different place. This will give you a little bit of a perspective of maybe what happened to the German people. You know, they come out of World War I, they're economically devastated, war reparations to the nations because of bad decisions of their previous government. And it created such a vacuum and then h look look who comes on the scene. You know, Hitler. And we're seeing what Hitler did to Nazi Germany. How do you it took him ten years to take over the nation. And then of course we know history about old. And he didn't have the internet. They did not have the internet. So they can move faster now. on happening overnight. That's the that's the that's but it's also happening on a worldwide scale now. It's not just happening in one country. This uh craziness is actually contagious It's a it's a social contagion as uh Ben Shapiro said. This is a social contagion and the more they push it, the more people believe in this nonsense and this evil and and it's a mental sickness that is contaminating the entire world. And part of why this was allowed to happen, kind of pivoting back to what the theme of the show generally has has been, is when we're celebrating Christmas, but not celebrating Christ. We open the door for all this folly to just take over. I mean, Europe hasn't been a a a a Christian culture for at least a generation. Uh America is no longer a Christian culture. I'm not sure when to peg it not being one anymore, but whenever it happened, it isn't one now And it wasn't when yesterday. I gotta figure out how far back in time do I go when I say yeah, that's when it was. I'm not entirely sure, but we're not a Christian culture anymore. And if we're not, meaning the United States of America Where is it? We were the last bastion really for it on a large scale. What so there's a there's a Did you just say a place by the way? I missed the No, I just said China and Korea are are still there, I think. I think China, the persecuted church in China is growing like crazy. Oh the church, but the but the culture there. No, absolutely. I mean we're we're we're becoming China. You know, you got you were you said earlier about you know, reading in the Bible. And I found in John ten twenty-two it says, At the time of the feast of dedication took place in Jerusalem, it was winter, and Jesus was walking in the temple of the portico of S of Solomon. So the Feast of Dedication is a very interesting time, which kind of coincides right with the time around Christmas. It's called the the Hanukkah, the Festival of Lights. And yes, it's it can be a very uh cultural Jewish thing, uh, because it's their history. But it talks about a very specific time when uh the temple was d uh desecrated. And a radical group of people came in, the Maccabees, and cleansed the temple and kicked the Greeks out and you know. So uh it's interesting that this is not one of the feasts of the Lord. But it's something that Jesus did attend. And uh I was looking for places where we could see some correlation. So I'm not gonna say it's a sin to recognize it's Lord Christmas. That is not saying it. That's not what I'm saying. I will say though, go take me back thirty, thirty-five years ago, I probably would have said that. I mean that's how much I've attenuated my position over the years. Uh so I'm not hung up on it, but I'm not hung up on it in the other direction either. I think you know, I I think it's good. I think the point my concern is and this is gonna be like some practical advice. A lot of people they will uh spend time with their family uh on Christmas morning and they might open up the scriptures and they might read the you know the birth narrative from one of the gospels or something like that. They'll read Luke or or something, right? And and and so that's a good thing and I encourage you to do that parents. Do that on the 26th as well and the 27th. Do that every day with your children. Read the scriptures with your children every day. Not just that one day. If you're doing it the one day a year, great. But do it the other days too. Recognize and celebrate the incarnation of God as fully human, truly human, the true God becoming truly human. Do that one day a year, but do it the other three hundred and sixty-four days as well. I think that's where my my concerns, my pastoral instincts kick in, like Even if we do a great job that one day a year, like I mean, what what is that? That's uh a fraction of one percent. That's like a third of a percent, not even a third of a percent of the year. Just like you were saying about Thanksgiving in the last show. Yeah, every day we should be doing some of these things. A lot of times you get these family gatherings, you can tell 'cause people don't typically pray before their meals. But on these Thanksgiving meals and Christmas meals and stuff, there's some pressure like the patriarch of the family is gonna say the prayer and it's this awkward thing oftentimes. It wouldn't be an awkward thing if the patriarch of the family is praying with his family every single meal. So that's my charge to you is you know make Christmas less awkward. Start praying with your family before every meal. Start celebrating who Jesus is every day. And if you want to give gifts and be generous, be give gifts and be generous all the time. You can steal this from us, my family, my wife and I We uh we we we have this uh uh r very random holiday that we call the Happy Day. And we celebrate Happy Day whenever she's out shopping or I'm out and about and I see something and think of her or she's out and thinks of me and she comes home with a gift. And we present the person with their happy day gift. Happy day! Saw this, thought of you. It's a random Wednesday in the middle of you know August, but here you go. Happy Day! And we celebrate multiple happy days a year. So maybe you could take that tradition. It's kind of the Christmas idea randomized. Any other thoughts for people to help them? We got about maybe a minute and a half left. If you got a a nugget you'd like to share to make Christmas really special, particularly for those where it might be their last one. I think it's uh a good time to have something in common to share. It's a place to to come together and say, hey, you celebrating Christmas, how are you celebrating it? Why are you celebrating it? It's an opportunity to talk to somebody. Because other times you may not have that opportunity to talk to them. So take it as it as it is. Most people are not safe. Most people are not going to heaven. Most people are are in deep trouble. So have a care for them. Have a concern for them and go and talk to them and see what is it about this season? Why are you celebrating it? You don't believe in Jesus, so why are you celebrating it? But you know what he can do? He can solve your problems forever, for the for eternity. And that's a very important time that you can make that conversation. I think it's a good good thing to have. Well very good. One last thing I I I uh I will mention, I hadn't thought of it and just popping in my head, but um the Charlie Brown Christmas Special isn't gonna be on broadcast television this year, but if you have access to the internet you can get the uh the Apple Plus. uh streaming service, which is typically a paid for service, but they are making the Charlie Brown Christmas special available for stream for free I think it's the uh three days before Christmas and the day of Christmas. So I think for four for those four days, you and your family, if you want to gather around and stream it. You can still watch it as a family for free. And the gospel is pretty much represented and shared in that. It's my favorite Christmas special. So there's some some uh a little tidbit of advice for you. Uh Steven Jurger, Imran Razley, I'm Froy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Till next week, 167. 5 hours from now. God bless.