This is the Frederick Fate Debate on Frederick's News Radio nine thirty WFMD, sponsored by Hilo Auto Sales online at HiloAutoSales dot com and tire prose of Frederick. And I've realized something about this theme music. This is the first time we're hearing this music without the announcer voice and all the preproduced elements going on. This music, if you're in an aggressive kind of a mood, it matches, and if you're in an aggressive kind of mood, it meets you there but then brings you back. Make you feel kind of good. Just just listen to this for a minute. That's good. I like it. It's uh Joe Statriani, Jason's favorite. Um he was really big time. I mean he might still be, I don't I don follow his career much anymore, but he was really big time back in the nineties. Uh he didn't play with uh Death Leopard or Poison or Matalic? I I only know him as a solo artist. Okay, so I I wouldn't know him. He said a long string of uh solo albums, they're almost all instrumentals. He's one of the great guitar players in the world. And um he does sing occasionally, but he should probably just be more instrumental. So anyway. The voices you're hearing besides mine, Dr. Jace Broadhurst, who is the uh senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church in uh Poolsville, Maryland of all places. And uh the senior pastor at a church in Dickerson, Maryland that's called Hosanna Worship Center is Pastor Howard Chuck Copeland the third. He goes by Chuck that those the those that know him and Howard by those he owes money. Exactly. Mr. Copeland to those that he owes money. There you go. So this is our fifth show in the series of shows on church relevance. Uh this will be the final show, so whatever you gotta get off your chest, this is the week to do it, guys. Yes sir. Pressure's on So we've talked about some historical things the church has done to be relevant culturally and whether or not that's been good or bad. We've talked a little bit about that. We've talked about the pressure that pastors feel about trying to meet people in their community where they are and the pressure to be relevant uh with what they're doing. Uh not just with their their preaching, although we did talk a little bit about that, but the the style of music, the decor, the um you know, all those kinds of things. Uh and then we began to place the word association on things that churches do in efforts to be relevant or to be fresh and new and exciting and and uh I've been asking the question is it is it good? Is it bad is it indifferent? And so far everything that I have brought up The pastors have either said, Yeah, I haven't really thought about it that much, but it doesn't really bother me, or oh yeah, no, it's a pretty cool thing. In fact, we do it all the time. So however, I hinted at something last week that I think we're gonna finally have some traction on pushing back against the cultural relevance uh of this. Um I what was it in the context of why did I bring it up I don't remember why I brought it up. But I somehow in passing brought up the idea of of the American flag being inside the sanctuary of church. I figured it was decor in that line you were talking about. It was just the general idea of decor. And so um I think and and I think the Jace looked at me puzzlingly when I when I first brought up, like, it has to do with church relevance. And I think it does. I mean, it wouldn't have anything to do with church relevance in Canada. But in America it does because we've so tightly connected this idea. We are the chosen nation now. We're like the new Israel and manifest destiny and God's on our side. In God we trust that we've We blended the two so much that if you're a Christian, of course you're patriotic, and if you're patriotic, of course you're a Christian It's like Church of England for crying out loud. You know, there's a story back in World War Two, um, you know, when when you had to register to serve in the armed forces Uh they would ask you next of kin, I guess, in your dress, you know, basically where can we send your bodily remains uh when this is all over and how it should be buried. So they want to know your your religious affiliation, and if the person didn't know how to answer or didn't have an answer or they were in a hurry and didn't even ask the question, they would just assume Church of England. Like every soldier from England was Church of England, whether they were Church of England or not. It's like that in America. If you're an American, you're a Christian. Of course you are. And so to drive that point home, we put our flags in our sanctuaries And is that playing to that, playing to that patriotic fervor that is is is good in so many ways and you know, uh having that that jingoistic attitude about things, is that a good thing for the church to do? And so I'll start with You, Chuck, what do you think? Well, I don't we don't have the sanctuary. I mean uh the we don't have the flag in our sanctuary and we never have, you know. Um we planted a church four years ago. And uh you didn't plant a flag? No, we did not plant the flag. And um the build the church building that we're in is you know the building was built in nineteen oh three. So it's a old traditional church. I d I think when I grew up, you know, going in that church before it was, you know like an old farmhouse style church or it's it's a A frame. A frame uh church building. And it's it's really nice. I think that they d when I was that could because it wasn't my grandparents' church before, you know, um it became uh rented out. And I think growing up they had the flag in there. But, you know, every church that I remember going to when I was a kid had the flag in there and I never thought about it, you know, um, one way or the other But, you know, after having talked to Jace, him and I talked about some things and you know, I I do understand how the um um the evangelistic, you know, um churches really kinda sort of um Blend the gospel with being American, you know, and you know, I'm a African American, so I'm a proud American, don't get me wrong. Um, but I have a different perspective on some of the you know uh some some views. I'm I'm I I love my country. Um I have family members that have fought that I know have fought in uh uh and served in every every war in the twentieth century, uh all the way back to World War One. I have a great uncle. But You know, and I'm I'm proud of that. You know, that I love my c I love the United States of America, but I don't think we're the you know, we're the end all be all and I don't think we're God's chosen people Now I wanna I wanna caution you both, you know, you already put it out there, so Jay Z you have to be more careful than Chuck because this is Memorial Day weekend afterwards. Happy Memorial Day. So be careful how you answer this question now Yeah. Chuck, you did that really well. Very soft, very uh pastoral, very loving. Yeah. Um I have to try and take some lessons from you on that on this subject, which is very infuriating for me. So how am I gonna say this call Yeah, I'm I am I'm so disturbed by what American Christianity is now. I am just so I I I know that if Jesus came back and and came into our churches, he would just he would be uh in and the most part just appalled at how we have connected nationalism and Christianity. Um and that it's just And and you know, if whether you have an American flag or not is not going to just determine that. Tons of churches have American flags that are they're perfectly fine. I'm kind of with Chuck though. I I would I would tend to remove those because there's so much of a connection today in that, I don't I don't want to add to that. It's very frustrating for me that that the Americ that American is th that patriotism and and Christianity get end up getting mingled. Jesus is bigger than this. He's way bigger than this. So We don't have chur we don't have an American flag in our church. We did when I got there ten years ago, um almost eleven years ago, and I did something well I don't know if it was the right move or not, but it worked. We slowly when I say we, I mean me, uh slowly moved it. We just uh you know, the first time they were on the stage and I let it go for a couple of months or so and then I moved it to the edge of the stage and then I moved it right off the stage, but still close to the same spot and then you know, next to the piano, next to the doors, outside the doors, doors closed. And eventually just wrapped them up and they're in the back. They're still there, uh but nobody can see them. And Jace Broadhurst method. And I I told them You know, a about a year ago I told them uh that I did that and one person had recognized that it had happened. They had seen it happening. So So it took a a year to get it out of the s get it completely gone? Yeah, I I'm the story is now legendary to some degree, so I don't know exactly but yeah, something like that I can see Jace, he's measuring where it is now to where I want it to be. That's Jace. That's three hundred So if I move it a foot every day Every day I wish that I was that it was more like oh that's been there a few weeks. I'm gonna I guess it's just gonna set it off the stage. It just moved it off the stage. And if we had handled that differently you could have had some trouble. Yeah, so I went out I was preaching in Bakersfield with a friend of mine, uh for a friend of mine who I did my PhD work with, and we had had the same discussion because he has the same concerns about this American nationalism and and Christianity and he'd said he would never, you know, be in a church that had it. And I and I came up to the pulpit to practice preaching that morning and the American flag is right there, right? Like and of course the Christian flag's there too. Nobody would just put the American flag. Right. And I was like, dude, do you see this? Uh he was like, Oh he hadn't even noticed that it was there. He'd been preaching there for like six to nine months or something like that. It just is part of the part of the you don't notice it. And he uh not quite so wise as I am, um decided to wrap that thing up and put it away right away. And I was I I was like, you know, I'm not sure that's the best move and and he did pay the price for it. I mean it ended up working out well for him in the end, but they had They had some elders' meetings and that was the topic of discussion and they thought about removing him and he was able to show humility and to show that he loved them and what he was doing there and it all worked out fine. But It just concerns me that we that we want to equate these two things. And I I just really think that um Jesus is bigger than that. He's not uh he's not a white Jesus, we said, right? He's he's not a black Jesus. No. He's not even in some sense a Middle Eastern Jesus. I mean of course historically he's a Middle Eastern Jesus. But he's b he transcends all of that. He's Jesus for all of us. Which is why I I do not mind. So I don't like the American flag in the sanctuary, and if I if it were my decision to make, it would be it would be gone as soon as was prudent. people to understand why we needed it out of there, it would be out of there. Uh but you know there are some churches that are self consciously multicultural, multi ethnic. Like that's their thing is they want to attract as diverse a congregation as possible. And to emphasize that point These are the churches you've ever seen anyway. Well they'll have a a million flags. Every flag ever created is on there hanging from the rafters and on the walls and stuff. And that doesn't bother me. In fact I kind of like that because it drives home to the point that he's the god of All nation. Yeah, so I kind of I kind of appreciate that. That's a lot of money buying flags. That's a lot. And I don't think that doesn't say anything about our own patriotism, right? Or our own love for our country. It simply says that Christian is bigger than that. Right. You can still i I mean you can still believe greatly in your country. My children still pledge allegiance. I and all that stuff is very important to me. We you know, we have our hand on our heart when the when the song is on. That's very important. But it's not Christianity. Now the problem gets even more exacerbated when it becomes not just about nationalism. But about politics. Yeah. And you have guys like uh is it Robert Jeffers, the guy from Texas? Yeah. And he's, you know, very political. He's uh he's one of the talking heads in all these you know cable shows and stuff. And I'm like You're a pretty high profile pastor. He has a radio ministry and he's got a really big church and he's you know he's a should you be doing it He can vote for whoever he wants. Exactly. If he wants to vote straight line Republican ticket all day long, or straight w in his case that's what he would do, I think. Or or straight line Democrat ticket. Whatever, but Do you really want to be out there as a pastor, a high profile face of the church and align yourself with a one political party so strong that it It makes me cringe. It really does. Oh, there's been some great discussion. I feel like we should do a whole show or an arc on on that question. Like Russ Moore over the last few months has been in just i in in the middle of this controversy. So Yeah. All right. Uh by the way, this is the Faith Debate. Uh, I'm Troy Skinner. Uh he's Dr. Jace Broadhurst from Poolsville Baptist. And Chucky Bailey from now on. Uh Chuck Copeland, he is from Hosanna Worship Center. in Dickerson, Maryland. So we're c continuing this word association thing. I got a couple more for you. All right? All right. The House Church movement. That's kind of in reaction to those who don't like the megachurch. They feel like that's not relevant for them and they want something small and intimate and fellowshipy, and so there's the there is a movement. uh a growing movement it seems to me. Uh increasing number of of people that are gathering in living rooms. Sometimes with the idea that it's the beginnings of what will become a it's a the early stages of a church plant. Mm-hmm In other cases it's no, we're just hanging out. We we kinda call it church, I don't know, nobody's been ordained, you know, we don't really have a pastor, but what do you think about that? It's very relevant for those people. Yes, they really have the the house church and the mega church, like on one side and the other. So you can really almost tackle both of these at the same time. I seem to talk a lot more, so I'll let you go. Well, I mean In my the way I look at it I think if you start I don't have a problem with the house church, but I feel as though, you know We need we need to be seeking to have the most impact on the most people, not necessarily trying to have a mega church, but You know, uh 'cause uh I've started in the house before, you know, and we had some powerful services in there, you know, some very relevant, you know, um that was different because, you know, it's in the house. There's no pulpit, you know, there's you know I I remember uh sitting down doing my lessons in a chair from and with my stuff laid out on a coffee table You know, and people were all over the room and then when church was over we would all eat in the in the in the in the family's kitchen. It was aw unbelievable, unbelievable intimate fellowship. Do you think that might be what the church was like nineteen hundred and fifty years ago? Yeah, I think so Without all the traditions and the things that we make sure we don't leave out the same thing. And they didn't have an American flag. Probably not. Well we have to check that out. We don't know for sure. We haven't done a research on that, but probably not. Well it wouldn't have had as many scars on it. Definitely not. I I think I think mega church, house church, they're all gonna have their strengths, they're gonna have their weaknesses. And I think that the job of the leadership in those cases is is to know what those weaknesses and strengths are. Mega Church is going to be m you know really well done and excellent in so many areas, but be more of a show probably. And and that's gonna that's that's a problem. You want it to be a worship service, not just a show. Um but they're gonna have a greater impact. They're gonna have different ministries for different people and and that's that's wonderful. if they can still make it a family, if it can still be a local church. And small groups allow that to happen sometimes. And and s you know, a small church isn't going to have as big of an impact perhaps in their community, but uh you know, twenty people who are sold out for Jesus, they can have an amazing impact. Yeah, I agree. you know, just meeting at Starbucks or hanging out and and sh and imaging God's glory to the world. I think there's a lot of beauty there. And they're a family. They know what's going on in each other's lives. Yeah. And they can encourage each other and hold each other accountable in ways that, you know, back row mega church people can't do as well. I I've been a I've been a part of a mega church before and um you know of course I knew I knew the pastor but I was in a lot of the different position than other people. He's he was a friend of mine, so I was able to go there. Um and, you know, when he saw me he could call me by name and when he greeted me, you know, I had I had his email address and everybody didn't have that. You know. And he and when he gave it to me, he said, Don't give this to every don't don't give this to anyone. And I'm like, okay All right. You know? Right. Don't give the rest of my congregation this email address. That doesn't sound like a megachurch they're not as much pastors, they're breakers. It just doesn't it Yeah. That would that would be more pastoral to say. They did. They did have others, you know, there. Um Of course I could call the pastor of that church and you know, he he's he was my pastor and he was a good pastor. Okay. But I I've never been able to figure out I mean Chase you how many people you have at Poolsville Baptist total, right? Probably but maybe a hundred and ten that show up. We start with eight people and you know, in four years it's probably maybe forty, forty to fifty, which is decent growth, you know, for You know. I mean we're not we've not done any big huge outreaches or anything like that um in the outreach and the marketing aspect of it Because I touched on the inter uh intercultural kind of thing where churches are self consciously trying to be multiracial, multicultural, and that's their thing. Yeah. And and a couple of shows ago you talked about how you bring your two churches, Poolsville and Hosanna Hosanna, together. Yeah. Uh on purpose, uh maybe what, uh six, eight times a year or something like that it seems like, based on what you've said like every other month on at least something like that. At least. Every other month. Okay, so maybe it's ten or twelve times a year you're coming together. So that's obviously you're making an effort to to blend cultures, blend identities to be more than just one thing. So compare that with a targeted marketing approach where churches are specifically going after that unchurched youth market. You know, those people that are they're college age are just out of college and they they've disappeared from attending church and so their churches are as self consciously going after that. I had somebody about a year ago uh flip this idea at one of the my opinion of it. Um and he called me flat footed so I didn't really have much of an opinion at the time. What do you think about having a a a church where the whole concept would be that it would be for old people? Like you would be purposely doing everything to make it comfortable and relevant for somebody who's seventy-five and up. Um Which was such an unusual question based on how we normally think about things that I was still prepared to think to answer. So what do you think about that? The a targeted market versus we're gonna be self-conscious about trying to target everybody. I think it does. I think I think the church is designed to um uh uh to encompass lots of Mm-hmm. then you know, and we're all Republicans or something like that, then then we don't have to do what the church has to do, and that is learn how to love each other. Yeah. And uh there's a lot to you know, I think seventy five year olds need fifteen year olds And I know fifteen year olds need seventy-five year olds. And and I need I mean you know, I'm a mid forties guy. I need someone who's seventy to feed into me. And I need I need people who are twenty five to keep me relevant maybe to this new culture to some degree. Keep you relevant, you said keep him relevant. Very relevant. Yeah, I feel him that all the time. I just mean uh I think that's the way God's designed the church. He's designed it for us to work together. Um for you know to be able to cry out to the heavenlies, Ephesians three ten, right, that God is wise in what he has done in bringing together this church. And he's showing it by these weirdos, these people who don't like each other, these people who really wouldn't hang out with each other on a Friday night necessarily, coming together under one banner that Jesus is loving. And king. Yeah, and I I d I don't I agree. I totally agree because I always say to people that like visit Hosanna and our our slogan is where love always comes first. And I always tell 'em, just come on in, you know, we're just a bunch of crazy Christians, you know, we're We're just gonna teach the word, we're gonna sing some songs and you know, we're not gonna be running around, falling around on the floor and sacrificing chickens. We're normal quote unquote normal people, you know, we all have our faults. We all have our you know, hurts, wants and needs, you know, but just relax and Try uh enjoy the service. This is probably an unfair question given the limited amount of time we have left, but i it is as quick and trite and you know one hundred and forty characters ish as you can do it. What are what what's maybe one takeaway that you can think of, you know, maybe off the top of your head about The the earthly ministry of Jesus and how he was culturally relevant to the world around him at his time. Is there something that he did with the Jewish Or non-Jewish people around him that you feel like, you know, that's Jesus purposely trying to be relevant to the culture to help them to understand who he is. Can you think of anything off the top of your head that that we could maybe learn from an example of Jesus? I know it's hard because now we have like you know sixty seconds. But so it's gotta be a quick allude to a story maybe or I mean all the parables are him trying to be culturally relevant, right? He's he's bringing in farming or work situations or things like that. So I think he wanted to to hit the people where they were, but I also think he was willing to uh to shock the heck out of them and to destroy the the way th they normally thought about things. Yeah. So, you know, he he attacked quite quite literally some people. You know, he was a radical. And I think the first thing I thought about was what Jay said, art of parables. And then You know, as he was talking it hit me. You know, Jesus he he kinda he pushed against the tradition. Well, there's a lesson in that. Let's not make people quite so comfortable, let's be radical. Sometimes you gotta figure out that balance is hard. I mean that's why we're discussing it. Yeah. The guy who's saying it's hard, Dr. Jaith Broadhurst from Foolsville Baptist Church. Um the the guy who was speaking right before that is Chucky Baby, uh Chuck Copeland, the uh pastor at uh Hosanna Worship Center, uh uh our sponsor Uh I said that I I like saying that now. No I'm not. I'm not sure. This this is the face. Thanks to our sponsor. Sponsors, Hilo Auto Sales and uh Tire Pros of Frederick, and thank you for this thing. Visit us online, WFMB. com, God bless