This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Brought to us by Putman, Plumbing and Eating. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner. I encourage you, please, and visit to visit us online at WFMD. com Keywordface. There you will find a Daily Monday through Friday updated blog, anywhere from one to nine postings. It all kind of depends on how many emails I get from you. So please email me, Troy at WFMD. dot com and uh if it's within the reasonable bounds of good taste I don't even care what the subject matter is I will post it. Uh I've I've I've posted pictures of dogs up on that website just because Sunday sent to it. Oh, I'm not sure why I've got a picture of the dog, but there it is Enjoy the dog. Speaking of the dog. That was my son. John. I thought he looked kinda like you, actually. I walked into that one. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Welcome. And uh the area chair of the C Twelve Group locally is Ken Gosnell. He's also uh pastor at Restoration Point Christian Church in Frederick. And we're here to talk about C twelve and and basically what it is to do business biblically. Um what CEOs and b and business owners should be doing to run their business the way the Bible would would ask them to do it. And we've the last couple of weeks we've kind of slipped a little bit into how that cross pollinates into how a church should run itself. So Jonathan scribbling down notes. By the way, so I don't forget, uh I mentioned last week toward the end of the show that I've been reading Jerry Bridges' uh Pursuit of Holiness. Uh she finished that Is it? Jeff Bridges? Yeah, walked right into that. Uh Jerry Bridges uh had a follow-up to Pursuit of Holiness. I enjoyed Pursuit of Holiness so much that I immediately went and read the follow-up to it and uh enjoyed it. Just as much. It's the practice of godliness. So that's appropriate for what we're talking about here too, right? Businesses are trying to I wouldn't walk over to the practice their business in a godly way. You as a senior pastor of a local church, John, are trying to lead that church in a godly way. By the way, I said trying because To lead that church in a godly way. Trying. Trying. Trying He's trying. So give him a break. Cut him some slack. Crying out loud. He's trying. I come here just to, you know, be healed because you take care of me. Now this is the fifth show that we've done with this panel put together, which is rare. It's not too often that we do five shows. But just to catch you up to speed on the things we've covered in the first all you gotta know, this is the last four shows in thirty seconds. Okay. Barack Obama and his wife made about eight hundred thousand dollars last year, therefore they're clearly going to hell. And Ms. Romney and his wife, their household earnings was like ten times or more than that, so they're doubly going to hell. That's what we've established so far, right? No? No. No money's not evil? Money's not evil. Yeah, now they're all gonna go listen to them because it sounds like really good shows. Politics. Business money. Making money is okay. Right. Well, if money's okay, it's not evil, then why can't John make some money? Why can't Crossroads Valley Chapel turn a profit? It should Well you can turn a profit, John. Well Frederick Forty Hill. Again, uh larger congregations would argue that they are kind of uh turning a measure of profit. Uh but they're they're passing that profit through if they're doing it right, both to larger numbers of people that are ministering also then to to the poor and the hurting you know that are in that community. Like that's where the money flow goes in the context of the church. And so um The reality is that a a holistic biblical worldview uh doesn't separate those things out but sees a seamless interaction between those that are able to be productive, upstanding, godly members of citiz uh of of this of the society and the church. And those that for whatever reason uh are not able to be that. And and there there's supposed to be a seamless interaction of those things. And so the question is how to how to take the break out so that it is seamless. So maybe this is what's driving a question that is very interesting to me. You know, what's the difference between biblical church activity and biblical business activity? 'Cause I think at the end of the day the more I think about Because we're using the term biblical, the more I think that there's there's not a whole lot of difference. And maybe because the churches have been so resistant to wanting to come across like their business Yeah. They're not as good at generating the funds, getting people to tithe the way they're supposed to. My mother who lives in another state uh goes to uh Big Mega Church. And uh a lot of churches do because not all of them do, but a lot of them on their bulletin they have like a financial status update every week. It talks about what their budget for the week was and what their giving for the week was and you kinda see whether you're on pace with what you're supposed to do. Right. And the number was I popping I was like Holy cow fifty thousand dollars they took in last week. Right. Dang, that's a lot of money. And so I turned to my mom, I said How many people are in that church? She says, Oh, I don't I think it's like twelve, fifteen thousand. I thought Oh, well that's less than five dollars a person. Right So they're not doing a very good job. I mean fifty thousand sounds sounds impressive until you realize how many people are only giving four dollars each. And this drives the heart of the matter. Once you attach the word biblical to what you do, then you're grappling with what is God's vision for how things should be done. What is the ideal that he intended way back when and how do we have the strength and the wisdom to live it uh you know, a holier level, a more godly level than we have. And I maybe you could almost argue that that, you know, the church is supposed to be the highest representation that but business, uh um science, um education uh the arts that all of those things the more that they move towards godliness, the more that they end up joining together with what the church is supposed to be. Absolutely which that's the point, it's the kingdom of God. That's why we use that word kingdom I spoke to it last week, you know, that that kingdom is this word that everybody's using that somehow what what we're preaching about should be like yeast that is that is making its way out to the entire community and And so I'm I I don't know that there's a whole lot of differences. You're producing a product and the product is designed to serve people and so you're you're you're wanting to do your best to serve But in order for that product to be good, it has to be done right. Right, absolutely. You know, and the same thing's true with preaching and with ministry. If you allow ungodliness to slip into your preaching and your ministry, then what happens is it it loses its effectiveness so that it's not no no longer doing what it was intended to do, which is to You know, uh call us back to Christ to uh to bring us into a place where we can grow in godliness and grow in holiness, all those things. And so One of the differences though is a m a a business is uh you know maybe it's not biblical business. I don't know. Yeah, this is the question but the way business typically approaches things is they try to identify you know, what a need is in the marketplace. And then they market to that need. Oftentimes it's felt needs. You know, that they're marketing to. game. So who was the church sent to? Preach the gospel to the The poor, right, but do you like but do we want to but should the church this is the this will be the question. So you're casting the demons out of the demon possessed, you're healing the marketing to the felt needs of of the people. Right. And I want marketing to the eternal needs of the people. Right, you turn a profit by speaking to their me their need right now. What they feel they need right now is what you're marketing to. So he invited you to stay for a fifth show so that Troy and I We could argue out in front of you so that we think the right way to be is. No, so that's what the that's what one of the arguments against the megachurch movement is, is you know they've they've gotten so marketing savvy and so good at speaking to the needs of people in the here and now that they kind of the the classic line from the the newsboys song, When is it ministry and when is it show? I don't know. I don't know. But this one thing I know. Your love is better than I love that song Yeah, so now you can I've alluded to a number of times if you're a pastor of a church now and it's it's a church plant, right? And it's a it's a young, growing, you know, relatively small church But you also were the pastor of a much larger church uh in in another state uh before you came to Frederick. Right. And so you have an interesting per and you planted another church before that. So you have an interesting perspective as a church planter, pastor of a current small church, but also pastor of a medium-sized, you know, larger church. And then after all that experience, you get into C twelve. I had other business experiences with the other. Right, but but now your exposure to C twelve, you've had to learn the C twelve curriculum and the C twelve methodology and all their stuff. Right. Yeah. Teach it and share it with other people. What have you learned as a pastor that is applicable for you as a pastor of a church? Well I think you know, I think the whole I mean, if you look at uh the thing that gets me excited or when I begin to really think about this biblical point of view. I mean it's all Trubbing coming back to what Jesus taught and what the scripture teaches us about how we should be living and what our per perspective should be. I mean if you think of let's just talk about pay for example. I mean the Bible talks very specifically as it relates to the church. that the ministry staff or the preachers should be paid. Okay. You know, that everybody can agree with that. That's why we have paid. Don't muzzle them th the the mouth of the oxen, right? Absolutely, right? So that's you are not receiving that Right now because you are by vocational. Okay. Um but much money. But but that's a biblical perspective. Right. Now that perspective bleeds into business, right? Jesus taught that a worker is due as wages. He told that parable of the guy that went out and got workers and some worked all day and some worked at the just the last couple of hours of the day and he paid them all the same. It was really up to his choice, but w workers should be paid. Right. And so here is the same perspective. It's being applied differently, but the it happens in the church. The church equips Mm uh business leaders and business owners to go out into the marketplace with these values and principles that they live out in their business. Which builds a better business and then it has an eternal perspective so that not only do they receive a better business temporarily here now But they also receive a business uh return on investment when they get to heaven, which is really what it's about. Because if we build a great business here, but we don't have that eternal perspective. So from a pastor or from a you know, from a church perspective, I would say that the best b business advice and the best business book that you could ever look to is the Bible. Right. That's where we're gonna get the best information that helps guide our thinking and our thoughts. Right. So once you once you make that statement that the best business book is the Bible and the best church book is the Bible, then then I feel like you're gonna start to find less and less differences in terms of the way that you're applying things. And that's the whole point is that you're looking for business owners that are going to do lead lead their business like Christ would lead their business. We're looking for churches that will go back to leading their churches like Christ would lead them. So we're not taking the world's business models and applying it to the church so that somehow we can be more successful. But who taking the church's mo that we're taking the Bible's models and we're applying the Bible's models to everything that we do. And I would say the question is what are the Bible's models? And at that point it comes down to where do you get your materials? Do you get your materials from you know from the Hilton? You know, do you get your your materials from from you know, like who is it that is that is taking your material and saying, okay, this this fit you know, like some some people preach and they'll say, Hey, these are five really great ways, you know, to to a parent. You know, and by the way, the the Bible agrees, you know. Uh which which is kind of a backward approach. Right? And so the danger would be that you go you go to Apple and you go to, you know, Hilton and say, Here here's some great ways that by the way the Bible agrees Or do you go to the Bible and the and and the Bible opens itself up and you say, Okay, we're gonna look to live this out because this is what the Bible teaches, and this is how we're gonna live. And then we know how your materials are developed. That's exactly how we do it. So who developed them this? Buck Jacobs? Buck Jacobs and our president Don Barefoot. Um also has been a sea. Is he Indian? No. No, he's a a guy who has a Background in poverty. But uh uh CEOs of companies, but they they do what just what you talk about. So we start with the b biblical principles or values. And then we look to who's practicing that. And maybe they are Christian companies. Maybe they're secular companies that are for w whatever reason they've modeled that By the way, what do Winnie the Pooh and uh little girl with no shoes have in common? They both have bare feet. But anyway. And they define that as increasing fruitfulness. Right. Integrity, core value number two. Uh they put it this way, we will not accept or excuse any breach of integrity. For value number three, camaraderie, spirit of unity amongst those that are working together. A joy we experience when we visit or speak together. Interesting. Spiritual growth. Commitment to unending growth in intimacy with in obedience to Jesus is the baseline. Fascinating. Innovation towards excellence. Strive to constantly push the envelope. Past the benchmark for exc excellence. Thankfulness. Never forget that all we have is a gift from God and finishing well, keeping the end in mind we press on, maintaining both eternal perspective and kingdom priorities as we pursue pursue long range stewardship. How different would that be from your well, how different would that be from your competitors? Others that do what you do for a living without a Christian perspective. Wouldn't they have Corvia say that we're about to do that? Well, I don't know. I I I I work for a company that's not a Christian company. I'm pretty sure I can vouch for that. And if you look at our at our company's mission statement and core values, it talks about serving the community and being good stewards and uh being appreciative and being a good coworker and all of these a lot of the s I mean the language would be a little bit different. That's a little more overtly religious, the language. Yeah. But the concept is is very much the same. And we would applaud that. We would say, hey, you got it right. You've got the Bible. When the Gentiles have the law show that the law is written on their hearts. I mean that's Romans two. Come on, you're practically a Calvinist, so you know you should know Romans. Well you're practically an Arminian, so there. We needed to just throw that out to the U. So our Starkly different from our competitors, although they might have some of the same values where they get it right. They still miss the mark because they don't have that eternal perspective. And they're teaching people to build a great business here on Earth and not think about the eternal perspective. And w the Bible tells us over and over again there is no profit, there's nothing good that comes out of just doing the temporary here and now. Right, because the world Is is shrewd. They're more shrewd in dealing with their own kind than the people of the kingdom are in dealing with theirs. And and so they're shrewd enough, But the things that work, they're they're taking from From uh cr all sometimes, not all of it, sometimes they find things that work that are just, you know, out and out thievery, you know, and manipulation and uh you know, behind the scenes uh uh uh things that are unethical. Right. Certainly, you know, and and immoral, you know, sexually immoral. There's all kinds of things that the world uses. Uh but like would you guys include that you would never use any kind of sexuality in advertising? Correct. Right? These kinds so anyways, coming coming down to I mean they might put me on a billboard or something other than that. Oh Troy. We let him on for five shows. It was your fault. It went to his head. You invited him back. Where's your wife? She would be the one that attends. I warned you. I told you this is a guy, he looks like he drinks early in the morning. Uh oh. You don't know what's gonna come out of his mouth. Early in the morning. Who drinks early in the morning? The guys that uh that were down in uh Brazil with with uh Obama's uh uh crew. Yeah, Secret Service guy. Yeah. Yeah. So s so the the point is is that apparently guys that are filled with the spirit are accused of drinking early in the morning. Oh, that's where the uh Illustrations. I'm just a pastor. I don't know if you're a good idea. By the way, just the pastor is Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Ross Rosale Chapel, and Cen Gosnell is also a pastor in the area and the area chair for the C Twelve Group. I'm Troy Skinner, this is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio nine thirty WFMD. So Troy, I'm wanting you to challenge the idea stronger That there's a difference between the two. There are some churches that are very thoughtful and purposeful about void uh avoiding the appearance of going after money. There are churches that need money. I don't know if your church has ever d uh But let's say your church has overhead, right? I mean there's you need money to to to continue to function as well. Yeah, we're thinking closely about that because we just entered into a rental agreement. Now would it be appropriate for you to do a car wash to raise money for the church? Yeah, it's kind of a A waste of time. I mean in terms of you're looking to raise money for cheaper. to market them so that people could buy them and you it cost you three dollars for the t shirt, you sold them for twenty five dollars, make a twenty two dollar profit that the church then has as income. Is that appropriate? Now I'm not saying that it's not. Yes. Let me get how I'm doing church leaders that would say I don't think that's appropriate. I'm leaving the forty eight hour fast to raise all the money that we possibly can. What's the website for that by the way? Uh well it Frederick48. org. It will be Frederick48. org, but it's not s the new the new website isn't set up yet, so you can't go there. Though I think you could go there and give, it just wouldn't end up uh going to the right direction quite yet. I laid that out for you and you just punted it away. Yeah. Because I'm not ready yet. We'll be ready soon. Here's how you do it just wait. Hold your thoughts. Okay, yeah. Got it. Don't lose it, because I'm come right back to you. Okay. Ken, uh if I wanted to go online and learn more about C twelve, what would what I do? You can go to www. c twelvedcmetro. com. See, that's how you do it. Wait, right. We we are two weeks away from being as prepared as you want us to be. Actually a month. We're a month away from that. So anyways, uh now my head's really confused about what day is today or not. Uh but all that being the case, um For that 48 hours, we're going out of our way to raise as much as we're I mean we are money focused that day Uh but and this is the question that Ken keeps going. That's not a local congregation. That's the the the that's the local service service organizations that have a Christian mindset. It's a little bit different than you as a local church. Jesus Christ, uh Matthew twenty-four and following, I think it's actually in Matthew 25, parable of the sheep and the goats. If you've done it for the least of these, you've done it for me. Right? And so the mission of the church is to preach the gospel. you know, to the poor, the hurting, the outcast, you know, to all nations and to make disciples and and and to do what? To to teaching them to obey Everything's not a good thing. Not the church going out and convincing those who aren't the church to give money. Well, but that's the point is that We're preachers of righteousness. It's right for everybody to do that, whether they do it for the sake of Christ or not, it's right for everybody to do it to support service organizations. But is it right for the non church to buy a t-shirt so that you can make a profit to support your church, not the service organization, but the church. Because it would be purely appropriate nobody would argue that a business There'd be any ethical issue with the business doing that, but it would be a problem for a church to do that. To make money by asking non-believers to buy a church at a profit to the church. Well again I feel like it comes down to what he was arguing. If that church is using its funds To do what Christ said the mission of the church is, which is preaching the gospel to the poor You know, and to the to the hurting and uh and serving, you know, the poor and the hurting that are that are in our midst. And they took up a tithe so that the the priests would live off of that tithe. Right. They didn't go ask the surrounding nations to give money so that you haven't done your study on that because the tithe went to the priests, which meant that there was spiritual ministry going on at all times to remind people about, you know, the laws of God and the money went to the poor and the hurting. And the priests were the ones that were s were responsible to do all that. Yeah, but the poor and the he hurting among God's people. Sure. So it was God's people taking care of God's people, taking care of God's leaders and his priests. It was God's people taking care of their their own. It w they didn't go to Egypt and say, hey, by the way, we need a little extra money to take care of the poor. here we we right the prince of the step for when they were at their most blessed at which point all nations of the world were coming up to Jerusalem and Solomon and they were being blessed by what was happening uh with Solomon and coming to get wisdom from him about how they should live their lives. So yeah They were going to all the nations of the world and teaching them to live right and to do what is right. to the Pharaoh in Egypt and say, hey, uh I got my hand out because we're needy, we need some money. They didn't do that, did they? Um you could argue that they certainly were were pressing outward in terms of building relationships with those that were there. I mean there there's a there's a mutual people came to them but but You know, Solomon wanted cedars from Lebanon. And so he sent he sent up to the to the guy that made those and and he said, Look, I'll pay you this money for this. And in the context there was a relationship that was built that all I'm saying is that there's a significant amount of influence is there. And so is he going out specifically just to do that I mean, again, I'm arguing this off the top of my head, but we're trying to get at what you know, what is the role of the church, and is there enough of a role there that you could say that business Well I think biblical business and biblical church there's end up almost being there's a significant level of overlap. I don't think anybody could argue that. The question is, is there any distinction I'm not sure that I'm prepared to argue it out because I'm kind of doing this on the fly. It seems to me if there probably is some distinction, but I don't know that I could articulate what I think the distinction is. Well, I think that the distinction between a church and a business is that the church is equipping people to go out for ministry purposes. That's what the church is designed to do. So you're equipping business leaders, you're equipping um you know, teachers, you're equipping everybody to go out and fulfill the ministry of the call. The business in itself is not necessarily equipping people, they're selling a product or service. So their business leader is equipped to because they've But you just finished telling us uh a couple of weeks ago that the best businesses train their people in their values and in character Right, but I'm talking about the quality of how they serve. Absolutely. So I'd say that was the same. I would I would just say the difference is on what we're they're trying to accomplish. I would say that the church back to the business perspective and going back to to uh Troy's idea. I mean let's say you have a bookstore. Many churches have bookstores now that they sell these books. You have a non believer come in, you go have them go to the bookstore. They may purchase a book. There's a markup on that book, supports the bookstore, supports the church. They've provided something. There's nothing wrong with that. Maybe there's T shirts in that sh in that in a bookstore. Uh they're in the church, in the church building itself. And so, you know, if you're providing a service or you're asking or doing it, you know, I think Paul said somebody said, Well, that guy's preaching and he's not preaching for the right motives and Paul says, I don't care as long as he's preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ, I can celebrate that. I don't care who gives to the local church, uh whether it's a believer, a non believer, whatever. Um if they're giving to the local church to help the uh ministry, then it's an effective Can you be a Christian businessman and uh and sell alcohol? As your mainly if it's water that's been turned into wine. Jonathan Sweister is the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Ken Gosnell is the area chair of the Maine Twelve Group. I just answered it. Definitively. I'm Troy Skinner, the senior past I'm the senior pastor of the Faith Debate Show. Well discombobulated now. Uh host of the Faith Debate Show. I want to uh thank our sponsor, Putman Plenwane Heating, how can we make you smile? Visit us online, WFMD. com keyword faith. Till next week. Thanks so much for listening. God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service. Because we believe you deserve it. Pum and plumbing, how can we make you smile?