Maybe we'll um This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. Less than one half hour learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in midst corner, weighing in with a master of divinities from Reformed Theological Seminary, the faith debate master of ceremonies. Troy Skinner, thanks for tuning into the Faith debate one more time, and maybe more times after this. Appreciate it so much. Uh last week we began a two-part message, if you will, on should the churches be open? Somebody asked the question, and so this question was answered. Uh and actually it was a year ago, but it's interesting how little has changed since this. So you heard the first half last week and you're gonna hear the second half is the answer to that question this week. So you m we might we might be picking up in mid-thought, I'm not sure. So we'll find out. Together here, right here on News Radio 930 WFMD. When the apostles were instructed not to preach in the name of Jesus any longer, they courageously and joyfully defy the authorities. That's in Acts chapter 5, verses 27 and 29. In the case of Daniel, it is worth noting that he didn't find it necessary to throw any extra punches toward the civil authorities of his day. However, notice that he was deliberate not to pull any punches either Daniel was committed to praying three times a day, with his windows open toward Jerusalem. This was in accordance with God's covenant found in 1 Kings 8, verses 27 through 30. The fact that Daniel's windows remained open was due to the substance of his worship, not the circumstances of his worship. In 1 Kings 8, verses 27 through 30, God promised to hear the prayers of his people, even if they were held captive in a distant land, as Daniel was, if they prayed toward Jerusalem, where the temple of God was constructed. As it pertains to the New Testament church, the substance of our worship is preaching, prayer, singing, and the sacraments. These elements of worship cannot be changed by Christians. But the circumstances of our worship can be changed. For example, gathering in cars and parking lots may alter the circumstances of our worship, but live streaming at churches service actually changes the substance of worship. This is because the Bible clearly commands Christians to physically gather together. For example, Hebrews chapter 10, verse 25 However, the Bible does not command where, when, and how Christians should physically gather together. Now certainly there are some distinctions between these biblical examples and the recent rulings issued by our civil magistrates due to COVID-19. But for the sake of this argument, we must all admit that there is most assuredly a legitimate biblical category for Christians righteously rebelling against a civil magistrate. And therefore, the task of those who desire to diligently obey the Scripture is simply to determine the proper biblical criteria for when it is both appropriate and right for Christians to rebel. Some of us may be tempted to conclude from the previous biblical examples that the common denominator in each of these cases was that the people of God were being specifically targeted. rather than Christians and non-Christians both suffering side by side. However, this is simply not true. In the case of Daniel, The decree of King Darius made it illegal for anyone in all of his kingdom to pray to any God or to petition any man. This decree oppressed those who worship the true God right alongside everyone else. And in the case of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, It was exactly the same. The decree of King Nebuchadnezzar affected everyone in the whole kingdom, even the pagans who worshiped false gods. However, it is important to recognize that when governing authorities remove civil liberties, Christians will always be affected more severely than others. And this is because we have been given clear commandments from God that must be obeyed. For example, in the case of King Nebuchadnezzar's decree, those who worship idols could simply add the king's statue to their list of false gods. Most of these pagans were polytheists, and therefore there was far less conflict in submitting to the king's demands. However, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were committed to worshiping Yahweh alone. Similarly, in the New Testament, the church of the first century, Domitian ruled as emperor over Rome, as cruelty. It rivaled that of Emperor Nero, statues of him were sent all over the Empire, and on appointed days feasts were held where the entire population was required to pass before the images of Domitian and bowed down before him as God. And once again, this was a blanket ruling It affected the whole population of the Roman Empire. But Christians were the ones who most frequently lost their lives due to their unparalleled allegiance to Christ. And so in regards to the social restrictions against gatherings due to COVID-19, although it is true that all Americans are certainly affected Not all Americans are bound by an allegiance to Scripture, which clearly commands that we gather for corporate worship on the Lord's day. In my assessment, it is nothing short of a tragedy to discover that some Christians in our nation actually believe that the only valid criteria for Christians righteously rebelling against a civil magistrate is if Christians are being exclusively targeted. If this belief were to be consistently applied to the Christians living in China in very recent years, we would have to say that these precious believers have been righteous regarding their decision to rebel against the civil magistrate in order to gather in underground house churches But they've been sinful regarding their decision not to submit to the civil magistrates by handing over their quote-unquote extra children to be murdered by forced abortions by the civil authorities due to China's one-child policy. When we speak of the importance of exercising charity, certainly we should all agree that holding a position that condemns any and all rebellion against the civil magistrates, so long as Christians are not being singled out. is far from charitable. If it was not righteous for Chinese parents to seek to hide their extra children from a communist regime which thought to murder them And I'm not sure I know what righteousness even is. And yet we must recognize that the one-child policy of China was applied evenly across the board. In other words, this grotesque law did not single out Christians. A further problem with this view is that if single out Christians Is the only valid criteria for righteously choosing to rebel? The civil authorities can simply do what they have always done through the church history They can pass a universal law that affects all people but harms Christians significantly more. And in order for Christians to have the biblical option of rebelling We must then be able to somehow infallibly discern the hidden motives of all the governing officials involved. It's true that in the case of Daniel, as well as with Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego There were malicious officials serving as counselors to the king who desired to see the downfall of this godly man. These wicked officials worked hard in order to influence the king to establish foolish laws that would affect those who feared God in much more significant ways than others. However, we only know the wicked motives of these civil officials because it's been recorded for us in Scripture In all fairness, these laws, although they were inspired by sinful officials who aimed at the persecution of godly men, actually affected all types of people, not merely worshippers of Yahweh. If anyone did not bow down and worship of the king's statue, they would be cast into the fiery furnace. And likewise if anyone of any religion Pray do any God, or even if an atheist petitioned any man other than the King Darius for thirty days, they would be thrown to the lions. There were likely many religious people at that time who urged one another to simply submit to the king's edict. Perhaps they said something like this. You know, the king, he's promised that the restrictions against prayer will only last for 30 days. Surely it's reasonable to simply be patient during this season as we seek to humbly submit to those who are in positions of civil authority In regards to our own civil magistrates, ruling against the churches during this present crisis, the reality is that we simply do not know what motives some of these officials had when influencing these decisions. As it currently stands, schools would will be permitted to open in California several weeks, if not months, before churches. And although parking lot services are now legal in the state of California, I personally just spoke with a pastor who does not have a parking lot and has not been able to gain permission for his church to use any other parking lot. So do the civil officials responsible for influencing this decision have wicked motives against the people of God? We can't say with absolute certainty either way. However, it's quite possible, especially in my state of California. Therefore, it's both unbiblical and illogical. to hold to the position that Christians being definitively singled out is the only valid biblical criteria for rebelling against a civil magistrate. Instead, the clearest common denominator found in each of the biblical examples of righteously rebelling against a civil magistrate is this. Both men and women who feared the Lord righteously chose to rebel against the civil authorities wherever those officials required them to quote unquote partake. of something that God clearly forbids or forsake something that God clearly commands. This is the only clear biblical criteria for determining when it's appropriate and right for Christians to rebel And therefore we must fairly consider whether or not the specific ruling in question requires Christians to disobey God's word. And so the question for us is this. Does God, by the agency of his word, command us to regularly attend church? The correct answer, of course, is an emphatic yes. This is demonstrated by Hebrews chapter 3, verses 12 and 13. Cross reference with Hebrews chapter ten, verses twenty-four and twenty-five, multiple other biblical texts, and the overwhelmingly unified witness of church history. Therefore, in order for Christians to forsake the gathering in a manner that is acceptable before God, there must be a biblical reason for doing so, and this biblical reason must be something more than merely chanting Romans 13 as an incantation and then framing the most recent document signed by Governor Calvin Newsom in California on our bedroom walls. Perhaps the current challenges we're facing require a little more complex thought than this. Again, we must recognize that Romans 13 says nothing about submitting to governing officials when their decisions are not righteous. And it most assuredly says nothing about submitting to governing officials when their laws require the people who are Christians to forsake something which God clearly commands. As a final note on this point, it's vital for us to recognize that as Christians in America, we're not subjects in a monarchy. Instead, we're citizens of a republic. We're not ultimately subject to a sovereign human official because the highest civil magistrate in our land is not a human official. But a document, the Constitution of the United States of America. And therefore, a reasonable argument can be made for Christians righteously rebelling against lesser civil magistrates such as governors, mayors, and so forth. in order to righteously submit to a higher civil magistrate, the U. S. Constitution, which clearly outlines our freedom of worship and the right to peaceable assembly, the First Amendment. In fact, it's only because of the courage of some churches here in California who exercised their rights under the Constitution to protest the unjust laws that were set forth by our governor that drive in searches uh the services are actually deemed legal by our so at this point it must be assumed That when all of this craziness began about two months ago, those who believed that it was the will of God that Christians forsake the weekly gathering of the saints for an indefinite period of time were either ignorant of the clear teachings of scripture, in which case grace and love should be extended, provided there is repentance, or they must possess some other biblical text in order to adequately justify their possession. And I firmly believe that the most legitimate biblical argument against churches gathering in the midst of this crisis is done in Exodus chapter 20, verse 13, the sixth commandment, thou shalt not murder. The sixth commandment when cross-referenced with biblical case law found in Exodus chapter twenty one, verses twenty-eight and twenty-nine, which addresses the issue of liability in the case of a human death resulting from negligence, uh provided that the negligent individual was previously improperly warned. Uh it provides a uh a strong argument For why churches should postpone their Lord's Day gathering during this season. From these two texts, Exodus 20, 13, and Exodus 21, verses 20 and 29 An argument can be fairly made that because the American people have been sufficiently warned about the dangers of COVID-19, we are each held liable in the sight of God for any negligent actions we commit that result in the death of another human being. However before We use these texts, texts like this as biblical support for a decision to abstain from gathering with the saints A person must be genuinely persuaded that the manner in which their local church is choosing to gather is more physically dangerous than other reasonable actions which have been deemed as essential. such as going to Costco and Home Depot, where people are quite literally standing shoulder to shoulder. As we have already discovered, the Christian simply cannot conclude from the scripture that church is less essential than any of these other activities. And as we have also discovered, an argument from Romans 13 alone is not sufficient. Therefore, in order to righteously forsake the gathering of the saints, a person's conscience must be bound that the manner in which their local church is choosing to gather is legitimately more dangerous than other activities that this person has chosen to engage in. If this is the case, the person could then rightly, fairly argue from the sixth commandment that the threat to the body due to the potential spread of the virus outweighs the threat to the soul due to the forsaking of the gathering for a prolonged period of time. All this being said As I have made clear several times to my own congregation, there is still at least one clear exception to all of this. Those who are physically vulnerable, the elderly, those with pre-existing medical conditions, and those who live and have close interaction with the physically vulnerable They have ample biblical support for abstaining from the Lord's Day gathering until the present crisis is further resolved. Of course, this assumes that these individuals are being honest and consistent. In other words, if a person maintains they cannot attend church, but they are engaging in other activities that possess uh uh a similar degree of risk for contracting the virus Then by way of their actions, this person is displaying the fact that they truly believe the other activities that they are choosing to engage in are more essential than meeting with the risen Christ on the Lord's day. Again, in the spirit of charity, we can assume that any person who is making these kinds of choices is acting in ignorance rather than blatant rebellion against God. As a final thought on this point, it's worth noting that my own church canceled six of its Lord's Day gatherings despite my strong position on the subject. Believe it or not, I actually think it was biblically right for us to cancel our Lord's Day gatherings for the first few weeks of COVID-19. This is precisely because of the legitimacy of the uh the opposing view, which stems from the Sixth Commandment When the coronavirus first came on the scene, it was extremely unclear how deadly the virus really was. Therefore, as far as we knew at the time, the threat of the to the body due to the virus really could have been substantially greater than the threat to the soul due to the forsaking of the the lords they gathered for a few weeks. Due to this possibility, it seemed as though the Scripture's command not to forsake the gathering was superseded by another command in Scripture, namely the command to esteem human life. However, as more data regarding the actual risk of the virus was collected, and more Lord's Day gatherings were missed by our church, I began to believe that the risk to the soul had become greater than the risk to the body. The majority of our church's elders, including myself, We're of this persuasion after missing about three weeks of church. However, it took us some time to practically figure out how to resume our Lord's Day gatherings in a safe and reasonable way, especially since our state governor still considered indoor services, outdoor services, and even dried-in services as illegal at that time. All in all, we ended up live streaming our services, which is absolutely not church, for six weeks But if we had been more diligent and courageous, I believe we could have cut that number down to four or five. I want to be honest about the fact that I too have personally failed as a pastor during this season. Now he's got one last section called closing remarks. Before we do that, we're gonna have I guess our final thoughts on closing remarks. You wanna make Well let me look at the time. I'm just gonna read though. I was gonna uh jump ahead and then come back to this. Let me just finish this when I give Dina her phone and we can go through the Facebook comments what that might be there because she can't follow along while I have her phone. So his closing remarks. As stated in the beginning, it is of the greatest importance that Christians on both sides of this argument exercise an extra measure of charity toward one another at this time. This is especially needed in a nation like America where arguably the church has never before had to seriously consider rebelling against a civil magistrate in a manner like this. That is not to say that our civil magistrate has never done anything unrighteous throughout our nation's history. However, examples of wickedness, such as ethnic-based slavery, did not require Christians to participate. Even more heinous examples of wickedness, such as abortion, still allow for Christians to practice what the Bible clearly teaches as righteous. There can be no debate about at least one thing. This is a very unique situation with far more uncertainty than any of us would prefer. Courage for Christians is desperately needed in this hour. But true biblical courage never comes at the expense of charity and a genuine desire for unity among believers. Again, this kind of charity does not mean that there is not a right answer to the question we currently face. As Christians, we must not only uphold the inerrancy of God's word, but we also must uphold the sufficiency of God's word. We must believe that the Word of God speaks to all situations in life, especially crisis moments such as this. And furthermore, we must believe that whenever God speaks, he does not speak out of both sides of his mouth. One day when we all stand before God, we will come to realize that some of us got it right while others got it wrong. In this particular situation, it's likely that everyone has gotten it wrong, at least to some degree or another. However, as those who esteem the reality of absolute truth, we simply cannot say that two contradicting positions are both right at the same time. Therefore, we must each study the scripture for ourselves while seeking to be taught by the local elders that God has sovereignly appointed over us. in order to come to a clear biblical conviction on these matters. There are many positions in relation to this crisis that have no biblical merit at all. However, there are still at least a few positions which an individual may take while staying well within the boundaries of Christian Orthodoxy. Therefore, our tasks should be to challenge one another to take a reasonable position with sufficient biblical support as we seek to do this. It is both appropriate and even right to attempt to persuade others to hold our own position because we are convicted that it is the right one. However, as we lovingly seek to persuade one another, we must do our best to suspend unfair judgment during this difficult time and diligently work to avoid falling into the deadly sin. A self-righteousness. And and Christians should diligently press into Scripture, press into prayer, rely upon the illumination of the Holy Spirit to understand what God says in His Word. But also then, of course, seek out the biblical counsel of those ordained leaders, the pastors of the churches. I mean these are the men who have been tasked specifically with wrestling with these kinds of questions. And we need to and we need to uh Maybe help them and uh encourage them in that wrestling. But the the point I'm trying to get at here is those are the people to be wrestling. The ordained Christian leaders are the ones who should be making these decisions. And if an ordained Christian pastor who's uh and and his board of elders, ordained elders, are making a decision for their local body that the best thing for us to do is X You know what? As long as you're trying to darn just be faithful to the scripture, we can agree to disagree, and we can debate that and Like the the the letter I read says, we get to heaven, God maybe will tell us which one was right or maybe how both of us were wrong. However The governor, the county executive, the mayor, the president of the United States for that matter, is not in a leadership position in the church. They are not ordained by God to make decisions that affect worship in the church. And so if the civil government makes these decisions for the church The church, I would agree with what I read tonight, the church has a right to figure out how to civilly be disobedient to that so that they can be religiously and spiritually obedient to God So, yeah, there can be a difference of opinion, but those opinions should be within the body of Christ, particularly at the leadership level within the body of Christ, and shouldn't be the civil authorities dictating to the church how and what they should do. Um in in in our area, for example, there are some churches that are gonna be allowed to meet, but they're not gonna be allowed to sing. If a local church wants to make that decision, I would argue the merits of that with them, but there's no way the civil authorities have any ground for making that kind of decision for a religious gathering So that will be my firm position on that. And uh we're gonna have one more um session related to the coronavirus thing next week, but it's gonna be a little bit less about unpersonally uh worldly movies and uh a little uh open into an interesting question. If Jesus were walking the earth right now Will it he or would he not be wearing a mask? Interesting question. So I look forward to sharing that with you next week Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMB. com. A service of partners in care. Upscale resale boutique in the Willow Tree Plus.