This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table grab bag with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the good doctor. Is there a doctor in the house? We are out interviewing young people about whether they go to church regularly Or not and if they don't do you guys attend church regularly? Um not. I don't know. I don't either. The faith debate is on the world wide web at WFMD dot com, the keyword faith, sponsored by high low autosales and tire pros of Frederick. Well, I go because well most of the time my mum makes me go. I'm just an ac agnostic. I just don't believe in um I d I don't really believe in um but uh I'm not I'm not passing Christian. So if your mum didn't force you, would you go? Not mum? I'm not particularly a Christian. I get to church about twice a year. In this corner, weighing in with a Master of Divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary mix Master Troy Skinner. In this corner, weighing in with a PhD from Westminster Theological. Theological seminary, the good doctor. Jeez brought her. Do you attend church? Uh something? So it's not regular on a regular basis now? I used to until about the age of nine. Why did you stop? It wasn't very entertaining. This week in last we opened the face debate with man on the street interview responses revolving around church relevance. Now some of the responses revealed a cynical attitude toward the church. Some want the church to do a better job of teaching. Some said they just don't go to church unless they're forced to. Pastor Howard Chuck Copeland III from Hosanno Worship Center in Dickerson, Maryland was on the show for the first time last week and he's back again this week. During this week's show, we're going to talk with uh Chuck and Jace and me. We're going to have a conversation about what's going on in the American or even just the Western Church, what that landscape looks like. Again, we began to do that last week, we're continuing this week. Churches seem to be seeking to be relevant, but to whom? People on the street don't seem to believe the church is relevant to them. Why would this be if the churches are trying so darn hard to be relevant? Is all this effort to be relevant working? Is it even a good thing for the church to be trying to be relevant? Perhaps the key, as we began to touch on in last week's show toward the end, is for the pastors to be feel comfortable among the people that they're trying to be relevant to. So is that the key? We'll pick up there. Uh Jace gets to go first this week. Jace Broadhurst, what do you think? Uh that was a lot of information you just gave. All right, so let's see, what do I think? Um Yes, so are we supposed to be relevant? I mean we're supposed to be relevant. What does that mean? That's a much bigger question. Um Chuck had mentioned last week that you know he wants when people come into his house uh sorry, into his church, well his family's house. Um He wants them to be comfortable. And you know, then he kind of backed up a little bit. He said, Well, I want them to feel welcome. And yeah, I'm and I agree with both of those things. I want them to be comfortable and I want them to be welcome. But you asked the question, who were you know Who is it that we're trying to be comfortable? And he said everyone's gonna be comfortable. We want everyone to be comfortable and he meant everyone be welcomed. And I I just I struggle sometimes with that thinking. 'Cause obviously I don't want to make someone uncomfortable. I don't think come into the church and now we're gonna just, you know, make you feel guilty about stuff and ruin your life. Uh of course not. At the same time, I want to be faithful. And I know he does too. And sometimes that might mean people feel uncomfortable. Um in fact I I kinda wonder whether maybe they shouldn't feel a little bit uncomfortable, not because of the people in the pews, not because of the personality of the pastor. They should be loving and welcoming and reaching out to them. But sometimes the word goes out and it and it cuts. Um and in in fact for my congregation I think that. I I want my congregation to come in and and be wounded a little bit. Mm-hmm. And also to be healed. Never to leave without being healed, but I want them to recognize What uh you know, I want them to see sin. I want them to see the story that Jesus has solved, that he's taken care of. And that way they feel the guilt, the true guilt of sin. Um not just you know, not Baptist guilt or Catholic guilt, but but they realize that they're wrong and and they've confessed and and then they feel grace and they they can be loved. So comfort Just the word always just kind of struggle. But I I get it. Like I want them to be comfortable too. We have pews that have cushions on them. We're not trying it's not a torture chamber for anybody. We we try to sing songs that people actually enjoy. But we don't make it too co so like Stephen Furrick, um Elevation Church, fantastic church, uh it seems, I see his little clips all the time. He um He has no problem playing like a a U2 song at the beginning or uh Metallica or something like that that an everybody anybody can sing to. And I I might be misrepresenting him here on which songs. I just mean he's got some secular music in there sometimes And it allows their you know, it's connection. The people can come in and then connect and then they would sing some Christian music. And of course he gives the gospel. So it's his way to be relevant, to kinda uh make it an easier transition in. And I appreciate that. I mean I'm I'm glad for that. And then we've got the other side of things, you know I feel like I've talked a long time. Like the the Mark Devers of the world, which m maybe not everybody knows, but they're local in this area, DC area. And everything's still organ music and um and just very high, very uh But it's still the the sermons are still very relevant, but it feels it feels older. Mm-hmm. But They have one of the youngest congregations, like everybody in his twenties, and they're totally attracted to it. So how do you figure out, you know, do I have to be hip and cool um in order to make things comfortable for people? There seems to be that they're gonna come to both of those things. Maybe it's something different. Maybe it's not the style and the comfort level and that kind of stuff. Maybe it really is what John Maxwell said, right? They gotta know how much you care before they how much you love or whatever that or know before they how much you know. Before they care how much you know. Yeah, there you go. No. Well you still didn't get it quite right, I don't think any but I think it's just a lot of people. That's what it is. Yeah. That kind of idea. And now n not challenge the comfortable by having, you know, uh wooden pews with stakes sticking out of them to the freaking one of the behind or something like that. I went to church in Africa for a year. I lived in Kenya. Those pews are torture ch I mean Yeah They're not they're not balanced, first of all. One little kid Okay, you don't care about that. But yeah, there's there's splinters sticking up. Church service is definitely uh Like you used to c whip yourself. Yeah, you just go to church and say you mentioned two different pastors with very different approaches to how to try to be relevant to the culture around them and they're both having successful ministries. Mm-hmm. So it doesn't really matter. Are we worried too much about this We just do what we do as best as we know how to do what we do. Yeah. I assume when you say successful you mean numbers, and certainly that seems to be the case. I I'm not just talking about numbers. I'm talking about having um being held in high regard by people. They're they have a good ministry. They're they're doing a good job. Yeah, they happen to be successful with numbers, but you know what, and Jason and I've had this conversation before. I don't know if it was on the air or off the air, I don't know, but you know, pastors aren't tasked with growing the size of their church. Right. Yeah, they're tasked with being faithful to their call as pastors. That's right. That's it. And if the church is going to grow, it's because the Holy Spirit's moving and causing it to grow. So in those cases, apparently the Holy Spirit has caused those churches to grow Uh perhaps. Yeah, I mean I think there would be some sort of debate on that. I think verdict has has taken a lot of heat. Right. Okay. Uh a lot of flack for that from people in the other on the other side of things and certainly you know the Because he's watering things down too much in their opinion. Yeah. Or he's you know he's bringing in that other music that's not not Christian or whatever that means. And And the same way the other direction, you know, uh these these uh m Mark Dever or John Piper or something that's very more traditional in that sense. Yeah, uh Andy Stanley has just come out uh in the last year saying, you know, this is They're not doing not they specifically, but that style is wrong. You know, that that expository depth and all of that stuff. They're not they're not getting where people are. He would actually say expository preaching is a cop out. It's too easy. I was like, Oh my goodness. Too easy. It takes twenty hours to write one of those sermons. And I think Andy Stanley's fantastic I mean I listen to him. You asked last uh last week, you know, w do you you steal things from these people? Of course I do. Absolutely. Yeah, sometimes they they've really got something going. I did a whole series based on Andy Stanley's and I think I made it way better than his, but um he's a better speaker than me, it still worked out better. But but I made the I made it more exegetical, more expository Andy is is uh Charles Stanley's son. They have very different styles. Very different styles. Yeah. And I assume they still like each other. I don't know. I I sure yeah, I I think they had a bit of a falling out there for a while, but I think they uh I think they're Yeah. Copacetic once again. Yeah. The the uh making people comfortable, in my estimation, a a at our church, in in in my way of thinking, doesn't have anything to do with not preaching the word in season and out of season. I mean you have to rightly divide the word and and whether you know when it you know, I'll tell people I'm getting ready to step on your toes. And then I go You know, allow the Lord to, you know, use me to say whatever He wants me to say. Um and, you know, some folks, um You know, I y I guess if you're if you when if you feel like you've been called to the service of the Lord in in this way to to to stand as a pastor, you have to be ready to tell people the truth. You know. And you know, not worry about like you said, you know, kinda lead the rest to the Holy Spirit. You know, now I do personally Uh and I and I train my leaders. Listen, when people come in, greet them, you know, make 'em feel comfortable. Because some places you go into, people are in their own cliques, they're making sure they get their own seat. You know, the seat they sit in every Sunday. And if you're sitting in that seat and they get there they they're not happy about I mean those these are the things that folks encounter in churches. Sometimes um if you're not dressed like the rest of the congregation dresses and you enter a a a certain church, you know, m you know you may you may encounter a little bit of uncomfortability, you know. And I think it's it's just from my perspective, I think it's important for us at Hosanna. I'm not, you know, saying what anybody else should do because each church is different. And I think what you do in your church has to do with who you're trying to who you what who you who's your target. You know, he said I'll make you fishers of men. If I'm fishing for catfish in the Potomac, I can't go out there with lures 'cause I'm not gonna catch catfish. I'm gonna catch bass. If I'm fishing for catfish I want chicken livers or totally lost now I don't know or anything uh you know chicken livers or or or or nightcrawlers and I'm gonna pull in the bottom feeder. You know, so I think You both brought up things that I want to actually pick up on and bring them together because I think that they they complement each other. By the way, this is the faith debate. Worship Center in uh in uh Dickerson, Maryland. And Jace Rodhurst is the pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church, and I think that's in Poolsville, Maryland. Yeah, they named it well. Yeah. And I'm Troy Skinner, and uh this is the Faith Debate on WFMB 930 AM on your dial. So Jace talked about the pastor uh using music and he thinks that maybe one of the songs was a U two song. I know there have been churches that have used like nothing but U2 music as like an evangelistic kind of a thing to bring people to the church And uh and then Chuck talked about knowing who your audience is. It's like targeted marketing kind of a thing. And so here's how I'm bringing the two together. I've gone to uh a a number of um contemporary Christian artists concerts over the years. And one of the bands I really appreciate is um a a band called a group called Mercy Me. And they have it's I think it's every concert now, they open their concert with a secular song that either was popular in in a secular environment in spite of having a Christian message, or it's a secular song that in the context of a Mercy Me concert takes on a Christian uh vibe and feel to it. And that's a pretty cool thing. But they know their audience, they know the people that are coming there like that kind of music because that's the kind of music that Mercy and Me plays just with Christian lyrics. And so it all kind of works But a church that plays U2 music or, you know, Metallica or something like that, there aren't going to be very many, you know, blue hair old ladies that can resonate with that. There aren't going to be very many people at Chuck's church that are going to resonate with that probably So again we could st who are we tar who are we targeting? I mean the music is so important. You know, there's a person I know he works here at the radio station and I don't want to uh call him out because people might know him, he might not appreciate this being out there, but He picked his he's been going to the same church for years. And he was church hopping at once uh in his life and looking for a church and he made up his mind that he and his wife and his kids, they were gonna worship in a church come hell or high water that had a drum kit That was like his thing. He visited churches until he found one of the drum kit and said, This is home. This is it. We're staying here. And as it turns out it's a pretty good church, so he he kinda got lucky maybe. So they beat the gospel unto him. Um But that matters. Yeah it does. If if people are expecting an organ and you don't give them an organ well this church isn't relevant to me So again it gets back to who are we trying to be relevant to? Are you can't try to be everything to all people. No, you can't. Or can you? And if we're trying to be hyper specific on how we try to be culturally relevant, is that where we're We're we're dropping the ball. I I think uh obviously you can't be everything to everybody, that uh certainly true. I do think it's the job of leadership to um to grab hold of each each group in their church to some degree. So for instance in a sermon, I I s I sincerely think about these are different age groups here. There are different ethnic groups here. There are things that I can say applicationally that would fit for each one of those people. Um and I don't always pull it off, but I I those are things I think about. Same with the music. Like we try purposefully to do hymns for theological reasons as well as practical ones. Like, yeah, we do have seventy year olds who only grew up doing hymns, and if they're only singing Mercy Me then there's no there's no connection for them. They they worship better that way. And so we want to have a hymn or two for them, in addition to we want to worship with the rest of the church, like the body at large. throughout history, that's why we have salters as well sometimes, things like that. So I do think we can make connections with all of those. I think it would be really bad I've actually had people leave the church because I make too many eighties references, right? And they didn't understand them. They hated the eighties. They don't like the eighties, which I just like, you know, fine, then get out. I don't want you any No, I didn't say that at all. Um but but that's I didn't think that I made too many. I tried to make sure I put just as many John Wing references as I think. They said they didn't understand uh um my illustrations. So and uh generally that's not going to be the only reason that someone was so there's something deeper than that because I my illustrations range all over the place. And they were awesome, right? Yes. Of course there are. Actually some of them some of them have a lot to be desired. But but anyway. Yeah, I think music is is extremely important. You know, um my goal, you know, because cause from the beginning my desire was to have a multicultural church. I'm not You know. I don't want everybody You know, but you can't please everybody. But you do have to pick a direction and stay and stick with it. And I think like Jay said you do have to kind of consider um your congregation because before at the beginning I had people that were um trying to take my music the music at our church down a direction which was more like you know, the old school gospel type music and I don't want to sing that kind of music. I want to sing songs that people hear on the radio. I want to sing praise and worship songs that people, you know, are um um more apt to sing and feel, you know, uh uh a connection to God through the song. You know, instead of you know, we sing hymns from time to time because I love hymns. I love 'em. But I don't I don't want to you know, make it Chuck's church. You know, I I'm not you know, the music's not for Chuck, you know, it's it's but I I I do I'm I'm with Chase, you know, you have like There are people at my church, older older Christians, that really love to sing the hymns, and I love to sing them too, because I was raised with listening to those. And some of those hymns got me through some of the worst times in my life Literally, you know, especially once I gave my life to the Lord and I knew what I was singing about. You know, um but I think uh I I I work with the praise team at our church and I've I've uh once I got it out of the hands of the people that were trying to take us back to the nineteen seventies, you know, with music. I I I I started taking it more towards the Mercy Me type s type of music and, you know, uh different artists, Fred Hammond, um Israel Israel Hallman, you know, people people like that. Um Um um and and I really, really um think that it's important for people to be able to come in, you know, and fill another even for some of the older ones, some of the songs we sang, they were kinda like, mm, okay. You know, but when when when we start, you know, adding different songs of the same genre, I want songs that I feel like everybody can kinda sing along with, you know. And not feel like oh well I'm in a black church or I'm in a white church or I'm in this church or I'm in that church. It's been funny because our Jace and our our our churches, our praise teams, when we come together, we do it about once a month or once every other month, we have one service together. We have a joint service and at first it was really different. It was different for them, it was different for us. But now out of the out of all of the groups in our churches, the praise team the d the two praise teams, the two music departments, we're all the closest. Out of all the people, besides me and Jace 'Cause he can't really sing, but you know. Thanks for putting out. Great illustrations though. Yeah, it is important to have contextualization, to understand your environment. And to and to speak into that context, know where people are. I mean, I've had opportunity to preach a number of times, and if I know um more than where I'm gonna preach, but I know the who's likely to be there. If I preach there before and I kinda have an idea of who's gonna be there, or preaching to a known uh uh audience of listeners. That does it affects how you prepare. Yeah, absolutely, because I can oh I this part is for this person or that or this contingent of people. Absolutely. And so that's all important. But I'm wondering uh kind of the question behind the question earlier Is the church spending so much time worrying about the color of the drapes and the flavor of the coffee and whether we're gonna have a drum kit or not? We're spending so much time on that that we're not spending as much time as maybe we should on the things that are truly going to be relevant because the gospel is relevant to everyone, whether they want to acknowledge that or not, right. So are we spending enough time figuring out how to hit them with the gospel, penetrate their lives with the gospel, expose them to the gospel, teach them the gospel? expound upon the gospel. You know, every every five minutes that you two as pastors spend worrying about, you know, are we gonna do an up tempo song or a or a down tempo song is five minutes you didn't spend Working on a better illustration from the nineteen seventies instead of the nineteen eighties. Very nice. Apparently I'm in a room full of older people here. I don't know. Yeah, of course we spend too much time talking about dumb things sometimes. Um and some some of those aren't dumb things. Like the color of the grapes is important. We we redid our whole thing and In fact, we had some very important people too um that take care of that. Um and and that's okay. That's fine. But I'm not sure that's the pastor's job to figure all that stuff out. Yeah. You did say something in there. You know, we're it's the I think that's one of the reasons, especially in the smaller churches, um, you know, under a few hundred people, I think it's really important that the preacher is a pastor. Like that you like I know my congregation. I know everybody by name. I know what's going on. I know what the illnesses are. And yeah, we're you know, we're less than 150 people. We might get 110 people. We're not we're not a huge church. We're in the middle of bullshill. So But I preach to those people. And yes, it's podcasted. Yes, it's YouTube. Yes, uh uh we have guests all the time. But I'm I'm preaching to my hundred and fifty people. and other people are kind of sitting in and hearing it. And so I know where they're where they're at. And so I I preach for that reason. If I go somewhere else, I you know I have a few sermons that are stock sermons that are bigger and Just more generic. More general. But I I mean I can even bring people's names up in sermons. Yes. And I think that's very important. I don't know how the mega churches do that so well. I have no idea But I'm not against them. I'm just saying it's just harder to touch that might be a different series of shows, the whole Black Church movement is I know that I'm probably not cut out for that, but I don't know. God knows I I don't want the ch my church to stop growing, but I just can't see me pastoring people that I don't know. Yeah. How how does that happen? Right. Well we're gonna put a bow on this in a second. So um we're gonna continue the the dialogue. There's so much more that could be said that probably needs to be said, and so we'll do at least one, maybe a couple more shows on this topic, uh if you guys are willing to I'll be here next week. And it's interesting. I had b by the way, this is the faith debate that's uh Dr. Jace Broadhurst from Poolsville Baptist Church, and we're joined this week by uh Pastor Howard Chuck Copeland. I I think on your website you do have the full Howard Chuck Copeland III on there, which is why I keep talking about your website for hotel and working service. But within the body of the show I keep calling you Chuck, but everybody calls me. But I mean if I mean your Howard Copeland. Howard Copeland Third. Middle name's Charles. I was the third, so they had to figure out what to call me. My grandfather was my dad was Charles and I'm Charles Alright, well oh thank you and thank you for listening and thanks to our sponsors, Hilo Auto Sales and Tire Pros of Frederick. Till next week, God bless