The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. Yeah, but you know, I've been at these stations for a long time and who cares what they think, you know? That's that's my motto. What are they gonna do? Take the show off the year? Oh they might. Actually I care a lot what they think. This is the Fate Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. Those uh laughing nervously behind me are uh David Forresey, Daniel Rasley, and Imran Rasley. We are all Pastors of churches in the area that happen to be house churches. There's three different churches that are represented here. One of them is on the north end of town up by Thermont One's in the south end of town is looks at like the Knoxville area. Is that what a Brunswick? What is that considered? Yeah, probably more people know know Brunswick, but yeah. Okay. And uh and then there's uh Household of Faith in Christ, which is mine, which is pretty much dead center in the county. And you can find us online at household of faith in Christ dot com and learn more about us and what we're all about, and you can reach out and it was mentioned to me that I should suggest to you that we would pray for you. And I can't promise that, but I know Imran will. So if you need a prayer, you reach out and uh and we will pray for you, uh including Imran. So Um my email, my cell number, it's all on our website, household of faith in Christ dot com. We've been talking in recent weeks about family matters, marriage. Children. Last week was talking about learning disabilities and how to raise children with that. And this week we're in a transition to sibling relationships. By the way, something I meant to mention last week. It's gonna be a little out of context in this case, but oh there's research out there that would seem to indicate if you don't know the name, I think his name is Samuel Blumenfeld. Do you know that name by any chance? Uh he's the he's the guy that kind of turned me on to there's this research that indicates a lot of people that have uh what gets diagnosed as dyslexia uh is is was caused by trying to learn how to read whole word as opposed to through phonics. So if you've got a child that's struggling with their reading and struggling therefore just academically in general, maybe you want to go back to square one and work on training them up in phonics and see if that doesn't help it and I always say nip it in the bud. Don't let your child learn how to read whole word. Help your child to learn how to read phonics. So and if you do that, you'll have well-adjusted children who will get along well as siblings. We're talking about uh a bunch uh last four, five, six weeks now. We've talked about a series of materials, books and things available through Conquered by Love Ministries. They have a website. uh conqueredbylove. org and the RASVIS uh founded that and and run that. And they've got a number of books, several dozen books that are out there. And four of them are called Conquering Sibling Rivalry, How to Have Children Not Fight. That's not fair. Conquering jealousy. Chores. How and why to teach siblings to work well together on chores and sharing and contentment. So those all seem to fit in the sibling uh area. I know that last week w we we got a little bit one sided as far as the number of voices uh that that uh got a chance to participate. So I'm gonna start this week with uh David and make sure you have a chance to uh to get a few words in, a few licks in before, you know, the the other three of us just run off with the show. All right. Was it five kids? I have yeah, I have five kids and uh I guess just for context's sake they are we have we have a set of twins and then and then three they were first and then three kids after that and so we had five kids within five years. Uh so they're all really near an age. Any rivalry? No, none at all. Um you can tell us how that happened. How do you have no rivalries? Uh Uh I grew up in a family though where we were pretty spread out. They're uh my sister and I are very close in age, but then my other two brothers five years down to the next one, then five more years down to the next one. And uh so the The family dynamics I think are pretty different in in uh situations where the kids are spread out. Easier when they're spread out or harder when they're spread out? Uh well I wasn't my parent, um but uh I I think they were probably more difficult just from thinking about my experience and and I'm very good friends with all of my siblings now. Uh, but we w we didn't really become closer I I mean I'd say even really like get to know each other very well until we were grown ups. And sort of all on the same stage of life in that sense, married and having our own kids. Right. Um, but all of my children know each other really well. They're very good friends with one another, uh partially because of that closeness in age and um but I mean even even there, like our our our twins, the oldest are are girls and our youngest is a girl. And uh and so there's there's just those few years distance that um you know, sort of make it make it hard for them to to connect sometimes. But uh I I guess I guess first I say like siblings are a great thing. Um I think I think it's probably uh He says that 'cause he's conc concerned they're gonna listen to this show. I think it's uh I think it's a huge benefit to uh to kids to have to have siblings. Just like um you know, I think with uh You know, w getting getting married is a is a huge benefit because it's a lot of work and it makes you grow up and mature in a lot of ways and learn things about yourself and relating to other people. Same thing about when you have kids and then if those kids are able to have siblings and more relationships, you know, there around them that is good for them. It's And as I've been talking to some people recently and you know, people who think that the world has lost its mind and they're like, you know, what can I do? And I and if they're young enough, I say have babies Because long you know, sitting Christ doesn't return in the interim, the the the long haul strategy here is to outnumber them. So if you're if you're a good solid You know, right thinking, particularly if you're a Christian. Uh, have babies and lots of them. And you'd I think we would all be shocked at what the world would look like in forty years if all the Christian families had ten kids. And all the secularist, you know, knuckleheads out there didn't have any kids. Or killed their kids. Right. Yeah, exactly. That would be transformative inside of a generation. But the problem is so many believing families don't have a lot of kids either because I get it. Back in the day when it was an agrarian economy it i it was a little easier perhaps to understand why you would want to have fifteen or twenty kids Now it's hard financially to have a a lot of kids. I get it. But uh you guys have a lot of kids. You figured it out. We're doing our part. We got thirteen kids. And yes it is expensive, but the thing is, who's providing for the kids? You or God? As soon as you give it over to God, God will provide, then the rest doesn't matter. So you have thirteen and That means there's lots of divvying up for the chores, right? So that m is that easy when there's thirteen kids to divvy up? 'Cause they don't have 'cause I I was an only child for fifteen years until my my sister finally came along. And so for fifteen years I was the only one doing the chores. I feel like that was maybe harder for my parents to motivate me to do my chores than it would have been if there were twelve others to share those duties. It's helpful helpful if there's several kids, particularly if you can pair them up And so what we did, my uh my mom uh did is she ri made charts and you know, they would rotate. So you have a rotation and you'd pair up with one sibling for the next day or so and you do chores that day with that person and then you switch up with another person the next day and you do chores with a different person every day and every time you do the chores with a different person. So you learn to do all the different chores. It's not just, oh my job is to do the dishes and somebody else does the laundry. No, I learned the dishes and the laundry and all the other things. But we did it with different person each time. So that avoids children just becoming uh attached only to one sibling and they go only get along with that person and not anybody else if they're spending all the time with that one person because Children that work well together will play well together. So if they can learn how to work together and the rules were you can't just do it by yourself and and and before the other person gets there. You've got to actually do it together. And you both have to pitch in on this chore and then you rotate with another person. So now you learn how to work with every single one of your other children, uh other siblings, and you get along with them. So chores are a really, really great thing for teaching sibling relationships. Do you do something similar to your house where the kids uh take turns who they're doing chores with? That's a cool I never heard uh we we do have a a tour rotation. We don't have a rotation of teams. So everyone is learning to do Yeah, all of the various types of things. Does that ever lead to fights where the kids are like, hey, I'm doing more of the work on this chore or So and so did a really bad job cleaning the toilets last week and so now it's my turn to clean the toilets and there are some of my kids are are definitely more critical of uh of others. Have have they have various standards sometimes. And uh Yeah, so that's that's that's an issue. That's something that uh that they have to work through. It's not fair. Well, life is not fair. And we don't treat our children the same. Not one child gets treated the same as another child. Uh just like we tolerate should just like flowers. Some flowers need shade, some flowers need sun, some flowers need a little bit of both. We can't treat them all the same, otherwise they will die. So we treat our children differently. And I I see a lot of I mean a lot of kids say, Oh that's not fair, you did this for that per and And a lot of parents they don't know how to respond to that. They're like, uh, okay, yeah, let me make it fair by doing this. No, don't make it fair. You shouldn't make it fair. Let me write you a check, give you some reparations. Exactly. God doesn't give pr uh uh treat us all fairly. Well you know, uh not not all e equally. So there's a difference between being um equal and being equitable. And uh I think we have that problem in in society too. A lot of people think, oh, they need to have equal of everything, not uh be equitably treated. And there's there are there they're two different things. Yeah, th there's a there's a story from back in the nineties and I've said it a number of times over the years, possibly on this show, once upon a time, I don't know. Um but there was a special teams football player for the Dallas Cowboys in an in an important game like in November or something in the playoff push and he He made a dunderheaded decision or whatever and ended up turned into a turnover, a fumble or something. The other team recovered, ended up scoring and the Cowboys I guess lost the game. That part whether they won or lost, I don't know, but it was a major blunder. I think he they lost the game. And so uh uh Johnson. What was Johnson's first name? Jimmy Johnson. Jimmy Johnson was the coach of the time and Jimmy Johnson cut the player in the middle of the season, which doesn't typically happen. uh unless they do something like in their personal life, drugs or spouse abuse something like that. But for a mistake on in the game, you don't typically get cut in the middle of the season. He cut him and and he got kind of called on it by the media or they tried to call him on it in the media. Saying, uh Coach Johnson, I mean you cut, you know, Mr. Dunderhead over there because he's a special teamer. I mean if Emmett Smith fumbled and you guys lost, you wouldn't have cut Emmett Smith. I mean you're you're playing favorites. You're you're treating your players differently based on their station within the team kind of thing. And his answer to that was I thought brilliant. He said, No, let me correct you. I treat all my players exactly the same individually. Like That's the flowers idea, right? Yeah, I treat them exactly the same. As individuals have different kinds of needs and different sorts of different roles and that sort of thing. Right. Yeah. So when they're uh saying it's not fair Is it as simple as just saying, well, life's not fair? Or do you have to kind of sit down and have one of those daddy talks with the little one and say, Well, let me explain to you how the world works or like it's Well it's age dependent, right? So it depends on on where they are and their the things that they'll comprehend. Um but I but I think it begins with um you know, even even before you're able to even have conversations. Um part of it too is is, you know, uh making it clear that The majority of the s decisions are you know, are mommy and daddies and that's that's fine and that's that's right. And so, you know, I give you this cup and I give you this cup and That's fair because that's what mommy and daddy decided to do. That's that that is that is a good thing And really, uh, I don't want to treat you fair i i because I want to love you. And loving you might be something different than loving uh uh one of your siblings. And we've had uh we do examples. I mean for example, if it was fair, here, why don't you uh there's thirteen there's fifteen people in this family. So here's the pot that we had to cook dinner in. Just clean one fifteenth part of this pot Because that's fair, right? Don't don't clean the others because you want to do it for somebody else. And the baby gets gets milk for dinner So now we're only gonna drink milk. Everybody. Nobody gets any meat. Nobody gets any vegetables. No dessert, just milk today. That's fair. That's that's fair, right? And oh the kids start laughing. Oh no, that would be crazy. You're right, it would be. That's why we treat everybody differently. And the biblical thing there, God gives everybody unique talents and abilities and situations in life, right? One person is is uh born and and they're gonna grow to be, uh, six feet ten inches tall and make billions of dollars playing basketball and somebody else will be born and they're only gonna be five foot two and basketball's not gonna be in the cards for them. Well that's not fair. Well And so God doesn't isn't fair in that regard, right? But he also doesn't make mistakes. Right. That's true. Yeah, and we've got examples of sibling rivalries going awry in scripture. From the beginning. Very beginning. So Sibling Rivalry um uh books, the ones we have, are really the our best selling books for our ministry. Wherever we go, they're the most in demand our um you know, uh when we do a speech, that's the most in demand speech or a conference talk that we do is civil rivalry. Because it seems like if you have more than one child there's gonna be rivalry. Why? Because we're always striving. Okay, God built us to strive. We're going to strive and try to achieve and try to be better, and that's a good thing. It's not a bad thing. The difference is we need to change who we're going against instead of our sibling, change it against sin. We're gonna strive against sin, but strive together, be on the same team. So we have to readjust as we're going to strive for something or strive against something, strive against sin, strive together with your sibling and conquer together. So because we're designed to strive, to achieve, to grow, and to conquer things Let's do it together. We just have to realign what they're fighting and what's going on. On that note also, sharing and contentment. I've had so many people say Now, Jimmy, you must share with your sister. Here, take the ball out of Jimmy's hand and give it to Susie. That is absolutely the wrong, the worst thing you can do to Jimmy. You're undermining his faith in you that you're going to protect him You're undermining his uh his his con not not his contentment, his his um I'm supposed to be missing the word, but his uh his feeling of being safe and being taken care of and being loved because you're taking something out. It's a security. You're you're you're damaging the security. The less secure he feels, the more he will act out So what we do with sharing is totally different. We've told many, many parents, taught many parents, and and it's worked and come back with high praises on this, is look They don't have to share. But when you're done playing with that ball, then Susie would like it. Okay? And Susie just gotta wait. And you know what? If you never get a chance to play with that ball. So let's say if it's a swing set, we're at a at a park and Jimmy's on the swing set and he's swinging. When he's done, you don't have to share, when he's done, Suzy can get a turn. What if he never gets done and we leave? Will that keep Suzy out of heaven? Absolutely not. So it's okay that Susie did not get a chance to be on the swings and Jimmy hogged this the entire time, but Jimmy became more secure And he's more likely to share on his own accord because now he's secure and wants to share, wants to give, because we want our children's hearts to be in such a way that they want to give and love as opposed to Kind of hold on. The more you take away, the harder they're gonna hold on to their whatever they have, because they feel insecure. It seems almost counterintuitive because it goes against almond almost any any and every childhood experience I had, and yet it makes total sense because you think about it, forced sharing involves theft In Well Steph, I've I'm if I'm gonna force David to share his phone with you and he doesn't want to, I have to steal his phone from him to give it to you. Oh taxation. It's called makes it makes sense actually, but I don't know. It it also teaches Suzy something different too, right? Because But when if if you force Jimmy to give it to Susie, whenever Susie says, Oh, I want that toy Well now you're teaching her to be jealous, to be uh discontent That's why the book is called Sharing and Contentment. Because you need to teach sharing, but you need to teach contentment also. And if you teach sharing by making people discontent No, what when really really little their language skills aren't? Because I've seen this with toddlers, let's say, right? And somebody's playing with the the fun musical toy that lights up and has all bells and whistles and the other kids, ooh, and they want to go take it and they start Yanking it from each other. And already she's content. She will wait. And if she doesn't get something, she will wait patiently because we've taught her that way. And uh And what's the method there? How do you communicate that with a pre-verbal child? Oh you children uh yeah, let me let me uh Push back a little bit on that on that s question. I know what you're meaning, you you know with a very young child, but I wouldn't say pre-verbal. An infant that's five days old knows what words are and they understand you. They understand very, very well uh uh m far mu mu far more ahead than you might think that they understand worse. The difference is most parents don't uh assume that their children understand what they're saying and so they either talk baby talk to them or they don't use full complete sentences. I use complete sentences with my baby. When we we uh when she was hungry, I said, Oh, are you hungry? And at uh a one month old she said, hungry, hungry. She was actually mouthing all the syllables for hungry. And it meant what what what it meant. And she would use uh uh we she didn't always use complete sentences, obviously. She used sign language, she can like say a word here or there, but we always use complete sentences and talk to her like she's an actual person rather than a dog or, you know, s somebody that's not that that doesn't have intelligence. But with all that, yes, when somebody's playing with something and I can see my baby wants that, I'll say Oh great. Yeah, they're having fun. Let's watch them. When they're done maybe we can have a turn. And if it's looks like it's gonna be a while, I'd say, Oh, let's go let's go try this thing and we'll just go and do that. I'm not going to wait around for her to say, okay fine, I'm I'm happy about it now. We're we're just gonna go ahead and do it and we'll find something to be happy about. If you act excited and in and and and all about some other thing that we're gonna do, the baby would quickly shift their priority to whatever you're excited about. Because you can instill that in the baby. Um I absolutely agree and and one of the things that Daniel said, you know, being able to speak that early is is rare Because the vocal cords are not not uh developed well enough and and many babies cannot do that. Now Daniel's a baby was born with a tooth, so I think she's a little overdeveloped already. But that aside Um we taught our child our babies sign language. When we would say something, we would sign it and they would understand. Uh the child children nur sign nurse, sign more, sign thank you, sign please before they could speak And they will communicate very well. So pre verbal, yes, they can still understand a lot. And as Daniel was saying, if you're as a parent or as the caregiver is are excited about something, you can easily shift their attention to something else. And we don't use no. No, you can't play with that. You know that. Hey, Bobby's playing with that right now. We'll wait until Bobby's done. If he's not gonna be done, that's okay. We'll find something else to play. And boy, this is gonna be really exciting. Let's go try this. So always it's gonna be a an alternative t instead of a no. So hey in instead of saying no, don't do that, say let's do this instead. Because children spa and as you said, pre verbal, you know, we see no, we understand what no means, but children really see in pictures. But they don't see the w a picture of no. Yeah and and and we learn that through the special needs uh training with our son, uh no is a trigger word for him, and not for the reasons you would think, like he doesn't want to be denied something he wants to do. No. No conceptually is a c can be a confusing word. because there's no action that is connected to it. So if you if they're pressing the button on the remote and you want them to stop, then you need to say stop Because there's an action like oh cease doing. But no is like the answer to a question, a yes-no question. You didn't answer I didn't ask a question. Why are you telling me no? Like they're not thinking those that sort of thing. give uh give the the put on action, right? So if uh I mean even when our our babies were crawling, you know, if they're crawling towards something that uh that they shouldn't be getting into, um, you know, you can uh you can say, you know, do this and said I you know, even if it's something as simple as you know, is there uh something uh y say walk away, you know, is a uh is a phrase that we've used with with kids at at different stages. Uh you know, and it that basically communicates, you know, you you know, choose something else. You know, choose a different direction. Um and back on the on the sharing thing, I you know, we W you know, we we did things very similar to the the way you all talked about, um, Daniel and Raz. Uh I it's just you're you that are left out. I mean you're me because I was an only child for fifteen years and one of them was typical development, so I didn't have the The only the only thing I that I would add and maybe you all did this too, but just sort of uh we also like in encouraged our our children to um to notice notice the desires of one another. So, you know, if uh if someone is Um I guess one way that we would encourage sharing is we would say, you know, like you can see that someone else would like a turn, you know, maybe maybe do this for a few more minutes, you know, enjoy it for a few more minutes and then Uh yeah, and then and then you know, and then offer it to the But when you're ready, and I I wouldn't yeah I wouldn't tell the child they had had to do that unless you're not gonna be able to do it. it was something we had made a plan ahead of time. Say we're gonna go over here, everybody's gonna get a turn, it's gonna be five minutes each, and they already know before they start playing with it that that's what they're gonna do. But if if somebody c usually the the steering conversation comes up once I want that. It looks fine. I want that. No, I'm where I'm w I'm playing with it. Him mommy, he won't give me a turn. Yeah, that that's that's more of a discontentment on the child that's complaining rather than but what we will say is If somebody really wants to be a jerk about it and say, look, I'm playing with this forever. Okay, well as soon as you set it down to do anything else, you're done with it. You can't say, Oh, I'm holding this, I'm eating dinner now, but I'm gonna play with it afterward Or no, I'm gonna I'm gonna set the Lego down, I'm gonna go play with my uh you know uh my robot set for a little bit and but I still have the Legos in my left hand. No, you're You're playing with something else now. So the other person needs a turn. And that's gonna put a wrap on this week's show if you're running against the o'clock. This is the faith debate on nine thirty WFMD. Find all of us, connect with us online at household of faith in Christ. com, of course the radio station's website as well, wfmd. com. Till next week, 167. 5 hours from next