The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. Welcome to the Faith Debate. Good Sunday morning to you, if you're listening to us on the radio anyway, if you're listening to a podcast. Good day to you, whatever day it happens to be Thank you so much for joining us. We hope that our show is a blessing to you. We uh we appreciate so much uh the support you give. Just by uh clicking on podcast links or turning on the radio station to hear what we might have to say. And what do we have to say today? Well lots of things to be said about what some are calling the revoice movement, because there's an organization called Re Voice. Basically if you don't know what that is, you don't have to. Here's the deal. Is homosexuality a sin? That's the question. Can someone be a gay Christian? There's a question for you. Do you know the term side A, side B Christianity? Well you heard them now, and if you don't know what they mean, well maybe we'll explain that to you too Here to do all that with you this morning and with me, David Forcy. He's the pastor of a house church on the south end of Frederick County. Also joined today again by Daniel Razby. He's pastor of a house church at Meets on the North End of Frederick County. And I'm the pastor of a house church who meets in the center of Frederick County. My church uh is called Household of Faith in Christ. We have a website, Household of Faith in Christ dot com. There you can connect with uh all the stuff that's related to what I'm doing, which includes this show, and these guys actually. So you want to learn a little more about uh them and their churches and stuff, you can access that through Household of Faith in Christ. And of course you can find the Faith Debate information not only there, but also at WFMD. com. So we've been uh jumping around and and normally what we might do, those who have been longtime listeners of this show, and if that happens to you. Thank you. Appreciate your support. Um We had a tendency to do arcs uh uh for a long time where we would pick one, maybe two topics and talk about those one or two topics, you know, three, four, five, six shows in a row kind of a thing. And uh the last few weeks we've been w doing some radical we've been sh stripping the gears and burning out our clutch, uh bouncing around different topics, and that's because we have these conversations You know, Imran who's not here today and Daniel and David and me, we've had some conversations off the air about the show and different things we want to talk about. And I started making lists and lists and lists and I started realizing, you know If we just tackle like one of these as an arc, we can only do, you know, ten, twelve, thirteen topics a year. And we already have a list of like fifty. So we got like topics for the next rest of our life kind of thing. So maybe we just start doing these a little bit quicker. And so a couple weeks ago we talked about authority, who gets to make the rules, you know, what gets to rule our worldview. Last week we talked about deliverance ministry, whether a Christian can be possessed by the devil or one of his minions. And uh this week we're talking about Homosexuality. So we're all over the map on on these uh this this one's kind of a hot topic, right? This one's big in the news, big in the culture. Well you would think it should be self explanatory. I mean not too long ago everybody was was pretty sure what the Bible said on the topic and now there's a lot of people that call themselves Christians that are also gay. Yes, well define your uh your your your your definition of calendar terms there. You said not too long ago. How long ago is not too long ago in your world? In two thousand six our president Joe Biden, who was not president at that time, but in two thousand six we have tape of him saying marriage is between one man and one woman, that's how it is, and that's how it should should stay. And he doesn't support anything else This is two thousand six. So when we were we're recording this sixteen years later, this is not a whole long time. Yeah, the reason I asked was because I There's been a uh uh let's see if you guys agree with me, there's been this undercurrent. You know how there's like the the the undertow at the beach, you know what I mean? You don't really see it from the surface, but you feel it and it's like pulling the ground out from underneath your feet Yeah, that I think there's been kind of an undertow that wasn't all that visible that was affecting the culture, affecting the church. And then the dam broke and we were all able to see that undertow when the um O'Burkafell or what was that uh that judgment? Oberkafell. Oberka uh in two thousand eight twelve, thirteen okay. That's when Yeah, 'cause it was after uh uh Barack Obama 'cause in two thousand eight He was more traditional in his view on this question. Right. And then that and then that decision comes down and all of a sudden he changed his position. Right. He had these like political but that's my recollection of the timing of it. But anyway, that was like, okay, party on. But I remember back in the nineties even though there was a lot of bubbling up and it was and people were trying to tamp it down and and trying to The the arguments were made in kind of a soft way because you could get away with it, or people felt like they could get away with it. Well, we're just gonna pat you on the head and send you on your way and and we'll be fine. And I think that that might have been a huge mistake Right, it should have been crushed because now you have pastors who say, Look, the church needs to whisper about what the Bible whispers about and Shout about what the sh Bible scouts about. And the Bible whispers about homosexuality. This is this is this is an actual quote. Yeah, I remember reading that quote Um and in in Canada you're not allowed to say anything about this, otherwise you go to jail. It's hate speech, right? You can't even read scriptures because reading the scripture itself is is the hate speech. Well I think it I think it sort of goes back to you know, the the downplaying of of the authority of scripture. Um you know, in our for the record, we we're all in agreement, right? The homosexuality acting on that would be a sin. Yeah. In any context. Yeah, it's interesting you phrase it that way. I'll say yes and I'll raise you. Because that's the question. That's the side A, side B Christianity question, by the way. So side A um would be the way out there uh from our perspective, like not in accordance with what the Bible teaches at all. It's totally fine to be uh a practicing homosexual and it's not a sin. And anybody who would say otherwise doesn't understand that you know the Apostle Paul he lived in a different time and they didn't understand things the way we understand them today. And And so we need to completely reinterpret or or just jettison those parts of the Bible that would speak against homosexuality and say it's totally fine. That's side A. Side B is what you said, how you articulated it was If you act on it, if you engage in same sex activities, that's a sin, but identifying yourself as gay or saying that you are same-sex attracted and that's your identity, like I am a gay Christian, that's okay. That's not a sin. So the attraction uh is not a sin. G I mean uh Daniel, I'm I'm assuming you would distinguish between somebody who says I have uh I experience same sex attraction. Right. And and that is and that's a a a sinful attraction. Right. Versus someone who says, I experience Same sex attraction and uh and that is Okay, that's that's normal, that's how guy maybe I just can't act on it, basically is what someone's got. Right, so right. Now there's not really a whole lot is people that's in between you know, saying like I w I w I would say you a lot of times Christians get a little bit um f too focused on the same sex attraction thing. As somehow greater than a opposite sex attraction, both of which resulting in lust, and lust being the sin. Right? So you can there's difference between being attracted to someone and lusting after them. I I I think there there is Um you know, you can a as as a non homosexual Christian, you you you can walk down the street and you can see somebody and think that person looks nice and then there's It can very quickly, especially for a man, lead into lust and that's a sin and and Jesus is as is clarified that you've already committed adultery in your heart once you start letting your mind wander and go down that path, right? whether it's to a woman or to another man, that's the both of which would be sins, and I I don't i I I I don't think that all sins are necessarily equal, but i there's not a great worsening of the sin from one type of attraction to the other as far as lust goes, they are both sins. So I guess my m what I meant earlier is that actually going down that path and lusting, whether it's to a man or to a woman, that's that's gonna be a sin and certainly acting on it in any capacity is going to be a sin. And and again, it'll still be a sin whether you go sleep around with a woman Or whether you're uh uh doing homosexual acts, it's it's it's gonna be a sin either way. Yeah, and and I agree I think you would agree with that, right? 'Cause I agree with that. As far as that goes. He wants more clarification. No. I I would Yeah, I I would say that. I would I would want clarification too, but as far as that goes, I would agree with that. You know that that one is certainly a a greater uh distortion of Sure. Sure. Jesus said that from the beginning it was not so. That's kind of like his divorce context. And we that's a whole nother discussion. Can Christians be divorced and if if you're divorced and you become a Christian, now what? Or or whatever. Um but Jesus had a whole chat about that and basically end up saying a uh and no matter what wha what you think about your conclusion of what what you know what he meant by his divorce conversation in uh in the passage, um, I guess in Matthew, uh he he said, From the beginning it was not so Right? God's plan was Adam and Eve. People have joked around it was Adam and Eve, not Adam and Steve, um meaning not homosexual, but also not Adam and Eve and Mary and and uh Joanna. It was Adam and Eve, right? So that so there's there's uh something to be said for that's God's best plan and certainly it wasn't two men, it would it or two women, it was it was a man and a woman, it was just one of each Um so yes, the farther you get from that, there's there are things that look less like that than other things. And I've said before to I don't know if to you or to certainly to other people certain types of sins can be remedied without necessarily as much effort as some others, right? You get two people, a man and a woman, that are living together in sin and and not claiming to be committed to each other, not claiming to be married. Um, they could get married and that would kind of solve that. They're no longer in sin. You get two dudes in a relationship There's no way to make that not sin except by completely separating. Right? So that's that's you're right. There's there's a little it's a little bit farther from God's design and plan for uh humanity. But everybody what I meant by w what I really meant to say by in not acting on it is everybody struggles with different sins as far as what their personality is and and whether it's be t because of environment or just how God made you, whatever, everybody has different areas that they struggle with more than other people. There are people that struggle with alcohol. I don't struggle with alcohol. That's not my area But there are people that do and the and and vice versa. There's things that I struggle with that are easy for Troy or for for David prob probably. And uh not to get too personal or specific necessarily, but we all have different scenarios that we struggle with. Just because I have a one particular scenario that I struggle with doesn't mean that I can't be saved, can't be a Christian. It's just I need special help from God in that area versus you might have a totally different area that God needs to help you with. That that's kinda what I meant by, you know, don't act on it. And that could include the thought of lust, you know. Yeah, I I think it's uh Well I think it's important to remember that um yeah the the that to be tempted in a certain way does not mean that a sin has been committed. Um you know, Jesus was tempted and was without sin. And uh and and I think that's sort of is what you're saying is that the the temptations that uh that sort of uh you know, are attractive to to different people are are different for different people. Um and part of that's gonna be their experience, right? If somebody gets saved out of the homosexual movement, they they're probably gonna still experience Some of those thoughts and feelings may be on a larger scale than somebody else who didn't have those those experiences prior to salvation Just because that's where they came from. I mean you've you you've heard stories of recovering alcoholics. I mean you don't want that that guy sh probably shouldn't walk down the street where there's a bar where if you're not a recovering alcoholic, maybe that doesn't cause you the temptation that it causes him. Right. Um so there are uh I'm recognizing that there are people that do struggle with certain scenarios that maybe I don't struggle with. I'm heterosexual. That doesn't make it that doesn't make it not sin. It's still sin. But I feel like like part of what you were getting at is uh is like identity. So, you know, what is it that uh how do we talk about ourselves when we're sort of defining who we are And you're you're saying I and I would agree with you if if this is what you're saying that to s you know, sort of say like I am uh I am a homosexual and that is okay. Uh I I I would say, well you know, you might be someone who is tempted in that way, but that is not who you are if you are in Christ. Right. Then I am in Christ. That's where the identity needs to be. Right. And the whole revoice movement is the side B uh Christianity thing where they're saying that look, people can identify, this is their position, not mine, people can identify as Christian. Say they're saved, that they're obedient to Christ, but also identify as homosexuals who are same-sex attracted. And so in order to be obedient and not fall into sin, they're just not going to act on it. So they're going to live a permanently forever celibate life and that that's okay And God does call people sometimes to be celibate. Yeah, but not I would argue not for that reason necessarily. No. So my my concern is it's it it it diminishes the gospel. That's that's my my core conviction on this is the gospel's it's it's about a renewal. Yeah. Like we don't born again. Right. We we don't gather together under I mean, well I it happens. I'm I I don't think that we should, but uh right, like the the to primarily gather together under the banner of our temptation is not Right. In fact you probably want to be a good thing. If anything, you would want to have a ver a diversity of that so that you can each help each other a little more than but um although I I'm that's No don't don't don't take too much from what I just said. They're just let's just leave that on the surface level. But I agree with you. Um yeah, it it's you don't want to necessarily just surround yourself with other people that All have exactly the same thing. So I think what has is happening to those that uh they get ministered to by the side B proponents I think they're doing a disservice to the individual, whether it's, you know, a gay man or a lesbian woman or whatever. They're doing a disservice to that person because there's so much more than that. to say, oh I guess I'm just gonna have to be lonely and miserable and sell it the whole rest of my life because I don't want to act on this thing. No, no, no. You're a new creation in Christ and you don't have to be lonely. If you don't feel like you have the gift of celibacy, because you say, yeah, some people can have the gift of celibacy, but not as a as a flight from fear of committing a sin, but as as uh as a gift from God to focus more earnestly on on the mission of sharing the gospel and And that sort of thing. You can have a gift of of celibac celibacy for that reason, probably be the more specific application of that, as I'm thinking off the cuff here. But I would be telling that person, if they came to my church and said, This is my issue, I'm a gay Christian, I said No, you well, if you're a Christian then you're not a gay Christian, you're a Christian. And you don't have to live a celibate life if that's what you're called to. You can actually get married. Have a wife if it's a male, you know, or have a husband if it's a female. Have children. You can have all the fullness of the blessing. You don't have to be a slave to this identity that the culture has forced upon you. Right. Yeah, it it just like the word justice does not need a modifier, the word Christian does not need a modifier, right? People say justice and they precede it with another word, social justice or racial justice or blank justice, whatever whatever it is, justice doesn't need to modify her. If you put a word before it then it's no longer justice If you put a word before Christian, then it's no longer a Christian. If you say I'm a gay Christian, well then you're not a Christian. You're either a Christian or you're not. You could be a Christian who's still struggles with sin just like other Christians do and that the one sin m you might feel more tempted in one area than others, then that's that's fine. We can discuss that and we can help you grow and disciple you and and so on. But you're a Christian or you're not. There's there's no in between. And there's no special category of Christians. Otherwise you get into what Paul said. I am of Paul. I am of I am of Cephas. I'm of Apollos. No. That's a good point. And Paul said, No, you're not. You are of Christ. Nothing else. Now we are at the disadvantage of not having anybody who right off the bat disagrees with where we're coming from. We got some nuanced things we're clarifying here, but Um so somebody who just totally disagrees with just the foundation of where we're coming from is going to say, who are you to tell two people that uh you know they're in a monogamous monogamous loving relationship? that they can't live out their love together for the next fifty years and and consider themselves uh you know married. Who are you to tell God how to run his creation? I would say you y you can, but I think scripture is clear that that would be sin the whole time. Yeah. I would yeah and and uh and and then you know I would I would say that also, you know, if you are willing to remain in your sin, then there's reason to question whether you are saved. Whether yeah, whether you are whether you love Christ more or whether you love your sin more. And by the way, for any of you listening, we're not singling out this sin. This just happens to be a hot button in our culture. We would have the same answer for any open sin that a Christian is living in. It doesn't have to be homosexuality. And also just uh sort of so earlier you said, you know, a man and a woman, you know, living together but not married, you f can fix that by them getting married. And uh I would I would wanna, you know, clarify that a little bit more and say, well, you know, I think I think you can be married and still uh have uh uh an an idol that is sexual gratification. Right. So we can uh you can have um You know, a and to where right where that is like that is what drives you. That is what you desire Does that does that make sense? Not really, no. But we we can make an idol of anything. Well sure, but that's not really the point. The point is if somebody is in adultery or whatever whatever and they're not married. The reason the the reason that it's a sin is not the act. The re with the homosexuality the reason it's a sin is just the act itself. Right. Heterosexual uh um uh fornication, because adultery is more of a specific term for people who are actually married to other people. Right. Um, but with heterosexual fornication, the reason it's a sin is not the actual act. The reason it's a sin is because those two people are not married. And so by being married it ceases to be a sin. Now, yes, you could have a higher priority on that versus God or that versus your relationship with God. or anything versus your relationship with God, you can be a baseball player and you care more about baseball than Jesus, and now that's your idol. That's not really the point, because again, liking baseball is not in itself a sin. Same thing with Sex by itself is not a sin. It's the context that makes it a sin, and if you're not married, then that's that becomes a sin. So being married it then that doesn't make it automatically a sin. You could still uh uh prioritize something over Christ and that would be sinful, but that applies to everything. Does that make sense where I'm coming from? Yeah, yeah, I agree. But I think that's a good a good clarification to make. Sure. Is that uh you know uh just because Yeah, yeah. Just just just because you do you know, a man and a woman are married doesn't mean that their uh all of their motivations and desires are now perfectly pure. No, but the but the the reason behind what you were calling their relationship before sinful is no longer there The big obvious reason. Right. There may be plenty of other reasons. I think David, what you're saying is that even inside the the marital relationship there can be something askew about the way the sexuality expresses itself. Is that what you're getting at? Uh Yeah, I I well I think there can be something and I'm like a husband raping his wife is would be a sin even though they're having sex inside of marriage. Correct. Yeah. Right. You know, or you know, or even just yeah, I I mean even if everything is uh consensual and uh you know and you know, pleasant all the way around, um there can still be a uh a worship of um you know, a worship of the gift rather than of the the giver, right? Of the of the thing rather than the creator. Well you have to draw some pictures later of what you're talking about, but we gotta wrap this one up. Oh man. The one that's gonna draw some pictures is David Forcey. I'll be waiting for those. The one blushing right now over there is Daniel Rasby. Uh I'm Troy Skinner. We're pastors of the house churches in the area. If you're still interested in finding out more about us, you can do so. at household of faith in Christ dot com. Of course you can follow along the show there and at WFMD. com. Well, thank you so much for listening. Next week I think we're going to talk about Um transgenderism. So that's a somewhat related topic that we were just talking about. So we'll do that in about 167 and a half hours from right about now. Till then Again, thank you for listening and God bless.