Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in the in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate's online at WFMD. com keyword faith There you'll find podcasts of this show's and others like it, ten years worth almost now. We've been doing the show for more than ten years, but not all the podcasts are up there. We they lost two years worth of shows. And they're the best shows Nah, I don't know. They're probably the worst shows. I don't know. Is there a best or worse show? They're all kind of the same, right? They all run together. So today we're chasing The best show. That's Jonathan Sweitzer on the chase with me. He's the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. We're joined this week by Dr. Har Singh Mangat and his daughter Hannah, uh they are Sikhs and I don't know if they've served the uh their religion in an official capacity Uh but boy they know an awful lot about the religion. So we're we're happy to have them on. Uh the doctor's been on the show before. Uh his daughter was on for the first time last week. And she impressed us so much. We've had her back again. And we're not going to have you back too many times, otherwise John and I will be out of a job and you'll be hosting the show. So I want you to be great. But only to a point. That's right. Okay? Last week we learned uh Hannah, by the way, is fourteen years old when she was twelve years old, so a couple of years ago. Uh, she was involved in making a m a movie that helped to explain what Sikhism uh is all about uh for people of her generation, kids speaking to kids. She was part of a group that helped to change the curriculum of how religion is taught in Montgomery County schools, at least in her school, not sure for the whole county or not, but at least at least in her school. Um, she's on the debate club. She's part of uh of kind of a apologetics group that's developed helping to spread what Sikhism is about all across uh the nation. And she and her uh friends have helped the folks like her father, who didn't know how to deal with the chaos that followed the uh the temple shooting uh a couple of years ago. to deal with their emotions as adults, to step up and, you know, deal with this. And so and and she's fourteen And it's all downhill from here. I mean where do you go from there? Right? So I gotta ask the question and we'll get into well the we had a cliffhanger question at the end of last week's show. We'll get to that in a second, but you're fourteen It's not fair to ask this question. You will change this answer probably twenty times between now and when you're thirty. But when you're thirty, forty years old, what do you think you're going to be doing? I don't know. I mean I I wanna be successful and happy. That's that's the goal. I c I was I was joking with my parents about being president, but I don't know if I'd wanna do that. Right. Who would want all of the pressure that comes with that? But who knows, maybe this will be the case, you know The way things have been going, the presidency is beneath you, my dear. Sad to say. So Successful. Let me ask that as a qualif before we get into last week's cliffhanger question. What does success mean for you? What would that mean, successful? Um, I guess I'd say successful means being happy, but personally I would say it means I would wanna do something that would really have an effect on the world. But I wouldn't wanna like you know, I think everyone has can have their own effect on the world, but I wanna I don't know, I guess I'd wanna see the effect or know that I've made an effect on the world. Okay, I'm going to give you a a a something to think about off the air later. Just to mull over, have a conversation over dinner with your family. Just mull this over a philosophical question. Can someone be understood to be successful, designated as a success if they're miserable? Just just a a question for us there. So the cli cliffhanger question Uh that wasn't a cliffhanger. They're like begging us. Answer that question now. The cliffhanger question last week was um uh Uh Hannah mentioned something about it came up in context of what the things that she's been doing, of what it means to be an American. Yeah. And I thought it'd be interesting to kind of take that question and say, okay, what does it mean to be an American? Only c cross out the word American and insert in John's case You're a Christian pastor. So Christian, what's it mean mean to be a Christian or andor Christian American? Yeah. And for uh Hannah and her father, uh what does it mean to be a Sikh or a Sikh American? So who wants to go first Hannah does. Girls go first, right? The ladies first. I would say Jonathan's a coward, by the way. Clearly. Not ready to answer this, but she's ready. I would say, you know, Sikhism's a religion based on you know, it's a big based on equality, you know, and standing up for everyone and so sick being a sick, I guess you could define it as someone who Who's I don't I don't want to use the word tolerant, but someone who's accepting of all religions, all cultures, all nationalities, someone who truly believes in equality no matter no matter what, of race, religion, past, um some a sikh is someone who Who an alt sikh means learn. That's what it means. That's so some a sikh is someone who's always learning to be a better person. Uh uh Harpel Doctor, if you wanna jump before Jonathan jumps in, uh I don't want to create a s a Sikh sandwich or a Christian sandwich with seeping the bread. Uh ha and would uh anything you would add to that? I would agree with Hannah, but the other thing I think the unique thing about being an American is that we're going to be a patchwork of different and we shouldn't remember our our heritage because it we bring we bring that diversity and strength to into into us And the old saying is that diversity is strength and that is great for a nation to have that degree of divers diversity. But I would look at it like a you know, like a a nice uh crochet of different patterns. Each person brings their own uniqueness into that bigger blanket and that is the beauty of America. is that the strength and the beauty is the uh we see the tolerance in each other and the beauty and the diversity that we all represent. And by we're all, you know, uh welded together in the common core values we live in in this nation as one nation under God For a better way. Okay, so the question is, what does it mean to be a Christian? Yeah. What it means to be a Christian is that you believe that uh that mankind uh was separated from God because of their sin, and that because you were separated from God because of our sin, that sin has a price that had to be paid, and that God, recognizing that mankind is incapable of paying the price for the uh brokenness that sin has brought into the world, sent his own son to die on the cross, to pay that price himself, uh, and thereby to uh reconcile all of mankind back into an intimate loving relationship with God as Father, uh whereby he puts his Holy Spirit into their hearts to guide them into all righteousness, to teach them how to live uh according to uh God's uh original set purposes. And so um what it means to be a Christian is that you have uh given up trying to live for yourself or for your own desires and chosen instead to uh follow the desires of God, uh following Christ into the sacrificial life of serving and loving others every step of the way. When I was listening to Hannah describe what it meant to be a Sikh, this is unfair to take everything that she and and her father added and put it down into one word. But uh a a big part of of what I heard anyway, maybe it's not what you meant to say, but what I heard was to be a Sikh is to be tolerant. Um I don't know if that's all inclusive, but that's a I heard that is a big part of what it means to be a Sikh. Is that a fair Um I mean I would say that's a characteristic of someone who is a Sikh. I wouldn't say that's how you could sum up Sikhism. Of course Sikhism is a religion with it's unique that condemning other religions is against Sikhism. So, you know, I guess I could say that's how you would it's a characteristic. I don't know if that's how you would describe a Sikh in one word. And so if that's the case, then really Christianity is one of the major um thorns in your side because Christianity claims that all other religions are false religions. and that no man comes to the Father except through Jesus Christ. So is that does that make us intolerant? I mean, I I wouldn't say I no, I don't think it makes you intolerant, but I guess for me I've grown up in Sikhism with sett or just the philosophy that I've created or not created but Paula is that religion is just a different way of um I guess I would say finding I guess God or like finding whatever whatever you believe in that religion's just it's a m different method. And so what are the religions like Christianity? I guess probably Islam makes a claim to an absolute thing um in terms of right wrong. Hinduism and Buddhism seem to be a collection of uh if we're dealing with the major religions of um different uh belief systems. There are many gods in in each of those, and so there's not a sense of a limitation between those. Um and then of course Judaism would claim that they worship one God, but uh modern Well, that's the big question. The Old Testament, you know, that the that the Jews followed claimed that there was only one God above all all other gods, and that the other gods were false gods and uh were wicked and should be avoided. And so I guess of the six uh biggest religions, three of them are pretty absolutist in their approach and three are not. Though having said that, I recognize that there are some Christians that have quit reading the Bible uh uh with uh in orientation that it can be trusted and instead read the Bible through the eyes of science. In fact I I'd say that each of the each of those three, Islam, Christianity, and Judaism, have many uh that claim to be Muslim, Christian, or ju or or Jewish. but really read their scriptures with the sense that their scriptures can't be trusted and that they're probably just a lot of good stories and that there weren't any real miracles in those scriptures. When when Jonathan was speaking uh uh when he started to speak a minute ago, uh and he said something along the lines of, well, that sounds like Christianity might be a thorn in the side of of of Sikhism. Yeah. I I noticed, uh, Dr. Mangot, you kinda looked at him quizzically like, I'm not so sure I think that's a fair statement. So uh I'd like to hear what you ha might have to say in response to that. I think it's not a question with the scriptures, say, because it's a question of the interpretation. It's a question of interpretation of what the scriptures say. If you look at the um if you look at the the principles the uh the tablets that uh came down uh from Moses and uh what is written the the f the first uh thing is there's one God. If you look when you say uh uh a Christian prayer Uh y you there's emphasis on that. Same with Islam. Same in our p uh religion too. We say Ikunkah, Satam, there's one God and He's the uh the truth, uh the eternal one. There's no difference in that. But the way it's interpreted and you actually express a thorn, well why should we a thorn? Diversity is important. We live in America and the we should have diverse opinions. But the whole point is we must uh understand and respect each other's opinions too as well. That's why I gave that quiz Physical look at you when you said that. Right. Well this this is the big struggle, right? Because clearly America grew out of one of its major taproots was a Judeo-Christian worldview. Right? One of the other major taproots clearly was an enlightenment, you know, uh a scient scientific orientation as well. But both of those are like the major taproots of the founding of uh of the United States. And from the very beginning it's been a little bit funny in the sense that Christians do believe that all other religions are false religions. In fact, we even believe that that there were those that were of the Jewish religion at the time of Christ. that rejected Christ and in our scriptures it says that they were a synagogue of Satan, right? These are some pretty extreme terms that that uh come out of our scriptures. And so all that being the case uh there seems to be something in the Judeo Christian worldview that honors conscience, right? And it first shows up in the book of Acts when uh the the religious leaders of Israel of the day told the um early Christians to stop preaching in the name of Jesus. And they looked at him and they said, Well, you know, you guys need to decide for yourselves whether or not we should obey God or obey men. And it's kind of the the first statement argued in a court of law of the day that there should be freedom of conscience. Right? Clearly Christianity has a long history of not allowing freedom of conscience. And this is something that arose, you know, really late in history in the last two hundred some years or so. But anyways, that being the case, Christians recognize that People should have uh freedom of conscience, even though again there are centuries of of Christians being in power that did not grant to people a freedom of conscience. But we finally, after you know, some eighteen hundred years, recognize that that needs to be the case. Nevertheless, knowing that there needs to be freedom of conscience doesn't stop us from being deeply committed to the truth that Jesus Christ is the way, the truth, and the life, and that no man comes to the Father but by him, that he is the gate. that he is the way to the Father and that outside of that, um, no man can come to the Father. Right? And so this has been the great struggle I think over the last couple of hundred years and even in the in the diversity movement uh of more recent, you know, maybe the last thirty to to sixty years or so here in the United States, because Christians are remain committed to their exclusive uh com you know commitment to Jesus Christ as the way of the Father. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. That's Jonathan Sweitzer. He's a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, joined this week by Harpo Singman Gant, a medical doctor. And his daughter who's gonna probably be a medical doctor and a philosopher and a theologian and the fifty first president of the United States. Hannah, who is 14 years old and is amazing us with every word that comes out of her mouth. I'm Troy Skinner, and you're listening to us on WFMB 930 AM Free Talk. Um so it looks like you're itching, Doctor, to say something in response to John. So I wanna ask Jonathan a question. From my understanding, a lot of what is core now came around four hundred AD. Core. According to the in the the the in the principles of uh I'm I'm not auth authority on Christianity, but my understanding was See, I was thinking we were gonna go here today, so So my understanding is to look at what happened actually at the advent of the uh you know, the very beginning. Yeah. And look and compare and contrast what happened when uh uh in four hundred AD or so when the various things got changed. Correct. And uh and thereafter, the fourth century. That is correct. Yeah. And and so I understand correctly, you're saying that's your understanding of that's when Christianity kind of finally solidified what its core beliefs were and it became what we now know as Christianity. Is that what you're saying? you know how it was. Because we're at a very similar uh point in juncture. We're about fourteen sixty nine when Martin Luther uh put all his forty nine articles on in front of the church door. No, yeah. That was the one at uh 1469 was when our first guru was born and we had a reformation in in in India too as well. Did you guys get a Gutenberg printing press right about that time as well? Not quite then. Yeah. Well it's interesting that that guru that lived at that time, Garantha what was his name? His name's uh his name was Gunanagdevji. Uh but but anyways, Guru Uh it's interesting that he chose that he would it was it fifteen nineteen, wasn't that one? Well his revelation was he would be the last of the gurus and that from there on out It would be the community and the scripture that would be the guru moving forward. That was in 1699. Right. We were talking the founder of the religion was born in fourteen sixty nine. Oh, so there was ten between those and those two hundred years? Yeah. Ah, okay. Sorry. Okay. So I don't know how old he was when when how long did he live? The founder? I wanna say eighty years, but I'm not sure. Okay, so he was still alive. He was around fifty years old when Martin Luther uh posted his ninety five theses uh uh on the door for public for public debate. And matter of fact, if you look at uh what Martin Luther said at that point, not is very similar to what uh Grunang achieved because Martin Luther uh in those in those articles said that how the Catholic Church had had gone away from the fundamentals. Likewise, you know, when we had um Agaru, he his emphasis was on, you know, the faith in belief in one God and against the things of the time which were happening because at that time there were indentured servants and there were people that really read books for their own people. So he was very much against that. And one of the things that even in our unfaith people don't realise, Grunang Devji was the first person in that area who said if you s if you taught if you if you you know took off took care of the land and uh you know took care of it and you own the land. Otherwise what was happening at that time people was a feudal system Everybody's coming out of the fuel system. So I will grant you that there's that there's similarities there. But there's some key distinctions that drive what I was just talking about, this belief that Jesus is the only way to the Father, as opposed to just a return to principles. And and In A in A. D. four hundred or or the Constantine's time, the mid three hundreds, what happened was that they began to um to move away from What was the clear teaching of the scriptures? Now the the the key element of the scriptures, the Bible, as we have it today, there's fifty five hundred extant copies that come from all over Europe and different places. I mean we're talking hundreds of copies, all of which agree with one another, many of which uh go back to within like forty years of when they were originally written Some most of them from like, you know, two to three hundred years from when they were originally written. And so we have original copies and they're all in agreement with one another, not to mention the fact that just from the early church fathers Those that that were alive, you know, in 100 to 200 to 300, we can reproduce the entire Bible, except like 95% of the Bible. Right, just from their writings alone, just from where they quote different passages. My point is is that is that the scriptures as they come down to us are possibly one of the most accurate set of scriptures that the world has ever seen. And those scriptures are not just principles, but they are history of a man who was born of a virgin, died on a cross, and rose from the dead, and was seen by hundreds of people that all testified So much so that the early apostles were able to preach and say, This man that you crucified is the man that we're preaching. And they all knew that they had crucified him and that he had been seen after he was crucified. And so my point is that we're not just dealing with principles like Love your neighbor, you know, and be honest, but we're dealing with a historical reality of a man who lived and died, who rose from the dead, and And so, yes, your guru was saying similar things to Martin Luther, but Martin Luther was saying, look, guys, we need to not just go back to the first principles, we need to go back to the first man. We need to go back to what what the original guys lived, saw and did in going back to what they lived and saw recognized that this Jesus was very unique. and didn't intend for us to to to rule over other people's consciences, but intended for us to uh to appeal to men's consciences by faith. Right? And so my point is is that is that the return to uh to the original scriptures uh isn't just a return to principles, it's a return to a history that of things that uh that happened where God himself worked miracles on the earth. And historically speaking, the uh I I think it's fair to say that, you know, uh uh with Constantine came the arrival of Christendom. Uh which for me, we've talked about this on the show in the past, that's where Christianity begun begins to come off the rails. Totally. Because Christendom and Christianity are not the same thing. They become equated in cultural terms and uh outsiders view, even those inside of the church. This is a wrestling match that I've had with people inside of the church to help them understand that no no no That's churchi. That's Christendom. That's not Christianity. That's not Christ. And getting people to understand that difference is a big part of my motivation for doing this show, actually. Right. Because people are confused on that. So I think that not that it was ever pure, because we have Gnosticism really early on and all that sort of thing. Uh, but it really starts to go adrift. when uh the powers that be are wielding the influence inside the uh the church in the rise of Christendom. So it's interesting that uh from your Sikh perspective, it's that feels like you know, Christianity really kind of comes together and gets their principles organized. around four hundred AD and I feel like no, that's when the principles start to s fracture and scatter and we lose our first principle. So it's uh it's interesting to me. Yeah, so do you feel like there's a distinction there? There's some similarities or some distinctions. I think what I was trying to express was exactly what he just said. Yeah. My understanding is that when uh when Constantin when Constantine came around there was a fusion of Christendom coming around. Uh but prior to that w what I was trying to ha hedge at is I was trying to understand at what point uh did the concept of g going uh to tame the fathers only through Christ was that Then or before then? Okay, so my impression is that the uh experts on Christianity that you've been reading are a certain group of experts that that I'm keenly aware of that are well known in the body of Christ, in fact that that would be considered uh a part of the mainstream denominational uh theological structures. And there are people that that in the mid eighteen hundreds to late eighteen hundreds, early nineteen hundreds began to stop reading the Bible as if it was true, but began to read the Bible in history as if you couldn't trust them and we needed to start picking them apart. And so they began to read the Bible through the eyes of science instead of, you know, reading, you know, uh what we do through the eyes of the Bible. The result of that is that uh Episcopalian, Lutheran, Presbyterian, a whole number of denominations in the late 1800s, early nineteen hundreds moved away from believing in the miracles of the Bible, believing that Jesus actually died and rose from the dead, so much so that that all of the clustered spires of Frederick today preach that homosexuality is not something the Bible preaches against and that it's something that should be encouraged uh and they all are marrying homosexuals and they um they would say that Like what you would argue that there are many roads to God, that Jesus isn't the only way. And so they're not a return to what the Bible originally taught, but they have moved farther away from what the Bible originally taught. They moved away from what Luther was arguing in a significant way in the name of Darwinism, in the name of uh of um you know, science. The problem is that when they made that move, they made it before archaeology began to prove again and again that there was a real King David, you know, that uh that the Israelites really had been in Egypt at one point before they came to to Canaan. Uh and archaeology has has since that time uh done an amazing amazing job of proving one thing after another that all of these guys used to say, oh well that was just a myth. That never really happened. And then archaeology came out and said, oh well that is true. Oh well that is true. Oh well that is true. And all I'm saying is that Uh that's only been in the last hundred, one hundred and fifty years. So much so that I sat with one of the pastors downtown. I said, I said, you know, as we talk today, can we define all of our terms? because I think we use the same terms but we define them differently. And he said, Yeah, definitely. Two hours later we had defined major biblical terms so differently that I asked him, I said, Would you say that you're probably preaching a different gospel from your pulpit than I am? He said, Absolutely. I said, would would you say that you're probably preaching against the gospel that I preach from your pulpit? He said, Absolutely. And then I asked him, I said, and who is it that's probably preaching the gospel as it was preached? back uh two thousand years ago and who is it that has changed his definitions? And he says, Well I've changed my definitions. Oh you got him to admit it? Yeah. Wow. Yeah. Yeah, that was pretty significant. Yeah, no kidding. And so I told him, I said, You can understand why those of us that come from where I come from are a little bit upset at what you preach because You moved away from us, but you're using the same language. You should have chosen a different religion, but you're acting like you're the same religion, but you redefined all your terms. What have I been reading? I've uh entered back into a Ted Decker uh kick I read The Martyr song, which is not his best. It's okay, but I'm going to recommend one next week that is one of his best. So stay tuned for that. Thanks for listening. God bless.