Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City at the heart of grid luck, Kenny, where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman, Flopping and Heating. As we make you smile, BMC Insurance and Cruise Holidays. Faith Debate is online. WFMD. com keyword faith There you'll find links to podcasts of this show, news items, the Faith Debate blog. My blog is your blog, so email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. Whatever you send to me, I will post. And if you say something nice about me, I might post it twice. You say something mean about Jonathan Schweitzer, I will post it ten times. Jonathan Sweitzer is Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. We're joined this week again by Dr. Harpel Mangot Uh representing the um the re the the entire world religion of Sikhism, no pressure, third largest monotheistic religion in the world. And fifth Largest religion overall of the world behind Christianity, Islam, Hinduism and Buddhism, and just ahead of Judaism. They're not taught as one of the five great religions in Montgomery County. We are doing something here that Montgomery County Public School schools were afraid to do. We're discussing Sikhism and treating it as a major world religion. Does that mean that we're more progressive than Montgomery Catholic? I'm just saying that's a little scary than Mm. That is a little scary Didn't want to go there. Have you been reading Woodrow Wilson and Theodore Roosevelt lately? Are you becoming more progressive on these? Row, Walden Pond Now, speaking of uh progressive ideas, social justice and helping out those who are uh less fortunate than we are, which is typically you know, assigned to those who are uh left in the political spectrum But that's unfair and Jonathan Sweitzer is proof that that's unfair because Frederick forty eight is right around the corner. Tell me what we need to do. 11 days away to go online to Frederick48. org and to give to one of the organizations that are that are at the at the s head of the point of the spear, helping those that are at rescue, those that are overwhelmed by medical bills, and those that are homeless or on the verge of homelessness Last year we had twenty-six of those organizations. Uh this year uh I don't know the exact number right now uh because of various reasons anyways. Uh we we are uh well last year we raised over three hundred thousand and the goal of this this program is that everybody comes together on the same day to give. These are the the groups that are most at risk in Frederick. And so if we all work together, I believe that we could man, we could raise up to six hundred thousand. You know, we could do a lot more. And so uh so but everybody's gotta do it together. That's the point. We gotta come together and work together. But you choose which organization you give to. I don't decide which organization is the best one. You decide which organization you think has the best values, is best positioned to help those people in those organizations and the decisions not made for you. And then you get other people to do the same thing. It's really a uh a very American approach to helping out those that are most hurting in our midst. Now statistically probably three out of four people listening to this show, listening to this radio station would would be uh left in their political orientation. Maybe registered Democrats vote you know uh even even Green Party. You know, maybe one out of four would would would lean in that direction. Three out of four would lean in the conservative Republican direction. But I'm going to put down a uh a a framework for you wherever you are on the political spectrum. Okay. If you consider yourself a bleeding heart liberal then Frederick 48 is perfect for you. It's a chance to put your money where your mouth is and help those who are less fortunate. Go online to Frederick48. org. Uh starting in eleven days, you can go on there and make your selection, right? That's right. And if you think, oh, we need to do something to help those who are less fortunate, okay. Go online and help those that are less fortunate. And if you are a conservative Republican, let me give you the history on this. A few years ago, the uh Florida County Board of Commissioners had to make some budget decisions because of the state of the economy. And they decided rightly or wrongly, depending on how you view that, they decided to make cuts in how the these social service agencies were funded by the county. They made cuts. Big political cuts. And they were and they were significant cuts. And it hurt. Jonathan Schweiser had the idea, well let's see if we can bridge the gap. Let's see if we can do this as a community. Conservatives believe that this can be taken care of by the private sector. Right? And uh liberals believe that it must be taken care of. So this is a that that was an opportunity for everybody to come together and say, look, we all believe that this has to happen. So let's step up together and make it a little bit more. In year one it was about thirty thousand dollars was raised, which was very impressive because it was thrown together in like a day and a half. I mean it was it was wickety split. That's an exaggeration. It was fast and it was very s it's very successful for a year one try. Last year was year two and it was a tenfold increase, three hundred thousand dollars. More than three hundred thousand dollars rate. And now this year we're gonna have another tenfold increase. It's gonna be three million dollars. Okay, he said that. I didn't. Let's just do what we did last year and improve on it. Amen. So again it's Frederick Four Eight, the numeral four and eight. Frederick48. org is uh and you can go on there now and learn about it and see what's going on. That's right. That's right. In fact you could go on now and give, but we what we really want is for everybody to go on the twenty-sixth and twenty-seventh. And give on those days and tell everybody that they're giving. And if you are so moved and you consider yourself a spiritual type of person Prayer and fasting during those forty eight hours is also part of the idea here. Actually the commissioners, several of the commissioners, aldermen, mayor, they are all doing uh a food stamp budget which is six dollars per day for ten days leading up no for five days leading up to the uh the uh Frederick forty eight. And so there's a whole bunch of people that are actually going the this extra direction and just saying, hey, we're gonna go without food just to kind of remind ourselves that it's really difficult for some people. But we want to make sure that we're not asking everybody to do that. What we're asking is for everybody to go and to give, give ten dollars, give a hundred dollars, give a thousand dollars. Whatever it is that you're able to give and let's see what we can do on this. And some people get paralysis by analysis. So if you just you get online and you look at it, you just Can't pick an organization. Yeah, why not? You don't have to you don't have to necessarily pick just one And let's show how great a place Frederick is to live, that we really go out of our way to help those that are most hurting in our midst. So this sort of thing is something that uh uh Dr. Mangot and Jonathan Sweiser would agree on, right? Let's help the community. Let's all do this together. Let's help our neighbor. We agree. Absolutely. Theologically, what are some other things you guys agree with? Well but well this is out of the transition right there. This is a big transition. I'm going straight right now instead of turning. Uh this is the thing though, is that the more that I talk to Dr. Mangot, uh, the more that I get to know him, the more that I realize that um that he's almost almost a precise replica of some of the founding fathers in terms of what he believes. Some of the founding fathers were less concerned about Jesus Christ's divinity. Ben Franklin, Thomas Jefferson Even George Washington, it's hard to say exactly where he stood on the divinity of Christ. And it's interesting when when I hold up a quarter and I and I look at it in profile with He kinda looks like George Washington in profile. Yeah, so there you so there you have a bearded George Washington. Right, good looking guy. Uh hero of the States. And so sure enough W what what they believe is that people one that there's a God that is a transcendent God to whom everybody well I don't know if you believe this, that to everybody must give an account of themselves to that God. uh in that everybody is kind of yearning to be more like that God. Two, that we should all work hard. that we all have an obligation to work hard and to to to play our role and three that we should go out of our way to uh to be equal with one another, not like George Washington, not try to be the king, but just play your part and then step down and let somebody else play his part where we where we work together. Would you say that's a Well, thank you for your kind words. I think the the reflection of Sikhism uh that's a core essence of Sikhism in itself. And the whole point is uh the importance is to put god beyond everybody else Uh but also the belief in hard work is a cultural aspect also within the uh the faith is to be honest and hard working and to give to others and that's why we have uh food in our churches You know, Gudwaras, we have a service. We ever doesn't matter what colour creed you are, you have to sit down. And when the castle was formed, it had every colour and uh uh creed in there too as well because they weren't just from the panjra. The people who are the five who became Khalsa's uh um the ceremony in sixteen ninety nine uh the Panjpiare Two from outside Punch. Don't you just love these words? I mean he throws them out and all of a sudden I realize that like I'm barely listening anymore because the words are so exotic and I'm just caught up in the aroma that you know of of of uh I'm just here thinking You're really smart. He thinks that about me all the time. He never says it though. He's loathe too. Yeah, I look at John and I think, you're really a smart aleck. So so sure enough, there are significant areas of agreement between what you believe and what I believe in in in significant ways, even more so than than I might have with people on uh that tend to be uh in a different place even politically or culturally from where I'm at. You have more in common with me than than others, you know, that that might be different politically or even, you know, European worldviews that have rejected God. You're you're in a much closer place. You're very non Um uh uh what's the word? Uh Bible thumping, you know, non uh in your face non-dogmatic. And so all of that means that we have a bunch in common. So the question is, where are the areas where you and I would find ourselves in disagreement and who cares? Are they really that important? Well, there's always d dis disagreements and dis uh you know things we differ on. I mean for example the the concept w what happens uh in the afterlife Yeah. I mean we don't believe in the heaven or hell aspect. We believe in reincarnation. The second aspect is that we don't believe in the Trinity as such. But then from my understanding the Trinity was formed in uh four ten four centuries after uh Jesus Christ has passed away. Uh in in Constantinople. Am I right? So the question is whether or not it was always there from the beginning and they just finally put it into a uh a a witty or a a s sort of a formalized form uh later on. Uh right, and so there's a couple others, but let's dig into those because I think those in and of themselves You know, might be sufficient for us to kind of talk through here on the show. Let's start with the first one. Eternal existence. Right? We say that that one of two things is gonna happen. Either you're gonna be eternally damned, right? It's given to a man once to live and then the judgment and then you either have eternal damnation or eternal life. In eternal life, you don't become God. But rather you're restored to a place of love relationship with God, where God's always God, and we always are not, but the love relationship between us is such that it's Bliss, you know, there's no more tears, there's no more crying, there's no more war. You know, in in the definition of that state is love, that we will live in love with God and we'll be one with him, but not losing our personality and our distinctiveness. We'll never be God. He always will be. Right. Whereas in your understanding, you're claiming that God is that that you become that that you're kind of you merge with God. And so you lose the distinctiveness. That's a very good question. I think the essence of the belief is that after going through various human lives so long as you do what's good and what's right and i within the framework of God's uh you know rules, you join Wahigru. Now whether you join Waigru for ourselves as God, whether you join Wa Wai Gru as a independent entity or as part of him, I'm not really sure. But my understanding is you merge with him. So I I can't answer that question because I I because I'm being there yet. Now you go through eight point four million lives to become a human. Right. The entity through all these reincarnations and become a human. And then how many times could you be a human? An innumerable number of times do you get it right? That is correct And what is getting it right? Like what is the fun what do you have to do in that what does the last life look like? I don't know. I mean I can't answer that question. Because you're not there yet. I I don't I think this is a a part of the faith that comes from uh Hinduism, Buddhism because they have similar concepts from Yeah, very similar. Uh the concept is y you you know, you have to uh do things correctly, uh that's why you could uh you know the the the simple c uh tenants of the faith. You have to um be selfless. uh do uh you know non Japan have to meditate in God's name and you have to do kyokka an honest living. Those are very important But with the Buddhists, for example, if I understand their teachings correctly, they believe that they end the cycle when they finally surrender uh their desires. You know, to desire uh brings pain and suffering. Is it similar for you? When you finally get to a place where you don't know, it's a Hinduism was a surrender of desire. I thought Buddhism was a surrender of personhood. Or maybe it's maybe it's opposite. Well, but either way it's just it's it's kind of a it's like a giving up an uh your affections for this life and realizing that this life isn't really what it's all about and just and then vaporizing almost into nothingness in Nirvana or in your case uh melting into God. Well I I don't think you g give up all godly things. Uh you don't give up all manly things. The whole point is And Sikhism in essence to attain that you have to to be, you know, lead your life. I mean as our guru Nanak Dhose did he said, if you're a sweeper, be a good sweeper. Do everything to the best of your ability. So it's not a question of walking away from this in Sikh teachings is not on what it's gonna be like when we get there, but on what we need to do now. In order to get there. That is correct. And so there's not great definition of what it's like once you get there. That's cr I mean I that's my understanding. I think key essence here is you've got to do the things correctly to get there, as opposed to what it'll be like when you get there. Okay, which of course dr i is a uh drives a key distinction between Christianity and Sikhism, I think, because Christianity would argue we could never do it. There's no way any of us could ever attain to that level of uh we would say Christlikeness to that level of getting it right. And so we need God to save us. We need God to to bridge the gap because we're all trying to be better, but we're stuck in this myriad f you guys say we're stuck in this myriad out of lives. We say we're stuck in our sin and we can't be any better, even though we try and it's important for us to do our best, but that ultimately we can't. And so God had to um had to bridge that gap both by dying for our sins to cover them, but then the second thing which is so key that he sent his Holy Spirit, meaning that part of who he is to live inside of us to strengthen our ability to do what is right, to s to to to s to give us grace, to give us divine power, as it were, from God through the Holy Spirit to The fruit of the Spirit, love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, gentleness, faithfulness, self-control. You know, to walk in these things. We're able to walk in those things because He lives inside of us and because He's cleansed us from our sin. Well that's also I mean we we have the same belief of the God within. We have the same concept of the God within. Because you have to look uh search for the God within too. So uh Right, but wouldn't you say that that the God within is always there? from the beginning. And we would say that the God within comes when we accept him as Lord and Savior and then his blood then is applied to us. And up until that point we are godless, we are separated from God without hope in the world and destined for eternal damnation. Yeah, but we don't believe in the Trinity, so that's a key difference. I mean you you're essentially d uh describing from what I understand to be the Trinity. Sure, sure. I understand that, but but what I'm getting into is our rationale for why the Trinity is so uh important and in and the distinction of course is is a part of that whole thing, but you would agree that or or does Sikhism teach that a child is born with God inside him from the beginning? The divine the divine that is seeking for within is there from the beginning. No, we always look for the God within because look for the good deeds that people do. However bad deeds they do, they must have done some good within. And also within yourself too as well. But but if you meditate, do Namjabna, you will you'll get to the attainment. And so the God is already in you. You gotta look for him. Well that's being You're assuming that he's already there if you're looking for him. Well it that's You don't look for something that's not there, right? That's a question of viewpoint. The whole point is if you meditate enough to that point, you uh your soul will get to that level So then so then you earn the right for God to be within you Well, I'm not sure you you earned the right, but the whole point is y you you th there's always a there's always a goodness in in everybody and that's where you look for the goodness in every soul, whether it be bad or or uh evil or there's always a goodness Yeah this distinction is a tough distinction. Yeah, uh that's Jonathan Schweitzer um saying that it's a tough distinction. He's senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Uh the person arguing with Jonathan and making him realize it's a tough distinction is Dr. Harpel Mangat. Uh he is representing Sikhism. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Fate Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. It occurs to me that the the big difference here is Uh on one side, Jonathan is saying, Look, we need a savior. And Sikhism is saying, No, we don't. We need to find it f find it ourselves, figure it out ourselves, look for it within ourselves, and we have it within ourselves if we if we live enough lifetimes we'll we'll get there. And uh the Christian point of view would be, no, it's it's not in there. We are in the image of God, so there is a goodness about man. The Christian point of view teaches that all men are created in the image of God. Uh, but that image is marred by sin. It's it's it's fractured. It's like a mirror that's been shattered or something. It's not it's not pristine like it should be. And the Savior you know, cleanses the mar or puts the mirror back together or whatever your whatever analogy works for you. And so we have a need for a savior in Christianity and no need for a savior with Sikhism. Is that There's the need for God, but you earn the right for God to come and and live inside of you. Well, I think the w Th it's it's a question of semantics. We don't believe in a savior concept like Jesus Christ is the Saviour. Yeah. But what we do believe is the uh God is there forever. And if you do your good deeds and through your good deeds uh you'll attain that point of the God within to So is it just semantics or is there a genuine difference then between And there's a genuine difference between what Christianity teaches. Because you have a need for a savior, why? Because without a savior you face judgment. And I'm not sure that there's any sense of a judgment with the thing. The whole point is if you do Yes you do. No no no no. You can ta say that there's no judgment, but every time you die And you reincarnate the judgment is made as to whether or not you're ready to go to the next level. If you want to use judgment in that context, yes. I mean that's pretty significant Yeah, you could argue it's a judgment in that context, but we don't have a judgment as a final judgment to heaven or hell, if we'll get to the attainment of that point. But you have to go through cyclical uh lives to get to that point. Do Sikhs believe in a personal God? Or God is a is a force, a concept, uh uh does God have a personality? Like you and I are talking and laughing and and appreciating one another's personalities and and such. It's gotta have a personality. Well I think that's a personal belief again. I mean everybody has a belief in God, everybody has a belief in the Persona of God as personality of the yeah. So I have to ask question, 'cause you you've used that phrase personal belief many times. My personal b belief Is there a a general sense that say the majority of Sikhs believe about whether or not God has a personality or not? The majority of Sikhs would believe God has a personality. It's a benign personality. And so he's a distinct being from us. A benign what do you mean by benign? He is a benevolent. Uh force. So loving but never angry? I suppose so yes. So he's not angry when um the uh the mogul uh invaders came in and were killing people? Angry in what sense? The whole point was at that sense that it needed to be stopped and he wanted it to be stopped. Well it was stopped. It was stuck because th the the Sikhs rose. I mean w what we're taught is to be tolerant, but uh if tolerance does not work, then we can uh use the sword to fight back. That's downright Augustinian. What's the for example, the Wisconsin shooting Mm-hmm. Uh the people responsible for that, let's say they get away with it and they go retire and live on a Burmese beach somewhere, uh, you know, drinking Mai Thai's and and laughing about their exploits in Wisconsin. And w Is there any condemnation for them in this? Well, that's a I mean there is That wrong is very difficult to make right, but the whole point is we have to we've had this before in our faith. We've had massacres before. Sure. Uh w we've had uh entire you know, c cities burned down and uh people uh subjugated. But we've always fought back against that prejudice. And w what we're doing now, we we're fighting intellectually back we're getting people to know about our faith. Coming on radio here is a great privilege because it helps me explain to what our faith is about. Sure, I understand all that and that moves in a political direction. But I think we're choice trying to go with that is the direction of of what is a Christian concept, which is maybe why you don't tend to go there so easily. The Christian concept says a guy that is a murderer um can can have a moment of repentance where he realizes that he's been a murderer and a thief and a bad man, and he can turn in that moment and accept the forgiveness of God. In accepting the forgiveness of God, he can uh attain to eternal life Because he admits, wow, I was a murderer and what I was doing was totally wrong and I don't deserve anything uh whatsoever and yet Lord You sent your son to die on the cross for me, and so I can be changed. And so what Troy's asking is, is there is there a sense of repentance or change. Metanoia is the is the is the Greek word where somebody that has been a bad guy can turn to become a good guy. Sure, that is in the faith. But the whole point is it's not it's not linked to a savior concept. Uh is it linked to forgiveness? Yes. So God forgives. Correct. But God doesn't save what calls us. to change, but he doesn't save us. We don't have the savior concept like Christianity. We don't have that that's what I'm saying at the at the very outset, the concept of uh of Jesus Christ being the Savior to to repent for your sins. We don't have that concept within the faith. Okay, so let me back it up to the idea of a savior like we see in the Old Testament that that kind of preceded Christianity. There was a sense in the Old Testament that God would raise up somebody to stand against the unrighteous or those that were the the cruel uh oppressors. There is in the Khalsa something of a sense that that that these guys will raise up and be champions for Sikhism, you know, that will save Sikhism from Well the fact of the matter is not just Sikhism, the Khalsa when they rose up were the defenders of Hinduism too as well, and other minority groups. So That's something that needs to be clear cut. Let me jump in. We are uh we we we have gotten to the place where uh I think we need to talk a little bit about Jesus. Specifically, the historical Jesus and what Sikas and believes and teaches about that. Uh but we don't have time to do that right now because the show's over. Uh Jonathan Sweither, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, uh Dr. Harpa Mangat is uh representing Sikhism. I am Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate brought to us by Putman Employment Heating. How can we make you smile Cruise holidays and BMC insurance. You mentioned Aug uh Augustine earlier, but I I've just got done reading Confessions by Aurelius Augustine or Augustine. Your pronunciation is your preference. Till next week. God bless.