Broadcasting for the West Side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com keyword faith There you'll find all sorts of links to news items and podcasts and religious tradition stuff and the Faith Debate blog Our blog is your blog, so email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. What you send me, I post. It's as simple as that. Monday through Friday, 18 blog postings go up there. That's 90 a week You don't have to read them all. Just go on every day, find one that's interesting, and read that one. That's it. And then share it with a friend. It's as simple as that. Um and if you want to, send me something I encourage you to, but there's no pressure, you don't have to email me either. You don't have to read it You don't have even no pressure with this show. So it's a love fest, the Faith Debate show. On the Faith Debate today, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel is back again. We are now past the ten year mark on our show, if you can believe it. We just signed our new ten year contract. Will you with us Another ten years. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, we were old and now we're really old. Yeah, now we're really old. But we're getting really old. We're not there yet. Yeah. I will last speaking. Last our guest. Uh Doctor Harpel Singh uh uh uh Harpel Singh Mangat. I always throw the Sing in there 'cause it makes it feel more authentic to me. Yeah. Um Harpo Singh Mangat is uh is a doctor who can tell us how old are we when we're really old? What's the right answer to that question? I'm not sure about that. He doesn't he doesn't want to answer that one. I'll decline that one. He declines. He's afraid that he'll he'll betray himself as really old probably. You're as young as you feel. Let's put it that way. Speaking of young, uh last time we had the the good doctor on the show with us, uh representing uh Sikhism or Sikhism, your choice, I've I've come to find out how you pronounce that We walked through the uh very quickly the the history of of Sikhism. We uh talked about the the foundational big picture beliefs. uh of Sikhism and uh by the time we were done doing that the show was over. So we didn't get into a whole lot of hair splits or or minutiae kinds of things. Uh and maybe we'll get into some of that this time, who knows? But we are graced this time with a presence of the good doctor's beautiful daughter Hannah, who I'm telling you, I asked Jonathan before the show, right, 'cause I met her first. And I said, How old do you think she is? Yeah And so actually what was your answer to that? Well, I wasn't asked. You know, uh it but I mean, you have an impression of someone. You know, you meet them, they carry Since you was headed into college right around that time frame. You know, as you progress through life you have a more mature air about you and you kinda feel like you can pigeonhole where somebody is on that continuum, right? So I meet her and just I wasn't sitting, oh, I wonder how old she is. But if I had to guess, I would have guessed that she was entering college. Yeah. And then um Her father mentioned something about her starting school and she's gonna be a freshman. I'm like, Oh, definitely. She's she's gonna be in college. And then I she said something like, Wait a minute, how old are you? She's entering high school, she's fourteen. She's a freshman going into high school. So there is hope for America, yes. So the reason well one uh one of the reasons she's here, she's here for a lot of reasons I'm sure. But one of the reasons is she's uh been uh invited to tag along by her father. She's been involved in some really cool stuff. She's a she's a sort of uh uh apologist, uh advocate for Sikhism. She's out there uh teaching the world uh that the Sikhs are good people and and uh and what their beliefs are. And I think a lot of this started if I if I remember correctly this, I'll let you take over at this point Started a uh a couple of years ago after the the shootings um at the the Sikh Temple in uh Wisconsin it was, right? Yes. And in response to that, a whole bunch of things started to happen. Why don't you explain that? Yeah, so two years ago there was a shooting in the Wisconsin Sikh Temple. And um after that, you know, there's w uh was a l time of chaos for our community and you know the adults they have their own way of grieving and kids we were just kind of there, you know. We it was It was weird first of all to have a a temple targeted because you know it's our safe place, it's like. Especially I know the community here, the kids were always there. I turned my own mic off there. And when you said chaos, uh you mean like emotional chaos, turbulent, like not really sure, or was there like uh a physical chaos too, where people are kinda running around and hiding or something? Like what did you mean by chaos? I would say it was both, you know, emotional chaos in the way that we didn't know what to do because s in the Sikh community, we've never stopped anyone from coming into our our temples. We're always very open and inviting people and now, you know someone just walked in and maybe it was the wrong person who walked in. So it was kind of it was a time of confusion for us. Yeah, and I and and I remember from our conversation with your father, um was it last year maybe? I can't remember how long ago. About a year ago. Yep. Uh but I remember that, you know the the thing I took away from that about what what Sikhism's all about is it's a very open minded understanding uh non-dogmatic kind of uh belief system and so for somebody to attack that Yeah. Yeah, it it also makes me wanna re ask the question and and I don't know, we probably hit it previously, but has Sikhism uh experience significant rejection and persecution in uh India or in um you know various places? Oh definitely. Yeah, I mean starting from when the religion was first founded, it was founded in a time of oppression. And then since then, you know, I guess if you're talking about India, nineteen there's nineteen eighty four six genocide, you know, where um six were tar innocent six were targeted. And then if you go outside of India, just here after nine eleven there was hate crimes just of mistaken identity. That was your point is is that uh Oftentimes six were uh taken as Muslims and uh so there was this big distinction that nobody knew the difference. They just kind of assumed they all looked Arabic and from the Middle East somehow, and so they uh would uh kind of tie the two together. And particularly since a number of uh of Sikhs will wear the turban, making them look even more Muslim. Yeah. Though that's not apparently specifically Muslim, it's more Sikh than it is Muslim. Yeah, exactly. Right? The uneducated American, the ugly American, you know. Well I mean even that you know, a big issue after the Wisconsin shooting, people were saying that they the gunmen thought he was killing Muslims, but I mean still in this day and age, why should it matter what religion you are? It's common sense not to shoot someone. Sure. And isn't it true that two of the gurus of Sikh uh Sikhism uh were uh martyred? For the faith? Um, I would say more than two. I don't know if I can give the next number, I'd say but yeah, and y some of them were even martyred for defending other faiths. Mm. Mm. So in response, there's all this conf I interrupted and got us off on this tangent, but so y there was this confusion and and the older folks were mourning the way older folks do or don't, right? Maybe button it up, I don't know, swallow it, try to protect the interests of their children and not show their grieving too much and the kids are left to figure out how to grieve maybe as kids And so it now you're this is this was in the summer of after sixth grade going into seventh grade and you and some other students decided to deal with this chaos and this grief. How Uh so yeah, we were originally a debate club, so we were all meeting together anyway, and my mom played a big role in this. You know, she didn't want us to be scared to come to our temple anymore. And, you know, so we Our first project what we did was we came together and we made an organization called Sick Kid to Kid. So we were all about twenty-five kids ranging from the age of maybe eight to sixteen. And so we decided why not make a movie? You know, we there is there Yeah, why not? Why not? Why not make a movie? What are you doing this weekend? Let's make a movie. So um Vinny is fur. I know what we're doing today. We were um so we the county most of the kids are from was Montgomery County. And a lot of us, you know, I had just finished sixth grade and we went through the last week or so of sixth grade in social studies class you learned about major religions. And I said, you know, they say they're teaching us the top five major religions, but Sikhism wasn't included. Sikhism is actually the fifth most most populous religion and the third largest monotheistic religion, and Judaism is the sixth. And so uh Sikhism would get kicked out for the sixth instead of the fifth, and they claimed that they were the top fifth. Very interesting. So what do they do now? They teach the top six? Yeah, no, they do teach the top six. The others on the list for those who don't know, Buddhism, Hinduism and and uh Islam would be the others in the top six and Christianity of course that have that weren't mentioned by Jonathan just now. Yeah. So, um I the way the curriculum works is that for each religion they show a short film and then they also have like a quick sheet. on, you know, basic facts of the religion. So we were saying, you know, before we go to the board we need we need a movie to show them. So that's where more of the movie idea came out. But so we made a movie of kids explaining sickism to other kids. Can I ask a question? Have you ever made a movie before? Um not something that would be approved by the county to be shown in schools, no Okay, but it sounds like you've kinda played with video a little bit. Yeah. Yeah. This generation are all about this, you know? Amazing. Um, so yeah, we m we put together a movie. It explains the basics It's about thirty minutes long. It explains the basics of Sikhism from kids to other kids and then it also explains our reactions to the Wisconsin shooting and also how we what we should do about it. You know, we didn't want to say, you know We're not just crying out as a loss like saying why are we targeted, but what can we do now? Now is this something that uh has received or would need to receive any sort of sanction or approval from the leaders within uh Sikhism to say, yes, this represents the foundational beliefs and this is a good representation. Did you have did you have to worry about that at all? Um, I mean, you know We didn't get it we tried not getting into anything controversial, you know, but sakism we it has we we have three golden rules. which is um w the first one is to it's called van shakna, that means to share with the less fortunate. Um, kirtgani, which means to live an honest life. and um chakra kirtgani and nam jafna which means you know to remember God and everything you do. That those are like if you could ask any Sikh in the world I'd say that's how they would describe the basics of Sikhism. But yes, we did We asked the priest of our temple and we like shw showed it to everyone just to make sure, you know, we we're everything was approved and But you took the initiative to do that. Like there was you didn't feel any pressure to have to do that. You just wanted to I the reason I'm asking her father's been trying to get you and I to uh syndicate this yeah this show for some time. So I'm just saying that It looks to me like there's a family uh bias in the direction of going for it. But yeah, one of my frustrations with the with the Christian church is uh so often times when people will see a a need or have an idea for addressing something like the Hey, you know what? The church should make a movie. That'll solve the problem. Yeah. Instead of, hey, how about me and my friends who know how to work a video camera and are comfortable in front of it, how about we make a movie? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Somebody in the church should do that. Somebody went for it. Yeah, and then they get mad at the pastors like Jonathan, John, why doesn't your church make a movie? And here there's a radio, doesn't that care? That's right. Good radio. So now is you're like the star of this or something, or was that something else you were asked to be like the front upfront person on? No, I would say you know we had a big part in we had to write the script first So the way we essentially we started it was we asked questions, you know, like how would you explain Sikhism to someone else? What's your elevator speech? Um, you know, like what are She's fourteen and she knows what an elevator is. That's right. So um yeah, so I we it was, you know, it was very evenly distributed. Be the Diodins, I'm not definitely not the star of the movie. It was it was a group effort. There's twenty five kids, everyone had their own part So from there there was something else maybe that sprang from that where you you spoke in public. There was a gathering? Yeah, um that's going to be what I was thinking of. Yeah, there was um you know after the shooting there was that's also kind of the physical chaos where everyone was running around because We had this suddenly we had a spotlight on us. We were on CNN like for a good two days and so we put together a couple different vigils. You know, so many different organizations in the area put together vigils Specifically my sister, she was working with the Sick American Legal Defense and Education Fund, which is called Saldef. And so they were putting together a vigil outside the White House And it was on Wednesday night, Tuesday night, um, they are looking for one last final speaker. So they conveniently asked m or twelve my sister asked her twelve year old sister, so That night I had to put together a speech and speak in front of the White House, yeah. Very cool. It was pretty cool. Can you imagine? In front of the White House. So like we're talking about the president and everyone else? Um, they I think they sent I can't remember properly, I think they sent representatives. Hmm. But yeah, it was Lafayette Park which is right. Oh, right out in front. Yeah, I know where it is. How long was your speech? Uh, I wanna say like maybe five minutes. Okay, and is it was there a video of that shot? Is that on YouTube or something? Yeah, yeah, um the thing was I was twelve. So all all these press would they would interview me and they'd be like, oh you're twelve, we can't publish it. If you think of it when the show's over at some point, you know, email me links to where the videos are. I'd love to see them. Maybe I'll if with your permission I'll even put post links on the Faith Today page. So it's against the law to interview and publish the thoughts of a twelve year old? I I don't remember. I think they had some restrictions on it. But are you She just said that the reason they wouldn't publish her comments was because she's twelve and th they would say that she's too young. We can't publish her comments. Oh well w I guess with parental consent they could. Uh let's uh grab grab that mic. They wanted to publish it. Well suddenly they realized she was twelve, they realized they couldn't. And apparently there is some issues you have to be a certain age before they can publish it Huh. We would have said that ours is no problem, but nobody else is a good idea. And they realized they didn't get the dad and it was a good idea. You know, if you're out in a public even in a public environment, if you're gonna take a picture of a child and post it on a website, you have to get permission first or you can get yourself in a lot of trouble. Maybe it's related to those rules. Yeah. So nevertheless, sure enough, uh just further evidence that they don't want our kids to have an opinion I mean I know some squash the opinion. Let's not put that out there. Some people did quote me, but I know I think it was like the Washington Post and certain people were not allowed to Wow. That's really strange to me. Yeah. Isn't that strange? Mm, I don't know. I mean, uh it's good to be safe, right? I don't know. She's out at a public event making a speech at the White House and I can't quote her? What is wrong with that? I mean seriously. Come on, you and I have been r been around along long round. Hannah, go can you give me your phone number to your dad so I can call him and make sure I can quote you? Some something. So you just asked a twelve year old for a phone number? Is that against the law too? Isn't that like even more invasive into a weird place. No, but her point is that is that we live in a litigious society. Right? So anyways, I'm not I'm not as surprised as you are I'm glad you're surprised. This is the faith debate we're joined this week. by uh the the Mengot family, uh uh Hannah and uh and Dr. Harpel Singh Mengot and Uh you guys live in Montgomery County? Is that where you you're from? It sounds like there's a pretty significant enclave of of Sikhs. Where you have a debate club and you put together this movie and you have uh so 'cause I don't are allowed to share which high school it is Yeah. Um well I mean the kids are from all different uh high schools. Our temple is in Rockville. My I'm specifically going to Winston Churchill High School. Okay. Because I don't ever in my comings and goings run into Sikhs in Frederick County. Have you run into one? Yes. Uh my doctor. Uh he's the one that's on the show here with us. But that is the only place that I've run into a sikh here in Frederick, as far as I know. Again, I may have also made some m uh misses through the years. So yeah. So you made this uh half hour long movie which is not available online yet, but maybe some day soon will be. That'd be cool Uh you were asked to do this speech kind of spontaneously and you rose to the occasion. And there's some other element. Was it another video or another movement or something? Well more we got involved in the school district So we you know, we were really lucky. The all the social studies director, um, she was so enthusiastic, you know, we had We pushed first of all the s the students, um, part of Sikh Citicate. We met with the school board and we said, you know, we need Sikhism being taught. And it was it was unique because, you know, I think the reason that we get so much attention is because we're kids doing something. It wasn't just another Another angry mom calling the schools and saying, you know, this is wrong that we were kids who'd experienced the curriculum and finding the mistake in it. You know, I have the impression that the um high schools down in the Rockville area uh are a little bit more how do I say it, activists like uh some of the teaching staff and such that uh in terms of like the nation at large that they that they're inclined in the direction of leadership and trying to uh do those kinds of things. I I don't know if I could place that exactly, but um uh uh clearly you had teachers And administrators, not to mention the Board of Ed, all that saw that this could be something that could be nationwide. And so, I mean, it took a lot of people to catch a vision for something like that. I mean, yeah, I have to definitely Maria Tarasuk, she was she's no longer the social studies coordinator, she was actually just recently promoted, but Um, she was definitely, you know, she was uh so enthusiastic about it. And I luckily I went to a really great middle school and I'm going to a great high school in which they do encourage, you know, leadership and things like that. Even at my middle school last year I started uh it we called it cultural society. It was like a cultural group and you know Um, I was lucky I we started a petition for ha to have diversity also taught in Montgomery County, you know, to have more cultural tolerance. Taught and so the director of diversity, Mr. Greg, right? Yeah. Cultural tolerance. That's right. Yeah. It's like a core tenant. Mr. Gregory Bell, he's the director of diversity of Montgomery County. He, you know, without telling me, he contacted my principal, my vice principal. He said, Go talk to Hannah. She has plan. So we brainstormed and I started a cultural society at my school and you know by the end of the year we did it for half a For a semester long. And so by the end of the year it was fifty people attending this club after school is it was I'm feeling really lazy. You know, in the last two years, look at all she's done. She's made a movie, spoke in front of the White House, organized this club, she's an activist out there getting curriculum changed. I think I'm gonna go open a soda and sit and watch it. Yeah, like uh where's where's my tub of ice cream when I need it. Unbelievable. So uh what is what does it mean that there that you felt like there needed to be more tolerance in the school. Like what does that look like? What what what was there a lack of? How did it play out that you felt like there you know, there's the faith debate and uh our impression has been that um in the name of tolerance, people don't talk about religion and instead they they avoid it, you know, they're afraid of it and so they end up holding their beliefs very shallow and and that's kind of part of the reason we did the show was because We felt like uh the nation needed to strengthen its discussion of these things, not weaken it. Um but maybe I mean how did that play out for you guys? Did you w what did you feel like was lacking when you said there was a lack of tolerance or a need for more. Well, I mean personally, I don't know how to say this like politically correct, but I go to a very um it's like a very white school You know, it's um all it's we're I guess we we are so interesting because I view Montgomery County anymore is very diverse. Diverse. But my school specifically, you know, it's um But I think it's diverse in pockets, right? There are high density areas where there's lots of Hispanics, lots of Blacks or African Americans or you know your choice of how you want to label black Arab American or Asian American Yeah, they seem to live in pockets, right? So you guys Uh your high school must be in a in a white pocket. Yeah, I mean yeah and you know, I I just thought that, you know, a lot of these kids I know s were underexposed. You know, we only see certain things and that's that's not gonna work for us in the real world, you know, and where where you can meet any type of people and we're not gonna know who they are or I also find cultures very interesting to me, like learning about different cultures. But that was our my main motivation that we We are so underexposed sometimes. And so how does it play out then that you are you know, your goal is to increase tolerance? How does that play out? Where you different people are sharing about their beliefs? Is it similar to what we do on here where you try to dig down a little bit and understand how those beliefs affect decisions that people make and their their political views on hot topics and that kind of thing? Um yeah, so you know, we basically it evolved. We the first week I did it, I showed them the movie we made And, you know, it was just the first di week it was probably like ten kids who came and we the biggest incentive for kids is free food So we always had food. Not just kids. For people in general, the biggest defense is free food. So we had, you know, we would have a presentation. They kid would whoever was presenting would be able to decide w the most important parts of their culture that they'd want to present, regardless whether it was just religion or if it was actually culture as well. So, you know, we have a different kid do a PowerPoint presentation with different art like arts and crafts activities and like you know for example like one of my best friends she's Iranian. So for her, like on in Iranian New Year they paint eggs, but we all painted eggs and you know we had uh Persian food and we just went over different beliefs and things like that every week. And so you dig into the religious beliefs as well, not just the cultural? Um it depends on the on the student who's presenting. Sure. how religious they are even, you know, I'm very religious. So m rather than you know, Indian culture is very fun, especially for American people, we find it it's fun. So to keep it fun we focused on Indian culture but as well as the Sikh religion as well. Have has there been a time already or you're anticipating a time when you could see the school feeling some pressure to push back on such an open-minded approach because they're gonna have People say, well you let the the Christian student and the Jewish student and the Sikh student speak. Now you gotta let the atheist student speak and the Satanist student speak, and they're gonna say, okay, this is a little crazy, we're just not gonna let anybody speak anymore Well, I think, you know, not not really, because as we don't only focus on religion. It's also cultural. It's a lot of it is cultural. Mm-hmm. Yeah, you know, it's not only religion. It it really just depends on the student whoever's comfortable presenting, you know. We were very open about it, you know, anyone who wanted to present. And it and it's just a raw unpacking of what is. Yeah. So there's no sense of judging where somebody's culture is a good culture or a bad culture. A good religion, bad religion, point so there's no debate really. It's just it's all everything's put out there on an even footing and it's all equally accepted. Yeah, our our whole That's not this show. Totally. Yeah. Our whole point was to make sh make the kids understand that America we live in America, but America's the melting pot, you know, that you see an American, that doesn't mean they're white. On the last day, one of the last days of school, we had our final meeting and we I asked them, you what is an American? And you know, there's a b a lot of new kids coming. We had over fifty kids come. The Washington Post covered us and like it was very cool. But I asked them, What's an American? And you know, some ki k kids in the new I I didn't they couldn't say white to me 'cause they'd be like, Hannah's gonna go all on us and But um some kids were comfortable like I even told some kids that you can tell me that yeah, white. But we went over like statistics, who's how m what percentage of America is white, what is in and you know we just I think the main goal of the club was them to understand different cultures and be tolerant of cultures and religions. I'd like to bring the same panel back next week and and start with that question but spin it just a little bit and ask the question of Uh not what is an American 'cause this isn't a political or cultural show really. Sure. What is if you want to include, if you want to hyphen it, I'm okay with that. I don't want to force force fit it. What is a Christian or what is a Christian American? And what is a Sikh or what is a Sikh American might be an interesting place for to kind of get a sense of where we stand and and do an exercise that you're familiar with in school, only a little bit different in this context. Would that work? For you? Yeah. All right. And I also uh we've got to find out what you plan to do with your life. I think this is gonna be the fifty first president of the United States of America right here. Here it is. Anyway. Jonathan Schweitzer, senior pastor of Crossos Valley Church. Uh Dr. Hapral Singh Mangot and his daughter Hannah on the show as well. Our sponsors, Putman, Plumbing, and Heating. How can we make you smile? Visit us online at GelGFMD. com Keyword Faith. What have I been reading? Shine By numerous authors, the bandmates of the band Newsboys. It's interesting. It's like a devotional type thing. You'll enjoy it.