Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City and the heart of Gretla County where preaching with impact so I'm told is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Credit Faith Debate sponsored by BMC Insurance, Cruise Holidays, and Footman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debates online at WFMD. com keywordface. There you'll find how you can connect with Jonathan Sweitzer. You can do that, I'll tell you right now. It's at SweitzerJonathan. Follow him on Twitter, because he's a tweet. Loves to do that. Or twit or whatever that's what do you what do you call it when you're a person that uses Twitter? Are you a twit? A Tweety Bird. I don't know. Tweedy, I don't know. That's Jonathan Sweitzer, he's senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Uh we're joined this week by Dr. Harpo S. Mangat. Harful Singh Mangak. And um by the way, I want to encourage you to email me, almost forgot, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com because whatever you email me, I post on the Faith Debate page because my blog is your blog. Nine updates per day. Monday through Friday has forty-five blog updates per week. How do I do that? How do I generate so much volume? Because you send me lots of emails. Delegation. That's right. Power through delegation. Um Last week we had the same panel together and we got the historical backdrop of uh Sikhism. How it came to be of approximately five hundred, a little over five hundred years ago, uh in a uh milieu that was uh surrounded by Hinduism but hind influenced significantly by uh by Islam and certain s uh threads of Christianity and I imagine Buddhism too, although we didn't talk about that last week, but I'm sure that that was going on there too. So Uh uh it's an interesting blend and we're of of ideas that kind of take root there. We're going to talk about some of those ideas uh here in a minute. Uh the One of the things that came up last week and I want to touch on it real quick, you were born, Doctor, in Burma, raised in did you say London? That's correct. And now you're in the States. So how old were you when you left Burma? I was four years old. Okay, so you don't have much memory of that probably. Well a little bit. We've been back, but uh uh Burma was part of India at one stage, uh when my grandparents migrated there and the Early in nineteen oh six on one side and nineteen eighteen on the other side. And when did you sneak across the Rio Grande River uh where they should have built built a fence years ago become a uh a member of the United States I'm kidding. That's how everybody come here now right in nineteen ninety two. Nice. Is that really how you came here in nineteen ninety two? Yeah on the Concorde. Well you came with a little bit of uh speed behind you. Yeah, he was in a hurry. Like a bat out of hell. And now you're a medical doctor. That's correct practicing medicine on Jonathan and when you get it right you can start working on me. Uh and he actually has to do with you know like uh whether how my face So uh the fine doctor is is a Sikh, but he's he's not a Sikh the way we typically those who know what's Sikhism is, uh typically think about it, you're not wearing a turban. That's correct. So that was my first clue that you're not your everyday Sikh. So there must be different For uh in Christian terminology we would call it a denomination. There must be different faith traditions within Sikhism, different splinter groups or something. For example, isn't there a prime minister of India that is a Sikh? Sure, he's a Sikh. He's a Sikh. Mamun Singh. And uh and is he the same version of Sikhism that you are? Well, th Sikhism is there's there's only one version of Sikhism, but it's the understanding the pluralistic approach and everybody has a right to practice faith the way they want. The key concept is a freedom of faith like uh over here in the West. A Sikhs believe a in a lot in freedom and the belief in one God. Now there are people who insist that you have to wear a turb but you have to keep a long beard, you can't cut it. And that's a a degree of ortho orthodoxy But not everything. So the more Orthodox dress a certain way, facial hair a certain way, eat a certain way? Some do, yes. Yeah. and um maybe celebrate certain rituals a certain way? Well I wouldn't say certain rituals. I mean the whole point is uh faith is the way you practice your faith. Mm-hmm. But when you come together on Sunday for your worship services You would be there with others who are wearing turbans and Sikh is a basically a disciple. So as long as you bow your head to the Guru Granth, uh it's open to everybody. It's not restricted to anybody. And so you're looking to be a disciple of the gurus. You don't worship the gurus. You're a disciple of guru. Disciple of God more correctly. Disciple of God. And they taught you how to be a disciple of God. Well, if you want to put it that way, yes. Okay. Similar to Christianity, we're taught by the twelve apostles how to be disciples of Jesus. Sure. You know, those that were witnesses of what happened to Jesus were taught by them about his teachings, and so we become a disciple of Christ. Th that is correct. Well we have ten gurus. If you want to think along the same lines as the as the apostles, the ten gurus were ten generations which had the same belief, which went through ten generations. And that put together the Adi Grant, which was a book uh which we use as our Bible. It has the uh writings of our own ten gurus and many other spiritual leaders. I'm guessing that these ri somewhere in the writings of these gurus or the other uh sacred writings that weren't written by the gurus that are part of your sacred text says something about not cutting your hair or having a long beard or wearing a turban. No, that came at the very end. What happened was in uh the very last guru, uh, he had to stand up against uh it the emperor. Not against Islam, against the emperor. Uh uh who was the Mughal Emperor who was doing all sorts of incorrect things, but even his some of his Islamic scholars were against him No, this isn't sixteen uh ninety nine. Toward the end. April the fifteenth, sixteen ninety-nine. Oh that's right. This guy loses his head. He he of he asks he brings out out of a tent in a gathering and says, I want four uh four volunteers and he brings out a b uh bloodied sword after he takes up each volunteer. And when they come out they all address in the five K's representing the uh the Khalsa or the Brotherhood. And uh then what he does is he asks the the five uh disciples to bless him, to give him the Amrit. So it's uh you know, it's the essence of um the the cost and the essence of getting up and fighting back against the uh wrongdoings of the emperor. Yeah, but real quick you mentioned the the five Ks, those are talked about last week but uh somebody just tuning in this week real quick real quickly what are the five K's? The five Ks uh Gunga which is a comb. a kirpa which is a small sword, a kara which is a bangle, a uh kashira, which is a uh a type of un uh shorts that you wear underneath uh your trousers and uh a kesh which is uncut hair. So these are five um distinctive items you either wear or distinct about your appearance to show that you are who you are. You're a Sikh basically, right? That's the uniform. set uh if you had to be if you want to do umreth which is basically if you want to get um not not baptized but uh y when you get confirmed I suppose uh a later uh when you when you w when you follow the the idea set forward by the Khalsa. It's a visible visible representation to others that you have uh become a true disciple. in Sikhism or some so along my language is probably disciple. I think a lot of people follow the faith without having turban and beer without wearing all the five ornaments. But the whole point is Uh it's a visibility and it's uh uh something which people choose to do. Is it a priesthood? Not a priesthood at all. We don't have formalized priesthoods. It's an extra level of devotion maybe that's represented. Okay. And each of those five items I'm assuming represent some specific aspect of important belief to Sikhs Yeah, like let's go there. What are the top five beliefs of Sikhism? Or three. What like what however you want to go? Okay. We start every Sikh faith with uh pre ekunkar satnam, which means there is uh one God. Very same as the Christian faith. Ah one God. Yeah. Okay. So we we have a firm belief in uh one God. Uh if we look at when we pray what we say at the end of our ardas or uh uh high prayer, we s finish with with the words sabbat tapala, which means you have to do good to everyone Okay. Irrespective of what they do to you. Okay. Uh the third belief, I mean those are the see the similarities between Christianity and Sikhism. Okay. So far, yeah. Um the third belief is the very strong belief that God is forever. If you look in the text of the Moon Mantra, which is a prayer we do regularly, written by Guru Nanak Deji, we acknowledge God is there forever and uh he's eternal So God's eternal and man is eternal? Well m uh I believe this is where the differences occur. Okay. Uh we don't believe in the Trinity like you guys have the Trinity. Sure. Uh we b uh we also believe in reincarnation. Okay. We believe that you get reincarnated through different lives. It's uh you go through eight eight eight hundred four eight million four hundred thousand lives to become a human. Okay. And you get reborn until you attain uh you do good in your life to then you go to be with Waiguru or God. And I want to make sure I understand because I've read about the eight million four hundred thousand, but I understood that to mean that there are like eight million four hundred thousand different types of life forms or whatever. Not that each individual has to go through that many lives. You go through those eight million four hundred thousand to become a human. then beyond that to g re continue to reincarnate until you d do w uh the right things in life to be with the white guru. At that point you go out of human existence. But does each individual then go through each of those lives or can you skip different kinds of life forms? What does the belief So the belief is that everybody has to go through his life form to become a human. All of them all goodness, how long does that take? Eight million four hundred thousand lifetimes. Which is a long time. So the lifetime a hundred years? I don't know. It's different species, different things. How old will the typical Sikh believe the uh the cosmos is? I don't know. I can't answer that question. Okay. I mean in order to believe what he just said it's gotta be really, really long. Longer as opposed to shorter. Okay. Okay, and so um By the way, we are this weird pause. I'm gonna use this opportunity to say Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Light Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. And we are uh uh joyfully joined uh this week by Dr. Harpo Mangat, uh Middle Dame Singh, so you can know he's a real Sikh. He's got the name Singh somewhere in there. Um And w this week we're focusing on what Sikhs believe and comparing it. So monotheistic, similar to Judaism, Christianity, Islam, uh different than Buddhism, Hinduism, and some you know polyistic uh polytheistic uh religions. Uh treat your neighbors well, similar to most religions. Um Reincarnation different from Christianity but similar to uh Hinduism and Buddhism, right? Don't they also have reincarnation? So w what are some of the other major tenants of the belief? The major tenants of the belief sits in the in the pr the in the principles. I mean we have to do Namjabna, which is remembered c God, through meditation Uh Kiel Kirkarna which is earning an honest living. Uh Banchakna which means, you know, selfishly doing s uh service to others, helping out. So they're a good American. Okay, so serving others serve others, get a job, and meditate on God. And meditate on God. That's why we like freedom like good Americans. That's soundright good American civil religion right there. Our founding fathers were all uh in agreement with that for sure. Now you do what what is uh before I get into some Christian distinctives, yeah, what does Sikhism make of uh Prophet Muhammad in Islam? Do you recognize him as a prophet, as a spiritual leader, as a wayward soul? What what what would Sikhs say about Muhammad? We don't get to that dialogue, I mean, because I think it's very variable, uh depending on the cultural aspect. Um a lo there's been a lot of atrocities historically, uh, propagated by various groups which uh are based on religious like in nineteen forty seven. one million people, mostly Muslims and Sikhs, uh, died when they created Pakistan in India. And literally they were shunting uh dead bodies across a man made border. So it's very difficult and uh to get into that topic, but nothing in uh Sikhism per se, the scriptures, uh, is there on Islam. I mean we have writings from th uh from Islamic saints in our in our in our text, the holy text. So could a Sikh um do all the things required to be a Sikh, uh and even maybe to be um one of the devout ones with the sword. What do you call those? The culsa. Even to be one of the culsa, um, could you do all those things and also be somebody that uh uh that holds the Quran in very high regard and in and and follows parts uh you know significant parts of the Quran And the same thing with Christianity, could somebody like like do all the things that are necessary to be uh Kelsa and also Like take the Bible and say, Man, I really believe o you know, most of this. I think that's a very personal thing and everything's different. So it could be. Yeah, but I think if you want to look at that You have to look back at even what the Quran says. If you look at the Quran when they say their same prayers, it's the belief in one God. It's no different from Sure. Christianity from Sikhism. Sure. It's as I said, th there is a three major religions which believe in one God. Sure. The way it's practiced is being colored by people. like even Christianity, like even Islam, and by other people who don't who have their beliefs. So I'd rather not get into that discussion. Now I'm trying to I'm trying to discern as you're talking how much of what you're saying about Sikhism is unique to you as opposed to somebody else that might be, you know, maybe a culsa you know, that that might define Sikhism 'cause you define it in a very historicized manner where you're recognizing the historical interactions you know, that Sikhs have had with all these other cultures and and the oppressions and and the inequalities from Buddhism and the oppressions of the Mus Muslims and the the warfare everywhere. And it and is Sikhism as a whole kind of defined itself as being as being not caught up and somehow trying to transcend all of those uh religious uh warfares or is it more that you I'm expressing a personal belief on that. But the whole point, like any religion, you'll get different different uh colours of the rainbow. Okay. You will get people who are Bible thumping, who are very say you have to have this, you have to have that. But I think that that personal that emphasis on the personal, I'm I'm understanding that not to be unique to you, but that would be something that would be highly important to all practitioners practitioners. Hard for me to say that word for some reason. uh of uh of Sikhism, right? That sure I I'm I'm and what I'm expressing is the essence of Sikhism and putting an intellectual slant on it, knowing the historical bra background. I mean there are people who don't know the historical background, who don't understand the things, and I choose not to get in discussion with them because you know if people have a closed mind you're not gonna get anywhere Okay, and so in that sense, um uh like a Jeffersonian Christian, Thomas Jefferson, um well he would actually like cut out parts of his Bible that he felt like were too supernatural, right? And uh and yet he called himself did he call himself a Christian? It's questionable whether he called himself a Christian. He certainly called himself a believer in God. I think it was more deist. I think he probably would have called himself one, that's my understanding. But looking back historically, most of the devout, you know, Bible believing Christians wouldn't put him in that category. Yes, we we we we ha have those witness miracles even in our faith. I mean the truth. Well the s the simple one I'm going to tell you is that our first guru, he was asked to uh dine in a in a particular person's house, then he went to another person's house. And he got the chapati, the the roti, the and he squeezed it. And out of the person who was dishonest, thud came out. And out of the person who was very honest, milk came out. Uh-huh. So we do have examples of miracles in our faith. Do you believe them to have been a little bit more than that? legitimate miracles or just really helpful, inspiring stories that teach a moral lesson? I think both. Yeah. I think both. I mean miracles do happen if you have faith. Okay. You need faith for miracles to happen. But the whole question on the other aspect is it is a more ethic viewpoint too as well, because which is important. Okay. There's a high view of God's sovereignty, right? Al almost Almost a strong belief in like a fatalism, maybe, like God's got a plan and people are marching along the path of that plan. And your job as a good disciple, a good learner, is to meditate upon God and get into his path and do things his way, because he's doing things his way. That would be a representation, but the whole point is nobody can predict the future or what God's plan is. Only God knows that. The whole point is how'd you attain that of them? That's the whole point of the thing. So then so then you don't believe that there are prophets out there that God has given insight into the future? uh about what's gonna happen in order to prepare people. You don't believe that uh Sikhs don't believe that that God gives that kind of information to humans. That's a very good question. As a matter of fact We have a thing called the Dasam Grant Granth, which is a different separate book from the Adi Grant, which has a prophecy element to it. Oh. So that is so some Sikhs believe in the prophetic part and some don't. I wouldn't say some believe, it's a personal thing. Some people choose to read their book, but it's not mainstream Sikhism. Ah. And so there's uh mystical Sikhism? Prophetic Sikhism. Like how like that whole group that reads that extra book, like like what would you say is the key distinction about those that read the extra book and those that don't? I'm not sure if if it is a distinction because many uh very orthodox people don't recognize the book Uh so you it's a very controversial area. Uh beyond reincarnation, what's the view of the afterlife? Is there a final finality? The final finality you merge with Waigru, which is God. So if you do the good deeds in your lifetime, uh you don't regenerate into another human. You uh you join him. And is that similar to like a nirvana idea with Buddhists or Or not. Meaning you you don't have separate personality from God for eternity. You are merged with God and so you become a part of the divine, not Any longer having a personal existence. But essentially that is the final state, yes. So if you were to choose those words, so be it. I mean it depends on what your understanding is. And that's the goal, the the purpose of your existence is to get to that place where you merge with God. Do the good deeds in your lifetime so you merge with God. Okay, so clearly you you are speaking on behalf of Sikhism at large, right? But a couple times you've you've made the comment, ah well, it's what you personally believe about it. Right. What do you believe about eternity? Do you believe then that you merge with God or do you believe that that you maintain a personal existence? with God for eternity. Meaning like a personal existence and relationship with God or d or that you can just eventually merge with God. I mean I go with the mainstream belief. I mean it's it's uh different from the Christian uh I'm not sure Uh uh the cr different from the concept of hell and heaven. Yeah. I mean the whole point is uh y if you do good deeds you will get to that level where you merge with him. I see. Okay. Having spent a number of years overseas, you spent a lot of years in London before coming to the United States. Is there any notable difference between how Sikhism is practiced across the ocean compared to America? Well, there are always differences. I mean always differences in way religion is practiced because it's determined about a culture it's endeared to. Um And also the groupings that are valid. I mean uh a lot of the Sikhs who migrated to London were migrants uh from the Punjab in the nineteen sixties very much uh from the countryside I suppose the cities. Whereas over here, a lot of the Sikhs who in who initially migrated, they were intellectuals, they uh they were doctors, they were engineers. So uh they're a little more open their faith for university professors. But as the uh as the additional people migrated, it sort of became more like uh Londoners. So it depends where you are, which pocket of the United States you are. What do you uh how long ago was it now? A year ago, two years ago, uh in the Midwest, some uh knucklehead uh terrorist minded uh bigoted folks thought that a religious establishment was a mosque and they attacked it and killed people. So a little so a little over a year ago. Yeah, okay. Yeah, that was a um there was a a guy who who walked in and shot dead people in the Sikh Gudwara. And the sad part about it is, you know, if you look at his history and uh he was a he wa he he was in the in the in the military, US military Had he realized that the Sikhs had fought with Americans in Iraq, fought against Islam like I we've expressed before for generations, fought in World War One and World War Two for freedom he would never enter that idea into his brain. He would uh differentiate it. I mean k killing anybody for their faith is wrong, don't get me r uh wrong, whether you're Sikh or Muslim, it doesn't matter. You don't go into somebody's place of worship and do that type of atrocity But I think there's a role here that needs to be said that, you know, if the word if the US Army had allowed Sikhs to wear turbans in the army he would look he would have thought differently. And I even told that to my congressman off the event event. I said, This is the reason why you need to allow the Sikhs in the United States to wear their turbans be worn in World War One, World War Two uh because it shows us uh our heritage, what we've done, how we've fought for freedom. I mean the Sikhs I mean my great gr my grandfather fought in Iraq in World War One with the British Indian Army. My father lived through b uh Japanese occupied Burma and uh a lot of the times the Japanese hated the Sikhs so much because the Sikhs were doing the fighting with the British. They had to cut off the ears of the Japanese, to show how many they killed that they kill the local Sikhs and population as they retreated. And we were nearly wiped out of the family as a result of that. And this moves into a question which i which it occurs to me is probably a pretty natural one for a Sikh But it it moves into the question of how do religions, people from different religious backgrounds, uh live with one another in a culture uh that uh somehow has to provide for everybody to be free religiously, but at the same time have some kind of unity so that they can dwell together. And so um that's at the center of that b that that discussion is Would you allow a Sikh in order to gain um credibility and uh a sense of integrity in society, wear his turban uh like in the armed forces and other places in order to encourage that. We have reached the end of our time. Jonathan Sweitzer is a senior pastor of Cross Val Valley Ch Crossroads Valley Chapel. Give you a good plug there. Thank you. Uh make sure I don't mumble the name of the church Um follow him on Twitter at SweitzerJonathan. Oh we haven't mentioned uh Frederick 48. Remind me, beginning of next week's show, we've got to spend a little bit of time talking about that. It's happening as we speak pretty much. Um and um I'm thinking we've reached a place where next week we can talk about some distinctives between y the two of you and your Uh the Christianity and Sikhism is some compare and contrast specifically there. I think we finally got to to that place. Uh Dr. Harpo Mangat has been our guest uh this week and we'll have them back next week. Thank you for listening. Thank you to our sponsors, Putman Plumbing and Heating, How can we make you smile? BMC Insurance and Cruise Holidays. What I've been what have I been reading I mentioned this author a couple of weeks ago and uh I think Jonathan's read the entire library written by him since then, uh Gerhardis Voss. The teaching of the Epistle to the Hebrews. Gerhardis, it's a hard name to say. Yeah, but it's fun. It's a fun name to say. Until next week, 167 and a half hours from now, thanks so much for listening. God bless.