Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMB. I am your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. I thank you so much for taking time out of your uh day today to to to spend, you know, half hour or so with us here discussing theological matters. If you've been listening in the three weeks and you know what is about to come. uh at you this week. I had an opportunity to sit in for well over two hours on another show called Theology Throwdown. It's uh one of the Christian podcast community programs that's hosted by Andrew Rapport. He's at a whole bunch of other shows over there as well. Andrew is the founder and uh I guess the like the the chief head honcho guy for Striving for Eternity. You can find him online at strivingforeternity. org. I think I might have said dot com. in a previous show, but I think he's . org, scribingfore eternity. org and the Christian podcast community, that is available to be listened to at Christian Podcast Community dot org as well. I think if you do dot com it might work, but I think it's officially . org. I don't know. I'm not sure how all that works or why somebody would pick org versus You know, calm or whatever. I I never quite understood why s why that would matter so much. But anyway, that's that's neither here nor there So you've heard three snippets from the Theology Throwdown episode that I sat in on that's titled Navigating the Complexities of Israel and of the church. That podcast originally dropped on January 23rd of 2026. And we're listening to portions of it here on the Faith Debate as I interact with it. And you can hear how I interacted with the folks on the show and how they interacted with me and that sort of thing. And speaking of the folks on the show, in addition to Andrew Rapaport, there's Seth Brickley. He's a pastor. He's involved with a podcast called Tearing down high places. Also part of that podcast is Jeff Clewer. He's also a pastor at Cornerstone Church. And Rebecca Berschwinger is on this theology throwdown thing, and you might hear her voice today as well. And she has her own podcast called One Little Candle, which again is also part of the Christian podcast community, as is the Faith Debate Show. So I encourage you to go check all of that out. You can find me online at household of faith in Christ dot com. So without any further delay, I'm going to jump in. This is where we left off in the process of the discussion last week. I kind of put it out there that I'm not dispensational. I'm pretty much covenantal in my view. I don't know if I'm a hardcore covenantalist, but certainly not dispensationalist. And so I kind of put that out there. I got a little bit of pushback and some questions and asking for clarification. So we're going through all of that. And now there's additional clarification being asked. during this segment. And hopefully it's interesting to you and educational to you of how these sorts of issues maybe could be navigated by brothers and sisters in Christ and doing so with a spirit of gentleness and understanding. and respect. And so that was the aim here and uh hopefully we'll hear that and it will come through for you. Seth, your thoughts? Yeah so Troy, I have a question for you. So Uh so so uh what is your eschatological position? Uh do you believe in a literal millennium or all millennial or so I I I'm gonna give you the answer, but just a quick caveat. I would describe myself as all millennial But when I read people that are so way smarter than me and they describe all millennial, I don't always fully agree with everything that I'm reading, but I agree with the All Millennial view as I've read others describe it way more than I embrace the other ones Okay. Okay, so that when you look at Romans nine through eleven, uh especially chapter eleven, do you do you see a future salvation for the people of Israel? Do you do you know do you see the uh the natural branches being grafted in back into their olive tree. Do you see that as as a mass conversion of Jews at the end of the age? I think that well s yeah, so you we're using we're mixing terms from a uh kind of a dispensational viewpoint with an all millennial viewpoint when you talk about the end of the age. I'm all millennial and sometimes all millennial gets lumbed in with postmillennial, but there's really two different camps of premillennialism. There's the historic variety and the dispensational variety. And I think Amillennialism ends up being a nice bridge or blend that connects actually premillennialism from historic premillennialism standpoint and post-millennial standpoint. And so the end of the I think we're in the end the in the end of the age. I think we have been for a couple of thousand years kind of thing. And I think that there have been broken off branches. grasted in. You know, the Apostle Paul comes immediately to mind. Most of the authors of the New Testament come to mind. Andrew Rappaport, who's sitting here on this panel today, comes to mind. There's I mean there's all sorts of Jews ethnic Jews. So do I believe there's a future for Israel? Well yes, because I'm described I'm of course there is. There's a future for God's people. The sons of Abraham have a great future and so absolutely there's a future for for Israel. So how we define Israel changes how you frame an answer to a question like that. Okay. Yep. So so you would see all Israel will be saved. You know, Romans 1126 as Israel. That's not Gentiles. That's Israel. But you see that it's Israel. That's all of the people of God, from Adam all the way to the last man standing, who is in Christ. is Israel and they will be saved. And I and to me that's the point of that is n he doesn't lose any. Christ loses not one. Everyone who is his who the Father grants the Sun, everyone who is his, who belongs to him, is indwelt by the Holy Spirit, everybody who God has elect from before the foundations of the earth, because I'm a reformed theologian, they will be saved. It's an absolute guarantee. And yes, that includes ethnic Jews, ethnic Spaniards, ethnic Germans, ethnic Koreans, what have you. Mm-hmm. But he but isn't he isn't he talking about two different groups of people though? Uh I mean there's the wild olive shoots that are grafted in It's to the all tree and then there's the all of the you know the original all branches that are grafted back in Yeah, well I think that the occasion, you know so when we when we're doing our applying our hermeneutical principles, you know, we want to look at the grammar and the literary context. and literary genre and all those sorts of things. We also want to look at what's going on in history and what the occasion for the writing was and who the audience was. And in the first century when But there was a great dispersion and a bunch of uh ethnic Jews ended up in Rome. I think Paul's addressing that situation and saying, hey, Jews. Gentiles, let's get along here. We all are one in Christ. And yeah, there's two different people with two different backgrounds that arrived at this point in history together. One from an Old Testament ethnic Jewish background and others from a brand new grafted in believer kind of a background, but we're all one in Christ. And so he's yes, he is talking about the two groups to clarify what the issue on the ground is. And then making the point that stop fighting, stop hating your brother because you're a new convert. Don't think that you're better than your Jewish brother. brothers so who many of them stepped away from the true faith until they get grafted back in. And likewise those who were the faithful Jews and thought that the Gentiles needed to become more Jewish, the Judaizers You know, that gets addressed in other parts in the book of Galatians, for example. So I think Paul is addressing the two groups, but with the aim of helping both sides of that equation in Rome to understand that there's unity in Christ. Okay, so let me just read uh I had pulled this up because uh you guys are referring to it. Let me just read Romans eleven, twenty-five to twenty-nine. Uh and I'm just gonna I'm gonna meet Seth there, because he we're getting some from Seth. Sorry. Uh but this is what what Romans uh eleven twenty-five says. 'Cause I just want to make sure we ha we see the context of what's being discussed. For I do not want you, brothers, to be uninformed of this mystery, so that you will not be wise in your own estimation. That a partial hardening has happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles comes in And so all Israel will be saved, just as it is written, the deliverer will come from Zion, he will remove ungodliness from Jacob, and this is my covenant with them. when I take away their sins. From the standpoint of the gospel, they are enemies for your sake, but from the standpoint of God's choice, they are beloved for the sake of their fathers. For the gift and the calling of God are irrevocable. Now, I'm going to change this if I can, because I want to focus on something that Look, we've already called out Joel Webbin and anyone that wants to go tag him, anyone can always join Apologetics Live on Thursday nights, apologeticslive. com. Click on the duck icon. That's how everyone here except for me got in here. And so it works But anyone can come in. So even Joel Webin, he can come in. And uh we're gonna have a a I will say this at the end of this recording, before we go, we're done. We're going to have a special message just for Joel Webbin. I'm just saying, I happen to know a little secret. Uh his name's been kicked around. It'll be kicked around one more time. So you don't want to cut out early. But, you know, what I have been hearing from people that are in that camp, shall we say, they focus on on this one part Verse twenty eight. From the standpoint of the gospel, they are enemies for your sake. And I have been hearing this, I know Seth and you and Jeff heard me share about this, but I've heard this since October 7th, you know, and I had I had a pastor who contacted. I haven't spoken to this pastor I I get I'm thinking like a dozen years since I I s preached at his church. And he contacted me to let me know that he's not going to use any of our materials anymore. He's not promoting striving for eternity anymore because I'm not saved. I am an enemy of the gospel, and that verse is the one that proves it. That because I am from the the line of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, That means that I am an enemy of the gospel and I cannot be saved according to that. That's his argument. Now I will admit I think that's a very extreme position. I don't think Joe Webbin and some of the others that hold to this anti-Israel view hold to that view. But I I think so I think that some people are just going way extreme on this But I have heard often, and and so the question I'm gonna ask you guys is how do we interact with this? Because I've heard this often that Right now, Jews are enemies of the gospel. And yet the people that quote that miss the very next part of the verse. But from the standpoint of God's choice They are beloved for the sake of their fathers. And so so many people want to say, well, they're not God's chosen people today They're an enemy of the gospel today. Well, this verse, the very verse that says they're an enemy of the gospel, also says they're God's chosen people for the sake of their fathers. So I I want to open up how how should we view this? Um who just unmuted? Was that you, Jeff? Because I was gonna go with you first. So I was gonna go with you and then Rebecca if she wanted to talk because she hasn't said much in a while. So Jeff I would just say that regarding verse 28, Romans 11, 28, we have to pay very careful attention to the actual language of the text. So if it says as regards the gospel, they are enemies for your sake You have to think what does the pronoun they refer to? So you look to the antecedent that would give you that answer, and it comes in verse 26. And in this way, all Israel will be saved. So Israel there is not speaking of believing invisible true Israel that then gets enlarged like adding Illinois to the United States of America or Greenland to the United States of America, it's actually referring to national Israel. That's the issue because they are enemies. Believing Israel is not enemies for your sake. But national ethnic Jews who are by and large rejecting So this is really the issue. When we say replacement theology, we're not looking to denigrade anybody. We're saying they are those who hold to covenant theology often reject It's fundamental premise that there still is a plan for national ethnic Israel. That that did not end when the church age was born. So Whether Galatians refers to Israel as the church or any other passage that might speak of a spiritual Israel, that doesn't negate the fact that the actual language of Romans 11 28 tip Israel as a nation, as an ethnicity. This is after the cross. Paul is writing to Roman believers and he's calling us beloved and um now made now recipients of mercy, but he's saying there will later be mercy on them, ethnic national Israel. So To to say that that is no longer in play is by definition replacement theology. That's that's what I would throw out there. Yeah, and I think I think that we we have to be careful when we accuse people of replacement theology. Um You know, MacArthur would do this often, right? And you know, as as Troy had said, there is um I think there is an element that we have where y it's not Hey, God had Israel in the Old Testament, he replaced them with the church. From a covenant perspective, they're seeing that the Old Testament believers are in the same grouping as the New Testament believers. So it's not an I agreed. Yeah, I totally agreed. But the question is, are you replacing the church? You are you substituting the church into that place where God is still making promises to the nation. So the church has replaced the nation with regard to these kind of promises, such as Romans 11, 26. All Israel will be saved. The text is literally saying that God is going to save national Israel. We know it's national Israel because the pronoun they in verse 28 clarifies that for us. So that's what I'm saying. That's what's left in the disc discussion. Because clearly in verse twenty eight, the they are they're enemies of God so It cannot be speaking of that universal Israel or spiritual Israel. It has to be speaking of that combined group. That's visible, but they're not they're believers and unbelievers. And y and yet there's you know, yet what he's saying is they're still his chosen people. For th for the sake of the fathers, promises kept Well th okay, I'm not trying to make it political, but promises made, promises kept. With God it's always that way. Right? Here Trump maybe it is that way. But Great. So uh Rebecca, let me go to you and see any any we haven't heard from you in a while. Any thoughts you have? I would like to hear some comments on Jeremiah 33 Jeremiah thirty-three, let me pull that up. W uh what verse specifically? Well, you send a whole chapter on it. Yeah, okay. So it's it's a long chapter. Uh yeah. You have any specific verses you want us to read. Which which verses. Now I know um and I know some has been fulfilled and I believe you know some is is for the future. He says, Behold the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will fulfill the promise I made to the house of Israel and the house of Judah. And no say then at that time I will cause a righteous branch, obviously Jesus, to spring up for David, and he shall execute justice and righteousness in the land. In those days Judah will be saved and Jerusalem will Jerusalem will dwell securely. And this is the name by which it will be called the Lord is our righteousness. And then further down in the chapter, he goes on to say that God says that I will no longer break my covenants with with Israel, then I will, you know, bring about day and night. And, you know, cities and ethnic Israel is mentioned several times here. And so would you given that I might just I kinda find it hard to, you know, say that um the nation of Israel is not included is no longer included in this covenant, you know, that it's just now just a people. Yeah, and what you read was Jeremiah thirty Right. And that but there's even further down, you know, like I said, he he continues on. So basically God's saying, I will never break my covenant that I made with them. God does Which is what he said in Romans where he says that you know it ended there by saying that the calling of God is irrevocable. So Jeremiah thirty three, I don't know any of you s have studied that in okay. Troy? Go ahead. Well yeah, deeper into the chapter It says, Behold, days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah. And so It's a new covenant. The new covenant, of course, is uh is in Christ's blood. And so that's the new covenant. It's a different kind of a covenant than a geopolitical nation state kind of a promise. It's a promise to be saved forever from your sins, to be in Christ to be part of a kingdom that is not of this world. So right there in that same chapter, there's talk about the new covenant. So there's a shift. So certainly God is not turned his back on the chosen people of the Old Testament uh ethnic connection, but he's fulfilling it in, I would argue, better ways, wondrously better ways. And so yeah, from my perspective, the land promise to Israel, anybody who's focusing on just that small little piece of land about the size of New Jersey has way too small an idea of what that promise is I think the whole connection, the meta-narrative of scripture is talking about in Genesis, we have the account of Eden, and then we have pictures of Eden and the temple imagery of the Old Testament, and and then we have an expansion of that with Israel, the geopolitical nation of Israel in the Old Testament. supposed to be a broadening of the expansion of Israel. And now Eden is spreading over the entire planet. Israel is spreading over the entire planet. And eventually when Christ returns, the entire cosmos is a is a new creation. So that Eden becomes part of everything that God has ever made. That's the bigness of the promise. If we focus on a small little piece of land in the Middle East, I think we missed the grandness of God's eternal plan. And by the way, the other thing that Andrew started off with was, you know, how do we interact with these people who want to take one verse out of context and to use it to try to bludgeon the Jews? Just invite them to read the beginnings of Romans chapter 9, where that very same author, you know, it's not that many paragraphs earlier. That very same author says, I am telling the truth in Christ, I am not lying My conscience testifies with me in the Holy Spirit that I have great sorrow and unceasing grief in my heart, for I could wish that I myself were a curse, separated from Christ for the sake of my brethren, my kinsmen according to the flesh who are Israelites. So if they're going to say, well, Paul says in chapter 11, the Jews are your enemy for the sake of the gospel, well Just two chapters earlier that exact same guy is saying he would sacrifice, if it were possible, his own salvation for the sake of his ethnic family, if you will. So th that's been proof texting is a dangerous habit. Yes. I totally I think we all agree there. Anyone else anyone else want to tackle that? Okay, Pastor Jeff. In Jeremiah chapter three You see God very realistically describing the two sisters. You have the northern and the southern kingdom, and both of them are going after idols. You would have thought that Judah would have recognized what God did to Assyria and therefore not follow in the sister's footsteps, but instead Judah goes headlong in the same way. And God graphically describes this as He's very, very harsh in describing the unbelief and the idolatry of Israel and of Judah. But what's so interesting about Jeremiah three is that it's almost like a twist in the plot because as hard as he is, he still says, Return to me Return to Zion. He says, I will be compassionate. And what you see is the heart of God that however far it seems that they've gone God does keep welcoming the ethnic Jews back to himself. And that's not the attitude. Just like what you said, Troy, when you have people that are railing against the Jews and boasting over them, as in Romans 11 language, boasting over the Jews It's the opposite heart of God. God is desiring them to return and he still has a plan. But here's what I'd say again to the covenant interpretation that you offered there, brother. In Jeremiah 31, you do have new covenant promise, but you also have some fulfillment of the land and the clean. So in Jeremiah 33, which which our sister just referenced, if you look at uh Jeremiah 33, verse 24, have you not observed that these people are saying, the Lord has rejected the two clans that he chose. In Jeremiah's mind, the the southern kingdom and the northern kingdom are the two sisters. I think another prophet called them O Ohali and Ohalibah or something like that The two sisters, the two clans. God has not rejected the two clans. He's not here picturing them as new covenant believers. Only what he's saying is the clans themselves. There's a distinction between north and south. God has not rejected them. Now he also says they're going to become two in his hand. They're going to become one. The two clans will become one The two sixths of Ezekiel 37, but notice that he's still dealing with them as such, as an ethnic people, northern or southern, by tribes And again, in Revelation, the book of Revelation, you have the 144,000 witnesses, and there's 12,000 from each of the tribes So we would take that very literally, right? But then it says in Jeremiah thirty-four, twenty-four, as our sister pointed out, thus they have despised my people, so that they are no longer a nation in their sight, thus says the Lord, okay? If I have not Establish my covenant with day and night and the fixed order of heaven and earth, then I will reject the offspring of Jacob. and David my servant, and will not choose one of his offspring to rule over the offspring of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, for I will restore their fortune and will have mercy on them So God is being very particular in talking about the land promises, the promises to the ethnic clans, and he says he's very detailed in what that that promise is for the future of Israel. So it goes all the way back to Jeremiah, but it's considered So hold on to those details. Since you mentioned Romans eleven, this question came up earlier. I had to go find it. J. K. Grace says, where do you see the fulfillment of the dispensational view of Israel's restoration, as we're talking about Romans 11, 26, in the book of Revelation? So Jeff, tackle this one. I mean just the brief sketches you'd have to see it in the context of Daniel's seventy weeks. You'd have to understand that that final week is yet future, so you'd have to take a futurist position there and you would see then that God resumes his dealings with Israel nationally when you get the tribulation period. That tribulation period would map correspond to Daniel's 70th week of Daniel 927. So from Revelation 6 through 19, you don't have any more references to the church. You have references to the church in Revelation 2 and 3. And then you have the throne room scene in Revelation Revelation 4 and 5. But from Revelation 6 to 19, you have Jerusalem, this city of Jerusalem is the center. You have the two witnesses who are Jewish. You have the 144,000, 12,000 from each tribe. So it's clear that God is finishing that Daniel's 70th week in the book of Revelation. Short answer, we can go much deeper, but I'm going to jump in here. You are listening to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Find me online at household of faith in Christ dot com. And boy, there are so many things that were said in that last segment uh from the other two gentlemen that were doing a lot of the speaking in this session about how to grapple with and understand verses and passages and the overall theme of the book Revelation incredibly different viewpoint than what how I would approach this, but I don't have time to get into all of that right now. Just know that there's reason for additional conversation on those matters at the very least. Anyway, we're going to continue with portions anyway of this conversation. Part of why I'm doing this is to introduce you to the kinds of stuff that you can find at the Christian Podcast community. Again, this is specifically Theology Throwdown. It's a monthly podcast and it's a longer form podcast. Uh all the episodes are at least an hour, sometimes close to three hours long. The one that I sat in on was a little bit less than two and a half hours. And if you want to listen to that, go to the Christian podcast community, find theology throwdown, and you're looking for the episode titled Navigating the Complexities of Israel and the Church which dropped as a podcast on January 23rd, 2026. Anyway, we're going to continue with the show gram, as I sometimes like to say. Well, what do you say? About 167. 5 hours from now, does that work for you? Until then, God bless.