Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I am Troy Skinner. You're a longtime host of this radio show, Graham. You can find me online at Household of FaithinCrist. com. That's Household of FaithinChrist. com. Of course you can find the show uh connected to the radio station's website, WFMD. com. There is a faith debate page. there as well. We're gonna have on the show today Seth Brickley, who is a pastor and has a podcast called Tearing Down High Places. He Uh he's a frequent c contributor to that podcast uh that uh I think mostly belongs to another pastor, Jeff Cleur And uh he's also a pastor uh at that Cornerstone Church and uh with that same podcast, he's on the show today. Uh Rebecca Birschwinger has a podcast called One Little Candle on the show today. And Andrew Rappaport, who has a whole slew of podcasts, including Theology throwdown and apologetics live. And that's actually what you're going to be hearing, a portion of a show that I was invited to sit on a panel with all those folks to talk about a couple of issues. And the primary one had to do with the church the the complexities of Israel and the church more specifically with everything that's been going on internationally in the news and of course what's been going on with Christian nationalism in the news and some of the dark side, the underbelly of some of that. And so that's what we're talking about. We're going to jump right in here and have a chance to hear Andrew Rappaport's voice first. And uh he gets us started here. Hope you enjoyed this special episode of the Faith Debate on News Radio, nine thirty WFMD So let's get to tonight's topic. Max Peck is just he's right on on cue. He's saying so Andrew's going to be arguing the anti-Israel position, right? He knows better. No, I won't be arguing that position. I I'm gonna open this up as the first question. I'm gonna give my view and then let you guys e uh I'll ask each of you, we'll go around and see what you think. But the question really is why are we seeing whether you want to call it an attack or a changing of the view of Israel just within the last couple of years that we haven't seen in Christianity. And so I'm gonna give you I'll give you my view up front. I I think that it comes out of an overemphasis of covenant theology. Uh for folks who don't know covenant theology and dispensational theology, dispensationalism would see a separation between Israel and the church and covenant theology would see more of a union. But I think that it's a more radical view of covenant theology where they've They're trying to say that there is no Israel anymore, as I have heard said, that the the people of God are the church that the the church in the Old Testament was called Israel and the church today is New Testament Israel. And so I think that that theology has been what's uh sparked over into this. I do think it all started with October seventh. And are people arguing for Palestine, people not liking what they think they feel the nation of Israel and Netanyahu are doing. And they've I think mixed their theology and politics and um brought that together. That's what I think, but we'll start uh start with you, Pastor Seth. What are your thoughts on why do do you think we're seeing this r the So recently? Uh because uh I I think there's there's a r there's gotta be uh Several reasons why this is taking place. And 'cause why why now? I guess is maybe is is is one way to ask it, right? 'Cause it uh Jewish hatred is nothing new. It is something that's that's been here since the beginning of uh since Abraham, right? Four thousand years ago. Uh you know, it's one of my friends, he's a Jewish friend of mine Uh he he he sent me a chart uh well a while back that showed the increase of attacks on Jewish people. Uh anywhere from uh graffiti to uh murder Uh it's a wide spectrum. Um but i what what the chart showed is since twenty twenty the the increase is significant, uh the the Jewish hatred. So I and I'm not sure if you get you guys have considered this, but it it seems like it seems like since twenty twenty Uh the internet has exploded in ways we that we we haven't seen before, where uh people no longer trust what they've heard before. And and f you know, to a certain level that you know, that that's understandable, right? Because there was a lot of uh a lot of with COVID there was a lot of lies that were told and we we know that. Um but You know, there there it seems like there's there's a neglect of scripture. There's a neglect of history, and and and now what's taking place is some of these big podcasters on the internet, uh, they are the authority. And no matter what they say it's not questioned and and they're they're stirring up um hatred towards towards Jewish people, you know, so that So it it I I think there's I think there there is a connection there between just the lack of trust in what they've heard before And they're and they're entertaining new ideas. Uh and without really questioning them, without looking at history, without looking at the Bible, what does the Bible say about Israel Well what does the Bible say about uh you know Satan and and his his designs against God's plans? Right? So um so I I think that's something to consider, you know, or one of the one of the things to consider. Uh but just in general, I mean Satan hates Israel. Uh and he hates Israel because he understands what the Bible says. He understands how the world is going to end. He understands that is Israel is the central focus of how the world is going to end. Um so with that in mind, you know, he he does not want to see this people prosper, this people be preserved. He he does not want to see God's plan be accomplished through them. Right? So he wants to annihilate them. And so you know, Islam is is the chief kind of the chief uh uh movement, uh religion that he's using to to threaten them. Uh but a lot of these people on the right uh all of a sudden have this favorable favorable view towards Islam Uh and they view Israel as the problem, right? So it's like that I that's very fascinating. Something we haven't seen really before until the last couple of years. Yeah, I agree. Let's see. Rebecca I'll unmute the next one. Um yeah, you know, it's I was not aware, um, back in twenty twenty how much the uh anti Semitism was increasing. Obviously it was, but I mean I I first began to notice it after October seventh, especially. Um obviously what was simmering underneath has really just exploded. But as far as the reason behind it, I think the further we get into the end times, which I believe we are in, um, I think the more you're gonna see this Um, it's demonic. I think most of it mo most of it is spiritual, but whether they be unbelievers or even those prof who profess the name of Christ, uh professing Christians, I think a lot of this is biblical illiteracy. Mm. You know, I think it stems from that as well, too. People don't really understand any of the divine mandates. when it comes to Israel. Yeah, no, you have to make some good points. Let's let us move on to who is in here next. Was Troy. I'll unmute you. Uh I think that um there's such a complexities uh the Like a combination of complexities here, I don't think we can point our finger at any one thing. I think it's a cocktail of combinations If it's Andrew, if your idea is on the right track at all, I'm not sure that I would accept that, but it would certainly be some some sort of a hyper covenant theology. It wouldn't be true covenant theology that's being applied here. And but perhaps that is part of it. But I think on the other hand, I think part of it could also be the hyper Zionist dispensational position that's being reacted against in a knee-jerk fashion, where they want to blame the boomer cons who have uh swallowed the Zionist idea cloth without worrying about their felt needs in their lives and they want to blame somebody. But I don't think that that's it either. I think really what's happened a number of years ago, not that many years ago, just a few years ago, Andy Stanley became rather infamous for a quote about unhitching from the Old Testament. I think that what's going on right now, particularly some of the younger angry men that are uh into this whatever we want to call it the the new right, the woke right, uh, you know, uh radical uh Christian nationalist element that's out there. I think that they're unhitching from the entire Bible They're not embracing some sort of bad form of covenant theology or necessarily pushing back against uh a bad form of dispensational theology. I think they're just rejecting theology And they're masquerading as Christians a lot of them, but I don't think that they really are. Instead, the closest thing that they're embracing as a Christian would be the idea of general revelation. They're big into natural law. They're becoming Thomas They're really kind of rejecting Protestantism, looking for a strong man to come in, looking for new ideas, and unfortunately The church has left the door open for that in a large-scale fashion because the world came unglued a number of years ago. We couldn't trust anybody anymore, couldn't trust any institutions, right? Can't trust trust the government, you can't trust the media, you can't trust your doctor, you can't trust anything and people felt like they couldn't trust their pastors all of a sudden because their pastors have gone woke and so they're trying to find the ideas on their own and they're turned into YouTube sensations or book authors who have gotten a little bit of traction with books that they've written o in recent years or whatever. I think it's mostly driven by an anger that has made them susceptible as a group to any sort of conspiracy that will be a salve for their hurts. They want to blame somebody. And that's why I tell you he gets a lot of um James Lindsey gets a lot of pushback for having coined the woke right moniker. And I understand why, although I gotta say in fairness to uh the uh atheist friend, James Lindsay, your agnostic friend But um he's not far off, I don't think, because if you were to create a schematic and compare what locism is on the left and then p have a corollary on the right, there'd be a lot that matches up and a lot of it's driven by anger at the world having done me wrong and I'm gonna blame somebody. And so the woke left blamed white heterosexual male Christians and the uh woke right, if you want to even use that label, they're blaming the Jews. You know and it's not the Jews' fault and it's not the white heterosexual Christian males' fault either, but they're just floundering, lashing out and Some of the better pastors are trying to rein that in and they're not being heard. You're just being weak. You're being squished, you know, you You don't understand what's going on. You don't know what it's like to be twenty eight years old and have no future. I can't get a woman who wants to date me. I'm not gonna be able to raise a family. I can't afford to buy a house. I have no career. And you know why? Because of the Jews, because of the boomer tons who have bought into all the Jews' lives for the last generation and a half. So I don't know that it's had anything specifically to do with theology other than an outright rejection of biblical Christian theology. Okay. Yeah, and and if I I I I thought I clarified and I didn't say all covenant theologians, I I thought I said extreme, but I thank you Trey for picking that up. Yeah, it's not all covenant theologians, I but I do think it is an extreme outworking of the covenant theology where they've gone hyper and want to now cut off Israel. There's a a person who contacted me that told me that Israel is not a state today. There's no country named Israel. Like what what is that called? He's like Palestine. Yeah, okay. And Were Flat Earthers too? Yeah. Well I was like, what's the what's the United States? Because that wasn't called the United States until we founded it and rebelled against uh you know, the UK. Which by the way, it's the UK that gave that land that conquered that land and named it Israel, just saying there was no land of Palestine, there's no money of Palestine, there's no language of Palestine, there's no culture of Palestine Uh it was a the an area and there was a mixed culture and and all of that um you know between Muslims and Jews at the time. So Uh let's go to Pastor Jeff. Let me uh let me unmute you. What do you think is the cause of it, Pastor Jeff? I think you guys are right over the target. I do think there is kind of that victim sense within the generation that is looking for someone to blame. for problems that they're experiencing. I mean the s the same thing happened in the nineteen thirties when Germans were looking for somebody to blame. And with the leadership of Adolf Hitler, they rallied around Mein Kampf and they blamed the Jews at that time for all the struggles of Germany. Um and the result was like a a snowball that once once it was set in motion, it gained more and more momentum So that's a phenomenon that we've seen already, and I think we're starting to see it again. Hopefully it won't gain the kind of momentum that it got in Germany at that time, but it's clearly a demonic thing So on on one hand you have this almost inexplicable phenomenon that people would begin to blame the Jews for everything. And you have just this demonic hatred But on the other hand, there there are some explanations. When that begins to move and the snowball starts to roll down the hill, people notice that it's popular. So I hate to name names, but I kind of do that from time to time. A guy like Joel Webin, and I would agree with you that Um, his covenant theology is no hedge to his wrong headedness regarding Israel. So a dispensational understanding of Scripture would have um a more careful appreciation of Jeremiah chapter three or Daniel chapter nine or how um the New Testament speaks of Israel. Um, so his theology is part of the problem. But I think the larger problem is the reward system, kind of like the dopamine hit that he gets When he says something about Israel and all of a sudden he gets a lot of fanfare and new subscribers. And before long his whole platform transitions from like a broad evangelical um commentary podcast to very much targeted against Jews. It's it's like a reward system. And I think that's like a snowball that's rolling in the culture right now. A lot of people have picked up on that They see Nick Fuentes, they see Tanda Swans, Tucker Carlson, and it's very easy to jump on a bandwagon um when you're being rewarded like that. So that's kind of the the earthly picture of what's happening. It's a momentum thing, it's a platform thing. It's really a pride thing. And spiritually you do have the element of theology. I think dispensationalism, maybe cuppet theology is not uh the problem, but it lacks the hedge of protection that dispensational wisdom would get. So you have that from the spiritual perspective, but even deeper, there is something profoundly demonic going on in the culture. And it's, you know, we're approaching the end times. Um, but the church has to be the ones to restrain this demonic power, the spirit of the age, which is really the Antichrist spirit. 2 Thessalonians 2, 6-8. I interpret that to be the church with the Holy Spirit indwelling us. restrains the the Antichrist spirit in the culture. So it's really up to us by the Spirit to speak out against the lies. and hold back this rise tide of hatred against the Jews. And you see in the comments there that I'm putting up the several in the chat are agreeing with you. Um Uh you folks that are regular here, you you obviously see why I love Jeff, right? I mean, not only from Jersey, fellow pastor, but a dispensationalist if he could just give up his charismatic Continuationism, it'd be great. Uh he does have a book actually, I think I th if if you guys go to Amazon and just search for for Jeff Cow Clower, um uh he's got like a book a month coming out. I You know, just just saying. So Yeah, and Andrew, to be fair, when I um when I wrote I wrote a book called Fan into Flame about the charismatic gifts, I have I'm probably just as hard on the sensationalist The refermatic movement as I think the extreme of cessationism. And the modern nation state of Israel. So I'm making uh because this is I think is where we discuss this, the real heart is. There was already someone that asked in the chat about uh if I can find it quickly. Here we go. Who is Israel according to Romans 9 6? And Romans 9 6 says, but it is not enough But it is not as though the word of God has failed, for they are not all Israel who descended from Israel. And so a as we think of that passage Um can you help us? What is the the distinction between this country we know of Israel today and and biblical Israel? That's a very important question. I think dispensationalists and covenant theologians would answer that very differently. So I think that God has miraculously brought the nation Israel back into existence, even born in a day, as Isaiah 66 said would happen. And that was May 14th, 1948. I think national Israel is Israel. It's not spiritual Israel because not all who are of the the flesh of Abraham are actually born-again Christians. But a couple things about that. The nation Israel is described in Romans 9, verses 1 and 5, according to things that they have, even though they lack faith in Christ. So they still have certain things. They have the covenants, the promises that we would. Um, but it's not that everybody who's of Israel is Israel in the sense of being born again. So you do have to make that distinction between who is genuinely the saved, the children of God, in that context. And who is national Israel. Now as you read obviously Romans 9 through 11 as a unit, you see that God will still deal with ethnic Israel. And we are not to boast over ethnic national, largely disbelieving Israel. So that's the distinction right there. Um as a dispensationalist, but I think biblically Um, not just because of my school of theology, but I think it's the right handling of scripture to see that God has providentially brought the nation back into life. Yeah. Okay, let's go to um let's see, let's go to next. We'll go to Pastor Seth and then to Rebecca and Troy. So Seth. Yeah. Yeah, I you know, I I do agree with what Jeff said and I I it's interesting because I I do know dispensationalists who who don't see any significance with 1948. They they don't see any significance with Israel in the land And, you know, and of course our views are going to be different as we look at the modern nation state of Israel, uh, just just based off of uh off of those convictions Yeah, and and Jeff mentioned Isaiah 66, 8, you know, a nation that is born in one day. And I you know, it's it's remarkable that when you think about 1948, in one day uh they became a nation and and typically nations become nations 'cause they fight to become nations. But uh Israel was, you know, through the U United Nations proclaimed a nation, but they had to fight to maintain themselves as a nation, of course. Um and that's been their history, right? They're just they're fighting for their own survival. Um yeah, so so you look at uh present day Israel, uh it you know, you look at those prophecies in Ezekiel where uh where they're brought back into the land. I I I don't know exactly um at least what's taking place is setting the table. Uh I think that I think there will be more Jewish people who will go to the land, you know, be before the end. Uh but But there were millions that that were drawn to the land back in 1948 and and after that, which is which is which is truly remarkable to think about. And so I I think w when Christians look at that and they don't see any significance with it, I I think it defies reality, defies common sense, and and I think it does d defy Uh and and it it uh it murkies the waters of scripture to not see that because when when you look at the book of Deuteronomy One of the punishments for the people of Israel was exile. And of course we saw that in the with the when the when Nebuchadnezzar and the Babylonians took him into exile And then of course it happened again in the first century and the second century when uh the temple was destroyed, destroyed and then the people were scattered again. So if the Lord is going to bring millions of people back into the land. We should see that as a blessing. Uh w why else would all them have been brought back into the land? Okay, so and you look at and you look too at uh The end times prophecies. Where is Jesus going to return to? Jerusalem, the Mount of Olives It even says the percentage of Israel that's going to be saved. It's going to be one-third of Israel's going to be saved. And then it says in Zechariah 12. 10, they will look on me whom they have pierced. So they're gonna they're gonna look on him as he comes back to Jerusalem. So there's gonna be a large population of Israel in the land when Jesus returns. And that You know, and that at at minimum the stage has been set at this point. Um I do not see them being wiped out. Um I I see the Lord preserving them in the land Uh we of course don't know how long it's gonna be, but it but it could be very close. I I do think that them going to Middle End in 1948 uh was it was a clear signal that the end is near. Now the Lord is patient, but the end is near. And and Christ is gonna come back and and they will look on him whom they have pierced. Yeah, I I I I'm not sure I will can agree with all of it, but that's okay. So I'm going to jump in here because the show was that we did together is going to shift now to thoughts from Rebecca Buschwinger. You just heard the voice of Seth Brickley talking with Andrew Rappaport before that was Jeff Kluwer. And just to set the context of what you're hearing here on the Faith Debate, I was invited to be a part of a program called Theology Throwdown, which was then uh doubled up as a double live stream uh program on Theology Throwdown and Apologetics Live. And Apologetics Live and Theology Throwdown are the Brain Child and are produced by Andrew Rappaport. And so I thank him. And if you want to hear the entirety of all this conversation, then you can find those two shows online. And the easiest way to do that probably is to go to the Christian podcast community and find theology throw down and or Apologetics Live and look for episodes that are called uh Navigating the Complexities of Israel and the Church. So we're going to continue this conversation. Um I'm giving it to you kind of in piecemeal in chunks. If you want to hear the whole thing again uninterrupted, you can do that uh elsewhere. But on the Faith Debate, we're doing this in chunks because of the time constraints of how we do the show here on WFMD. And I encourage you to find our show, The Faith Debate, at WFMB. com and of course at household of faith in Christ dot com. That's household of faith in Christ dot com. Thanks so much for partnering with me and listening to this, I think, important conversation at this moment in history, in Western civilization and for the American church in particular. I hope you're enjoying it and gaining something from it. We will continue next week, and I think the first person up next week will be Rebecca, and then you'll hear my thoughts uh after hers on the show and I'm kind of responding to what uh Seth and Jeff and Andrew uh have had to say so far in this episode that you heard today. So that's next week, 167 and a half hours from let me see, let me check my watch Yeah, right now. God bless