Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio nine thirty WFMD. I am your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. You can find me online at household of faith in Christ dot com. That's Household of FaithInChrist. com. com we're continuing on our recent series of my guest spot appearing with some other guys on another podcast. Yeah I know somebody was crazy enough to invite me onto their show. Happens from time to time. Don't ask me I don't understand it either Anyway, the show is called Theology Throwdown. It's hosted by Andrew Ravaport. It's part of the Christian Podcast community. You can connect with that at Christian Podcast Community. org. It's part of the Striving for Eternity ministry that Andrew Repefort founded years ago. Andrew is a prolific podcaster. He's involved in a whole bunch of different kinds of podcasts. It's got uh I don't know, three, four, five different podcasts. Uh Apologetics Live is one of them, the Rap Report is one of them, and Theology Throwdown is one of them, and Theology Throwdown is the one that I was invited to sit on to talk about how to navigate the complexities of Israel and the church. And so I was invited on to talk with not just Andrew, but a number of other people because a theology throwdown is kind of like the faith debate. It's a bunch of voices come together In this case, it's all Christians on the Theology Throwdown Show. And all the Christians uh talk about a pre-selected topic, and in this case we're talking about Israel and the church. And to joining Andrew and me as part of this show is Seth Brickley. He's a pastor. He's part of a podcast called Tearing Down High Places. It's also with Truth Fellowship. And Jeff Cleore is a pastor. He's with Cornerstone Church, also with that podcast Tearing Down High Places. And Rebecca Birschwinger. She's got a podcast of her own called One Little Candle, which happens to be part of the Christian podcast community, by the way. And that's part of why I'm featuring this guest spot that I have with them To help promote the Christian podcast community, I shared a whole bunch of short form kind of stuff not too long ago, a couple months back on the Faith Debate. Wherever you listen to podcasts, you pretty much can find the Faith Debate show and the feed that's been provided by the radio station for so many years, it seems like it only has like the last hundred shows, about a year's uh two years I guess worth of shows up there at a time, something along th those lines. And so we had to figure out a way to get you all the shows in case you were interested in going way back to when I really sounded like a knucklehead And so I'm uploading all of the shows as fast as I can. And I don't know exactly where we are. I know it's more than a hundred. I mentioned this a couple weeks back that it was at least two hundred. I can say with some confidence it's at least 300 now. I don't know exactly how many, but it's at least 300 podcasts are loaded. And you can access those at the Christian Podcast Community website, Christian Podcast Community dot org, or you can go to household of faith in Christ dot com and connect with the show and anything else I'm involved with. ministry wise anyway, there, including social medias and that sort of thing. So let's continue now with our conversation. You're going to hear me, Seth, Jeff, Rebecca, and Andrew talking about Israel and the church, the book of Revelation, that sort of thing. And we're going to pick up uh Andrew's tossing to one of the other guests, I forget which one, and then you'll just kinda kinda pick up from there. I think it'll all be pretty self-explanatory. At least that's the hope, right? Again, this is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMB. Thanks for spending part of your valuable time with us here today. Seth Joe has In Revelation 20, uh if you're not following this theme of the Bible that Jeff described, Revelation 20 doesn't really make a whole lot of sense. But if but if you've been paying attention All the way at the beginning of Genesis, starting in Genesis chapter 12, and then you go through all the prophets, and then you go through what Paul said in Romans 9 through 11. then then Revelation twenty makes sense because there needs to be a fulfillment of these promises, and that's when it takes place. And one one thing you see in in scripture uh during the first coming of Christ is how these prophecies are fulfilled. They're fulfilled precisely how they said they were going to be fulfilled. Right. So for example Jesus was going to be born in Bethlehem. Well guess what? He was born in Bethlehem. I mean you see that in Micah 5, 2. Uh you see uh he's gonna ride into Jerusalem on a donkey. Well he it was the It was the foal of a donkey, right? That's in Zechariah. Uh i also Zechariah you see that he was going to be pierced, right? Well look at whom they have pierced. Well he was pierced at the cross. You see Isaiah 53 and the vivid details of his crucifixion. And these these prophecies were written before crucifixion was even invented. And yet it's in vivid detail, and this is exactly how these things are fulfilled. I mean you can I could point to some other prophecies like I Isaiah seven fourteen, uh, that he would be born of a virgin. And and of course he was born from the Virgin Mary. Right? So when we look at how prophecies are fulfilled, they're fulfilled in this way. So in Genesis chapter 15, when it says that uh that the land promise is is given to Abraham and his offspring. It says that th they are going to have this land from the river Euphrates to the river of Egypt. So so so we should not what what should we expect? They're going to have this land from the river Euphrates to the river of Egypt. And then in Genesis 17, 17, verse 8, it says that they're going to have this land forever Which means that it will never be taken from them. So so if you put all this together and you and then you add in the Davidic covenant from 2nd Samuel 7, All this is fulfilled in this millennium described in Revelation 20, this 1,000-year reign where Christ is going to come back to Jerusalem, which it says in Zechariah, where he is going to reign And where he's going to reign with uh uh his people, um you know, one third of those Israelites who believe in him, as Zechariah says, uh they will look on me who may have pierced. And he's gonna reign from the throne of David, and it and The territory that they're gonna have is from the river Euphrates to the river of Egypt. So so God puts these details in there and yet This is not rocky. I mean, I've I've s I mean I I think I think people overthink these things. Uh you know, they they spiritualize it when it's all there and it's and it's really glorious. It's really glorious to see it. And I I just want to praise the Lord. We don't have to be in suspense about these things. This is how it's going to happen. And um when Christ comes back, uh he's gonna have his throne. And and this global throne is described in Revelation 21 and 22. So where he's gonna reign on the new earth, there's gonna be the reign of the Shreune God uh forever and ever and ever. Right? So so yeah, I mean I I I think that um We we already know how it's fulfilled. We we we see we have a guide to it um from the past. Um things that have already come to pass And how it was fulfilled then will also be fulfilled in that way in the future. Yeah, and could I just add one more thing about um the fulfillment, the return of the Jews to the promised land We hear so much about how um yeah they're back in the land, but some will even say, or Joel Webin would say, um, that this isn't really Israel nationally. They they probably follow like the Khazar hypothesis that the people who are returning are not even ethnically Jewish. But not only are they Jewish ethnically in the land, there are still many more believers Jewish like yourself, Andrew, you're like example A. There are so many people who have come to faith in this return to Zion, it is not only a physical return to the land. There is spiritual awakening awakening among the Jewish people. We look in our church here at Cornerstone, we're just uh you know a few hundred people, and we have many Jewish background believers and we're seeing people come to faith. It is remarkable. I saw a um a Pew Research study in 2020 that talked about how of the you know almost six million Jews. There was uh only I think like three hundred thousand believers. But that discounted in that study they they also found two point eight million people who had Jewish backgrounds, so at least one Jewish parent, but not a um not an identic identification as Jewish, which means they weren't observing Judaism as a religion. So therefore they weren't counted in the five point When they actually studied the 2. 8 million who had at least one Jewish parent but were not associated with Judaism, 52% of them identified themselves as Christian. That means of the Jewish background believers, if there's actually more like nine million in the country all in a in the country of the United States of America, almost two million of that Jewish background people in the United States of America believe at some level, maybe not a church profession, but believe that Jesus is the son of God. So God is doing something amongst the Jewish background people to bring them to faith. In fact, even though Israel is still very secular. When like Hersell, you know, and the that first generation of Jews came back, it was almost all atheist. Now today in the land, even though they're not yet believing in Jesus Sixty-four percent of the Jews living in Israel believe that they are in the promised land of the Bible. They believe in the God of the Bible. They would say that they see themselves in that way. That's a a particular uh study in twenty twenty-three by the chosen people ministries, um, they believe in a connection between the state of Israel and the coming of Messiah. They're actually believing in a personal Messiah who is coming to Israel. So it's not yet happened, but the stage is set for uh for the end times for the last seven years. Yeah. Thanks Seth. Uh when we look at it, uh you're uh you know I'm gonna say something that may I don't know may surprise folks. When we look at the return in 1948. People ask me, do I think that's proof of fulfilled prophecy? My answer is I don't know yet. I mean if if God wants, I mean if he wants to wait another thousand years, he could he can make Israel go into you know you know be be moved out for a couple of you know centuries and then bring him back again if he wants. Right? So i you know I I I want us to also be c I'm just for me at least be cautious not to say Oh, see, this is proof of biblical history. This is what proves dispensationalism right, because Israel's back as a nation. Um I mean, uh look, we can look at it historically, it is odd because, you know You you look at some of these other nations that were under God's judgment and God promised that, you know, we wouldn't know who they are anymore and mm yeah, you don't know who those groups are anymore. um because they've all been moved around. But because of the the Jewish laws, the holiness laws they were separate from the people around them and they remained a people even to today. No. Um Yeah, we do have to start wrapping up because we we haven't even touched the surface on on some of these things. Uh I am I am gonna ask both Seth and Jeff Um, you know, uh uh that let me know after before the show ends if they can come back next week and and have us dig into you know There's a book where the three of us are writing along with some other folks, and uh Seth has some chapters that he wouldn't let me write. Um, he was so mean. He just took it on on the on the these issues and true hatred and no I'm I'm teasing with him. But uh But yeah, no, I I I think it would be i uh you know, we want to dig into that more. So this is really a good foundation for that. So we'll see if they're if they're up for that. Can we go back to something for a minute, Andrew? Yeah. All right. I wanted to I feel bad for poor Rebecca. You know, you got four past Well, I I'm still stuck on the old and new covenant. But I just I just wanted to because I know the old covenant was what um God had established with his people and that was through the uh obedience to the Mosaic Law. Um and I I know even in the Old Testament they were even looking forward to to the new cust uh covenant. I know, um, I think it was in Deuteronomy. They're talking about Israel being given a heart to understand, but so my understanding is that th the new covenant is is God writing his law on their heart. Right? It's no longer going to be through um the sacrifices, the daily sacrifices for sin and you know, the strict adherence to to the outward laws. Um S so why does it have to be that just because uh the the the new covenant, uh you know, got God giving them a new heart, putting a new spirit in them, um, obviously, you know, granting them salvation through Jesus Christ. I I you know is Troy I guess Troy are you were you saying that that um the new covenant takes away anything, uh God's promises for the nation of Israel? Or did I understand that wrong? Uh no, I would say that uh kind of in the spirit when Jesus says I give you a new law, uh a new command Love one another which wasn't new. And John writes in uh first John chapter two, I give you a new command, and yet it is not new, it's old. In the spirit of that I would say that it's the same covenant, but it's a new covenant because there's something new in it. And what is that something new? the person and work of Jesus Christ. So all the sacrifices necessary under the old covenant find their fulfillment in Christ as the perfect sacrifice, and so it is new. In a sense there is salvation by works. Praise God, Christ has done the work. That is new. And so the old covenant is not done away with. It finds its answer, its solution to the riddle, its purpose for being in the person and work. of Jesus Christ. I don't know if that helps answer the question, but I just certainly am not saying that God is breaking his promises Or has uh done an about face on something. He's layering on something new that is so dynamic and game-changing that uh we end up arguing about it for two hours on a show like this. Okay. Well it you know, so the the new covenant is more than what you had said because part of it is that we would no longer need a priesthood, the Holy Spirit would indwell us. Okay. Th this is what you know Jewish people will be looking forward to, which is why I find it so amazing that the Catholic Church and Mormons and all want to go back and be like, oh no, that we have a priesthood and you know um right. The whole purpose of the new covenant was we didn't need that anymore because the Holy Spirit would be the one to instruct us And so um I will say this is where I find it interesting. The new covenant is individual, where the old covenant was national. And the reason I find that so interesting is when especially when I have uh discussions, debates with the Presbyterians over baptism, because they'll say, oh see the sign has to be a family sign Because the sign has to be an outward sign and it's familial. Except the whole new covenant is about something you can't see. It's not outward. It's the spirit indwelling you. And it's personal. So why would you baptize children into the covenant? You know th like that's where we end up seeing some of these differences. I think the new covenant was for uh for Israel, uh national Israel. Um not all of them would believe, but it was, you know, as if it you know Commands given to the church and you know there's some unbelievers in the in the physical church. And so when we look at that I think that God has grafted in, to use his own language, the Gentiles. And so now you have the Gentiles fulfilling the new covenant, but it's not completely fulfilled. I think there will be a a a future fulfillment even though it is being f that's why I d I don't I personally don't say it's that crisis of fulfillment. I don't know if I could find someone had that in the comments. You know, folks that that don't know it's it's always hard for me to do this when uh you know, I I saw this coming, I'll throw this up here. Uh Sister Tara was saying, Andrew, are you paying attention? I was actually looking at what the the verse was that was being read when she said that. But it is not easy to to not have the co host because Um I have to read all the comments and star them, which it gets to be a lot when uh when when everyone's very busy. Uh I think it might have been this one I was referring to from Jesse who said, Israel is the church hands down. And so that's I think that's the thing is that I don't I don't think that it's fulfilled yet. I I think if you we see that as Jesus as the fulfillment Um 'cause I think someone said that but I must not start it. I I think that that is not um looking at all the promises God made. in in the Old Testament and and seeing well those that have to be fulfilled literally and when did Christ as the son of David literally sit on a throne as promised and reign over the earth? I I you know so so when I look at this I uh part of me goes, okay, he made these promises and and he's not gonna make a promise and break it. And but you go back into history here w um I actually had Jim Osman on because he made that comment He made a c uh you know, the guy is so brilliant. If you don't know who Jim Osman is, go to go check out Kooteny Community Church. He's you know, he is uh I think personally the the best preacher alive. Um and I used to say that when John MacArthur was alive too, just saying. But and he hates when I do it. Uh And I just I he just had him on for my uh rap report podcast uh uh most recently. And so but he made an offhanded comment in a Resurrection Sunday message and he it wasn't even in his notes But he just said, you know, how do you fulfill the promise of the Davidic covenant that David would reign on uh David's seed would reign on earth without a millennium? W with that millennial kingdom. And and that just it I was like, hey, I gotta have you on to talk about that more and and my co-host back then, Drew, ended up say coming in and they and they went back and forth and he said, you know, Jim, you make a really good argument. Of course I could say that Drew is not post mill anymore, but the argument I guess wasn't convincing enough 'cause he went on mill. So All right Yeah, um I don't know if that fully answers, Rebecca. Um but I do want to I I want to get to a couple other questions that I had in my show notes for us because I w want to try to We we've had uh a a bit of of disagreement here, but I I think we might get some more agreement on some of these. I want to discuss how how as Christians should we think about Israel politically without confusing our theology and our and the nationalism. So I don't know, you know, if any of you would want to tackle that one first Mine is probably the shortest answer, so I'll go first because I don't see the prophetic importance of a geopolitical nation state of Israel today. So my answer would be we need to treat them the way we would rightly treat any nation and uh from an Americans perspective, if they're good to us, we're good to them and if they're a threat we need to deal with that. So I don't look at the present secular state of Israel any differently than I would look at the present secular state of Canada. Yeah. Okay. And before you the any of the answer, I just I've gotta post this because I don't know what it i I think what it is is like the algorithms as more people tune in Uh we at the end of the shows are we when we get folks like this. Prophet Muhammad in Bible Isaiah 42 says, Read Isaiah 42, 18 to 25. Jews are punished for rejecting Prophet Muhammad. A light to the Gentiles, 42-6, from Medina, 42-11, to defeat worshipers, 42-13, and a guide to bring justice. So I I have to do this. I know I uh you know, we're gonna end up going long this way, but you know, it's just too funny. Let's see if The Prophet Muhammad is mentioned or Medina is mentioned at all in the passages that were just referenced. So uh we'll start at verse six. Let's see. He said verse six says about them rejecting the Prophet Muhammad and be a light to the Gentiles. Let's see if it says that. I am Yahweh, I have called you in righteousness, I will take hold of you by the hand and guard you and will give you a covenant people as lights to the nation. Oh, I'm sorry. Did I skip over the passage where it mentioned Muhammad? I must have missed that. Hold on, let's go to verse eleven and see where it mentions Medina. Let the wilderness of the cities lift up their voices and the villages in Kadar Inhabitants. Uh let the inhabitants of Selah sing aloud, let them shout for joy on the tops of mountains. So obviously Medina Oh, wasn't mentioned there either. So Prophet Muhammad in Bible Isaiah 42, anytime if you want to come in and actually have a debate, we could talk about how the author of the Quran has no idea what Christians believe. Because the author of the Quran can't even define the Trinity properly. Because the Quran defines the Trinity as the father, the mother, and the son. And that's not how any Christians define the Trinity. Oh yes, I know. They find some little group that was kicked out of the empire because of their heresy and go, but these people did Well, I think God would know the difference between a s very small heretical group that no one ever heard of except for Muslims and what all of Christianity holds to as the Quran. Now, if you want to talk scientifically, your Quran teaches that the semen of man is in the small of the back And I don't know how good you are with biology, but that's not quite where the seed of man is. So I actually like this. Prophet Muhammad uh Bible Isaiah forty two, why don't you contact me? Info at striving for eternity dot org info at strivingfor eternity dot org or actually here just I'll put this up here so you can see just to make it easier for you. Info at SFE. Just email me. Let's have a Thursday night where you can come in and we could talk about how the Quran was written by someone who is ignorant of Christianity. And I think if it was God, God's not ignorant, just saying. And he's still posting away. I I can't even put up always all the comments in the chat. The chat's been kind of It up until now was more subdued. Uh uh and I and I'm sure and I'm sure that I'm uh people are going to be start engaging with them. But Uh so let's let's try to wrap up. Let me jump in here. What you're hearing there with Andrew Rappaport of inviting the other person who was uh involving the live chat. to come on his show and he mentioned Thursday nights. That would be his Apologetics Live program, which is a weekly show. It's also long form. Those shows are always at least an hour, sometimes two, sometimes three. I'm not sure what the longest one he's ever had. Maybe he's had one that's four, I don't know. But th they can be pretty long. They're on Thursday evenings. And you can listen live and then if it's something you want to chime in on, you can actually jump in and he will very often put you into the show. uh unannounced and just see what you have to say. And so he was inviting somebody to come onto that show, his Apologetics Live program. What you're listening to though is a portion of Theology Throwdown. I was invited to be part of that show, which Andrew Rappaport also is the host of. Both of those shows, Apologetics Live and Theology Throwdown, as well as the Faith Debate for that matter, are on the Christian podcast community, as is One Little Candle. That is a podcast hosted by Rebecca Birchwinger. She's one of the voices you heard. on today's faith debate program. And Seth Brickley and Jeff Cluer, they're two pastors. They're involved with a podcast called Tearing Down High Places. And they're also part of a Truth Fellowship. They are also on this conversation that we had that lasted for a long time, hours. And you're hearing snippets or or more chunks really. of it here on the Faith Debate as an opportunity for you to one, hear some other voices that you don't always get to hear in the Faith Debate, and also to give you a longer run at hearing what kind of content Good content that you can hear by going to the Christian Podcast Community. org website. There's, I don't know, fifty or so shows there, Faith Debate being one of them. So we're going to continue at the next week we're going to have some more comments from the Theology Throwdown episode that you were listening to today in the last couple of weeks And that'll be the last one in this arc of programs in the faith debate. So hopefully you have enjoyed it. I encourage you to find me, Troy Skinner, online at householdfaith in Christ dot com. That's household of faith in Christ dot com. And of course, follow the show at WFMD. com as well, of course. We're going to pick this back up 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless.