Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMP. I am your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. Thanks. so much for taking time out of your busy schedule to spend some time with us here today. Not too long ago I had an opportunity to sit in with a a bunch of other podcasters and pastors and that sort of thing. on a show called Theology Throwdown, found at the Christian Podcast Community website, which is Christian Podcast Community dot org. You can find the Faith Debate there as well. And the podcast for one of the other participants on the show that I appeared on, One Little Candle, is another podcast you should check out while you're there. So the show that I was specifically was on, this theology throwdown episode, was titled Navigating the Complexities of Israel and the Church. You can find that by going to their podcast and looking for the January 23rd is when that podcast dropped. You're going to hear in addition to my voice that of Andrew Rappaport. Again, he's the host of Theology Throwdown. the founder of Striving for Eternity. You can find that website at strivingforeternity. org. Other voices will include Rebecca Berschwinger. She's the host of One Bill Candle, which I already mentioned. Jeff Kluer, he's a pastor, Cornerstone Church. And Seth Brickley, he's also a pastor. Both of them are involved with Truth Fellowship, and both of them are involved with a podcast called Tearing Down High Places. So this is the last in a sequence of five episodes where I share portions of that episode and interact with it here on the Faith Debate, giving you a chance one to hear that and hear me in a different context for what that's worth. And most importantly perhaps to give you a sense of the kind of stuff you can hear at the Christian Podcast community, because I shared some snippets and promos and that sort of thing back during the holidays This is a longer form example of the kind of stuff that awaits you if you go check out that platform, Christian Podcast Community. org. So without waiting any further, let's jump into the last segment now that I'm going to share from this podcast. I hope you enjoy it. Again, this is Troy Skinner. You can find me online at household of faith in Christ dot com. That's household of faith in Christ dot com And you're listening to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930, WFMD. Let me move to this question. The idea, and this is going to get into something that you guys mentioned with Joel Webbin and his views. You know, loving loving the Jewish people while remaining faithful to the gospel of Christ. Can we do that? Seth, I'm gonna ask well actually I'll ask Rebecca to go first. We haven't heard from her in a while. So Rebecca Can we love Jewish people and still stay faithful to the gospel? Absolutely. Absolutely. You know, I s I think we should share the gospel with the Jewish people. We want to see them saved just like we would any unbeliever. I don't even know why there that would be a question I guess, you know, well let me throw it out to Seth. Why would that be a question that I would want to ask, Seth? Yeah, well well there's there's an assumption it sounds like this I I don't wanna cast any uh Any um I don't want to make a false accusation against the person asking the question, but it it's it seems odd, you know, that that that would even be a question because I mean we should want anybody to be saved, right? No matter where they are on planet Earth, whether it's Jews or anybody else. Um but here's here's what I find very interesting. Isaiah chapter 5 verse 20 mentions that darkness will be light, light will be darkness, sweet will be bitter Bitter will be sweet. What I find very interesting is, you know, I believe that Scripture, and we we've talked about this during the podcast, that Scripture describes Israel as uniquely special. And I say that because of the promises of God. They're not special because there's anything good in them. We know that. But they are special in the sense that God's blessing is upon them, right? God has made promises to them. H his his fulfillment of these promises to them. Prove that God is God. Now, what we're hearing from the Joe Webbin types is the opposite of that. Okay, Isaiah 520 They're uniquely evil. Okay, so of all the people on the face of the earth, these are the worst people. So we're we're we're hearing rhetoric like that. You know, it and it's it's eerie eerily s similar to what what was spoken in the nineteen thirties with uh the rise of Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Party. You know, 'cause you 'cause you look at some of the verses they go to in the Bible They go to like j they go to John 8, where Jesus is speaking to the Jews, and he says to them, You are of your father the devil. They go they go to uh Revelation where uh Jesus Ta uh says to the Jews that you're a synagogue of Satan. Right? So so they go to places like this and they say, you know, these people are uniquely evil. They're uniquely special because of God's promises to them. And you know, in Genesis twelve, three he says that if we if we bless them, we will be blessed. Yes, I I find it very interesting, you know, that uh again, I don't know if that's what he meant by it, but Uh yeah, are these people so bad that they they can't even be evangelized? Like I mean that this is ridiculous thinking. I would just add that um when we recognize that the nation Israel is the nation that Paul was referring to in Romans 11, 28. They are enemies for the sake of the gospel. And that's true. That fits kind of how we we see their resistance to the beauty of Jesus Christ. But they are loved on account of the covenant and the promises. So we need to recognize that because if that's the case, they're a special nation. They're not just another nation in the Middle East. Because if you disregard them as another nation that Middle East, then you'll do like Joel Webbin did today as I watched him and Mick Clinton on the podcast And he said, basically, what we need to ask is what have the Jews been doing and what has America been doing to stir up so much Islamic hatred toward us It's really basically the Jews' fault and it's our fault that the Muslims would perpetrate in nine eleven and that kind of thing. But if you recognize that no They're a special nation and they they are different from the peoples of the earth. There's a demonic hatred for them, which explains World War II. what's happening in our world today, then we will be in a unique position as Christians to defend the persecution. Because it's not it's not a neutral situation here. The Jews are different. Why the Jews? Why are they always at the center of world news? Well, because something spiritual happening demonically in the heavenly against them to destroy them. And we have to be willing to be the ones as a nation, America, the most Christian nation on earth To stand up for the Jews and defend them and to continue to rescue them in many ways. That's our Christian duty towards Israel as a nation. So when Ayatollah Khamenei, or I guess it's Ali Khamenei, not Ayatollah um Khamini, first guy. But when when this guy says in like what, twenty thirteen that his intention was to develop a nuclear weapon to destroy Haifa and television. then America takes that seriously and drops bombs on Iran when they get close to finishing their nuclear weapons. That's the kind of thing we need to do to bless Israel because we recognize there are spiritual forces in heavenly places arrayed against a special nation that God has in times planned for. And Andrew, I do agree with you. We can't say with certainty that this is the Jewish revival, this is the Jewish nation. But from all indications here in general revelation as we observe nature and apply logic to it, it sure looks to me that these things are coming together Just as is described in the book of Revelation. And uh John was trying to come in to say hello, but he was having trouble. He couldn't hear us. He popped in and we he was trying to get himself set up Um I I can't even keep up with the chat now with with this Muslim guy. He's not even interacting. Everyone's giving him surahs that he's not even inner he or she is not even interacting. Maybe it is just a bot because Islam is f a fake religion, so you know, this is uh maybe a fake uh you know, just saying. If you if you if he really wants a challenge, he can come in here and we can actually discuss whether Islam is, you know, um So Peel is saying to kick 'em. So I could do it. I could. Uh you know, I in in this one I can only block. So let's let's not I'm gonna Since we're getting into the industry, I'm not going to do that because that way he can come in next week uh or the week after, I should say. Since next week maybe. So Seth And Jeff, you guys good with coming in next week and we talk about Seth's chapters on Jew hatred and things like that? You good with that, Seth? Yeah, I'd be glad to come in and I'd love to talk more about Tucker Carlson and Candace Owens and Joel Webbin and And Nick Nick Fuentes and yeah, this this clan that is that has arisen. So talk about them. I will be listening. You guys just did a a tearing down high places. As we close out, uh so this has been an apologetics live mixed with Theology Throwdown, of which we have three other podcasts from Christian Podcast Communion. two that came in from Apologics Live. So there we go. But you guys did on your Tearing Down High Places podcast, you guys did kind of a review of this whole issue with you know, Nick Fuentes and Joel Webbin and they're working together, shall we say. Um and so you guys sort of offered a challenge. And I wanted to highlight the challenge and make it clear and ask everyone listening if they wouldn't help us to get this challenge out there. Uh the challenge is this. That Seth and Jeff are willing to debate Joel Webbin on the issue of Israel. But hey, if Joel doesn't want to debate with someone uh who is Jewish, okay, from a Jewish background, uh Seth and Jeff are willing to debate him on the issue of Israel. And so if you need a place to do it, we I've done plenty of debates here. I've been told I'm a fair moderator, so I can do that. So here's the thing. And and someone someone knows Joel well. They said, Joel will do anything for clicks. No, I I I disagree with that because we'll we'll see. Look. Joel will do anything for clicks, but the one thing he doesn't want to do is hurt his the the click ability by losing a debate to people. He's going to say, I'm going to tell you right now, guys, go on to X and tag him and say that he has a debate challenge right here. We got a format. We've done debates here. If he wants a different moderator, we could bring someone else in to moderate. We could always do that. Because a m a moderator's job is just to watch the clock. That's all I do when I moderate. Um and and bring the questions up that people have to do. And Andrew, Joel could bring someone obviously we want it to be two against So uh he can bring one of his friends on. Yeah, well someone like that. I'm gonna tell you what his argument's gonna be And this is how you know he doesn't believe what he's saying. Okay? His response is going to be, they're nobody's Which what that means is they don't have a big enough audience and if I lose to them I look really bad by losing to two guys no one's heard of. Right? That's gonna be his his argument. And now you know why he'll make that argument because he figures he's got nothing to win and everything to lose. I on this show You those who are regular, you know I will debate anyone. If people come in here planning on a debate that I don't know I'm having. You know, maybe M Prophet Muhammad there is who's still going in the chat, giving nonsense after nonsense. But if he wants to come in, he could come in one time when we don't know he's coming in. Just don't do it at the end of the show, because then there's no time. But The reality is that if you really believe what you're saying, you'd be willing to take the debate and show how right you are. But if you're only doing it for a platform Well, we will see what Joel Webbin does. So I'm going to ask everybody to tag him. Apologetic draws says, bring on James White, do a three-on-three. I'll tell you what, I can reach out to James and see if he's good with doing that. So speaking of debates And I know you guys here are, you know, not regulars here, so you wouldn't know about this, but for the apologetics live audience, you guys know that we had a guy that came in who wanted to debate uh just have a discussion, you know, slash debate on the issue of affirming Christianity. Uh his name was Anthony He was trying to say that homosexuality is okay scripturally. And as those of you may remember, we talked about it. I went to the definition of terms and I talked about the thing of lust. And he had no idea how to address the fact that lust he agreed was a sin, and yet he lusts after his boyfriend who he doesn't consummate the relationship with. He just cuddles with him at night and doesn't consummate And so he was trying to make that argument. And as you guys may remember, he a couple months ago, he reached out to me to set up a formal debate with me in October. And he has you know he thought he could demolish James White and then he I was gonna he was gonna show how he could demolish James White by debating me on this show and I guess it didn't go well for him. And his boyfriend at the time was being very obstinate in the chat. Well, as those who may remember, he wanted to do a formal debate with me here on this program, but his boyfriend demanded that the only moderator could be his boyfriend. To which Anthony did agree that's unreasonable, but he said the debate would be in October. Has anyone noticed that October has come and gone several months ago? We never had the debate because well he wants his boyfriend to be the moderator. He sent me an email just recently, the other day This is in January. And I just because I know some of you in the audience have followed this, so I think it's kind of fun. And Anthony does troll the show, so he may be listening. Because he says how I'm I'm so mean and I I just name call I call him a coward. I tell him why I call him a coward. You wanted to debate me, and you ran from the debate over and over and over. That's a cowardly behavior. So it's not an insult, it's a description. You know, but he basically said this. Good evening, Andrew. On the twenty-fifth of this month, being January, myself and Father James Jad, an episcopal missionary church of the Episcopal Ministry uh missionary church will be debating the LGBTQ relationship and scripture I wanted to extend an invitation for you to attend the StreamYard, and my friend Dr. Knowles will be moderating. Now he could have had Dr. Knowles moderate his debate with me, just saying, unless Dr. Knowles is his boyfriend. I don't know, maybe. Uh he says I will definitely be responding to some of your arguments as you wanted to extend an invitation uh sorry uh to your arguments. were pretty much the only one I ever accounted who brought them up. I guess you could say I lust for you to attend because they are the same word in Greek and then smiley faces. And so he says the debate will happen January twenty-fifth, twenty twenty six, at five o'clock, and our moderator will make sure we will talk over each other in the name of clarifying questions. I don't quite get that, but maybe he meant not talk over each other. To be dishonest about how language works and other things. The whole issue of lust was trying to understand how language works. But he says, and then make sure everyone involved is a no-true Scotsman just to make you feel at home. Be blessed. So here's the thing I find funny. Why do I call him a coward? If you want to debate my argument Anthony, debate me. I'm the one that made the argument. Don't debate some other unsaved guy from the Episcopal Church. on an argument that's not his. Maybe it is, but I don't know what his. But you're gonna address my argument? Just saying, address it with me. I dare you to come on and do a formal debate with me. Let's have that. So we have two debates out there, offers out there. I don't think Anthony will, because I think he's running. So that's just some program notes for us. I know I have a ton of comments that I starred and we're not going to be able to get to them. We already went long tonight. I do want to thank each of you guys for coming in For at least those who are part of the Christian Podcast community, if people want to do check out the Christian Podcast community, go to Christian Podcast Community. org. You can find something that you will like listening to. We got over fifty vetted podcasts. And so we are not we we don't make it easy to join. We want to get lots of answers to questions and make sure that people Well, you know, Rebecca and Troy could tell you that it takes a long time to join us because we do a vetting process. We don't just want numbers, we want people that are going to agree with the mission and We reject about sixty to seventy percent of the podcasts that ask to join. So yeah. So go to Christian Podcast Community. org. You'll find a good podcast there. Well this one, if you enjoy this one, it's there. If you guys like this, share it. And definitely share with Joel Webman and let him know there is a challenge out here. The guys from tearing down high places will debate you Oh, John's trying to get in one more time. Let's see if we can John, can you hear us? I'm guessing not. All right. Oh, I feel bad for John. John is for those historical to Apologics Live, John is what we call we used to nickname Chicken Man because he would usually sit outside with his chickens and watch and every time he'd join from outside on the other coast as it's nice and sunny out we see his chickens running around. So he would always give us a shot of his chickens. Uh so next week it sounds like we're gonna have Both Jeff and Seth come in, we'll talk about basically the Jewish hatred that's out there, we'll talk about uh Nick Fuentes, talk about Joel Webin and what those guys are Spewing, we could talk about the Looney Tunes, Candace Owen, we could she just a I'm sorry, but anyone who is gonna and I'll say this next week, anyone who's gonna take her serious She knows Charlie Kirk was murdered because he came to her in a dream. That's her evidence. And now he's a time traveler. And he had handlers who were keep who had to take him out because he was traveling through time. That's how he knew he was going to be killed early Um, if he was a time traveler, don't you think he would have known to avoid being murdered if he knew ahead of time that he was going to be murdered and he knew it, that's why he said he was going to die young? I'm just saying I don't want to use too much critical thinking and logic to that, but yeah. So next week that's what we'll have. So go check out the faith debate, check out one little candle, tearing down high places. Check those out. And until next week, remember to strive to make today an eternal day for the glory of God. And we'll see you next time. Have a great one. And that wraps up. That program that was uh Andrew Raffaport taking the show down to a safe landing. And you'll notice I didn't comment at all in that segment of the show. Uh wanted to include here in the fate debate though to give you a sense of what the show sounds like I'm not part of it. But also, just to give you a kind of behind the scenes look, the program that you just heard was a blended program between Theology Throwdown and Apologetics Live. Apologetics Live airs weekly, Theology Throwdown airs monthly. Andrew Rapaport hosts both of them. And in this particular instance he decided to kind of piggyback and make both of them the same program for that particular given week in January. So anyway, I encourage you to find it again at Christian Podcast Community dot org Find the Theology Throwdown show, or the Apologetics Live show, I guess, the one that's titled The Navigating the Complexities of Israel and the Church from January 23rd of 2020 So some behind the scenes stuff. Um when I was on the show, the show is supposed to be two hours. It went over two hours. You've heard Andrew reference that And me always being conscious of the clock, because I have to be very conscious of the clock on the faith debate. We got a very tight format. We don't have the freedom to go real long. We don't have We don't have the freedom to go two hours at a stretch in one show or more, like this show that Andrew hosts does. And so I'm always watching the clock. And I saw that we're up against it. We were at the two hour mark and people were still talking. I was like, you know, I'm just gonna step back Not going to say anything because we're already running long, that sort of thing. So I kind of receded into the background for this last section. Also, everybody's getting tired. You can kind of hear it in the voices just a little bit As much as everybody enjoys this sort of stuff, when it's heady conversation and there's some disagreement in the dialogue, as there was, as you heard, in the previous faith debate shows where I featured the conversation that was on these Theology Drawdown and Apologetics live shows it becomes a little bit mentally taxing, you get a little worn down as time goes on. What you heard on the faith debate is just a percentage of the time we spent together Actually, I spend probably close to a half hour before we started recording just to get all the technical stuff set up and the niceties out of the way. I had a challenge with that, by the way, on that night. And then afterwards we stopped the the show, but then there's some continued niceties afterwards and shutting things down and altogether it's about three hours. Now you heard maybe a little more than half of the interactions of that time here on the Faith Debate, but you know people get a little worn down. So if you get a little worn down and weary, don't you worry about it. We're all in there. In the same boat on that one. So I do want to extend before I wrap up this series of shows, extend a heartfelt gratitude to Andrew Rappafort and the Christian Podcast community. I met Andrew a number a couple I don't know, was it two or three years ago, something like that. And he had mentioned the Christian podcast community back then. I didn't immediately jump on with the idea, I had other things going on, but finally got around to, you know what, I need to pursue that. Reached out to him. started getting things set up and I'm so thankful that I did because late last year there were some changes at the radio station that necessitated me not doing the show at the radio station. studios anymore, but coming up with my own setup and Andrew has been hugely important in helping me figure out how to do that and what equipment to use and that sort of thing. And And he also helped me to get my uh RSS feed as it's called. That's the string of podcasts they're made available online, get all that cleaned up because I didn't even realize until I was interacting with Andrew that the radio station's RSSV for the show only covers two ish, maybe a little more than two ish years of the show, and the show's been on since 2004. So over twenty years. And I was like, well that's a lot of shows and I have the audio for almost all of that. So I've been slowly, methodically uploading all of the old archive faith debate shows onto the RSS feed that Household of Faith in Christ manages. and is connected to the Christian Podcast Community. org website so that all of the shows can be found there, not just the newer shows, but even the older, ancient shows, where I really sound like a moron. You think I sound like a moron now, you should have hurt me 20 years ago. But anyway, all of those are being put up there and this methodical There's no rhyme or reason to how fast it depends on how fast they're found, how fast sometimes the uploads go faster than others, that sort of thing. Anyway, there are, I would say on average Maybe we're putting over a hundred episodes of old episodes getting updated up there uh per month on average. I don't know. I I haven't I haven't figured all that out. I will tell you this. If you go there right now, there are at least four hundred face-to-face shows waiting for you. That's a far cry more than a hundred anyway, right? And by the time it's all said and done, we're gonna be well over a thousand episodes, so but we're we're still marching our way. to that point. Anyway, thank you for listening to Faith Debate all these years. Thank you for listening to the Faith Debate today. If it's your first time, whether you're listening live over the radio or if you're listening later via podcast Sir What Have You? And that's actually something that's changed too recently. The podcast actually drops now one week prior to the broadcast on the radio So if you're a podcast follower, you're actually getting a little bit of a sneak preview of what's going to be heard on the radio on Sunday mornings at nine o'clock on WFMD But regardless, it's the same show, just in two different places, two different ways to consume it and interact with it. And if you would like to interact in a direct way, all my contact information is easily found at householdfaith in Christ. com Got my email, my social media links, all that sort of stuff. So if you want to reach out, be glad to interact with you. And if you want to be on the show, now that uh we're not limited to doing things just in the studios in Frederick, but we can take things in via Zoom, then uh we can do that too. And for those who are wanting to be podcasters, I will tell you. I've explored with a variety of different microphones. I think I'm on my third different microphone that I'm trying now to figure out how to make this sound as good as possible in this new format of how we're recording the show. And I've tried different ways to interact with other folks who joined the show. And a lot of people like StreamYard. That's a very popular platform for podcasters. For some reason, my equipment does not like StreamYard. I have a heck of a ton with StreamYard And so I've tried a few different things, ended up using Zoom, and I'm using something called OSINAudio. I think that's how you say it, O-C-E-N Audio. for the recording that seems to be the most intuitive and easiest for me to understand how to use. Others might like other things, but that's what's work well for me. So there you go. A little sneak peek, a little bit of uh advice one podcaster to another. Because everybody's got a podcast now This show will broadcast on the radio again 167 and a half hours from right now. Until then, God bless.