Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio nine thirty WFMB Appreciate you spend a part of your day with us here. You can find us online at WFMD. com and you can follow us online at Household of Faith in Christ. There you'll find all sorts of resources that the church has there for you, sermons and blogs and and connections to the faith debate and the decorating date night episodes. And if you want to get in touch with David Forcey, you can do that through Household of Faith in Christ. com. In fact, if you want to connect with the uh the ministry of the The Rasby's, uh Daniel and Imron are here along with David Forcy. Their uh ministry connects there's a a link from our churches website to their ministry website, and that website is conquered by love dot org. Talking about love ministries, uh they provide uh resources and training materials for uh family dynamics, raising children, having good marriages, those sorts of things. And so I'd encourage you to to check that out. If you've been listening the last couple of weeks or if you've heard the last couple of podcasts And if you're a podcaster rather than a radio listener, we love you just as much. Just as much. You're not diminished, you're not in a pressed class in my mind, not even a little bit. I love you so much. Anyway, we've been talking about the He Gets Us campaign. So the radio listener will be the Jew and the podcast audience will be the Gentile. So we've been commenting on on the uh the the He Gets Us campaign and we worked through one of their um produced advertisements uh two weeks ago and then last week's show we went through one of their longer form interview based uh things that you see on their website to to show how uh there's definitely some influence of some leftism. And I used to make a strong distinction years ago. You if you listen to old shows, uh of faith debate shows, you'll hear me make the distinction Being theologically liberal and politically politically liberal aren't the same thing. And I hold by that, but boy, the differences now are very, very, very, very, very, very hard to articulate. Uh leftism has become leftism across the board because the the leftist church has totally given over leftism. Over and over one leads to the other. Right. You start going down one path, you end up going down both, and it's just it's inevitable. So we finished playing the audio of those two segments we wanted to focus on. There were a few others that Daniel was kind of interested in us addressing, but I think thematically they connect to a lot of the things we talked about the last week a few shows. But um I think some of us might have a little bit more that they want to add just to kind of cinch that up and put a button on it. David, do you have anything you want to say about the S. I just think it's uh Uh there there's a few things about the the overall He Gets Us campaign. Uh one I I I don't I don't think they actually provide any clarity. I think I think it's very it's very confusing. There's there's a whole lot of stuff going on. Um and and when they do seem to bring in a scriptural theme or message, I I I disagree with their take on what what the scripture is saying. in that way, in that sense. I things are are out of context and they're it's almost like uh like they're trying to but it's just it's bad eisegesis, right? So they're they're saying what what do we feel, what do we think uh and let's let's pick a piece of scripture and say that say that it is saying that. Saying that it is affirming us, right? And that's that's kind of the whole The whole message of the whole thing. There's a bunch of other videos on the in their sh uh website about Jesus is just like us. He is a rebel, he is a refugee, he is born to a teen mom, he is this and he's that, he's he's like us But we don't I want I don't want Jesus to be like me. I want him to be God because if he's i i if if he's not sovereign God then what's the point? And those are if he's like me, he cannot save me. Well that and that's what Paul said, right, in in in uh First Corinthians is i if Christ is not raised, if Christ is not God himself, then our teaching is in vain. You are being baptized for a dead person. There is no point it w why are you even doing any of these? Why are you going to the motions to be a Christian to to be in the church? It's pointless Because he is not sovereign God. So either he is or he isn't, but he's not like me. And it's such a misrepresentation to say he was a refugee totally misses the point because he didn't have to leave the country, he just went to a different part of a different province of the Roman Empire. He didn't go to Egypt. Yeah, but that's was part of the Roman Empire. You gotta go to California. So I guess they're refugees when they go from Texas to California. I mean I uh that's a problem. And then Positioning him as any any sort of idea that he would be a rebel. No, no, no. He was the one who wasn't rebelling. The the world received him as rebellious because he wasn't going along with their rebellious ways, but he was the only one who wasn't in rebellion. So they they're totally missing the point on these things. I I mean think about this when Jesus went into the temple and he saw these money changers and everything else, I think he got a pot of water and washed their feet, right? Because that's the culture. And that's what this campaign is saying. These people are committing sin left and right and instead of helping them to overcome their sin and to to repent and forgive and and have eternal happiness with Christ Well we're gonna do is wash the faces, uh you're still good people 'cause Jesus still gets you. No, he overturned the tables, he m he made a whip and whipped them. He actually whipped people. Now this theme, this idea of Overemphasizing the humanity of Christ is really what they're doing here. Like he gets us, he's one of us. He's you know there's a s there was a song not too many years ago about what if God were one of us or something like that, right? Yeah. Well would he be would he be your soccer star? I'm trying to remember what what what's the it's oh it's escaping. What Eliz um the uh Oh what's it called? Oh that's right, the chosen. It's like that, right? I mean that's the the Jesus uh can be uh uh Jonathan Roomy, I think, is his name or whatever, the guy who plays the Jesus character. That's the kind of Jesus he's portraying, a Jesus who gets us. He's like us Right? That's that's one of the failings of that show, not to mention all the other issues that are going on with that, but it's it's symptomatic of a lot of issues. The message of Christ is repentance and change your life. But the message of this campaign is not that. It's change Christianity to fit your feelings. That's what they're trying to do. And it's the same thing w you know, going across the culture. It's changing the truth to fit with your feelings And the truth doesn't really matter, even if it's standing right in the face. Even in movies now, there's really no male superheroes. And Marvel's wondering, why aren't our movies selling now? Well, 'cause all these women are beating up men who are twice their size and and and just as well trained and nobody wants to see that. Because that doesn't that that is not part of who we are, who God made us to be. And they're trying to change men into being weak weaklings and women to be strong and all this stuff. But that doesn't jive with our nature. It doesn't jive with w who God made us and they're trying to change everything. Yeah, it's um We talked about this was it last week or the week before about the the failure of men to step up and be men. And part of the challenges what the overwhelming the tsunami of of information that the culture is given by the media, the movies, those sorts of things. The the average person doesn't know what a man is. anymore. A man's gonna be strong and a defender who's gonna be a warrior, right, gonna protect what's important. But not according to the movies, the women do that. So what's the man's role? And so yeah, the the the last image on that uh the Jesus gets us campaign we did a couple of weeks ago, the last image was this very effeminate looking man and that's kind of the idea. It's the Hawkeye Pierce for MASH version of masculinity. You know, that's what passes for men these days. And it's a it's a it's a real problem for these so called uh Christian movies and T V shows. 'Cause some of these from from Mass, right? Well he's a cross dresser, but Hawkeye Pierce was like this you know, overly sensitive and, you know, make make make love not war kind of idea. You know, but yeah there was the uh Klinger was the cross dresser, yeah he was way ahead of his time, he was a generation ahead of his time uh uh on on things But going back to that time, that the not the Korean War that the T V show was depicting, but when that show was popular was right on the heels of the Jesus Revolution time. There was a movie out last year, the Jesus Revolution. And even that has i i its problems because it was it wasn't about uh true well in some cases it was. But it wasn't ultimately about repentance and a change and a turning. It was about, oh, you wanna drop acid and and be a hippie freak. You can still do that, be a Christian and there was uh enough of that that that uh I think is still affecting the church even today. Yeah the Jesus Revolution was not something on the scale of the Great Awakening or the Second Great Awakening which were by and large, very positive movements for the church. And I think plenty of people did really get saved in the Jesus Revolution. I oh yeah, I would agree. But I I don't see it Historically as having been a movement of mass conversions to true Christianity and and to not only conversion but discipleship Some of the people may have been saved but never grew in their faith because they weren't truly discipled on what it means to be a Christian, to be a follower of Christ. It was just, Oh, I I got saved, I checked the box, I prayed the prayer, now I'm saved, type of thing. And one of the things I would argue the church doesn't know what it means to be a Christian these days. They really don't. Yeah. And one of the things that's dangerous about that movie is it just reinforces Uh on on the whole the movie was pretty good. And um um you know, count me as a fan I guess. But I do wanna just these little things, they add up. And if you let the little things go, sometimes you're okay, but sometimes you let the little thing go and before you know it you got a whole bunch of pebbles the size of a boulder. Uh and one of the concerns with the Jesus Revolution, it just continues to perpetuate this idea within American Christianity anyway, of cult of personality. You know, Chuck Smith and um oh my gosh, what was the other guy? I'm drawing a blank. I was joking about drawing a blank on the chosen earlier, but now I'm li legitimately drawing a blank on the other big personality who is the movie is based on. Oh my gosh, it'll come to me probably when the show's over. But anyway The whole movie's about what these men accomplished and how they draw and attra drew and attracted people, uh, and they got a little carried away with their egos and all sorts. They depicted some of that Not all of it, but they could have, but they to picture some of that. So it Lonnie Frisbee. Lonnie, thank you. Yeah, thank you. So it looks it up. But it's that's not the message of Christianity. We don't need a whole bunch of Joel Olsteens. We don't even need a whole bunch of R. C. sprolls. Right? What we need are good Christian men to leave their home, to leave their churches, to grow other Christians to be good Christian people who lead in their spheres of influence, to lead their children, to lead in the workplace, whatever. We need a whole bunch of people. We need the body of Christ Not a whole bunch of supposed heads of the church who are mere humans, because Christ is ahead. And I think that unfortunately the Jesus Revolution movie might reinforce that idea. Oh, we need some some new Lonnie Frisbees to step up and make it different. Yeah. Uh uh uh that's fine if we get some of those guys, but that's not how Christianity starts in the home works, right? Starts in the home. It's ground up, it's grassroots. Anyway. Have you guys uh d anybody in this room seen the sound of freedom? Sound of Freedom. It was it was a surprise hit last summer and and it was it was marketed and promoted as a Christian movie, even though it's not overtly Christian and actually the guy who the I think Tim Ballard is the the name of the guy the movie's based upon supposedly. Uh I I I don't think I don't think he's a Christian, I think he's Mormon. So there's that. Uh you see a lot of that lately. The Mormon church specifically And the Catholic Church to a greater extent and and more obviously, but the Mormon Church very subtly behind the scenes is funding and supporting a lot of these media projects. whether they're on radio or TV or movies or whatever. Like the chosen we mentioned. The Chosen. And the Chosen is supposedly more of a Catholic but there's Mormon influence as well. And the and speaking of Mormon, there was one other movie I wanted to bring up. Did you guys happen to see Nefarious? No, I I've I've heard it. You heard it. Talked about it. Nefarious is a uh well, supposedly a horror film. It's it it's not really a horror film. I think they tried to market it to be hipper and cooler than And they really were. But but it's kind of a suspense thriller and it it leans in a bit of a horror direction because there's the demonic element that's involved in it and stuff, but it's pretty Pretty uh lame uh as a horror film if that's your thing. Uh but did you see it or you only heard about it? The I I I mean it's been out for like almost a year, so I spoiler alert, you know, but there's a demon possessed prisoner and he's interacting with an atheist and uh you know, all sorts of bad things happen with the atheist and and that sort of thing. So Uh but the turning point in the movie as far as the messaging from a Christian point of view is now the the truth is put forward. Who was the ambassador of truth in the movie? The demon. No, although ironically there was some truth coming from the demon, but you know, in you know weird sarcastic kind of a way. Glenn Beck Glenn Beck is playing himself, right? Playing himself. So yeah, he wasn't acting. He was well he was acting I guess, but he was he was Glenn Beck playing Glenn Beck. And and he's And everybody watching the movie knows that it's Glenn Beck playing Glenn Beck. And he's the one that's has the truth. He's the Christian in the movie. No, he's not. He's a polytheist. He's LDS. He believes in an infinite number of gods. Mormonism has more gods than Hinduism. He is not a Christian and yet he is the only character that you could point to as an actual supposed Christian in the movie. person that comes in representing the clergy. But the movie doesn't position that that person is positioned within the movie as a joke. But me not as a like all pastors in Hollywood are positioned. Yeah, but no, positioned as a a weak, effeminate clueless, not truly faithful. So I I would that's good, right? Because that's the majority of the sadly of of the leaderships in the church and they represented that well. So yeah, they took a a a um uh a false professing leader in the church and portrayed him in the movie as a for false professing Christian who's in leadership in the church. Okay, I'm fine with that. But then they take a false professing Christian, if you will, and position him as the one who has the truth. As far as I I haven't found anybody talking about this. I'm the only one now I'm I'm not saying the only one who has, but I mean I listen to a lot of podcasts, I read a lot of blog posts, I try to s pay attention to where the winds are blowing, you know, I try to stay culturally relevant within the church mostly for this show I haven't heard anybody mention this but but me. I I think the problem is there's so many Christians that are so desperate for Be uh finding a way to keep keep all the cool Hollywood stuff but make it Christian. And when anything comes out that's remotely Christian or supposedly Christian or funded by people who call themselves Christians. They're like, oh great, this is amazing. The gospel's being proclaimed in Hollywood. And we could play for dupes. And we did not d don't even in many ways That's worse than an average Hollywood movie, which you can go into say get go into the movie and watch and say, Okay, yeah, it's a secular movie, there's probably gonna be a bunch of bad stuff that I disagree with. But it might have an interesting storyline or a or a cool moral that that that that I might you know, or or or maybe I uh uh it's it's gonna be funny, they'll tell a few good jokes or whatever. And you're not expecting any Christian message out of it. It's kinda like I I've said uh in the past about college. In many ways sending your kids to a if if you send them at all to college, because I think college is overrated, but if they're gonna go to a college. In many ways I'd recommend a secular college over a Christian college because your guard is down uh is down at a Christian college and you're gonna get your uh you know, legs kicked out from under you. you're not expecting some of the really n nefarious things that are gonna come out of the movie. I think that the um For what it's worth, this is a pastoral note, re responding to what Danny just said. I I hear exactly where you're coming from. I know where your heart is on that. I think I'd just rather have my child go to a uh a a school that would at least be trying to supposedly be honoring God and lend Just make sure you encourage your children to still have your guard up. They have a little bit less to have to send off, hopefully. In that 'cause I mean it's coming at them from all angles in the secular institutions. I don't know. Or if you know your child well enough and you know that they can handle it That's one thing, but you better be right. 'Cause I know too many parents they're now you know, they have children my children's age and going back, you know, ten or so years ago and they were sending their kids I was like, You're sending them aware? I don't know if that's small. Oh no, they can handle it. They couldn't handle it. They could not handle it. So you i i if you think they can, let's not be right. So I'll meet you halfway, Troy, and let's just stop going to college altogether. You know, I I don't just uh I will say, depending on what their aspirations are, if they want to be a medical doctor or something like that, then they have no choice. But yeah, i I I think most professions it's not needed. It's way overrated because most people that uh they change careers three, four, five, six times in their life anyway. and almost none of those careers needed the college degree necessarily to do, so I I agree with you on that. But people get so excited they're like, oh, this person's on my side because he agrees on XYZ topic. And the Mormons do agree with the mainstream church on a number of topics. Now, I don't know if I have time problem with you know, 'cause they're not actually with us. Like you said, polytheism. Yeah, let me see if I can get through this or not. I I had I I I made some notes I want to be able to read through this. Hopefully I we we've got enough time I think Have you guys heard of the um uh the sitcom with Danny DeVito? Um it is called um let's see, Little Demon? No. You heard about this? So there's an animated horror comedy. Danny DeVito is like the star voice in it. He plays uh the voice of Satan. Uh and It's a Disney show, right? Yeah. Yeah. Well yeah, it's funded by Disney. It's part of their uh panoply of uh of of uh entities they have. So Congressman um uh Mike Johnson from Louisiana uh He uh who's now the um Speaker of the House. Uh he last year said it's clearly an evil show And uh it's aired on FX Networks. You think, Oh, it's a Fox show. No, Disney bought FX Networks uh uh so it's it's a Disney show. And um he said it of course isn't about Fox too though, so they basically own everybody now. No, well okay, yeah and Hulu. They own they own they own Hulu. And the show is streamed on Hulu, by the way. And it the website says that the series is about a woman and her thirteen year old daughter who are trying to live normal lives, even though Satan is the girl's father and wants custody of her soul. And Johnson said, I couldn't get to the remote fast enough to shield my 11-year-old from the preview. I wonder how many children were exposed to the preview online. How many millions more will tune in to the series that's marketed by Disney? Again, DeVito voices the role of Satan. His daughter, uh his real life daughter, Lucy DeVito, plays uh plays the daughter of Satan in the show. And uh her name is Chrissy and she is the Antichrist, supposedly, in this animated sitcom. So Davido, who's like eighty years old, has a eleven year old daughter? Yeah, but it's animated, so he's just the voice Right, he's just a boy. Plus I mean Satan's ancient, right? Satan do he's at least eighty years old, Satan. Yeah, I I just didn't think his daughter would be that young if that is. But you know what, yes, uh Richard Gere with a baby or something like that. No, his his daughter actually is like uh forty. Now Johnson said our job as parents is to guard the hearts and minds of our kids. The culture's been alarmingly dark and desensitized, and this is not a game. Disney and FX have decided to embrace and market what is clearly evil, stay far from it. And people have talked about, you know, boycotting Disney and And all that sort of stuff. Yeah, right. There's seven guys that own everything in the whole world. We don't know who those seven guys are, but they own everything, the seven guys. Um and so I mean free speech and all that, we want to defend that, but we've got to figure out how to navigate. this. So what what's your we've got you know like two minutes, two and a half. What what's your take on how we should navigate this? I mean particularly in the context of Christian nationalism we were talking about recently and stuff too. Like where do we come down on this? I think if uh If Disney makes good stuff, you can watch it. And if they make bad stuff, don't watch that. That's too simplistic. If if you want to say it what should the should the government be involved in doing things? Well, I mean it's blasphemy to say that Satan's good, so If anybody is doing that, whether it's in in in public or if it's i if i i if they're doing it in a show or whatever, then yeah, that's punishable by death under God's law. So that that's that's my take on that. But is that gonna happen in America? No, realistically not for any any near time in the future. So Uh, you know, I I I just lament that it's out in the open, you know. Twenty, thirty, forty years ago people say, Oh, you're you're worshiping Satan. No, I'm not, I'm just liberal or whatever. And now they're they're they're not even pretending anymore. They're like, Oh yeah, Satan's a great guy. I mean the the one of the uh popular shows from a few years ago was Lucifer, right? Where Satan became a cop and he was throwing criminals in in jail or whatever 'cause he got bored in hell. And that that's uh he's always portrayed as a good guy, a flashy cool guy, and and I don't know what he looks like in this show, but that's the uh It's more and more you see that Satanism and worshiping the devil is mainstream in our culture. And that's that's not a good thing. Yeah, we're not in a position to force anybody to stop doing this sort of stuff. But I do think we have to be very clear. Crystal clear. This is bad, it desensitizes people to it coarsons our hearts and our consciousness about these sorts of things. We think it's just a joke. Satan's not a joke. I mean most people don't even believe Satan exists, so there's that. Uh S Satan's real w and and he's dangerous. And he is powerful, he's not more powerful than God, it's not an equal fight, and God does win in the end, we know that. But still we've got to protect not just our kids from this. Because it's marketed actually to adults, in fairness. And it airs on FX, I think, at ten o'clock at night, so it's supposed to be for adults, but it's streamed on Hulu. So kids are gonna see a cartoon they're gonna want to watch. But what is marketed to kids that desensitizes them to evil is Halloween. Oh yeah, there's a yeah, that's another good example. So so it's not just like these one off things, right? That uh, you know, the the big bad media conglomerates or producing it's it's it's everyday things that people do and make a part of their lives that that turn themselves away from God. So David, are you saying that this is a multi pronged attack on Christianity? Probably by Satan. The the real Satan. But not like now. I mean th you had some people put us in spooky decorations around their front door and and maybe they'd hang something to make it look like spider webs in their trees or something. And that was about as far as it went. And the the houses that did that were few and far between Now, some of the stuff you see in people's yards it rivals what you see in December for, you know, what's supposed to be the Advent Prize. It doesn't rival. It's much, much greater than within Christmas. Yeah, depending on the neighborhood for sure. It it it's overtaking the culture. death embracing destruction, right? And that's that is what our culture is doing, uh you know, through and through and over and over. Well that's good because we're around the the path to death. We're all killing ourselves. And it used to be we're killing ourselves slowly, but we're on a fast track now to to societal suicide in time to come in in time to hear. Oh man. I'll I'll give you that something is The end times of something uh coming. For sure. All right. We're going to in our next episode uh switch and we're gonna talk about an um an article that made the rounds, a big story out of suburban Chicago about a pastor who ended up leaving his church and did it in a very high profile way for interesting reasons. And we're gonna be talking about that in next week's show. So um look forward to talk about that with you guys next week. Imran Razby, Daniel Razby, David Forcy. Thank you, gentlemen. Brothers in Christ all. All of us again are pastors in the area, and if you're interested in connecting with one of the churches, you can reach out to me. That might be the easiest way to connect, or you can go straight to the Razi's West Web uh website, which is um conquered by love. org. Uh the church's website that I'm with is Household of Faith in Christ dot com. And of course the radio station's website is WFMD. com. We'll be back next week to continue our conversation here on the Faith Debate. As long as they keep letting us come back, we'll keep showing up. You know, it's like I have it at this point. You know. Anyway, thanks so much for making this part of your day. We really do truly appreciate it. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com