Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Thank you for spending part of your Sunday morning with us here, hopefully each and every week. Well if you're listening to the podcast, well thank you for spending part of your life with us whenever it is that you're listening. My name is Troy Skinner. I've been hosting the show for quite a long time now, but I'm only seventeen years old. I don't know how I do it Um but I'm a friend's age, you identify as the younger. That's right, I e identify as whatever age I want. And I'm the pastor of Household the Faith in Christ and have a website, Hustle the Faith in Christ dot com And that voice you just heard chiming in is Daniel Razvi. And you're also going to be hearing the voice of Imran Razvy, known as Raz as well. They have a church in Thurmont, a church that meets at Imran's house. and a ministry, Concord by Love Ministries on online at conqueredbylove. org. So we've been working our way through the statement on uh social justice and the gospel. It came out in 2018. This is our fourth and final episode on this particular subject matter. And um we might actually dive into some other waters as well before this is out because we've only got one um article left, article fourteen, um which they've unfortunately called racism. Why do we do this to ourselves? Why did they have to call it racism? But anyway, I mean I I understand they want to be understood by the world. But I'd rather the world understand us like based on reality. Racism doesn't isn't a thing because there's one race Unless we're looking into spiritual things where you know the Apostle Peter tells us in the New Testament that we are a uh a royal priesthood, a holy nation. And so there's this the grace of Christianity. According to the Bible, racism would be uh viewing humans versus other races, which would be possibly demons or angels or animals or something else that's not human. Yeah, I yeah, I guess we want to get into that and there was transhumanism, right? We talked about this uh last week or the week before. So anyway, so we've got this one uh thing left and it's a chunky one but we've we we've talked a lot about a lot of stuff already so we'll see how much fodder there is for discussion. Uh I'll read the uh affirmation and then Daniel if you would read the denial We affirm that racism is a sin rooted in pride and malice which must be condemned and renounced by all who would honor the image of God in all people. Such racial sin can subtly or overtly manifest itself as racial animosity or racial vainglory. Such sinful prejudice or partiality falls short of God's revealed will and violates the royal law of love. We affirm that virtually all cultures, including our own at times contain laws and systems that foster racist attitudes and policies. We deny that treating people with sinful partiality or prejudice is consistent with biblical Christianity We deny that only those in positions of power are capable of racism, or that individuals of any particular ethnic groups are incapable of racism. We deny that systemic racism is in any way compatible with the core principles of historic evangelical convictions. We deny that the Bible can be legitimately used to foster or justify partiality, prejudice, or contempt toward other ethn ethnicities. We deny that the contemporary evangelical movement has any deliberate agenda to elevate one ethnic group and subjugate another. And we emphatically deny that lectures on social issues or activism aimed at reshaping the wider culture are as vital to the life and health of the church. as the preaching of the gospel and the exposition of Scripture. Historically, such things tend to become distractions that inevitably lead to departures from the gospel. So interesting, they did not Uh they wanted to keep it to the subject matter of Bible and they didn't want to discuss American culture of whether American culture is systemically racist, which is one of the m root uh um core tenets of critical race theory. Yeah, that's one of the problems with the uh the critical race theorists though is it's so America centric. Their whole concept of how to interpret and apply the Bible It doesn't even work in America, but if it was gonna work anywhere it there's whole system of thought only works in America. You can't take it to Nigeria and have it make any sense. You can't take it to Korea and have it make any sense. It doesn't make sense here either, so but but they can't e they don't even have like the beginnings of a shot at making sense because it doesn't it doesn't fit. Right. Right? 'Cause they don't have the the the diversity of skin tones. in other parts of the world uh as like we do here. It's just you know, I was shaking my head as I read the affirmation. It's as though two different people wrote this We just got done last week, I think it was, reading Sexy House last week, Section twelve, and they say in uh the ethnicity one. Race is not a biblical category but rather a social construct. And then in this final one they use the word race and racism like like PES dispenser candy. It's like they can't get enough of it. Like stop saying race and racism. It's a social construct. You said so yourself. Yeah, that's true. It does look like two dimensional. Oh my gosh So let's talk broadly about the issues uh uh uh on this, because we have talked about about all of this generally speaking, but the the social justice thing, the quote unquote racism uh question Um this is saying that they admit that y there can be systemic issues. Right? They're not saying there's never been systemic issues ever in the world. In fact, it says that all cultures have at one time had problems with this And I'm not sure if I would necessarily agree with that. Um but yeah. Yeah, well I'm I'm I I'm not sure I can think of an exception to the rule, but there might there might be one. But anyway. And also There is a there is a uh elephant in the room that you know I think may be worth bringing up that they're saying all cultures at times they contain the laws and systems that foster racist attitudes and policies. The idea of racism and how they're defining it here as one um group of of ethnic background is superior in some way to another one. Um people will bring up an example in modern c uh culture which you may be able to easily uh uh dismiss but I mean they're like, Oh well, certain people are predisposed to be in the NBA because they're taller. And I will never be in the NBA because I'm five four. Well there was one guy, but you know, he's the exception. Um Bug Webb. Yeah, uh Bug Z. Boggs was uh five four. Okay uh in the and he anyway, he could dunk, which was amazing. But As generally speaking, certain people are predisposed to be in uh certain physical attributes do have uh privilege they that they may be bestow. Um but then aside from that, look looking historically, you have a group of people that God called and made his own, the Jewish people. That historically and in biblical context of course and we can argue and disagree on how much relevance that maintains today or will be maintaining in the future. But at least historically there were they were people set apart and given special privileges and rights, and Christ even said that when he came. I'm not going to take the children's bread and toss it to the dogs He ca I came to the Jew. And the Jews rejected him and and and and there's a whole uh gospel and doctrine about Gentiles and and and all that. But There is no denying the fact that in in the Bible the Jews are a set apart people that are given a whole bunch of special privileges that no one else gets. And that's on account of their uh if you want to say race, uh w the way it's defined in modern American culture, but their family group, their h their their ethnicity. It's it it comes from that. God chose Abraham specifically to grant all these things to, and th they've maintained ev and one could argue that the Jewish people have always maintained some kind of a special uh You know, they they're always prosperous. Those promises made to Abraham have been letting them be prosperous even e even today in many ways, um uh uh uh in a worldly fashion, right? Not necessarily they're not gonna go to heaven because they're Jewish, right? They have to be saved. But How do you drive that with the idea w that it's not possible for any one ethnic group to be in any way superior to another? Yeah, well th they they have spiritual blessings on them because they're God's chosen. And you know the spiritual blessings uh in in a post-cross uh context, you know, fall to those who are followers of Jesus Christ. And so but God granted Abraham physical blessings as well. Oh, absolutely. And I think some of those are still following many people of of that uh uh ethn ethnic group not to denigrate in in any way, but actually to be struggling paycheck to paycheck, you know, day to day, barely uh you know, hand to mouth, barely making it by, uh Jewish Ethnic person would wonder, hey, what about me? That's true. They've had hardships too. I mean God said they'd go punish them and have them go through hardships. That's true. But if you look at it there's more Jews d that had Nobel Peace Prize winners than any other Family group, if you would say. Not because the system is rigged and Jews are running every I'm not I'm not saying that. I'm saying God has blessed Jewish people. But regardless of that, even in the historical context, like take it back to his historical context, there was a a system that God set up where he elevated an ethnic group above others. And so the that's the question. How do you shift now and say, well that's always a bad thing? I don't think you can really say that. Maybe that's the exception to the rule and the general rule is no and I'll agree with that. The general rule is no. There's no one ethnicity that's superior or or uh should be elevated above another, um, just as virtue of their ethnicity. Um but you know it's certainly as has happened in the past in that one example. Yeah, and that grew and we had this is getting into some area that we've kind of touched on before. We haven't done a real I don't think we've done a series of shows on it yet, but uh that group of people s I argue still exists, and so do you, but we argue that a little bit differently. I say it still exists than those who aren't uh from the um biological bloodline of Abraham are are grafted into those blessings and are part of that group now. So that So yeah, I uh if you don't then you don't understand the gospel and what a great privilege it is to to have him as our as our savior and our king, right? That he that he chose us and called him to called us to himself. So But the the systemic racism thing 'cause these are things that will come up in a practical sense. You're talking to people about politics and the cultural things and you know, redlining. That actually happened and it was m maybe maybe there were some legitimate reasons why that would have happened f for financial protection reasons, who knows. But there's also a lot of prejudice and and bad reasons that that sort of thing happened. I I have no reason to doubt that at all. And there were the Jim Crow laws and the colored restrooms and watering fountains. So that Unless you're gonna deny history, you know, and some people probably do. Uh I would say that's true, those bad things happened, but they happened a while ago. I mean redlining that's at least what fifty years ago probably? Something like that. For those who don't know what redlining is, wanna explain that? So they um there were certain areas that they didn't want particular types of people moving into. And so they they demarked the the property lines that were okay for certain people though to to buy and otherw and they and they use a I guess a red marker, a red line to delineate. And so if you weren't a particular kind of person you couldn't buy property, you know uh inside or outside of the the red line or whatever. Now the those who want to say it wasn't about skin color say it was about financial means, ability to to pay your mortgage or whatever. Um, okay. There might have been some of that. I think that's probably true. But I grew up Daniel's a little younger, so he might not have the exact same life experiences f uh cultural, societal, uh era experience. But I grew up in the sixties and seventies as the wor as the world uses the term, they were racist. Definitely. Clearly. My dad came to the US in seventy three. And he was a uh electrical engineer, a master's degree from Oxford, England. And so he came to uh try to find a job and this was in New York. New York was in the north, you know, not so racist, right? But he would get plenty of interviews. There was positions available for management and uh and climb chemical engineering 'cause that's what his background was. But once he got there for the interview, they would automatically every one of them said, Oh oh, that position was filled And again, it would still be advertising in the paper the next day, but he was not able to get it because his skin color was brown. So there was definitely racism there. Yeah, yes, people are going to rent an apartment. And the uh the person who owns the building is kinda hiding out to see who's gonna pull up. And if the person driving the car pulls up has darker skin. they they hide in the bushes. Like they're not gonna take the meeting and then and then a a white couple pulls up in the car and that ha that happened. But it it happens And this isn't me making an excuse for whites uh being prejudiced against blacks, but it happens in the reverse too. And I've I've shared this story years ago on the Faith Debate, so if you're a longtime listener, you've you've heard an aspect of this story before. When I was a little kid and I lived in the Chicago area And I lived in some rough parts. And um my mom was very you know, you hear the stories about black parents telling their their kids now if you ever get pulled by a pulled over a police You put both hands in the wheel and it's yes sir, and I they give them the whole speech of how to m keep yourself safe when you're pulled over by the police, right? This is something we've all heard about. My mom gave me a version of that story, telling me, see that bridge over there? You don't go on the other side of it You stay on this side. And the reason was the other because lots of gangs and stuff in Chicago and you know the the the gangs a lot of times are are based on skin tone and those sorts of things. Not only that, but that's certainly part of it. And there's a black neighborhood on the other side of the bridge and a white neighborhood and uh like Irish kind of gangs on the other side, the side that we lived on. And you didn't cross that bridge. And there was a time when we're driving and You could drive through that. You just didn't as a kid you didn't take your bike or travel to that part. But we're driving and uh w we're stopped at a at a street light and all of a sudden there's these kids beaten the snot of another kid, like maybe twelve, thirteen, fourteen years old, something like that. Just beating him, beating him, beating him. And I thought they were gonna steal his bike. And th that that's what they were beating was to steal his bike. And when they done beat him, they left. They didn't take his bike Uh if and then the the light changed. So we're sitting at a stoplight, well this is happening and the light changed and the kids the the were beating the kid they just left and I said Why why were they doing that? I thought they were gonna steal his bike and they didn't take his bike. I don't understand. What did I just see? And she said, Remember where I told you about not going on the other side of the bridge? That's why. That boy was the wrong color. And the boy who was beaten to a pulp was white, by the way. So it it can happen both ways, um, because we're sinners. We're all sinners. We're all prone to doing violent things or un unhealthy, unhelpful uh things where we're we're denying the humanity of someone else. And there are there are people today that are racist. uh in t in the in the in the definition of the world it is. Uh I've I've seen them, I've met them, I've I've heard and not just uh you know, many conservatives will say uh just on the one side or the other, but no, there are both b b uh both sides. Um various different cultures that are uh that are racist to each other. But there is a difference between that and also saying systemic racism, meaning the laws of the country foster this And that currently is the way it is today. And I will say no, it's not the way it is today uh unless ex uh i i except to the extent it may be Um the opposite of what the left would like you to see. And these things aren't just skin color. Look at what happened for years and years and years in Ireland. Irish people blowing up Irish people. But some were Protestant, some were Catholics apparently or something, right? I mean that that has nothing to do with the thing. Hutu and Tutsi. Is that the Hotel Ronda movie was about that maybe? Yeah, there's the movie I think called Hotel Rower. I think it's they were all the same skin color. Yeah. But they hated each other because of the nose shape. Right? So in a in a in a w in a world where everyone is the same color you're gonna find something else to hate about somebody. It's human nature And that doesn't mean it's right. It's not a good idea. Following human nature. Yes. Yeah. So present human nature, yeah. And speaking of which and fighting, finding something to get disagreeable about Yeah, we we've just announced that three and a half shows talking about the social justice and the gospel statement. Came out a few years back, in fact, 2018. So this year, earlier this year, the um another statement came out, the statement on Christian Nationalism and the Gospel. Now we're not going to talk about the statement right now. That's not the point. The the reason I'm bringing this up is the people that were fighting on what would be our side, what I would argue is the biblical side, of the social justice question. Um there's they've formed camps among themselves that are fighting with themselves. Because now this Christian nationalism thing is I don't know if you pay attention to social media and stuff like I do, but it's it's it gets nasty and there's memoirs and they're uh tearing each other down and it's horrible. And one of the things that they decided to pick on each other on is the people that put out the statement on Christian nationalism and the gospel. used the same font for the logo and for the apparently the style and presentation of the statement when it first came out that the social justice and the gospel people used. I am thinking that they did that as an homage. Right? We like this statement, we like the people who are behind it. We're pretty much in agreement with all of that, and so we're trying to dra draft behind that and show that we're in alignment with this. But the but people said, no, you can't use our font because some people who were involved with the social justice and the gospel statement don't agree with what's going on with the Christian nationalism and the gospel statement. So they ended up changing it, but they were fighting over something silly like that. And here's the thing I've been noticing, something I've been talking about a lot, not on the show, but in life When the gospel's at stake, you fight hard. And tone is always nice, but tone isn't always the most important thing. When the gospel is at stake, tone is a secondary issue. Right. But when the gospel's not at stake, Christian brothers should speak to one another as Christian brothers. Tone matters a lot more. I should be gentle and kind and self-controlled when I'm dealing with the five years. And then all the petty things to argue about, the font. Yeah, they're fine. Yeah. Right. Uh Daniel did and uh Analogia did. Yeah, we so it wasn't our regular panelist but uh we had a really spirited debate about these kinds of issues and Christians can have spirited debates about these. We can we can be iron sharpened iron. We can we can attack somebody's argument and do so forthrightly and and and run the risk of offending. I uh it's okay to run the risk of offending. It's even okay to offend on occasion if the uh what if what's offensive is your argument is offending their argument But when it starts to become personal, or if you do cross the line accidentally and somebody does take offense, say, Hey, I don't like how you just made your point there. That felt a little personal You back off it. You know what? I didn't mean it as a personal. I got a little caught up in the moment. I apologize. Please forgive me. And we can then move forward from there. That's what should be happening with the Christian nationalism debate. And in social media at least, and in other places too, that's not what's happening. They're they're throwing ties to each other's face. They're diminishing each other. And I'm like, are you saying that they are not a Christian? Because you're treating them like they're a heretic. You're treating them like you're a danger to the sheep, that they're wolves in sheep's clothing. That's how you're treating them. And if that's not what you're saying, then stop treating them that way. I mean it's in the same vein. I mean you you would say this is fart appropriation. Right. I I I'm so sick of cultural appropriation because to me As growing up I wanted to play cowboy, I wanted to play an Indian. It was it was not I was appropriating a culture, I was enjoying that difference And now it's such a terrible thing, you can't even wear a different culture's shirt, a Japanese shirt or uh or anything like that because you're cultural appropriation. And this whole thing about these cornrows that that these black people saying white people can't have that. But you know what? It started in n and uh the Nordic countries. That's where the coroner started. It didn't start in in Africa. But who cares where it started? It doesn't matter. If you like it, wear it. It's not comfortable appropriation, it's because you enjoy it. You like the look of it. Isn't it greatly ironic though, because those of it advocate uh that argument that you're pushing back against are the same people are advocating that women can can appropriate the culture of a man. And a man can appropriate the culture of a woman. And a human can appropriate the culture of a cat Yeah. Right? There's they're so inconsistent. It's crazy. Yep. But you can't appropriate the different age. Age is accident. I mean the the there's many people have asked um all these liberal crazy people about this. So no you can't change your age. You can change your sex. You change your gender. You can change w you know all those things but you can't change your age. Or your race. Oh y yeah, or your race. Your species. Yeah. You can change your species. Not your race, not your skin color. Change your species, but not your skin color. So those two things, skin color and age you can't change, but everything else you can change. Yeah, well I'm just not consistent. I I want to say, you know, not not that I want to be sky is falling and all that, but if you're paying any attention at all, this sort of stuff is nonsense. It's a distraction. We need to focus on what the gospel is, what the Bible actually teaches And uh uh we need to demonstrate that in the way we live our lives and not get caught up in all this stuff and we've got to get engaged. Because we haven't been as a culture, generally speaking, there have been people engaged, but Large swathes of us have not been. And because of that, the schools, the public the government run schools, have become indoctrination indoctrination centers for really satanic practices, if you ask me. Absolutely. And and uh and they're and they're telling parents that if they don't affirm what their child's identity is, they might lose their kids. Well you know that it's not gonna end. And it's gonna get worse. How could it get worse? Right now they're trying to um do physical harm to your children by having them chop up their bodies. The next thing is they're going to be having their your their children, oh, you're depressed, why don't you just be euthanized? Yeah. And parents won't be allowed to do anything to stop the the the murder of their children. I if if we're if we don't start to do something that's gonna happen. And I don't know, I I feel like uh we've already gone over the cliff. The car hasn't crashed into the ravine at the bottom yet, but it's already over the cliff and it's just in the free fall. That's the way it feels. I don't know how we you know, get the car back up on the ground. But Christ's gonna come back. Well, that would be the answer, right? Yeah. And short of that, behaving as though Christ is actually living in and through his people Would would go a long way towards that too. A a decaying fruit cannot become fresh again. It just can't. And we are decaying at a very rapid rate and the only way to do it is throw it out and have you just come back. Yeah. I never thought I'd live to see uh a hot civil war in this country, but I'm beginning to think that that could actually happen. If we don't think that's a good thing. I mean they w they when locks trap in, put masks on, stayed away from churches, they've done all these things. There's not gonna be a civil war. There's no backbone to it Well uh too fractured. Take that negative as a positive, right? No civil war, that's good. We're gonna end the fake debate on that positive Weird positive note. Imran Rasby, Daniel Razby, thank you guys. I'm Troy Skinner. Find me online at household of faith in Christ dot com, WFMD. com, find the Razbeys at Concordby Love. org. Almost said dot com. com. Uh uh work, not to see I'm getting punchy. Anyway, till next week, one hundred and sixty-seven and a hour half hours from right now. God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com