Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Thanks for spending part of your Sunday morning with us if you're listening on the radio or part of whatever day it is if you're listening to the podcast later on. Appreciate you very much. We're working our way through the nineteen or not nineteen. Boy, I'm stuck in the wrong millennium. The uh two thousand eighteen statement on social justice and the gospel Um we've done two shows of the third this might be the last one on this particular uh subject matter. If you want to get more information about what's gone what's the issues that are raised in this statement you can go to uh a couple of other documents because you might have noticed uh gentlemen some overlap with the the Danver statement and the Nashville statement, the kinds of issues. There is some overlap there. So if you want to get more meat on the bones of some of the things that are just skeletally outlined You can go to the Danver Statement and the Nashville Statement. We've actually done shows on those statements recently as well. Once from 1987, once from 2017, and now we're up to 2000 So we read last week, by the way, uh Imran Razvi and Daniel Razvi from uh the Church that meets at Imran's house in Thermont and also Conquered by Love MinistriesConquered by love. org is their website or also on the show to finish this. Last week we read the complementarianism section which is uh section number eleven of fourteen. So we are heading down the home stretch. And Daniel shared a couple of thoughts before the the show ended, but this is a big hot button issue. Um it's a third rail issue for a lot of conversations. You can lose friends over this one. So e there's plenty of churches that even though they reject homosexuality, oh, we would never have a gay pastor. But I mean, why can't a woman be a be a pastor? I mean th she's saved and she's and and and maybe you have a very small church and Out of all the th the members in the congregation, there's no men that are very uh qualified or as deep in the word and this one woman who's older and and more experienced and knows everything and she knows all the doctrines. Why can't she be the one preaching? It doesn't it make logical sense And I mean n whether it makes logical sense or not is irrelevant because God did command. This is what the way it must be And part of that is uh God knows best, we don't know exactly why in in all situations, but also God is trying to give a picture of the way Christ and the and the church. There's the the husband is is is the the head and the wife is is to follow and the the church should be a picture of that, just like uh the marriage is a picture of that, our relationship with Christ. So it is very important. Yeah, so churches that have uh uh decided to ordain uh women as pastors are in Clear disagreement with what the scriptures say. And for for that matter, uh churches that that decide to ordain men that are not married, like the Catholic Church, are in a clear violation of what the Scripture says. It says that they must be a husband of one wife. Um I think that's that's a big uh big deal. Is is it as big of a deal as the female pastors? I I don't know. I I almost would say it is because both of them are clearly going against what scripture very specifically lays out They're both violations. Um, you know, one is at least it's it's still a man, but it does say not any man can be a pastor, so you have to be qualified. And that's what this this passage says. Qualified men alone are to lead, right? So not just any man. Um but I think I think that's very important as well. I would push back against what the Catholic Church has done, which is to say uh that you know, w men should not be buried. Yeah, that's a different issue than the complementarianism one. That might be a a uh actually a good topic because I'm not entirely sure. I'm trying to think like what do we do with the churches that were led by the Apostle Paul? He didn't he didn't leave churches. He planted them and started them. He was by default, he was the leader of the church. He was a missionary and pa and pastor. I mean uh a traveling preacher, but I don't think he was uh leading the com congregation. He wasn't an elder of the congregation. And I would argue that he was probably married and maybe his wife had died, but uh it would be very, very hard for somebody of that stature at that time not to have been married. 'Cause I've always understood that more in the sense of it, you know uh being a a statement against polygamy as opposed to singleness. Well, I think both, because it does say it must otherwise it would say not having more than one wife. It would say i it sa it says he must be the husband of one. But whatever. But um because that that would be an interesting t uh show topic. Married men only. For pastors. I mean like never mind. Yeah. But we are in agreement that women should not be pastors, regardless of how well qualified and knowledgeable in the doctrines they are. um there's plenty of support roles they can play and they and they could also be very influential in training other women But not to be leading the church. And it's not that women aren't great and wonderful, as the statement goes out of its way to say how wonderful women are. That's not the point. The point is What are the roles? Now I know in today's confused world, uh, men can have babies too, supposedly, right? So I I I I get that. But Biblically defined men cannot have children. Does that make men lesser than women? Well in the childbearing bearing way maybe, I don't know. But women uh can't impregnate someone else. Like we we have different Roles, different uses. And one of the problems we have in the in the in the culture and in the church right now is passive men. Men who don't want to step up, don't want to do hard things. They don't lead in their church. They don't lead in their home. They don't necessarily even lead at work. They're too busy worrying about their, you know, their fantasy football league or something. Like they're just not They're not engaged in being leaders. And and so they abdicate that responsibility and we end up in a situation like Deborah in the Old Testament. She's like, All right, if you guys aren't gonna do it, I guess I will So even Deborah said, Look, this is to your shame. Exactly. If I'm leading I'm I'm going out with you i uh to to be on the sidelines when you're in battle You I'm shaming you by doing this. You do realize that. And he's like, Oh yeah, yeah, I I get it. And we see this as a core problem all the way back to the very beginning. Because in the garden, the serpent tempts Eve And Adam's right there. But he doesn't step up in leadership and say, hey, Mr. Serpent Sir, may I interrupt you for a moment? Don't speak to my wife, talk to me. He doesn't he doesn't intervene and take headship. Interesting. Actually never thought of the idea that Adam was standing right there. I always assumed he wasn't just in another part of the garden at the time. But you c y y as you read the narrative. Yeah, the it was. It has to be s probably standing there kind of thing. But anyway, uh and so men are all too eager to abdicate the leadership responsibilities that they should step into and the world will be better. If we had more fathers Who are actually doing what fathers do? Right? If we had more men involved in church, you go to the average church and it's a lot of women compared to the men. There's more women than men at most churches. Mm-hmm. That that's a problem. And so the women of course are m all too eager to then step in and and take that role on. So the men are they're they're it they're f fallen fleshly instinct is to sin against what they've been called to do. What would you say to somebody that says, Well, there must be an exception to this woman, Pastor Rule? I mean, see, look at Deborah. She was a pro uh a prophetess and and sh a judge and why can't women I mean if there is no well first make sure there's no qualified men, but if there aren't any, well why can't we have the woman be the pastor? What would you say to somebody that asks you that question, sincerely? Yeah, well first of all I i it i I think we would have to create a scenario uh that's not just, you know, live action role-playing just LARPing. Um You're stranded on a desert island somewhere. Mm-hmm. And it's a bunch of Christians and all the men are killed in the accident that left everybody stranded and there's nobody there Maybe there's uh there's a couple of men but they're they're unconscious and they're weak and they can they can't do it. So could the woman take the role of the pastor in that scenario? You know, I don't know. I'd have to think about that and p and and and gameplay that out. But the reason I'm bringing that up is that's not the situation we're in. Right? It's it's it's a total fantasy that like there are no men. In in Frederick County, I will I will agree that there are there's a a a uh uh a a very limited number of faithful men leading churches in Frederick County. They exist but they're limited. But they exist. So go to one of those churches. It's it's so it it's it's like you said, um uh was it last week, Daniel? Well, okay, if I give you this one exception, you'll grant everything else. Okay, so in the exce in the extreme rare possible scenario where there are no men except for like you know, invalids who you know are physically speak. Yeah, or whatever. Could we then okay, if I grant you that, will you admit then that women can't be pastors in all these other situations? Well no no no It's the same kind of an argument. Right. Right? It's it's like it's absurd. We're arguing in absurdities. It's ridiculous. That's my that's that's my my view. Your point. So this time I'll read the affirmation. Okay. We affirm God made all people from one man. Though people could often can be distinguished by different ethnicities and nationalities They are ontological equals before God in both creation and redemption. Race is not a biblical category, but rather a social construct. That often has been used to classify groups of people in terms of inferiority and superiority. All that is good, honest, just, and beautiful in various ethnic backgrounds and experiences can be celebrated as the fruit of God's grace. All sinful actions and their results, including evils perpetrated between and upon ethnic groups by others, are to be confessed as sinful, repented of, and repudiated. We deny that Christians should segregate themselves into racial groups or regard racial identity above or even equal to their identity in Christ. We deny that any divisions between people groups, from an unstated attitude of superiority to an overt spirit of resentment, have any legitimate place in the fellowship of the redeemed. We reject any teaching that encourages racial groups to view themselves as privileged oppressors or entitled victims of oppression, while we are to weep with those who weep, we deny that a person's feelings of offense or oppression necessarily prove that someone else is guilty of sinful behavior, uh, oppression or prejudice. So if I were to improve this Under the article, the Roman numeral twelve, they have race slash ethnicity. I wish they had just put ethnicity. And then later on they say race is not a biblical category. So if it's not a category, why is it in the header? I think i because it's it's generally used term in today's language. Yeah, but I I'm my saying is we should be pushing back against that and not using it this generally used term. It's not a category. It's a social construct. I yeah. It's a small thing, but we w it's not gonna win the war changing that But continuing to make these unforced errors, they they accumulate over time. It's just it's like a pet peeve of mine maybe. I like that they're very clear, right? You can't uh we reject reject any teaching that encourages racial groups to view themselves as privileged oppressors and all the uh BLM people say, Yeah, yeah, we agree or entitled victims of an oppression. So you can't view yourself as either one of those. Right? And that uh it is wrong to have a feeling of prejudice towards another group, regardless of whether they historically have oppressed or been oppressed. Either side of it, whatever side they're on, right? So the the whole idea and we'll get to racism in in a little bit down there because they have another section that says racism, but I I like that they they put that there. And everybody came from one man. Mm-hmm. We all came from Adam. He was probably brown, halfway between everybody else in the world, and we create all these variations, right? But I don't know what he looked like, but the point is we all came from Adam. And I thought it was very interesting. There is more uh you may have heard this before, but scientifically there's more genetic variation in whether someone's earlobe is touching the bottom of the earlobe is touching their cheek or f or uh disattached from their cheek. There's more genetic variation in that than the blackest person to the whitest person. So the people with the earlobe touching the cheek are clearly oppressed. Of course. They're different at least. Yeah. And I do like that it's the in the affirmation they begin with, you know, people can be distinguished by different ethnicities, nationalities. their ontological equals before God because you've probably heard this. Somebody says, Look, why are we making it about somebody's skin color? I don't even see color and they say, oh, so you don't see col that's not what they mean. When somebody says when I look at someone, I don't see color, what they're saying is they're not saying, well I don't see your in the ethnicity I don't see your heritage. I don't see your background. I don't see what you actually look like to my eyeball. They're not say and they're not saying they don't value those things. What they're saying is they're not seeing you as an ontoloc on ontological hard word for me to say all of a sudden unequal before God. I'm seeing you as an equal. The color of your skin is not so I'm not in regard to that I don't see color. We'd have to be blind to not see the color of somebody's skin, but if that changes the way in which you're going to interact with them then you're seeing color in a way that's unfavorable and not good. And that's what they're meaning to say. They they the argument has been changed, right? Because it used to be from from the left Um or from not necessarily from the West, but from the the whole anti-racism or a you know, um black rights movement or whatever. Um that you should and Martin Luther King talks about hey we should not be seeing color and then now when people are saying that's what I am No you need to and also you should be treating us differently Like that's kinda going backwards. From you know, it's it's on the other side, but it's still a prejudice. It's still a it's a a problem. And a and yeah, they don't want to be treated equally. The ones who are advocating this, they want to be treated differently. And you know that when uh during the presidential campaigns when this became a big issue and uh O'Malley was running And it was one of those town hall things and somebody asked him the question of if he believed that black lives matter. And he wasn't hip to the argument at the time. So he said, Well of course black lives matter. All lives matter. And he got booed So they don't want it that we're all equal and w all of our lives and I don't know. Ours are special, unique, separate. It's like they they're going backwards in time though, right? It's segregation. Mm-hmm. I mean it's not about the color of the skin, it's about your posture, about your language, about your dress, about how you behave, how you portray yourself. And I mean I've seen many videos of uh young black men uh behaving really disrespectfully and aggressively toward police officers and then you wonder why police officers are reacting that way. It's it's not because of the race, it's because of how you're acting. And I'm not trying to com compare uh human beings to animals, but I'm just trying to make an analogy of somebody could relate to. If you see a poodle and and uh and it's a cute docile poodle, you're gonna react differently than if you see a German Shepherd, particularly if once upon a time a German shepherd was aggressive towards you. Right was barking and tried to bite you and stuff. The German any every time you see a German Shepherd, it might be the most docile German Shepherd ever, but you oh that German Shepherd scares me You're gonna be on guard against that. The poodles, the docile little cute little fluffy fluff ball, you're not gonna react the same way. But see but see, critical race theory says that You never even saw a German Shepherd in your life. But a three hundred years ago, your ancestor saw a German Shepherd and didn't like it And therefore you're predisposed to hate German Shepherds. And that's that's the the argument that the cr uh critical race theory is is making is that there's nothing you can do about it. You're just Naturally prejudices. And sometimes we do have prejudices that are kind of wired into us because of our upbringing because our great grandparents were prejudiced people and they raised prejudiced kids who raised prejudice kids who raised you and you might have some of that. And if that's the case, then you call that out and say, Imran, stop being prejudiced. But I can't look at him and say, Imran, stop your great great great great grandfather being prejudiced. He's dead two hundred years. What do you mean? Stop you know, you can't do you can't do it. You can't put it back in the bottle So again, I come back to you know, it's h how you speak, how you look, how how you dress, how you portray yourself. That makes a huge impact. Color has very little bearing on what I see. So let's look at uh that's a good segue into the next one, which is culture. Um So it says, we affirm that some cultures operate on assumptions that are inherently better than those of other cultures because of the biblical truths that inform those worldviews that have produced these distinct assumptions. That's a that's a dangerous statement. Oh my culture's better than yours. So we'll get to that. Those elements I agree. Those elements of a given culture that reflect divine revelation should be celebrated and promotion. And sorry, and promote it. But the various cultures out of which we have been called all have features that are worldly and sinful. And therefore those sinful features should be repudiated for the honor of Christ. We affirm that whatever evil influences to which we have been subjugated via our culture can be and must be overcome through conversion and the training of both mind and heart through biblical truth. We deny that individuals and subgroups in any culture are unable by God's grace to rise above whatever moral defects or spiritual deficiencies have been engendered or encouraged by their respective cultures. Yeah, people th i i i the ugly American, right? You think America's a special country. Well Not so much anymore these days, but for a long, long time, yes. Because it was founded on biblical truth, it was founded on the the best aspects of English common law, which was good stuff and You know, and so there was a moral spine to what was going on. There's a reason why we had more success and we we won the wars instead of losing them and have lots of nice things instead of living in in grass huts with but like and uh Yeah, there's definitely something to be said that's true about that. But but what I think the point they're making here is the culture the aspects of your culture that have their roots in the Bible that makes your culture better than someone else's culture who has a different assumption that is inherently unbiblical. Right? If your culture uh is a cannibalist culture Well, that part of it is clearly unbiblical and my culture that does not eat people is in all ways superior to that part of your culture, right? So but because not because I'm morally repulsed uh by that because of my upbringing, but not because of that, but because the Bible and what the Bible teaches. that don't eat other people, right? That's it. Hopefully all people listening can agree with. I think it's it's really im important the uh to you you can celebrate differences in cultures as as the they're saying here, but make sure what you're celebrating is actually founded in scripture or or backed up by scripture. At the very least, that scripture doesn't teach against whatever cultural thing is happening. But I think you should have some grace for the culture that you were brought up in. You you're trained to look through certain eyes. And maybe you think that the Bible has some place for this, but maybe there you can make a good argument that there's this this is also biblical and right. We talked about honor and shame in the show in the past and many Christians will say that Honor is the same as arrogance because they don't they haven't thought that through that there is there are two different things, right? So just because you're all focused on honor doesn't mean you're a prideful person. It means that's that's a culture, which you could also find in the Bible. So I think you want to be careful rather than saying, well, be based on my cultural understanding of the Bible, your culture is is not biblical. So I I would I would want to be a little bit treading lightly um when we deal with culture, but certainly if something's unbiblical then that's that's not good. Yeah, the more in line with the Bible it is, the better it's gonna be. And if if if the culture mirrors that, then it's it's a better culture. And when I was a kid You know, that idea I don't think we used the terms uh when I was a kid I certainly didn't know our culture. But our country, our people, our way of life was better than the USSRs. And boy do we get excited about the Olympics. Right? You know? That's why the USA hockey team winning in nineteen eighty was such a big deal because the USSR they have these f thirty-eight year old seasoned vets, grizzled veterans of hockey, and they were all hopped up on performance enhancing drugs probably. And they were they they were pros playing in an amateur sport and they were cheating. And we got a bunch of snot-nosed, you know, eighteen and nineteen year old kids uh taking them on, but they're Americans and they won. So even our kids, our snot-nosed kids can beat you guys because we're better than you. And you know what? We were better. than them. I'm not sure that we're so b much better than anymore. But we were better and it's okay to ad to to admit that. But who are you to say that you are better or or or worse than somebody else is the pushback you get Um, who are you to say that cannibalism is wrong? Well, I am n nobody to say that cannibalism is wrong, but God is. And I think that's the point that people miss. Who are you to say this? What expert have you? Listen, are you an expert? No, but God is And what God says we have to do, whether we like it or not, whether we understand it or not, always we have to be have obedience to God. And the thing that's interesting is people say, Well, what if I'm not a I don't even believe in God? Well I'm going to use your phrase a different way. God is. Whether you believe in him or not. He is. And and the and the guy comes up to you and says, I don't believe in your sword. You're like, Okay, well I'm gonna cut you with my sword that you don't believe in. Here it goes. Right? At a certain point, yeah, it it's things exist. God exists. So we have time for the last one before we um not really. We've got less than two minutes. So I'm not even sure if we could read the whole thing in less than two minutes. So we might have to uh do another show that's focusing almost exclusively on racism and maybe some other uh things that might uh strike our our fancy to flesh out the show if we don't have twenty-five minutes worth of content on quote unquote racism. uh what the biblical bible would define as partiality. Yes. And there's different levels of racism too. I mean the w the biggest conversation right now in today's world is systemic racism, which I am totally Um flatter asset that people can think that, but let's talk about it next week. Okay. Sounds good? You up for that? Sure. Alright, one more round next week. Let me move. I'm gonna turn off my mic for a second to move it. See that? Huh? Huh? You couldn't even tell. If I didn't do that, you would heard a on the on the air. I was trying to avoid that. Anyway, this is the Fate Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Uh Imran Razvy, Daniel Rasvi. Uh they have a church in Thermont. Um I think I think you can probably find evidence of them online somewhere if you look really, really hard, but they don't have a website or anything, but it's The the Church of Beats at Imran's house, I think, is what they kind of call themselves. Who does? One nineteen ministries. Okay. So if you go to these other websites you can find them. Uh so they're piggybacking on other people's websites. Yes. Very clever way to um uh delegate. Uh I I haven't been clever enough to do that, so we actually have a website, minus household of faith in Christ. uh dot com, Household of Faith in Christ, the name of the church, and yeah. com and there you go. And they also have a ministry that has a website. It's Conquered by Love Ministries and their website is ConcordBylove And of course the radio station you're listening to right now has a website. So plug that too, I guess. WFMD. com. Go to the Faith Debate page there you can get a uh a look at previous shows, link to all the podcasts there, or you can go to my website and do that as well. And you can get a preview of what's gonna be coming up. Usually that does previews drop on Friday. So on Fridays, you want to look at the list we talked about on Sunday, go to WSMB. com to do that. Until next week, 167. 5 hours from right now. God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com