We affirm that the Bible is God's word breathed out by him. It is inerrant, infallible, and the Final authority for determining what is true, what we must believe, and what is right, how we must live. All truth claims and ethical standards must be tested by God's Final word, which is scripture alone. We deny that Christian belief, character, or conduct can be dictated by any other authority, and we deny that the postmodern ideologies derived from intersectionality Radical feminism and critical race theory are consistent with political uh biblical teaching. We further deny that competency to teach on any biblical issue comes from any qualification for spiritual people other than clear understanding and simple communication of what is revealed. And that is the very first portion of the statement on social justice and the gospel, which came out just a few years ago back in 2018. And to be honest, it It didn't get a lot of buzz at the start, but within a few years everybody who was in the know was talking about it and it we're still living with it in the aftermath now. Now that the dust has settled We on the Faith Debate are gonna go through this um step by step. There are how many how many of these little sections are there? There's looks like Well fourteen fourteen paragraphs of uh affirmations and denials. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of Faithinchrist. com, and of course you can follow the show at WFMD. com. And joined, as has become the habit by the the Razvis, Imran, known as Raz to his friends, and Daniel, the Razvis uh pastor a church in Thermont and also have a ministry um called uh Concord by Love online at conquered by love dot org. And they uh are financial gurus, uh higher financial Higher higher ground financial. So you can uh you can check them out that way as well. So when this thing came out back in two thousand eighteen, the the statement on social justice and the gospel, did it hit your radar screen right away? Nope. Yeah. I heard about it a couple of years later, especially when critical race theory became the hot topic. Um and I know they're out now that What are you even talking about? We don't even know no electric claiming we don't even know what critical race theory is. It's thing you conservatives keep talking about. It's not taught in schools. It's not whatever. So that's the lot of national debate about the uh words critical race theory, but this statement was put out a couple of years probably before any of the uh Hmm. I'm a little distracted because I'm not hearing you very loud for some reason. And I'm not this this any better? I could try this. Hm. I curiosity, would you st Yes, testing. I I'm hearing your mic just fine. I'm hearing my mic just fine. Your mic sounds very thin. I don't know what that what that's about. How's that? No, not really. Yeah, this is this is as though it's a live radio show 'cause um you you can see what I'm seeing, right? When y when Imran talks, he's loud like me. What the heck? There's not I think we're gonna have to do I I f I'm sorry. I don't know over them? Well no, we'll we'll keep going, but what's the which which mic are we using right now? This one. This one. Okay, so I think it's the I think it's this one? Yes. Okay. All right. Sorry about that. I don't know what's going on with that mic. We'll have to see it uh in between shows if we can figure out what's going on with that. So anyway, so yeah, it wasn't on your radar screen, sorry about that. No, so I mean now critical race theory is a national conversation and I know the left is trying very hard to claim that, oh, we don't even know what this thing is. It was never really even taught in schools, it was just a college theory Uh but i it's all throughout our culture now, critical race theory. And it's it's interesting the statement came out a couple years ahead of the national conversation about it. Black liberation theology has been around for a while and I think as we headed into the uh Martin Luther King uh anniversary of his assassination, there was a a lot of attention on that. And so there's be beginnings to be a lot more talk about this. Critical race theory stuff then. But the statement somehow escaped my notice right away, and I didn't notice it until maybe the next year Uh and by then, you know, it felt kinda like old news, but when almost we're playing catch up, trying to figure out what the language was, I think we've all gotten much better at figuring out what the language keeps changing is a problem. Yeah. how you you know, we we went we went through uh an older statement a few uh few months ago, um from the eighties I guess, and a lot of that language had stood up but some of it has the means a very different than what uh uh you know in modern um in modern uh American culture compared to the original so and that's part of the game that gets played by the uh the the the non-biblical worldview folks. You know, they uh i it it becomes a battle of of of words and definitions of terms and they keep changing those rules and that's why I'm so reticent to give up on words. I'm like, no, I'm gonna fight for what the actual definition, long standing definition of that word has been, and I'm gonna try to clarify over and over again, and I'm gonna try as best as I can to avoid using their words that they've imported into our language that really shouldn't be used at all, but they become the common vernacular. It's a real challenge. Anyway, that first thing about the s the scripture, anybody who's a Christian should agree with that first statement. Right. The Bible's authoritative. It tells us what we should believe and how we should live. Nobody nobody should argue with that. Right. So this th so they start with some common ground. So I I don't know if we have a whole lot of discussion on that particular point. I'm going to go on to number two. And if you want to swing back to number one, we can later, but um so the first one's on scripture, second one's on the uh Imago Day. We affirm that God created every person equally in his own image. As divine image bearers, all people have inestimable value and dignity before God and deserve honor, respect, and protection Everyone has been created by God and for God we deny that God-given roles, socioeconomic status, ethnicity, religion, sex, or physical condition, or any other property of a person either negates or contributes to that individual's worth. as an image bearer of God. And they give a bunch of scripture to uh proof texts on these sorts of things as well. I don't think any of us agree with it. Uh disagree with this. No. No, but we're people of Christ. People are disagreeing with this, that's the point, right? Yeah, but also think about it, uh it says people. Now people meant something different two hundred years ago than it does now. Black people were not considered people back then. Hm. Okay. Hopefully by Christians it should have been if they were consistent they would have. And you weren't a person if you were not white. So that I mean that's changed. So the the definition of people has changed and there was Uh, I believe you know systemic racism at one point, but I I don't think it is now, but the definition of people is different now than it was two or three hundred years ago Yeah, culturally, not not biblically, right? No not culturally. I mean I mean Paul talks about, you know, there is no uh Jew nor Greek, there's no slave nor free in Christ. We're all are we are all saved, we're all on equal footing. So that's that's been the case. And slavery as as a concept has existed throughout history. Um and there's there were some people and preachers at the time, I I think it what Raz is talking about, as far as um Oh yeah, they're not really people or they're not the same. I don't know how widespread it was. I wonder how much uh the textbooks have have been uh very uh obscuring the the the the the facts. But who who knows? But the point is there were plenty of people who are evil and had a he evil or an unbiblical definition of And and that's what uh the Nazis did with the Jews. The Jews were not people, and that's how they were able to discriminate them So people is is uh there's a definition, you know, that can be changed. So And that's how we've killed tens of millions of babies saying that they're not people exactly. Right? They're not people yet. Or maybe they would someday come be come to be people, but they're not people yet, so we can do with them what we want. Right. So maybe it would be a little more accurate to say all human beings from uh conception to natural death are Yeah, I I if if we want if we're concerned about how people are going to understand the word person, I would say that those who wanted to say that the Jews or or or um people with darker color skin or or uh unborn children for that matter, uh that they're not people anybody holding to that position would be d in dis in in disagreement with scripture and would be out of alignment with the gospel. Absolutely. Right. And so that's what they're they they're trying to clarify that. And it starts to get into some of the the weeds already on that one because of the intersectionality. Right, that some people have special insight, a Gnostic uh special uh knowledge of things that makes them better than so uh somebody like me, you know, a um a a white Christian male Well, I just can't possibly see the truth. You guys have more insight. You have more insight into the truth than I do, and so part of I think that second portion of the statement is beginning to address that kind of a question. Right. So I don't have anything wrong against that statement. I just wanted to clarify that, you know, the statement's fine, but uh, you know, m people in general can look at definitions and change the definitions. And my wife and I were just talking about what is right is wrong now, what is wrong is right. And it was in the nineties, right, Clinton? What's your definition of is? Depends on what your definition of is is. And what your definition of sex is. So anyway. Number three is justice. We affirm that since he is holy, righteous, and just, God requires those who bear his image. Excuse me, I gotta clear my throat. This includes showing appropriate respect to every person and giving to each one what he or she is due. We affirm that societies must establish laws to correct injustices that have been imposed. through cultural prejudice. You have it pulled up there, Daniel? Can you read the denial so I can get a drink of water? Yes. We deny that true justice can be c We further deny that Christians can live justly in the world under any principles other than the biblical standard of righteousness. Relativism, socially constructive standards of truth and morality, and notions of virtue and vice that are constantly in flux cannot result in authentic justice. Uh I think that that's correct. I i it it may be a little bit uh difficult to define what is derived from scripture, what is the biblical standard, because many people on the left these days are trying desperately to we we talked about this before we got on the air, they're trying desperately to twist scripture to say, Oh, see, scripture says this. And there's a whole bunch of articles written by gay pastors about how Christian uh cr oh, the Bible really teaches homosexuality, you know, and and and so many other things. So I think you gotta do that. Gay so called pastors. Yes. Absolutely. That's true. You cannot be a pastor according to the Bible. Not biblically qualified. So if you're not married and you know, married to a dude doesn't count as married. So anyway, these first few, uh we're going through pretty quick 'cause I think the real grist in the mill is going to be in the later ones. 'Cause I think Even those who don't like the statement on social justice and the gospel don't really push back too much on the early ones. It's when you get a little further in, they're like, eh, I don't know. So unless there's any um By the way, I kind of like bouncing back and forth. How about if I'll I'll read the affirmation, you read the denial. Sure. So this is number four of God's law We affirm that God's law, as summarized in the Ten Commandments, more succinctly summarized in the two great commandments and manifested in Jesus Christ, is the only standard unchanging righteousness. Violation of that law is what constitutes sin. We deny that any obligation that does not arise from God's commandments can be legitimately imposed on Christians as a prescription for righteous living We further deny the legitimacy of any charge of sin or call to repentance that does not arise from a violation of God's commandments. Now, without them realizing it, well maybe they did, I I don't know. The first time I read this I didn't realize it. Maybe it's just my limitation. This really does hit at the core of the question with the CRT critical race theory stuff and the social justice got uh advocates because the the um The foundational error that those who are all about the social justice stuff, the foundational error they make is to confuse gospel and law. And they take things that are part of the law and call them gospel issues. They're not gospel issues, they're law issues. They're biblical issues, but the gospel and the law are not one and the same. And so them clarifying what the law is is really important. I don't know that this is where the focus of the incoming artillery has been. Uh but really this is the foundation, yeah, this is the root of the confusion. Well because the whole idea is, oh you're born with your privilege and therefore you are in if i in not in in a uh position to a even if you're sorry about it you can't change. You can't uh you know, even if you get saved, you know And I think that's that's that last part that's the really the important thing. Well, even God can't bring you out of this uh point of privilege or or bad uh situation or prejudice that you were in. No, god can remove all b all those boundaries. Now there is, I think, uh um some merit to the idea that where you are born and how you were born um does put you in position of honor or of shame and that is a very biblical concept, but we are all in the position of shame and is th is the is the thing. We are all destined for hell. W there is nothing we can do on our own to get to God because we are in shame because of Adam's sin. Not because You did any sin particularly. So I think that's one thing that this and maybe they're gonna get to it later, but this uh um article misses slightly is, well, yes, so if you didn't break God's commandments, then you haven't sinned? Well, yes, but that's true, but also you're going to hell because of your sin nature. Because you bear the shame of Adam, even though you personally have not sinned. So that's still there. And so there actually Satan loves to do this. He loves to take something that's a a true concept in the Bible and then inflated or twist it in some other way that it's that it's wicked, but It th it is correct to say that, you know what, um the way that uh the way that you were uh uh uh born, i w y you can have no control over what Adam did, there but you're still gonna be punished, you're still gonna go to hell for it. Well, they try to say the similar thing, oh you were born white, you had no control over what your ancestors did to old slaves, but therefore you're gonna be punished for it. They they got the the the concept but they're applying it incorrectly because they're applying it to earthly things rather than Spiritual matters about our place and to say nothing of them getting so many of the earthly things wrong, their history is wrong. Do you know how many Chinese people have been Enslaves in this country? Do you know how many Irish people have been enslaved around the world? I mean, the word fla the word slave comes from Slav, and because certainly Slavish people were were uh enslaved, and they're very white. So You know, so and um the confusion on these issues, I mean Raz was hinting at it before when he's saying when we're confusing what personhood is and you know, systemic racism might have existed before it doesn't exist now But he wasn't saying that in the context and that's a violation of the gospel. He's saying that that was a moral wrong. That was evil. Okay, that's a law question. So so we're you know so far we're doing a good job of keeping our biblical categories straight. Uh and I think the statement does a pretty good job too, but uh that just be my bias talking. So we're on to number five. Right? Sin. We affirm that all people are connected to Adam both naturally and federally. We might have defined that in a minute. Therefore, because of original sin, everyone is born under the curse of God's law and all break his commandments through sin. There is no difference in the condition of sinners due to age, ethnicity, or sex. All are deprived, or depraved rather, in their uh in all their faculties and stand condemned to before God's law All human relationships, systems, and institutions have been affected by sin. We deny that other than the previously stated connection to Adam, any person is morally culpable for another person's sin. Although families, groups, and nations can sin collectively and cultures can be predisposed to particular sins, subsequent generations share the collective guilt of their ancestors only if they approve and embrace or attempt to justify those sins Before God, each person must repent and confess his or her own sins in order to receive forgiveness. We further deny deny that one's ethnicity establishes any necessary connection to any particular sin. And the way they word here, I I might word it a little differently just because I focus so much on honor and shame versus guilt and innocence. They're both important. Th but i I I think I agree with what they're trying to say There are two passages in Scripture that are often seen as contradictory, where God says in Exodus, I visit the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of those that hate me. um and show mercy unto thousands of them that love me. And then later in other passages it says, the father shall not be put to death for the children, nor the children for the father. So there is both a principle of societal and historical guilt or or or um shame in in is what I would say, and individual responsibility. And I think to to lean too much to one side or the other is to err scripturally. Um and m well part of the critical race uh movement's uh problem is that the They they woke too much to the collective, oh we're all guilty or we're all in shame, you know, you're you're in privilege or or whatever. And not enough to the individual, but you you can't exclude the collective. You have to have a balance. I think they're both very important to to be aware of. So that's what I would say about that. Yeah, uh I mentioned as I was reading the uh affirmation part about being connected to Adam federally, uh theological phrase there will be federal headship. Basically he's our representative. you know, we're we're connected to him and it's kinda you know, if the President of the United States uh wants something done, uh sometimes you'll s you know, you use different kinds of language so um but he's representing us. So if the president starts a war. The United States has started a war. We're part of the United States. We are in fact right. So we're in you know he so th and uh that's really important in the gospel because Christ is is uh is our head uh of of the body of of Christ and so um y all of us are in sin and those who are are are saved are in Christ uh and and praise God for that. Um yeah I I think There's gonna be more to say that uh ties to this, but I don't have a whole lot more I wanna say now because I think when we get into the the rest of it it's gonna start to to fully flower. And uh because you're now reading, Raz doesn't have the mic at all. Um b anything you want to add at this at this stage? Okay. All right. So let's read the uh the gospel portion. We we may or may not have time to talk about it much, but let's at least read it and then uh and then this will probably be the last section we we tackle for today's episode. So number six, the gospel. We affirm that the gospel is a divinely revealed message concerning the person and work of Jesus Christ, especially his virgin birth, righteous life, substitutionary sacrifice, atoning death, and bodily resurrection. revealing who he is and what he has done with the promise that he will save anyone and everyone who turns from sin by trusting him as Lord. We deny that anything else, whether works to be performed or opinions to be held, can be added to the gospel without perverting it into another gospel This also means that implications and applications of the gospel, such as the obligation to live justly in the world, though legitimate and important in their own right, are not definitional components of the gospel. This is where the rubber really starts to m right hit the road in the debate and the conflict. That's what you were saying earlier, that you know, law and gospel are not the same thing. Law shows us why we need the gospel. Um but keeping the law is not what saves you and that's very, very important. Yeah, somebody says, you know, well, he he passed away earlier this year, but uh uh Tim Keller, very high profile uh pastor in New York City area You know, he would say things like, If you don't uh if you're if you're stingy, if you don't give sacrificially to the poor, that you know, that's a gospel issue. Now it's an obedience question. Right. But it's you see what I'm saying? Uh we are we are called to be generous in response to the gospel. Right? That should be our our loving, humble response is to to do these things to but to conflate them. Or if um if your ancestor d did something bad And uh you should you should desire to try to make things right as much as is up to you and and and you can get involved with. But if uh if you don't That doesn't mean you're not saved, that just means you're disobedient if you're if you're not following the law. If there is a requirement for you to do something to make something right and you don't do it. then that would be a violation of the law. So this is where um the the real stuff begins to happen on this, I think. We've got about two minutes left. So you have any closing thoughts on what we've talked about so far? We're almost halfway through No. I I think that we we kinda covered the the main points of this. It is very important to keep the gospel separate from And we need to fight for it. So it it doesn't look like either of you your body language is telling me you don't have a whole lot more you want to add. So I'm gonna put a a a a closing point on on this. 'Cause sometimes people have been not so nice to each other on social media, in person, on shows like this. Uh uh regarding this kind of an issue. And so you get the tone police coming out and say, Oh, your tone is is not good. And you know what? If somebody gets the gospel wrong The tone should be pretty aggressive in my view. Paul's pretty aggressive to Peter when he gets the gospel wrong in the Galatians controversy, right? I mean say, well, you got the gospel wrong, dude. Clean up your act. And if they re consistently refuse to change and and be biblical in their teaching, if they're pastors and seminary professors and that sort of thing and they're and they're they're the le leaders in the church and teachers in the church, if they are not telling the truth about the gospel and they refuse to repent from it, they need to be called out. You identify them as somebody who's been marked and avoided. Right? Because they're wolves in sheep's clothing and so the tone get out your rivals and shoot the wolves, metaphorically speaking. Um but when we're disagreeing about things that aren't the gospel For those things then we need to have um more more of a brotherly tone, a little more less agree to disagree on this. We don't have to we don't have to pick up our our our guns and shooting each other over this because the gospel's not at stake. And that's why it's so important that we identify the difference between gospel and law, because if we're going to start shooting each other over disagreements of what obedience exactly should look like and call it a gospel issue Man, we're all gonna be dead. We all get things like that wrong. But Christians don't get the gospel wrong. If gr if somebody gets the gospel wrong You're not a Christian. Right? So anyway, so that'll end up being pretty close to the last word. Uh let's see, I'm a little off on the music, but that's all right. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMB. This was a technical uh mishmash of a show, but we've covered some good ground and I don't know, we made such fast ground. I don't think we're gonna finish. We're almost halfway through, but I don't think we're gonna finish it next week because I think we're gonna probably go a little slower That's my assumption uh through these nexus, but we'll see. Imran Razvy, uh known as Raz, uh because people tease him all the time, they like to razz him. No, something like that. Uh Daniel Razby, uh he's the one that gets razzed Actually the truth of the matter is I'm sure I'm skinned around the one that gets routers should be. Uh anyway, thanks so much for listening. Uh connect with the online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com till next week, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from right now. God bless.