Broadcasting from the West Inside a big brother city in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact, so I'm told, is like plowing pavement. Why would that be? Because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD Free Talk. Free Talk is here. What is it we're planting in that plowed paint? And when the rocks come out, mm is there something that takes root? I mean that is a fabulous byline. If you ever become a pastor of church, are you gonna like open your weekly message with that line? Why not? Welcome to Frederick, Maryland, for preaching with impact is like blowing pages. To listen up! Did you ever see that by the way? Let me finish the introduction real quick. Jonathan Sweiser is the one giving me a hard time right now. Jonathan is the senior pastor of CrossFit Valley Church. We are joined this week. And by the way, being very well mannered and nice. I'm sure he's thinking horrible things about me, but he's not saying any of them. That's not nice of you to say that he's thinking forward things, right? That's right. You walked right into the case. I just insulted our guest. What's wrong with me? Uh Daniel Sakowitz is the rabbi at Kolomie, uh Congregation Kolomie of Frederick Um our show is brought to us by Plumman Plumbing and Heating, Help We Make You Smile, BMC Insurance, Proud supporters of New Life Christian Church, uh uh uh school. I'll get this right yet. I'm trying to stop myself from saying Academy and New Life Christian school and um cruise holidays. I don't know if I mentioned them already or not, but I have now just to cover my bases. So anyway, we're talking about well we've been t last couple of weeks we've been talking about um uh The history the last two thousand years of the of of uh theological advances or why the different strains of Judaism, I guess, came about over the last two thousand years. That was kind of last year, uh two weeks ago. Last week's show is more specifically what do reformed Jews believe. We didn't get into a lot of detail, but we got a kind of a general sense. And uh and now this week we're gonna talk about what happens you plant seeds in rocks. That's right, here we go. Apparently something like that Uh Rocket. I have a number of questions. We we were we ended last week talking about what we mean by Spark of the Divine and uh 'cause you've used that phrase a few times and it gets used in different contexts Depending on the circle of people that you're in. And sometimes given the context, I'm personally I'm okay with it. And there's other times given the context when it troubles me. And so that's kinda why I was asking the question and and trying to get a bridge over your troubled waters. Yeah. So the the context that is troubling to me is and this might be where you are, so this might be the second time I've offended you in the last sixty seconds. I I get concerned when people mean by that that you know God is within us, that we are divine. If only we could find our true inner self that we would connect with that that is of God, as you steal a phrase from our Quaker guest from a few weeks ago. Um, and that that's what it's all about. And then I get concerned that we're then all about discovering God in myself. The only thing I have at that point is to build up my self image and elevating my image and I've created an idol. Uh rather than pursuing after the image of God, I was made it becomes anthropomorphic Right. Right. And no, I don't mean that way at all. Okay, so it's not that we have a divine divinity within ourselves, we just need to connect with that. There is something greater than us. Absolutely. Person? Well how do you define, yeah, person quite the right way. I don't see God as a person. Yeah. I see God as God. God, yeah. I and I it's But he's unique. He's not creation. Correct. He's he's he's outside of everyone's creation. Well, because English is is is um Hebrew's a much better language for describing God, but you are I'm sure none of you are uh if I used Hebrew, nobody would understand. I'm learning Arabic and so I know a little bit of uh Arabic and it kind of mimics They'll come in handy. Yes. Oh absolutely. The languages grew up right next to me. So wipe that smile off. People are speaking Arabic up and down the streets of Frederick every day. My messianic Jewish friends coming from Israel. Actually they'll be here shortly. Um uh what what's today, by the way? Today is December twenty-second, so Merry Christmas to you. Yes, so just a couple weeks ago and about four weeks too late, uh happy Hanukkah. Yes. So anyways, uh I have some friends coming in from uh the West Bank and from uh Israel that uh we're gonna talk about some stuff and so maybe it will come in handy in Frederick. Anyways. You never know. Yes I forgot what I was talking about. Oh oh yes. Uh a rabbi by the name of Abraham Joshua Heschel, who was in the twentieth century, called God ineffable. Meaning that there aren't words to describe to really understand God, that God has to be experienced. Nevertheless There are biblical words that are used that end up defining in uh, you know, the revealed sense of of who God is and helps us to get handles on that. So Uh you would agree with all that. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Even though we can't describe him, he's beyond description. Enough has been given to us that we're not just left wandering in the wilderness or floating in the great cosmos. Right. You know, there's There's practical ways that we can appreciate and understand enough that it makes a difference for us. Yes. Yeah, I mean I don't th just because God may not be the way I see God isn't can't be described in words doesn't mean that God isn't real. God is very real to me. Let me ask uh this might seem like a hyper philosophical kind of a question, but I think it's going to be important to understand how you understand God and, you know, those who would follow after you, how you would want them to understand God. Uh what do you mean by person? Um you know, even though we're made in the image of God, I don't think that uh got that means God is takes human form. That God looks like a man or looks like a woman or whatever it is that you want God to look at. Well, God can take human form, but that doesn't mean God is human form. Sure. And who was that in the fire with Daniel with Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego? That might have been an angel. It certainly was one that looked like a son of man. Yeah. Well even in even yeah, it eating with g um Abraham, it's not clear that it's God until after the meal is over and that God is talking to Abraham. But God does take the human image in the in that. So you're using the word person in the sense of uh uh anthropology, anthropomorphic correct uh imagery comes to mind when you use the word person. Right. Right. So in that sense you don't want to limit God to that. You might use some of that language to give some handholds, but you're always seeking to Press beyond that and do because I think that humans can't fully understand God because we're too limited. God is so much bigger than Right. Well in that sense, with that definition, I think Jonathan would agree that God's not a person because he's not limited. He's not a three-dimensional figure with two feet, twelve toes. And in our perspective, we would say that Christ Christ was the fullness of the Godhead in bodily form, you know, and that he he was the revelation of the unseen God. And so everything that that there is to know about who God is and his character and what he's like We would argue that Christ is that and that at long last the veil has been pulled back that we could fully understand He's the second Adam, He's the restoration of what God intended for us to be. and the revelation of what God's character is like. And so even though we wouldn't say that God is human, obviously we do argue that Christ was God. in uh that he was then the representation of God and Bhapifi. But in the bigger picture what I'm saying is I'm trying to find a place where I think we would agree that God is uh is not merely a man, not merely human. He's not constrained in the way that we're constrained. And if you're understanding the word personhood in that way, then I agree with you. And I think Jonathan agrees absolutely. But I think of God as a person, a personal God, because I have a um this isn't I don't mean this to sound like I'm diminishing your view at all, but a a a more expansive use of the word. So someone that has personality, has emotion, has uh is active, uh can uh inject themselves into situations, those sorts of things. He uh he seemed with Moses to change his mind. Mm-hmm. Uh he seemed with Abraham to not change his mind, but granted to Abraham great leeway to challenge his just decision. And uh of course he he seemed to weep, he seems to rejoice. And uh doesn't Isaiah call say that God calls Abraham my friend? Yes, yes. Now, so with that using my definition as I've just poorly outlined it, would then you say, well if that's your definition, then God is a personal God or or you still Oh no, I can see absolutely as long as I we're on the same page that well, no we don't have to be on the same page. We can believe very different things. But m as long as you understand that I also think that God is much bigger than anything we could possibly understand. Yeah. And I agree with that. I'm not trying to agree with that. And I do. And a nation can have a corporate relationship with him Well, y in in some ways it's difficult. Yeah, that totally took a big jump there. Yeah, that's a big jump. But my brain went there, so I just went for it. I'm not sure. Yeah, I'm not I don't know if that's the case. I mean, can it be the case that God chooses to bless a nation based on their response to him or not bless him I gotta say I'm surprised you obviously know something about Reformed Judaism that I don't know because I'm surprised at your reaction to his him posing that question. Because I would automatically think, well you're a Jew. Of course we think that God is going to have a special relationship with the corporate people. You're a Jew. But he said nation as opposed to people. So, you know, I I immediately went to Israel and I thought I don't know that that's the case. Oh, for modern day Israel. Right. That's where my brain was. I wouldn't go that far either. Okay, okay. So I wouldn't. Okay. Um that's fascinating. I gotta make a note. Alright, so on my end. Communication is important. That's where I went. Special relationship with the Jewish people. We argue in Christianity that that relationship broke out into the rest of the world through Christ and that in that sense you're our older brother but that we're all heirs of, you know, what God the promises of God to Abraham, you know, and that that that was the breaking out. So anyways, all that being the case, then Our understanding is that the Ecclesia, this the the corporate Jewish body, had a special relationship with God that he called them a wife, you know, or for that matter, a whore, you know, depending on where they're at. And uh I'm be quick to add that certainly Christendom uh has been equally uh um uh you know, remiss in their relation relationship with God. We've been the whore as well or or uh responsive. And so there's a corporate responding that, you know, we see ourselves as a bride. That was a old testament idea. as well and so there's a corporate relationship with a people. Okay. So you're okay with all that. I'm okay with that. Interesting. By the way, when you hang on to the mic we're I know, I keep grabbing it. We're pick we're one I think the audience can hear. When Jonathan grabs onto his microphone aliens from Mars start speaking through it or something. It's as though somebody is speaking in tongues on the show. But we don't have an interpreter, so we're not gonna we're not gonna go there. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Free talk has come to you, Frederick. Jonathan Swite, I get in the habit of saying that now too talk. Free talk is here. Freedom isn't free. We used to charge it for it apparently. Jonathan Sweitzer is Jonathan Sweitzer is the senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Church. We're joined joined this week by uh Daniel Sekowitz, who is rabbi at Congregation Colomia Frederick. I'm Troy Skinner, and uh you're not. So I wasn't sure why I was going with that, so I just ended with that. Draw a line, man. Own your space. I wanna I don't want to let the spark of the divine thing end just yet and 'cause I think it's connected to something you said way back, like Two and a half shows ago. Okay. All right. Be persistent. That you were talking about um your role as a rabbi at Congregation Colombi is to lead people into a place of where they can have self-fulfillment. uh and ha and have their own relationship with God, that sort of thing. And the self-fulfillment thing sounds like a pop psychology sort of a thing. So is that a pop psychology sort of an influence in Judaism or is that no. I w I guess probably what I should have said is that of self fulfillment is sort of wholeness of being. I don't know if that's a better way of putting it where the person is. Is that shalom? Shalom. Yes. It's not the absence of conflict, it's the presence of wholeness. Correct. Exactly. And how does somebody have this wholeness? How do they get there? Well, um probably through different ways, but uh to me the ultimate expression of it is a full relationship with God where maybe they're able to Talk, commune with God on a daily basis. Could be through prayer. Um I certainly do that through prayer on a regular bas you know on a daily basis. Maybe it's working through our scriptures and being able to connect that way. I don't want to sort of tell people you have to do it one way because you know what, people may be doing it other ways. There is a richness of soul. No, there is a richness of uh fare for the soul that uh that the Torah and Psalms and and um prophets seem to refer to and it seems like that's that's what you're describing that that the soul would be fully satisfied with all that God lays out on his banqueting table, even in the presence of our enemies. Right, right. And and there's a certain need for humility, understand being grateful for all for all these things that God has laid out for us. You hear that, Jonathan? I think the ingrate? Yeah. Well Okay, I wasn't going there with that. I accuse you with utmost humility. Wow. Yes, neither do I, but it's been going on for about seven years since we started this show. Nine. Nine. Nine years. Nine Does that mean no in Germany? Yeah, nine nine nine. Stop stop no more. Okay. Uh I forget where I was. Let's pretend we're professional. All right. Um yeah, being humble. I'm being you know, being able to wake up the first like for instance, the first thing I do when I wake up every morning is Yeah, grateful. I'm grateful. I'm but thank thank you God for allowing me to wake up because there's no guarantee that says I was going to wake up this morning. Okay, now this gets gets into something that I've been preaching on for about a year and a half now about humility, where I've I've been kind of teaching that uh God intended for us to be in in a relationship with him that is like a constant moment by moment dependence upon him, you know, and it and so our interaction means that we're paying attention to all the ways that we're dependent upon him all the time. And what it does is it opens us up to the richness of what he intends for communion with him and you know the the original blessing that he intended for humanity. And so would you agree with that kind of a constant dependence that there's a there's a relationship where where we're dwelling with him and and interacting constantly and that that that leans in the direction of humility? I would. I would say that it's incredibly hard to keep that in mind. It's a struggle. It's a struggle for me. I would you know I'd love to be able to say that I'm always in communion with God, but I have to say I'm fallible. I'm a human being and I'm not. Um and so yes, I would agree with you and I would but I would agr I would also add that I find it a struggle. Me as well. Now it's interesting, you're talking about the wholeness and the wholeness of soul and how you get there, and you use a lot of interpersonal terms. about connecting with God, talking with God, having a relationship with God. I don't know if you use the word community with God, but that kind of idea. Um coming to know God and and and have you know having a rapport with him. Um so you y seems like you do have a s you don't like the word, so I wish I could think of a b uh a different word besides personal, but you have personal the way that I've defined personal, you have a very strong idea of personal God. Oh yes, absolutely. Um So my next question is I think that good Christian teaching and understanding uh would would uh would advocate for the idea that we have a personal and absolute God So that would be my next question, I guess. Meaning that he is the absolute standard, he's absolute. Yeah, we're struggling to actually find an area where we disagree with. I know, I've been waiting to fight. That's right. Okay. So it got Is God absolute? Is is it his judgment that's the final judgment that matters on things? Or can I is there wiggle room that, you know, God's gonna let me Ah, okay, gotcha. Sorry to say. Uh not sorry to say, but um No, agreed is fine. I think one of the hard parts is that when we don't follow God you know, what I tell people is when you make the right decision When your decision is the one that God wants you to make, you feel it in your bones. Yeah, you do. You know, at your very core. And when we don't make that decision, that's when we sort of screw things up. Yeah. So if that's what you mean by absolute, then a man's own folly ruins his life, but his heart rages against the Lord. Yeah, but I guess that's I think we're actually gonna I think we're gonna end up stumbling into some area of disagreement. This is probably where it comes. Just because I'm beginning to understand what Reform Judaism is, I think this is where there's a distinction. Okay. Um, 'cause it's not about in my bones. Like Jonathan might decide that in his bones the right thing to do is X. And Face the facing the exact same scenario, I might decide in my bones that the right thing to do is Y. Sure. And or maybe even better would be John decides A and I decide Z. I mean they're polar o N's opposites. They couldn't possibly both be in harmony with one another. One of us is sure in our bones that we're right. And the both of us are sure in our bones that we're right. But we can't if we're polar opposite in in disagreeing w uh what the right thing is in that situation, we can't both be right. We could both be wrong, maybe, but will we then be wrong in our bones? So we can't trust our bones then. Well Oh that's interesting. Yeah so what he's asking is Is um is the heart infinitely deceitful? Uh can we really trust our heart? Well, I think the We have to I think it takes time. We have to go through a period of discernment, you know, where you prey on something. Discern. Um And you have to think about it, ho maybe get advice from someone who you truly have respect for as to whether this is a good decision, whether it's your minister Rever uh pastor It's all good. It's all good. Okay. Or rabbi, you know, if you're Jewish. Um I also like to go back to scripture and kind of take a look and you know, we have wisdom literature in the scriptures for a reason because they had wisdom and I like to go back and say what would they have said? Um or what would they have made a choice? Seeing similarities that can help to shed light. Right. There's nothing new under the sun. I think is it Cohelet Eccles uh Ecclesiastes who said that? Um Hebrew the Hebrew book is called Cohelet. Um Um it's always been there. So what I'm saying, suggesting is is that if you're both so far away from each other and it's a substantive question that we're asking, then probably Um we have to start getting into some hot topics. You know, like of the day. Yeah, or at least some examples so we can kind of flesh it out a little bit. Okay. So well, I don't know if we want to do that now. We have about uh three ish minutes left in today's show. So how much how much do you want to try to bite off here? Yeah. Heading down the tail end? Well You know, okay, some some classic examples in um modern society would uh, you know, that that everybody weighs in on, it seems like, you know, have to do with abortion. homosexual marriage, um divorce, you know, in general. Um Ac we'll we'll pick one of those or s or a variety of those for next week's show. But part of I guess where I'm going, uh I didn't mean I don't know that I knew I was going here, but I think now that I've thought about it, I think I was tending in this direction almost subconsciously. Could somebody be a good reformed Jew and accept Jesus as as as Lord? No, no. Once you accept Jesus you're no longer Jewish. You're Christian. So the reason I laugh Is because I have a whole ten of ton of messianic Jewish friends which is an oxymoron. That have moved to Israel and have had to fight for their right to be um uh given citizenship and have been granted it uh in that context and um and they of course, you know, live their lives in this zone of of being rejected as it as Jewish, you know, on the one side and then wanting to maintain uh their Jewishness like Paul and Peter uh did in the New Testament like Christ did in the New Testament and yet still, you know, believe that Christ was the Messiah. And so so that very definition I I just happen to be in a circle of a whole bunch of uh people that, you know, you could say it like we were saying earlier, as nice as you wanted to, but the content of your message is very offensive to them. And it's interesting the definitions there. Because earlier we were talking about you have people in your congregation don't even believe that there is a God and they're Jews. But if they accept that Jesus is God, then they can't be Jews. That's a really interesting uh Sure. And of course that would be a natural discussion, you know, like what is it about Christ that that would automatically mean that you can't be a Jew any longer because you believe this about it. And it that would be a you know certainly a Maybe we'll try to talk about that next week too and then also talk about some topics and to put some some meat on the bones. Sure. Uh not to draw to mind an Ezekiel reference there or anything like that. I hear the wind blowing. Ooh. I moved my microphone, it made like a weird trumpet sound. Oh yeah. Jonathan had beans this morning. Oh no. It had to be me. It had to be me. They usually have pork in those beans. Jonathan Sweizen went there. Jonathan Sweisson is a senior pastor at uh uh Crossroads Valley Church. Uh Daniel Sykowitz is the rabbi at Congregation Colomie of Frederick. I'm Troy Skinner, our sponsors of Ben, Put Putman Plumbing and Heating, How Can We Make You Smile? BMC Insurance, Proud supporters of New Life Christian School, and Cruise Holidays sending Bob on a trip to the Bahamas. What have I been reading lately? You would like this one, Jonathan. Yeah. I like 'em all. Dangerous Calling. Can't read 'em all but I like 'em all. Dangerous? Dangerous Calling by uh Paul Tripp. You ever read anything about Paul Tripp? I have. It's basically a warning. If you're thinking about you listening right now to your radio, thinking about getting into uh professional ministry, read this book first. The Dangerous Calling. Yes. All right. That's another way of him trying to get you to go for it. He's throwing down the gauntlet. He's giving you a high-f Are you man enough? That's right. Yeah. That's right. Anyway, thanks so much for listening. Visit us online, uh WFMD. com keyword faith. If you do that, it takes you straight to the Faith Debate page. You'll find links there to all sorts of uh w world religious uh traditions. I mean there's uh a couple of dozen different links to different uh religious traditions. Uh the Faith Bay blog is there. You can get involved with that blog by emailing Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. You send me something, I will post it there eventually. Seriously, it'll get there. It might take a couple of months, I don't know, but it'll get there. So just keep checking back every day to see if I posted it. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless