Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. The Frederick Faith Debate is designed to be an open and honest forum for our local faith community. leaders to share and discuss their views of the truth. Thomas Jefferson once said that the clash of ideas is a sound of freedom. And in that spirit we will seriously wrestle with important ideas and we might even disagree with one another. In fact I'm pretty sure today we will The hope is that through our wrestling you will develop a better understanding of the truth about the most important issues that face us in this world. And by the way, I want to welcome a new sponsor to the Frederick Faith debate, All Shred. Mobile Document Destruction. Shredding today for growth tomorrow. They sell security. That's All Shred. Thank you for your support. And we hope that you, you business folks out there listening right now, that you'll support All Shred. Today's topic is something I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm gonna back into here for a minute. Anyone who's listened to this show before knows that uh I come uh at things from a Christian perspective, but not all Christians agree on everything that uh encompasses uh the the body of Christianity. Uh I have friends that I greatly respect that uh know way more about theology in the Bible and uh are probably more devout than I am. uh that would never in a million years dream of speaking in tongues. And I have friends who are near and dear to me who know way more about theology in the Bible and are probably more devout than I am that uh tell me that they have spoken in tongues. It's an important part of their prayer time and their worship time. I personally have never spoken in tongues. I'm not exactly sure what to make of it. And you know what? I'm willing to bet that I'm in the majority. in my uh my lack of clarity on what to make of this. And so, with that in mind, a couple of guys who have bravely decided to uh jump into these waters and discuss that are coming from Slightly different view, I think. Uh I I think that John Schweitzer, who is the pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel here in Frederick, uh is probably gonna be on the uh the pro side And that uh Drew Boswell, the pastor of Dave Gray Community Uh Church in Newmarket, is probably going to be uh somewhere on the con side, although I don't know exactly how firmly in those camps they are. We'll figure that out as we go. I'm gonna start with the pro side Uh John Sweitzer, thank you again for being on the show this week. Thank you for having me. And for your help in uh in the continued growth and success of this program. Um Those who would speak in tongues do so with what sort of biblical foundational argument behind them supporting speaking in tongues? Um I think that the strongest argument for speaking in tongues is where Paul says in First Corinthians chapter Uh I believe it's chapter twelve. He says, Do not forbid speaking in tongues. And I think that what we're going to find today, Drew and I, as we talk, is the question of whether or not Uh what exactly is tongues and two the question of whether or not they have ceased. Because it says in 1 Corinthians 13, it says, Where there are tongues they will cease, where there is prophecy it will cease, where there is knowledge it will cease Uh and it says when the perfect comes, the imperfect disappears. And um I think that we're going to discuss whether or not tongues has disappeared and that we're going to uh discuss a little bit about uh what exactly it is um if it has not disappeared. And I'm of the opinion that uh that we should not forbid it. And uh that it is a useful tool in the life of the believer as the Holy Spirit causes growth in his life uh and as the uh believer comes to an increasing understanding of the ongoing purposes of God in our lives and in through study of scripture and and uh obedience to uh the word of God. So now before I turn to Drew uh to have him respond to that, uh I want to ask you a follow-up question. Um y you started you anticipated it Okay. I asked you for the foundation. Yep. You've given me what the w at least one point of foundation from from uh from scripture. But what is tongues? Um, I would say that tongues is a language, it's a spiritual language given by God. It could either be a uh human language or an a language of angels, um and it is a language given by God to communicate with God and potentially then to one another for the purpose of communicating things, uh, spiritual things that a person doesn't quite yet understand fully with their own mind. And so it's it's it's an ability for for a person to communicate with God about an idea that God wants the person to know But the person doesn't yet have the language to communicate it. I think uh um I think it was Einstein that said that uh intelligence intelligence is the ability to communicate what we're thinking. The point is we all have thoughts that at times we can't communicate. We don't know how to communicate them because we're they're kind of around the corners of our mind and we grapple for the language to communicate them with. And uh that tongues is a a language given by God for the purpose of communicating spiritual truths. between God and a man until such a time as that individual is able to put human language to it Well that sounds reasonable to me, uh but what do I know? Uh Drew, what do you make of that you know idea of what tongues is and what do you and and if you wanted to respond to the uh I don't know if there's any sort of uh parsing in the uh scripture reference in 1 Corinthians that uh that John brought up that you might want to comment on too. I don't know, but as far as far as like a historical viewpoint of what a uh tongues is, uh we've referenced Acts chapter two where it talks about uh the apostles were gathered in Jerusalem. And uh and the Holy Spirit came upon them and they spoke in tongues and they were uh referred to as being drunk and different things and he says no. You know, and then later on it's referenced that there were people from all over the surrounding areas that had that were there and realized that the disciples were actually speaking in their own language. They were saying, how is it that they know my language if these men are from you know different parts of of the world? So the Acts the speaking in tongues reference that are in Acts is a reference to known languages, known tongues. So if you were uh if you didn't speak Japanese, for example, and you heard someone for the first time speaking it, you would think they were talking something crazy or drunk or whatever, as they were referenced to, but actually they're speaking a language you just simply don't know And because of the makeup of the people, they spoke multiple languages. They spoke Greek. They spoke uh other languages. Uh just because that was the culture of the day. Um now with reference to um um uh additional revelations from God. This is a question I had for um for just to to see what your interpretation would be. Like do people uh continue to re receive revelation from God as far as the way in which they're able to communicate. Does God communicate truth through people uh in the form of tongues that they in turn would need to give over to the local congregation or the body? Um I think you're grappling with the question of whether or not God uh still propheci brings prophecy. Is that is that what you're asking? Meaning specifically extra biblical prophecy, things that that would be uh divinely uh considered divine inspiration but it's beyond what scripture says right we have the the example of someone having uh speaking in tongues and then you'd have to have an interpretation of that tongue within the church service Is that kind of what you guys hold to? Um uh well th that is in fact another whole discussion. Um I think I think there's not a Christian group out there that doesn't believe that God still speaks to individuals. Uh Billy Graham uh says that he had a call from God in his life. Right, but through God through God divinely spoke to him. All right, and so uh when we're dealing with tongues, uh uh just like any other communication from God, we're dealing with uh a prophetic word. In fact, what Paul says here in uh in 1 Corinthians 14, he says that um everyone who prophesies speaks to men for their strengthening, encouragement, and comfort. and that um he who prophesies is greater than one who speaks in tongues unless he interprets so that the church may be edified. And the sense there is that an interpreted tongue is basically a prophetic word. And the the term for prophecy, the term for prophetic word is merely speaking forth uh the word of God. It's not uh it it doesn't in my mind carry the connotation that like like if somebody were to sit in a church service and and copy down all these prophetic words that were were being given that they could like create a new book of the Bible. Uh I don't consider them divinely inspired in that sense. In fact I would say that any and everything that that is spoken in a spontaneous way in a church service is always uh first and foremost um uh tested against the word of God as we have it. Uh the point being that the Word of God is the is the foundation. However, uh God can give insight. For example, we are clearly in a uh with the tsunami and different things going on, we're clearly in a time where uh where there's immediate events going on that that you and I and every other Christian out there are trying to figure out what's going on and and and who's responsible for what. And uh I'd say that at some level uh God is still speaking to hearts, giving us insight uh that that we could consider credible into why things happen and when they happen. And um and yet that's not like something that we would write down and say That's divinely inspired, but it would be kind of like we study Calvin's writings or we c we study Luther's writings or we study uh Billy Graham's writings You know, because there was a measure of inspiration in today's language that seemed to help us to understand what the ongoing uh word of uh God Yeah. My belief is that during the New Testament times, what Paul is referencing is that you you have the uh you have a a ri you have God revealing scripture to let's say Paul. And then Paul had the original writings that he wrote down and then that that was rolled up and then was passed to the next church, uh Jerusalem or whatever, Antioch, and so on, and they would hand copy that scroll or that New Testament book. And then that book would be passed on to the next church. And so you have a time period in which the books were uh the original documents were going from church to church to church to make original copies. And so there's a period of time after Christ died and you have the revelation of Scripture and the you have the beginnings of the New Testament to be written written, you didn't have the entire Bible. So you didn't have uh the the whole inspired word of God that you could go to and reference. And so then you would have people that God would tell, you know, w uh uh they would they would speak in tongues and that's why you have this, you know, only one at a time and you have these rules and things that are kinda laid out But my belief is that once uh the New Testament was complete and we have the the book in which it's given to us now, there's no need for additional revelation from God or no need for further explanation of Because I believe in the sufficiency of Scripture in that it is entirely fulfilled and we have everything that God has intended for us to have. So if we need a word of wisdom or we need what to figure out what's going on, then we go to the Bible and we f and we reference it. Okay John if we've got, you know, he makes an interesting point. If we have the The Bible's done. It's finished. What more need is there for these additional uh revelations that would come to us through tongues? Um Great. What you know, what's your answer to that? The the passage that uh that you're refer referring to there, Drew, is Chapter 13 of First Corinthians, where it says um verse 8, where there are prophecies they were ceased, where there are tongues they will be still. where there is knowledge it will pass away, for we know in part and we prophesy in part. But when perfect comes, the when perfection comes, the imperfect disappears. And um that is the passage that uh theologians use to claim that tongues have passed away. The problem with that is that Um I look at my church and I look at your church and I look at uh the the body of Christ out there. I look at the planet. And I see a couple things. I see knowledge clearly has not passed away. And I see that perfection is far from present. And if that's the case, then I don't see any passage in Scripture that would lead me to believe that God is no longer looking to reveal himself. to mankind. Rather what I see is that um that tongues and knowledge and prophecy are still here to lead us to perfection. Uh so I guess my question to you would be, um, has the perfection come? No, I mean no one's perfect and our churches aren't perfect, but God's word is, and that's what we reference to um to to our source sources of conflict or sources of imperfections as we go to God's word and it is our It is our foundation, it's everything in which we base our lives upon. And so I don't think that just because we're imperfect we should look elsewhere uh for wisdom or or whatever. Okay, but I'm just asking about this particular passage in First Corinthians thirteen, where it's saying when perfection comes the imperfect disappears When I was a child, I talked like a child, I thought like a child, I reasoned like a child. When I became a man, I put childish ways behind me. And then he says this. Uh all in context he says, Now we see but a poor reflection as in a mirror. Then we shall see face to face. Now I know in part then I shall know fully e even as I am fully known. I become a sounding brass and a chain clanging symbol. So it's so the focus of that is uh in our lives as Christians we have to love. And it goes on to 1 Corinthians 13, love suffers all things and Yeah, love never fails and and you have the love reference there. And then among that you have the reference that you that you mentioned. Uh and so I think that's the overall emphasis of this passage is that love as a as something that should be characteristic of a Christian's life. And in fact, that's the that's what all of Corinthians is about. The problem with the Corinthian church was that they were um selfish in a word. Uh and the way that they they uh participated in communion. Apparently they uh some people would get drunk on the communion wine and uh some people were coming and their their only meal for like a couple days was the communion bread and and so the way that they were going about their church service, apparently they had some tongue speakers that were mimicking the ecstatic tongue speaking of some of the local um uh uh pagan cults and apparently there was uh there was like um moms sleeping with uh their their daughter's husband. I mean it was a very sinful condition in the church that didn't understand love. Right? And so the the entire context of Paul addressing tongues here and dealing with spiritual gifts was to to draw people to the reality that love is the center of all things. And in the middle of that, he speaks like any prophet ever does, you always speak to the to the highest levels of glory when you're in the in the midst of the lowest levels of inglory or the lowest levels of corruption. And this was the case in in the Corinthian church. They didn't love one another. They didn't understand uh how to maturely love one another. And so as a result, in the midst of this, Paul reaches up and he sees the perfection, he sees the glory like a prophet will tend to do. And in seeing the glory, he describes this love. And then in speaking to that, he says, one day the perfect's going to come, and we're not even going to need knowledge. We're not going to need tongues. We're not even going to need prophecy. These three will remain faith, hope, and love. But you know what? Faith and hope aren't even going to be important. What's going to be important is love. And so the context there is that one day we're going to have that. And clearly we do not have that now. And so if that's the case, then we still have these gifts. Like for example, where it says in Ephesians that that um Ephesians chapter four, I didn't think that we would go there, but uh where it says um chapter 17 that Christ has given uh the apostle and the prophet and the evangelist and the pastor teacher to prepare God's people for works of service so that the body of Christ may be built up until We all reach unity in the faith and knowledge of the Son of God and become mature, attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ. The gifts Whether it's in Corinthians or whether it's in Ephesians or whether it's in Romans chapter 12, all the gifts are given by God to help the church come to its fullness. And the point being that we are not there. And we won't be until Christ returns. By the way, I let you go in a second, Drew. I hate to jump in and disrupt this, but I I need to uh let people listening know what they're listening to. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on uh news Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. The panel today is uh the ever-feisty John Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel and uh and uh the Soon to Learn to Befeisty Drew Boswell, pastor of my favorite community church. uh and new market. And the subject we're talking about, in case you uh uh haven't exactly been following, is the gift of tongues. Does it still exist? Should it still be practiced? Uh John Schweitzer is of the view that um it does still exist and should be still practiced and uh Drew has uh has uh a different view from that. And and I want to let you have a chance to respond directly to what John just said, but either in responding to John or after you're finished responding to John. I'd also like you to address the qu I'm asking the question next, I'm afraid we'll get a chance to jump in later. Address the question of Uh those in the Christian community who are going to say that the gift of tongues, and maybe some other gifts too, but the gift of tongues specifically for this conversation no longer exists. And yet you have a significant portion of the body of Christ saying that not only does the gift live on, but that I personally have practiced it and continue to, and my church does. You know, if if they're not speaking in tongues, what are they doing? And is there anything dangerous or inherently wrong with that? Okay. Let me do the can I do the Ephesians passage first? Okay. Uh John ref referenced the Ephesians four eleven passage where God has some called some to be evangelists, some to be pastors and teachers for the equipping of the saints. For the edifying of the body of Christ, uh till we all come to the unity of faith, the knowledge of the Son of God, to a perfect man, to the measure of God has given certain spiritual gifts to the to the body and specifically individuals like the pastor teacher there is the the pastor, the the overseer, the bishop, whatever you want to call 'em. Uh and then you have uh evangelists and other things. Um and those I believe are reference to th uh uh offices that God has given to the church over a period of time. Um no longer we for example we know well for specifically evangelists or prophets, for example, or apostles, we know we no longer have apostles We know that? I would disagree with that. Okay, well that's another issue I'd like to do. Okay. We no longer have prophets. That's Old Testament reference. Uh evangelists we might we might could discuss. Pastor teacher, I believe, we still have today. But the whole even if we say they're here, they're not here, whatever, their purpose is to equip the saints for works of ministry. Alright, so that's kind of what the I believe Until we were s that that word again perfect, I think is the key word. Right, we're gonna keep teaching. That's the purpose of that passage. uh n uh not so much uh to speak to prophesied to apostles. Those are all references to uh holding positions, not uh and and it's and the pastor is a reference to what they do, a shepherd, an overseer, an oversay uh so on. So um that believe that that's more of a reference to God giving specific people to specific bodies For the specific purpose of teaching. What's interesting in Romans twelve, First Corinthians twelve, and Ephesians four, the three passages where these gifts are talked about In every single one of those passages, the context is the body coming to perfection. And so the idea behind all those things is exactly the same. I do agree that Ephesians it's specifically office gifts, Romans tends to be motivational gifts, and Corinthians tends to be charisms. uh or specifically dealing with uh more dynamic spontaneous gifts. But in all of those situations the goal is the same, which it says in the in uh First Corinthians thirteen that um Love, that we would be built up in love, that we would come to the perfect man, that we'd be restored to perfection. Right in the way we're not there yet. And so then I have no reason, at least biblically I have no reason to think that those things have passed away. There's no passage that that I've ever been shown that would that would give me a criteria by which I would say that we have arrived Therefore these things should have passed away. Uh the reference to your question, Troy, as far as if if people are practicing tongues, and I personally believe that that they have passed away, then are they uh biblically wrong or are they sinning or are they d I don't believe so. Uh just because I don't necessarily believe in believe believe in that Uh, then no, I don't hold to that. I just think they're the they just don't hold the same belief as I do. They're I don't I don't know why they're doing it. Um I know that if a person says then you must speak in tongues to be saved then that's that's a that's not biblical. That is taking a step out and saying that I totally agree with you. So if if we're going to come to a common ground on on tongues, I would say that it is A spiritual gift of several spiritual gifts that the Holy Spirit gives people. I don't believe that God gives everyone the same spiritual gift. Okay, so so if Sp if if speaking in tongues is a spiritual gift, then not then everyone is not going to speak in tongues because God doesn't give everyone the same spiritual gift. And the reason he doesn't do that is because uh the purpose of spiritual gifts is to edify the body or we have to depend on each other, we help build each other up and so on. So uh the only reason why I would say like I wouldn't say that everybody has to speak in tongues biblically or uh or necessarily that everybody will. Uh th that's good because I haven't. The reason the reason why many charismatics are so strong about thinking that everybody should is that Paul says, I wish that every one of you spoke in tongues as much as I do. And that comment leads those who uh are inclined to believe that speaking in tongues is valuable and for today it leads us to believe that um that Paul thought it to be one very valuable and two that he genuinely, you know, that he wasn't speaking facetiously there, but that he genuinely wished that all people had access to this gift. Um I think it's very possible that most of us at some level or other in our prayer time before God um reach those points where we just don't know how to tell God what we're feeling or don't know how to cry out to God to ask him for the help that we feel like we need. We don't even know how to express it. And so whereas you would use language, I would I would reference scripture and believe that God if we just don't know what to say, then we go to Scripture and and and God has told us everything. And so if I don't know what to say with reference to God, I'm overwhelmed with the circumstance. I simply go to his word and look up Psalms and read through the Psalms or or reference a particular issue. That would be I think where we would disagree. Well I would actually recommend that as well though. And uh And we're finding actually quite a bit of common ground. point but or discussing. Higher learning kind of argumentative form. Yeah, grappling with the issue. But there there from a somebody who's stepped back a little bit, myself, and kind of watching you guys go back and forth, there's actually Quite a bit of common ground. It sounds like you know John is saying, if you're going to speak in tongues, it's got to be for the edification of the church. It's all about teaching. And uh Uh and Drew you were saying that you don't believe that tongues is is still a gift that uh that God gives, but when he did give it it was all about edifying the church and foreteaching. Right. So there's some common ground. Um it doesn't sound like I'm hearing that this is a cause for a divide among Christian brothers. Christian brothers and sisters can disagree on this issue and still be good Christian brothers. Maybe they would congregate in different areas, who knows? But this isn't something that you would you would uh Point a finger at some say, Well, you're not a Christian because you don't believe in tongues, or you're not a Christian because you do believe in tongues. Is that the thing? uh Drew, you can tell me if I'm right, is is that um like if if I in some way felt like tongues allowed us to go beyond what scripture says in some way, I think you would have to uh vehemently resist what I was what I was saying. However, as long as we keep the the word of God as the highest authority, I think that that's that's probably yeah the reason why we can still be together. And we're gonna leave it on that point. Thanks so much, gentlemen. Uh next week, discussing the passion of the Christ on News Radio. VO930WFN of passing by the way