Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, sponsored by Al Shred Mobile Documents Discovery. and put performing and heating. Happy to make you smile. Frederick's face uh Frederick's face debate I must forgot the name of the show for a half a second there. How did that happen? Uh well I I'm sure there's lots of reasons why that happened. We won't get into that right now. Don't worry, we're still gonna debate today. Yeah, the the the Fredder Face debate uh is a show w in which um uh various worldviews, religious uh points of view, uh spiritual leaders, that sort of thing come together. and talk about the things that uh they hold to be near and dear to them, the things that they hold to be true. And um so that's what we're gonna do on this show today. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. Jonathan Sweitzer from Crossroad Valley Chapel is on the panel this week, along with Carolyn Evers, a locutionist. and visionary. Uh and we we came to a loose understanding of what that means in in the last show, if you were listening last week. Basically Uh I think what we're talking about defines what that means for the purposes of this show anyway. Carolyn uh says that she can uh has memories of previous lifetimes and that she speaks to those who have passed over to the other side as uh as as she terms it, those who have died, uh including um her now deceased uh son who died as a a teenager, I believe, in an automobile accident, uh Pope John Paul II, uh Julius Caesar uh a and others. So we're here to talk about that and Jonathan is here to respond uh on that from a Christian worldview perspective. And Jonathan made it pretty clear in last week's show that he thought that uh the things that you do, while not questioning the reality, he he did not uh well some might, Jonathan didn't question that you really have an experience that you're speaking to someone, whether a a dead person or or not, uh and that you're remembering something, whether it's really a past life or not. He's not questioning that it really there's really something going on there But he he's defined that as something that's dangerous and he used a whole bunch of different ways to kind of say that. That he thought it was dangerous. I have a question for you Jonathan saying that what you say is dangerous and pointing to the scripture as his uh the foundation for truth, uh, do you find that dangerous in reverse? The fact that he has an opinion that he is stating that it's a dangerous thing that I do, is that the the question I kind of got lost in that? I guess, although I don't know if I like the word opinion because uh Jonathan is uh is saying that you're Uh the reality of of of your view of things, your view of the reality of things is uh has a lot of dangers associated with it Jonathan has a view of the reality of things and that differs with yours, and so I'm wondering if you see any danger in his view of reality. No, he's using a yardstick And it's a very valid yardstick, it's for lack of a better word. And I'm not arguing with that yardstick. I'm just saying that there is more to that yardstick. The yardstick is longer, it's bigger, it's broader. That's all I'm saying. There are experiences that maybe Jonathan wouldn't um wouldn't recognize and approve of uh using the authority of the Bible, but my experiences have are different. I don't think they're dangerous Um and I think all of us come through life and set up a set of values a qu and structure them in a world that they feel is right and are comfortable with and And that's fine. What we're really looking for, I I believe, and Jonathan would probably uh agree with this, that however we live our life, whatever we believe in, we are looking to to uh progress to a point where we are refining ourselves as a human being of being good and kind and loving and becoming closer to God and bringing that love uh that love force Among all of us. Uh you would agree with what Carolyn presumed you would agree with. That our point is to that the point of our existence is to to improve and be good and kind and to grow closer to God. Is that something something you would agree with? Yes and no. Sorry. I do that all the time. Clearly the goal of all of our lives is summed up in in in a verse in Proverbs that says, What a man truly desires is unfailing love. Better to be poor than a liar. That's what we're looking for is unfailing love. In fact, that's what I feel like oftentimes people who have family members that have passed away and they still want to maintain a connection is they're looking for that unfailing love, love that never dies, that they can carry with them forever. Um and but anyways, that's the goal. However, I'm convinced that that There is nothing anybody in any religion can ever do to attain that. And that is why Christ was so important. That the only way For you and I to find unfailing love is for us to say to God, I can't do it. I'm not good enough, and I'm never going to be able to accomplish that of my own Thank you for sending your son Christ to die on the cross for me. I accept his death on the cross as being sufficient for making my relationship, God, with you, right. And that is all that I need. There's peace. There's joy. There's rest. In that moment, that's all that's necessary. And so all of my acts and efforts to do good things are out of gratitude for what God has already done for me. They're not out of an attempt to earn something, but they're out of gratitude because wow Did he do something amazing for me? I don't need anything. I don't have to earn anything. It's all done. And there's a place of peace and rest in that. And so so I agree that yes, we're hoping to to be better with and to one another. But I'm of the opinion that that uh we cannot do that on our own and until we let go and admit that we can't do that, then then we cannot have a right relationship with God. And bless you. I th I I think that that is wonderful and for you, um, you know, that that that's that's good. Um some of the things Energy of everything that has happened in the past is happening in the present, is recorded, I do believe. It is recorded in places that's very much like a computer disc out i in a computer. And as as strange as this might sound because um it wasn't something I was gonna mention because it it sounds so so far from being believable Uh my son has taken me to these places where there are records and he opens them up and as he reads them I see the images. And um he took me to a place where I saw God creating souls. It was extraordinary. And what came forth now I didn't see God as a being, I saw it as a light force. And coming forth from that light force was raised in all different colors. These were particles that was actually coming from God. These particles were were like moving away from this force and compact it and uh this is how the souls were made. Each one of these rays that these particles came on, whether it was blue or pink, they were all the basic composition of what the soul is like so that people who were born came out of the Blu-ray were very mental. They had the mental abilities. This was the focus of their soul exploring on the the the gift of the mental ability. The people, the souls that were born on the pink rays, came forth on the pink ray of love. They express themselves in the love mode, for instance, the nurses, the teachers. More than likely their soul was born on this pink ray. When you see these things and I've had many situations, I write about them, when you see these things, it is this is why I'm saying it brings me closer to God, to to have these experiences, to see how the world was created, how it came down to to this place where we were. And so all I'm saying is I guess that there are some people and and I know many of them, they They read the Bible and it is all that they need. And I say to them, bless you. You have found something that brings you solace and comfort and you don't have to look anywhere else. But there are other people out there who who maybe it's not that they disagree with the Bible, it's just that they have these questions, they want to know more. about where do you go after you die? Um why do you come back? What's it all about? It's not that you're trying to ask these questions, they're just there. And and as you have these experiences and you and you answer them, um it opens you up to in a whole different perspective. And maybe you're feeling the same way with with what you're reading directly from from your Bible the way I feel from the experiences that I have. So I think we're both on the same track. Well see this the thing though. Because that's what I think is most difficult for me is when you say that that we're on the same track. Or you say you're a Christian. Then you turn around and you give you give a definition of God that is directly contrary to the clear teaching of Scripture. The Bible says that God created us And he didn't say that he created us as, you know, out of particles from his being, but that we are separate from him, and that that he is God and that no one is God, but we are separate from who God is And yet what you're describing to me in in this creation of souls is one you said God's not a personal being. That's in direct contradiction to scripture. Two, you said that the way that you know that he saw the thing. What was behind the light I can't say. I didn't Well see again, but this is what's frustrating to me, is because God is not just this impersonal force. And you've actually used that that phrase in several impersonal force? Well you no you've used the word phrase and energy a couple of times in in in your discussion. And God is not is not that. He's he's extremely personable. And it and interacts with us very personally. I I would agree with that. I don't disagree with it. I'm just telling you what I saw And in the midst of this there was this great this great love and I can only tell you what I saw I think that uh I'm gonna I'm I'm not a pastor, so I'm gonna ask a really, you know, probably silly, mindless question here, but it it seems like if I'm understanding the the dialogue between uh the two of you, uh Jonathan and and uh Carolyn. Um Carolyn uh I'm speaking to the audience now. Carolyn actually the no chalkboard over here uh is saying that you know a number of these things over here in this pile are true. Um many of the things in that pile are things that Jonathan would place in that pile and then on top of that pile she's stacking additional things. Jonathan is saying that by adding those additional things on top of the pile that uh you're creating a conflict because the two things can't be co-joined or intermingled, that they don't they don't fit together. Um if you ha if if you say that X is true, then Y cannot be true. True. That's Jonathan's point. And Carolyn is saying that if I'm understanding correctly, that both X and Y can be true, even though they don't really seem to go together. That's exactly what I'm saying. Okay, so how do you I don't know if this is the right word or not, but how how do you in your mind rationalize or come to understand the the inconsistencies or the the the the the the the lack of connectedness between these different ideas where they seem to be polar opposites and seem to be fighting with one another. I guess I don't feel like they are fighting with one another. And that's probably the the difference between the two things that we are saying. Um I think that um God is constantly revealing his Maybe this is what the difference is. I believe that God is constantly revealing Himself to us. And Jonathan perhaps is saying, if I if I understand this correctly, this isn't true. That What was revealed is in a body of literature and if it's not in that literature that we call the Bible, then it it it it is contrary to the Yeah, that's not what I'm saying. I'm glad you mentioned that. In fact Um uh b you know, because of the ministry of the Holy Spirit, uh, which is um that part of God that that comes and lives uh directly with us as Christians. Um, I'm of the opinion that that God uh is revealing himself and and uh continues to re reveal himself. Uh what I'm arguing is not that God has stopped revealing himself. But that God has made it very clear his standards for revealing himself. And uh that there that there are clearly in human existence things that are evil and things that are not good for humanity, that are bad for humanity, things that separate us from God. And God uh through through the Bible, which uh the accuracy of the the prophecies that are fulfilled, the accuracy of the uh uh of the Um the the resurrection story and the different elements of scripture are uh are uh totally verified uh in in every sense that that could be verified. Um has cr has delivered to us this standard and what I'm saying is simply that you have chosen to go beyond that standard and to accept things that are outside of that. And uh Jesus himself said that narrow is the road that leads to life, and few there be that find it. And my experience is that is that when people move beyond Christianity uh in their spiritual walk is that is that they c start talking about this broadmindedness, you know, and just you know, they're open to whatever and you know, as long as it feels good and it makes them feel good, is that is that they uh they toss out the biblical standard And what I'm saying is that when when that happened in Israel's history and they tossed out God's standard, God uh was very angry with that. And in fact he called it adultery. He called it spiritual adultery that uh that it's kinda like me saying, Oh, I love my wife, but I want a broader view of marriage. I want to bring in this woman over here as well. You know, and I want to do a little bit of this and do a little bit of that. And that in God's eyes, according to the Bible, in the Old Testament, New Testament, the the clear teaching of Scripture, what you're advocating is adultery and that you're no longer a one God woman, but now you're you're open to to all these other elements that anger God according to the Old Testament and that that introduce uh uh what he would call unfaithfulness and lack of trust in his clear communication to you. Let's just real quickly say so the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. The voice you heard a moment ago is Jonathan Sweitzers and the voice you're about to hear is Carolyn Evers. And uh Jonathan is the pastor of Crossroad Valley Ch uh Chapel and Carolyn is a uh visionary and locutionist who uh Uh what that means is uh can remember can't remember past lives of her own and can speak to those who have uh passed over to the other side. Uh that's what it that's what she uh Uh says it's happening. Jonathan says something's happening but he's not sure that he that that that as she understands it, that's exactly what's happening. When uh when the medium with King Saul called out the Samuel, uh we get the impression that it was really Samuel that that he spoke with So I'm I'm not even questioning whether or not she's speaking with her son. Uh I'm simply saying that that that scripturally that whole process is something that that God was so against it that it that he recommended in the old test not just recommended he commanded his people to stone Well, those kind of people. Let's give uh Carolyn a chance to respond to uh what you've said most recently and also I don't know if you've got a example yet. So let's do that. I kinda think well, I wanted to get into the example and then if we get in an example, maybe address the fact that Jonathan keeps coming up with um this period of Bible like no one else existed in the world other than the Israelites. And I mean we had plenty of other people in the world besides the Israelites. Yeah, lots of them. Right. And so there before we get into the process, let's get to the Where were those guys? Okay, go ahead. Okay. Um I forget how that we talked about this example before, but this particular example was Julia Caesar, and it was one of the first books that I'd written, Conversations with Caesar. And um he gave his experiences of what he had experienced after he was assassinated. And he after he died. Yeah. Okay. Well, after he was assassinated and died, where was Julius Caesar? And um he describes exactly what it was like, where he was. He calls it called it the bardo. And it would be what well, I know Catholics did. I don't know if Jonathan would include this. We called it purgatory. Maybe maybe in your church you don't have a purgatory, I don't know, but this We don't, by the way. Okay. Well, scripture says anyways, go ahead. And he describes it completely as to what the bardo was like. and what his crime was, why he was there and how what his crime was was um the people that he had killed and had sent into slavery, that he had changed an evolutionary uh group of people who were put on earth to evolve and to grow and they were completely annihilated and this was his great crime. This is why he was uh put into the Bardo with his soldiers. Um and he had to Make rest well, I guess maybe the word is restitution. He had to change this. He had to work through this. He had to in a sense, redeem himself before he would be allowed to leave the bardo. And that's what his whole thing is. Now can I ask this, did w did he have permission or the freedom to choose to not want to work through it and just say, forget it, I I just want to get it off. Okay. Yes. No he matter of fact he's very clear about that. And so my son has been very clear about that. The idea of him needing to redeem himself though would seem to be in conflict with the orthodox understanding of Christianity. Right. I used a word that maybe is not the correct the correct word, so to speak. Or but he had done something that that was against the evolutionary spiral of people coming to earth. He had annihilated again, because evolution evolution is this idea that that we are evolving to this higher and lightened state and that's in direct contradiction to scripture. Scripture says that we're not evolving to a higher state, that we fell from Paradise and in fact Revelation's view of of when everything's done and God re-establishes his kingdom on earth is again we're in paradise with God. And so um It all depends on what part of point of the picture that you're discussing. His point of the picture that he is discussing was a group of people who who were acquiring the steps of civilization. That type of evolving. He's not wasn't really speaking of God per se uh evolving towards God. He is talking about just to to make my point. I'm not gonna s I obviously I believe that you're wrong. I'm not trying to tell you that you need to change here. I'm just I'm just raising raising the clarification that you have stepped away from the clear biblical teaching about the rise and fall of civilizations there. Clear biblical teaching on the rise and fall of civilizations is that if a nation honors God, he blesses them. And and and that's that. And if a nation dishonors him, then he he uh he um allows famine and and different things to come upon them. And so all I'm saying is that is that that you're marrying an idea into uh uh you know with your ideas on Christianity again that's my point is that you keep bringing in these things well that are in direct contradiction to the Gauls weren't Christians and they and they uh were a different group of people who were making their way up a ladder of civilization. I mean many of them probably didn't even know. So they could do that without necessarily getting close to God? I have no idea what what what state they were with God when they were evolving. Okay, all I'm saying is that that's that's what bothers me. is that your attitude even seems to be cavalier that you don't necessarily care. All you care about is that you got the connection with Julius Caesar and he gave you the thing and you wrote it down. But but you're not paying any attention to the ramifications of of the ideology and the the the the truth that's coming through. You just accept it for what it is and you just write it down and it makes you feel good and closer to God. And what I'm saying is that is that's my concern. I'm just just so that we're being clear between us, that's all. Keep going. There's nothing that's not clear between the two of us. Um when When you get to a group of I mean it's it's rather hard for me to go on with this actually. Maybe we need to to turn the subject. Um uh whatever you care to discuss with the well I well I wanted to ask because it's I I can't you know it's a tough discussion isn't it? No, it's not that it's a tough decision. It's not a tough discussion. Okay, okay. Let's shoot straight. This is good If you want me to to shoot straight, I'll tell you. You're very narrow minded. Sure. You might think that you're okay. If I'm I'm stuck on scripture. I really am. I haven't once said that what you believe in is wrong. I'm saying that it is right. What I mentioned earlier is there is more to scripture. You know, Scripture covers this little period or little place of Israelites as if there was nobody else that existed in the world at that time. Well I disagree with that, but that um if if that's what you think scripture says, they prophesied the Nineveh, they prophesied I'm not talking about scripture, I'm talking about history. There were people more ancient than Israelites. Without a doubt. Without a doubt. There was humanity living and probably if if you go back to Hinduism uh uh some of the very early writings of other cultures way before Israelites. And so do you do you do other yeah go ahead. D do you say that All of their experiences and all that they had received from who they felt was their God is in opposition to the Bible because it's not in the Bible. No, no. In fact I believe that there are many nations, uh, and groups of people out there that probably uh did interact with God and found God. uh and in and it was a uh holy relationship. However however, um what I'm saying is that uh like the the flood, God dest destroyed the world at the flood because of its wickedness. Um like the Canaanites, God wiped out the entire nation because their wickedness had be s become so great. What I'm saying is that um is that that the Bible prophesies to surrounding nations, to Nineveh, to Assyria, to Babylon, you know, and interacts with different people. And what it gives us is how God views and perceives the world. And I'm of the in fact Uh apparently Machu Picchu down in Peru uh was a group of people because Peru, you look at all their architecture and all their their sculptures, uh like you'd pick up a cup and you were holding a penis. Because sorry, can I say that on the radio? Um, we're not on radio. Yes, we are. And all the sculpture, you know, were were shaped like women's bodies and stuff and and and they were just consumed with sexuality. You know, that is that is so at Machu false. I have been there. At Machu Picchu, you have this whole group of people that said, you know what, we don't want anything to do with that. We're going to separate ourselves so that we can follow the one true God. And I'm of the opinion that to the extent that they do that that God would have revealed himself to them. You you I have been to Mashu Pishu. So is my brother, he says it's beautiful. What you're saying is not accurate. about um the Peruvian culture you mean? Yeah, it is not accurate. You haven't seen the architect uh because I've got some books that I can show you about that stuff. It's amazing Everything in their lives was sexualized. There are several layers of culture in that area of the world. Oh yeah, I'd I'd expect that. And so one generation one way, another generation another way. But um uh layers of different cultures And you're not going you're not going to agree with this, but one of the first cultures that were was laid down there was people from Atlantis. Oh that's interesting. Well that's gonna be a different show. We have to end this show now. Uh it always happens just when we really start out on a deep level. It's time to wrap things up. Thanks for watching. Carolyn Evers, I appreciate you so much being on the show. Thank you for listening to the Frederick Fake Debate on Frederick's News Radio nine thirty WFMD.