Article eight, the purpose of civil government, We affirm that God's purpose for civil government is to establish justice for his glory and the good of all people. Laws harm people and that just laws reflect the character of God and point people toward their need for a savior. That's the affirmation. Denial will come in a second. As we continue our march through a look at the statement on Christian nationalism and The gospel. This is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. I've been the long time uh host of the Faith Debate. We're now uh entering into our uh I guess our twentieth calendar year. They keep trying to kick us off the air and we keep dodging 'em. We sneak in, we record, we put it on the air, I don't even know if they are in anymore. I don't think they sneak in. Uh Daniel Razby is on the show. He He's a pastor as well in the area and uh he's he's one of the two pastors, I guess, at the the uh church that meets at Imran's house, and they have a ministry. that is called Conquered by Love Ministries online at Concordby Love. org. And David Forza, he's a pastor, doesn't have a website or anything like that, so uh I can't point you to anything to help promote David. I point you to like his Twitter feed or something, but he doesn't do that Yeah. Exposure is pretty much the show. Yeah. For better or for worse, this is it. So anyway, David Forcy, uh good friend of mine, good friend of of the show, and uh a good friend of Jesus. Um so again, this is the Christian nationalist statement, Christian the statement on Christian nationalism and the gospel. If you're interested in reading it and seeing what all the details are. Written by people who would call themselves Christian nationalists. Exactly. Yes. Yeah. Uh gladly and broadly. I mean they would have a a a a narrow personal definition, but they would fit themselves within a broad panorama of definitions. And again, as I've said a few times now in our look at the statement, I think that that is to their detriment. I think they should have picked a spot that they're going to land and fight for and defend that turf. and make the case. And I think that they've tried to be a little bit too much to too many people. Whether or not this particular article falls in dead or not. Uh by the way, let me finish reading the article because it's pretty short. The denial on the purpose of civil government says We deny that the purpose of civil government is to establish a secular, neutral, or godless order. raises questions about whether, you know, like Rome, for example, was secular and godless. But anyway, we deny that any government is capable of neutrality as every individual and system has moral preferences and functional gods. For example ultimate allegiances and ultimate standards by which they judge reality. We further deny the natural law is a different standard from God's moral and universal law summarily comprehended in the Ten Commandments. And so what say you, gentlemen? I think I agree with that. Um th there there's kind of trying to answer what you push back on last week where that the government's not capable of doing these things and well they say yes we deny that they are capable of being neutral or uh because they're always gonna have their own preferences and functional gods. Um but that doesn't stop them from being required to act in a godly manner. So I think that's supposed it's it was meant to try to answer the kind of objection that you brought up last week. Okay. I like you, David? Yeah, I'm I mean I think they're just kind of making it clear, hey, the uh Yeah, there's there's no such thing as as r religiously neutral. And in between shows you guys were talking about the purpose of civil government as related to education and other things. It might be family matters or church matters they don't specifically address that issue here, but they're talking about the purpose of civil government. Mm-hmm. And so I guess the fact that they don't mention it is just them saying well they could have denied that, right? They said we denied the well but they kinda got into it in the last one, maybe is the point. Yeah, yeah. When they were they were denying that it was the government's role essentially to for education of children. Yeah. Okay. And and uh some people might ask the question then, well which government, right? Because the federal government, sure, but how did church how did public education start? Well it started with the frontier town where, you know, ten families moved out to start a town together and And they said, Hey, can you tutor my kids for the w during the week 'cause you you know, we can divide the labor up. That's how it started. Right? With a with a co op Yeah. Basically a co-op. Right. And that turned into okay, well that we'll just send you to the your house every every day for for for the school year and then it turned into a building and And then it became overseen by larger jurisdictions. So I think the larger jurisdiction is really the issue that people have. But not necessarily 'cause even a group of a few families together that make an agreement to do s to share some kind of duty, that's that is already a government. It's just a very tiny one. And I don't I I don't know if they're defining government very specifically 'cause uh the one of the other statements we read on was it health or something, didn't they have more clear definition of federal versus state and very local jurisdictions and cities and townships and and so on. There are different levels of authority that they do have as well. Yeah and think I think that's something that is going to be helpful for them to Uh and I think they might be working backwards here a little bit, but um for them to yeah, distinguish okay if uh you know, if the government bears the The civil government bears the sword, what does that what does that look like, you know, at each sort of consecutive level? How do you think that they're defining secular in the first line of the d of the denial You know, civil government to establish a secular neutral or godless order. What do they what do you think they're meaning by secular? Uh probably the idea that there could somehow be a a non-religious civil government. Yeah, because that's why me when I kinda had a little aside as I was reading it and talking about Rome, I was specifically thinking in terms of Jesus saying, Give unto Caesar what is Caesar's, give unto God what is God's. Well Caesar was not godly Mm-hmm. And it was secular. I mean it was a pagan religion type of a thing. Right. But it it it it was a civil institution. Well there's the difference between your command as a Christian to render unto Caesar whether or not Caesar is godly and there's a separate command to Caesar to be godly, right? So you have your responsibility as a believer to follow the government as long as the direct commands do not conflict with God's following God But at the same time the government does have a have a responsibility to govern in a godly manner, and I think that's what they're getting at here. It's not really about our responsibilities to the government, it's about the government's responsibilities to us. And honestly I think what Jesus is kind of getting at there is is along the same lines in the sense that when he says, Render the Caesar the things that are Caesar so the and and it's right on the coin is the image and likeness of Caesar. Mm. And so then the that kind of begs the question, okay, well what image and likeness does Caesar bear? Well, he bears God's image, so he belongs to God, right? Right. All things belong to God. Well I I'm saying I'm saying all all You know, all humans bear the image and likeness of God. Therefore we all owe ourselves to God. Right, and that is I think the point of the statement really is give unto God what is God's. Well all is God's. And so y you belong to God. Everybody is is uh but in terms of a of a governmental order, a a a civil order what I think in today's parlance might be called a secular order, because it's not necessarily about religion and practice of religion, it's just about you know, defending borders, um, you know, taking care of crime and punishment, those kinds of things aren't necessarily religious, and some people would understand that as secular concerns But they might be defining the word secular more narrowly and saying, no, secular meaning by definition kind of an ungodly. I I think what they're saying is that what people think of as secular is not actually a possibility. Right? The way that you uh you know establish your borders can be godly or ungodly. You're gonna worship somebody. Right, yeah. So so all all that the government does, but none of it is actually secular in the sense that people think of as being no way to separate as being a a non moral issue. It there every issue is a moral issue. You guys ready to move on to number nine? Sure. Number nine? Number nine? Little Beatles reference for those who know. Uh spheres of authority. We affirm that God has established fears, fears. Can't say it. Spheres of authority, such as the home, the church, the civil government. Daniel was talking about that not too long ago. We affirm that God has given unique responsibilities and instructions to authorities within each sphere. We affirm that authorities in each sphere are subject to the rule of Christ, each retaining authority over its own sphere while being checked and balanced by others. We affirm that parents, as the authority in the home, have been given the rod for instruction, training, and discipline in wisdom and righteousness. We affirm that Only the church has been given the keys of the kingdom, quote-unquote, for the binding and loosing of gospel professions, i. e. the practice of church membership and discipline, as well as God's word for the preaching of the law and gospel with the aims of conversion, sanctification, and discipline. The civil government has been given the sword as God's servants to maintain justice and civil order By punishing evildoers, avenging the innocent, commending the good, and thereby promoting citizens' general well being. I'm going to pause there and see if you have any comments. Uh I I like sort of the the the that they're trying to sort of uh summarize in a word what each sphere is responsible for. Right. So you know, they have the rod and quotes, they have keys of the kingdom in quotes, they have Sword, in quotes. And and those are all biblical terms that are used. I think they missed a sphere. I think they should have included, or we should think in terms of including personal responsibility. Right. We're responsible for self control, self government. We have to take care of our own and actions. Self self control. Right, yeah. I think that I mean w we have to govern our own actions. And that's a sphere of responsibility and we have a and and we have a certain authority, if you will, to to take care of those things. Not have our conscience bound by somebody else. We have our own conscience to answer to. Yeah. Well I maybe maybe, yeah. So I I think they're using spheres of authority in the sense of uh you know, the mo there being more than one person, right? So um you know, having to do with multiple people together. So right, it's the the parents have responsibility for their children, right? The Yeah, so so authority in regards to, you know, having responsibility for the good of others um and not to do them ill, like the the church for um you know, for the members of the body. Yeah. Um Yeah, I don't know that um it has to be in there. I I I I I kinda wish that they would though. I'm trying to I'm trying to think biblically, like is there uh Other than, you know, just that we're all held accountable for all individual responsibility. But but all of those uh you know And I I think it's important and this is why I think they should include it because I know that the guys who wrote this would agree on the concerns over the whole woke social justice gospel nonsense where it's all about groupthink and group responsibility and and it diminishes individual personal responsibility. And you have to have both. You can't have one or the other. And say, well heck, your whole statement doesn't even mention personal responsibility and authority. Well, yeah, no, I have why do we have freedoms? I mean this is kind of good in in into some philosophical things, but we are granted freedoms, if you will, by God, so that we are free to then live out our responsibilities, to govern our lives in accord with His word as He would command us. So we have the governments have certain things they have to do. The uh the uh civil authorities they have responsibilities to do certain things and they're and they're given rights by God, if you will, to do those things and and not anything more than those things. And the same with church leadership and the same with family leadership. But also in myself, like, you know, again, it ties into so many things that are part of the vernacular today. Just follow your heart. No, you have to lead your heart. You're responsible to take charge of yourself and lead your heart as God would have you lead it. And insofar as God you're falling under the leadership of the Holy Spirit in in leading your heart, well then you follow your heart as it's being led You know what I'm saying? I I feel like that's a I I don't I I'm not gonna fight for it. I just feel it would be stronger if it was on here. I think a couple of things. One, um Right, obviously this will come down to individuals, right? So each individual parent is responsible for how they govern themselves in their role in g governing their children. It's not just adh parents. If I have no kids, if I never get married. If I go live on a deserted island some more and it's just me. I have responsibility to do what I'm supposed to do. Yeah, to not to not live on a deserted island. Well if you're abandoned there or something right. I have authority over that soccer ball that has, you know, Wilson's face painted on it. I mean do you do you do you want to include it in here that each person is uh I because all I can think of is, you know, like okay, to love God and and love our neighbor, right? That's but then the love your neighbor part means you're interacting with other people. You're either an authority or under authority, you know, in the natural course of every human life, every human is in authority over some other human at some point in time. Yeah, but I again I think it begins with a cell. But anyway, we're probably beating a uh a beginning of a dustword. That might be a totally separate show, I don't know. And then I had a question mark, I can't remember why I wrote a question mark, for the binding and loosening of gospel professions Uh I put a question. I guess I'm trying to figure out what do they mean by gospel professions. Well see it's the pre parenthetical as it follows that explains the practice of church membership and discipline. That's a that's a gospel profession? I don't I don't understand what that means then. To me a profession of sa I think it's a poor choice of words because gospel professions is kind of like somebody saying, Oh, I profess Christ, so that means the church gets to decide if you're saved or not That's a dangerous path to go down. Yeah. It feels it feels a little uh a little Catholic and it's uh Yeah, I don't know. I maybe I don't understand what professions means. Now we should look it up. The word throws me because it's because that's why I put the question now I remember because it says i. e. the practice of church membership and discipline. It's like, how's that a profession? I don't get it. Well church church membership and church discipline both have to do with profession in the sense of the churches either affirming, you know, agreeing So my profession is that they relate to you? Profession as in you profess something. And the church saying, you know, you're a member in good standing. Because your life shows the fruit of a professing believer. So whether we're going to accept their gospel professions as as accurate and true. That's what I guess what I mean by that. Okay. All right. I am probably just too dense to understand what they're meaning. They're way smarter than me. Uh so the the uh the last half of the aff affirmations here, so I don't think I read them yet, right? We affirm that Jesus Christ has appointed over his church both government and discipline And no law of any government should and I think they mean s civil government should interfere or hinder the due exercise thereof among the voluntary members of any assembly of Christians according to their own profession and belief. And then actually there's uh it gets right into denial. Sure. We deny that human authority in any sphere possesses absolute or unchecked authority. even within their sphere, as Christ delegates all human authority, therefore all are accountable to Christ and his moral law, whether they acknowledge it or not. We deny that civil authorities may assume to themselves the administration of the word and sacraments or the power of the keys of the kingdom of heaven for church discipline. but must be uniquely protective of the free exercise of the Christian faith according to the dictates of conscience under the Orthodox Christian But they did it or they didn't they did define it in the first article they said these historic apostles creed and creed that all d right all real denominations will abide by those. So they're saying that that's what the the the government's gonna be bound by those creeds. Right. No, that's how you define what is the truth. Orthodoxy Christian faith. Article two is the definition of Orthodox Christian faith. Oh, well then the Mormons are out. As universally defined, historically and universally defined and affirmed in the Creeds, e. g. , Apostles' Creed, Nicene Creed, Athenasian Creed. And we affirm that many denominational conf confessions articulate the Orthodox Christian faith. Salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, we do it in Scripture alone, to the glory of God alone. So really Protestant denomination. Right. Because that's the that's those are the five sources. Right. Yeah, so the Catholics are out. Catholics are out. Hmm. Apparently. Um which Eastern Orthodox are probably out. Uh yes. They w they might they might accept some of the those in Christ who are some, but maybe not all. I think Yeah. So I that's interesting. So I think they have defined or made an attempt to define what Orthodox Christian faith is. So they're trying to have a broad tent, but clearly not as broad as I originally imagined. Because now there's some people that are going to be very offended by this. Well and that's and perhaps rightfully so. I'm not exactly sure how I how we should draw those lines. Because I don't know that that would fit within what we originally had going for the people in this country really had going for them initially, right? Roman Catholics were allowed. I mean Maryland was a Catholic state. And so so what do you think they would uh these people would say about the historic laws in the colonies and in America that uh you had to be in church on Sunday morning? And if you weren't and you couldn't prove that you were in church for like three or four Sundays in a row, then you would get punished, like being or flogged or go to jail or whatever. That's been one of my concerns is who gets to decide. And if if if if they insisted on it being Sunday, but if you have a conviction it should be on Saturday. Mm-hmm. Like what do you do? Who gets to decide? The government's gonna decide that? That's it gets very dicey. And w the tech in our nation's early years Nation I know is that that word. Is it really a nation? Is it a combination of nations? So in the common vernacular, I'm just using what everybody understands. You have the history of the Quakers. Where do they fit in the context of this statement Mm-hmm. Right? Anyway. Um I'm gonna well I'm gonna at least try try to read Article Ten, which is a lengthier one. I don't know if we have much time to talk about it in today's episode or not, but Article ten is on nationalism and policy priorities and I think there's gonna be a lot of talk to ha be had on this one. So we'll we'll at least get it read and then we'll we'll maybe hold our fire if we don't have time to get deep into it and pick it up on next week's show. But anyway, we affirm that nations possess an invaluable right to establish justice and safeguard the peace and prosperity of their own citizens We affirm that implementing Christian nationalism in each nation will pursue punishment of each nation's great evils and promote each nation's thriving. We affirm that the specific short-term priorities of Christian nationalism in the context of the United States are to call our nation in her laws. formally to acknowledge the Lordship of Christ, to declare solemn days of humility and repentance, to abolish abortion. David uh was prescient on that one. to define marriage as the covenant union of a biological male and a biological female, to deweaponize the federal and state bureaucracies which target Christians for censorship and persecution, to secure our borders and defend against foreign invaders, to recapture our national sovereignty from godless global entities who present a grave threat to civilization like the United Nations, the World Health Organization, the World Economic Forum, etcetera, etcetera. And then they go on to say, and to exercise restraint in international military intervention and adventurism in overseas quote unquote democracy building. And I'm not done. They have more to say. Here it goes. We affirm that different forms of just government can achieve just laws and we do not seek to coerce nations into one particular form of government. We deny that seeking to maintain and assert national sovereignty has anything to do with prejudice against any particular ethnicity or nation We deny that sinful ethnic partiality has any place in the Church of Jesus Christ or in a nation that seeks to honor Him. On the contrary, a Christian nation would be impartial in judgment. Okay, so that's Article 10 on Nationalism and Policy Priorities. We've got about mm two-ish minutes or so uh initial thoughts on this one. Well now they're getting specific. Yeah. But it feels like it feels like they haven't laid the proper foundation for people who may not be as familiar with where these priorities come from. Like they wouldn't spend a long time saying the government needs to do moral and godly things as the Bible says, and then they say, Okay, here's the specific priorities. You're missing a step. The government should do what the Bible says. The Bible says X, therefore the government should do X. That's a logical uh um Yeah, it's true. But I think if especially if they want us to have very broad reach you need to really to say clearly say have have a section. Say here's the Bible defines and and prohibits abortion and gay marriage and all these things and that's why the government should be doing X, Y, and Z. Out of curiosity, did you have a chance to to double check and make sure that there's proof texts are actually on point? No, I haven't. Uh if you have, you know, message me, let me know if they check out or not. Because for example, back in like the the Middle Ages, it w you know the the height of scholasticism, it was not uncommon at all for some of the big thinkers uh in in church history to you know make their arguments and point to a whole bunch of you know passages as proof text, but if you check 'em out, they don't Connect. They don't really need it. They might have a word, like they might be making a point about love, a very specific point about love, for example. And then they just take a verse that happens to have the word love in it and say, proof tax That has nothing to do with the point you're making. It was very common back then. And so we shouldn't just take for granted because they reference a uh this will be fighting worse for some people, but Thomas Aquinas actually is famous for this for citing proof text that don't really prove anything, at least not what he's trying to say. Right. So I and that doesn't mean that's time to do that. But that doesn't also mean that the the the statement itself is wrong. Correct. And we've been reading and discussing and from our knowledge of Scripture we're recognizing that a lot of things they're saying are true. Yes. So we should verify that this Same text. All right. So there's a little more to be said about Article 10, so I think we'll we'll pick up next week's show with some comments on that and then we'll get right into Article 11. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Thanks so much for listening today I'm Troy Skinner. You can find me online at household of faithinchrist. com, Daniel Rasby. You can probably connect with him online through conqueredbylove. org. And uh David Forcey, yeah, you just gotta walk around and see him if you bump into him sometimes on the streets around project. Uh and anyway, till next week, 167. 5 hours from right now. God bless Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com