This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. We're online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith, our sponsors. Thank you. sponsors, Hilo Auto Sales, online at House HiloAutoSales dot com and tire pros of Bradrick. For three weeks now and now this is week four, we've had Tim May from the Maryland Live program on this show. He's also the pastor of Pleasant View Church of the Brethren. Jefferson and Bernie Beal who is co founder with his wife Linda of Great Commission Families online at Great Commission Families or G C Families dot org. I think if you put in Great Commission Families in the search field and hit go, it'll it'll take you to the page pretty easily. Domains. There you go, sir. org. com spelled out, abbreviated, because we wanted to make sure we had all that. Speaking of domains, the domain of Christ is alluded to in everything that Bernie Beale has run through his brain. Yes. He he knows a lot about history. He knows all the little trivia. He'd be great at Jeopardy, I think. Uh particularly if they focused on Christian history, Maryland history, American history. I don't know if you're big on the NFL or things like that. So that's not gonna be it. So we can stomp him into sports campaign. We got him there. Unless you're talking about the nineteen seventy Baltimore Orioles. Yeah, not too not too often does that come up anymore. No. But uh unless the Oriol fans are trying to relive their their glory days and they don't want to talk about Cal Ripkin then that's what they've got, I guess. Um by the way, growing up I grew up in the Midwest in the Chicago area, a Cubs fan. But I must say when I when I was um it's funny, both teams in this area When I was um young, you know, ten years old, I rooted for the Chicago Bears, the Chicago Cubs, the the Bulls, the Blackhawks, and out of all those teams I think the best uniform probably in all of sports, happens to be the best uniform in hockey and that's the Chicago Blackhawks. They have the best logo bar none in my opinion. Like Amer uh like Maryland has the best flag in the world probably. But then in other sports, growing up I always felt like the the best uh baseball uniforms were the Yankees and the Orioles. I love the Orioles uniforms and and their colors are are unique. those color combinations and and a little Oriel bird and all that sort of stuff was really cool. And then in football I love the Redskins. I love their colors. I love their logos. And so even from the Midwest, I was I was a respecter of uh of the teams uh in this neck of of the woods. Uh last week on the show, Bernie uh teased us by a couple of times bringing up the Titanic He brought it up in uh reference to the cherry blossoms in D C which are which were originally planted in nineteen twelve. And I think it was Around this time of the year, 105 years ago, is October of of nineteen twelve, wasn't it? When the Titanic when it was April. Just remember when your taxes are due. I remember the waters were kinda cold, so I was thinking it might have been late early in the year. Um so anyway, but it's a hundred and five years ago this year, the Titanic um meets its demise on its maiden voyage, and there are some things related to faith. And maybe we can debate those, who knows, on the Faith Debate show. What can we learn about faith and perhaps specifically the Christian faith from the Titanic, Bernie? Well, um there there's a monument in DC and that's kinda why I got interested in this. Why is there a monument in DC for the Titanic of all it wasn't heading to DC? Uh the the first lady at the time the Titanic sank a few years after she was no longer First Lady, and I'm thinking it was uh Taff, yeah. Um, she had the idea there's memorials in many places, Newfoundland, New York. Um Belfast, you know where they built the Titanic. Because of victims that were on it? Well yeah. Um so there there is one in DC and it was uh at the impetus of a former first lady who asked the women of America to send in a dollar. No one sent in more. Uh because one there were some very wealthy people on that and so there was some prominent memorials. There's a memorial in front of the white man. Everybody send a dollar. A dollar and no more. No more Um for instance there's uh one of uh uh Teddy Roosevelt's good friends, uh uh Colonel uh Archibald Butt, B U T T. His memorial is in front of Butch he white teased a lot as a guy, right? He was a tough he was a tough cookie. Kind of like the boy named Sue Khan. But uh but there is a memorial in D. C. It's a it's a statue of a uh his uh heroic looking man with his arms outstretched like a cross. And it was originally, interestingly enough, located where the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts is located today. But in the sixties, uh they wanted to put the Kennedy Center there. So it got put in storage and then eventually got put in a a modelly obscure place. And often when I pick up a brochure about the monuments in DC, I scan to see if they include the Titanic 'cause some of them don't. Um in fact I vaguely remember in high school watching a T V uh a daily program Monday through Friday where they talked about the five most obscure monuments in Washington DC and uh Titanic Memorial was one of them. It w it wasn't the most obscure. Now is the statue purposely Drawing uh an allusion to the cross or you see it that way. Uh but a number of years ago, the main character Leonardo uh he's got his hands. Exactly. Of course, you know, the monument came long before the movie. It did? Yeah, yeah. Yeah, just remember that. I wrote a little gospel flower about it and every year, uh well we haven't done it literally every year, but many years over the past eleven years of Great Commission families, we do a father-son at it. We go to a restaurant near the Titanic Memorial. That part of DC is under major reconstruction right now, so you can't So soon it'll be an awesome place to go again. So we do a father and son dinner, you know, have twelve to twenty fathers and sons, have dinner together and I talk about what happened uh on the Titanic, which we'll talk about here in details in a moment. But then we go out on the streets or sometimes we do it before dinner and we take this gospel flyer and we walk up to people and say, Happy anniversary And yeah, they might know because the memorial is like right over there kind of thing. Um yes, today it was uh in we'd say the year. Uh I remember doing on the hundredth anniversary, a hundred years ago tonight, the Titanic had an iceberg and sunk. And we give them the flyer. This is a little information about it. You're gonna be blessed by this because there's gospel lessons and what happened that night. In fact, let me ask you a question What would have happened to you if you'd been on that ship that night? And that's how we get into a gospel conversation because right away they start thinking about, oh I hope I would have lived. And then whatever they say, eventually I say, you know everyone on that ship by the 99th anniversary I could say this Everyone on that ship died, some of them that night, fifteen hundred of some that night, but eventually they all died. I will too, you will too. And then we I showed them some of the gospel. uh lessons in here. But the the subtitle on the cover, uh you might find this interesting, I wrote it out this way. The Titanic. As perhaps the first news event to be broadcast worldwide on the very day it occurred And in light of the enormous loss of life, much was written and learned about the Titanic sinking. It was on the front page. People in the hinterlands wouldn't have known. But uh was probably I said probably. You know how you really can know these things, but but uh that was one assessment that uh one historian, incredible historian said. So I thought that's That helps me to understand why it has lived on with such legend. Yes. There have been other great tragedies too that we don't think of the same way we think about the Titanic. So that helps me to understand better. It was It was the story of the century. It was the very first time we had a story of the century. Right. So okay, very cool. Many to follow, but that's uh that was a that was a story. The the quirky uh chronological thing to me, it hit an iceberg shortly before midnight on April fourteenth. It sank about an hour I think an hour and forty minutes later, shortly after midnight on April fifteenth. That same year the amendment authorizing the Internal Revenue Service and Income Tax was authorized. So now we again celebrate the Signo Titanic. Every year on April fifteenth. Ironically that was the same day that uh Lincoln was assassinated. April fifteenth is not a good day for anybody. Not if you're Lincoln or the tax man. I I don't think I knew that either. Lincoln was assassinated on on Palm sixteenth. Yeah, it was good Palm Sunties. Good Friday. Good Friday. Yeah, instead of going to church you went to the theater. Let that be a lesson to you. Oh that's right, I mean George. Well you brought it up. Brief, but um he was going to go to the theater and you know the war is now won essentially. There was some things. Please join me for dinner. And Grant's wife said, I do not want to sit with that woman, Mary Todd Lincoln. So he sent regrets. I'm sorry, we've left town. I knew that Grant was invited to attend and he begged off. I never knew the reason. And here's the re and here's the Paul Harvey. Grant regretted that. He said if I'd have been there, if I'd have been there, I would have stopped that assassination. So Grant regretted that. Okay, back to Titanic. And he that's why he had a knife with him. He was ready to go to war. I didn't know that either. Okay. Well that that's sad news. Where were you talking, Bernie? Did we lose you somewhere? Front says to the brave men who perished in the wreck of the Titanic april fifteenth, nineteen twelve, they gave their lives that women and children might be saved, erected by the women of America. And then the rear inscription says to the young and the old, the rich and the poor, the ignorant and the learned, all who gave their lives nobly to save women and children. And that's that phrase just immediately reminds me of a Bible verse, John fifteen thirteen. Greater love has no man than this than to lay down his life for his friends. The next words Jesus spoke were were, you are my friends. If you a baby. Mm-hmm. But uh in my little outline here I have three categories. First hand accounts. Like what did people say? That's always what I'm interested in. Not what a historian said, but what did the people experience? On the Titanic. On the Titanic. For the most part, people who survived. Um but the the wireless operator, he actually got six iceberg warnings and he was trying to send out telegram telegrams and the Morse code you couldn't send and receive at the same time. So after the sixth iceberg warning, he d he uh he Morse code to the other ship, shut up, I'm busy. Wow. I was raised in a home where we never used the word shut up. And I wish that guy hadn't either. It would have turned out differently. And then um um the lookout said iceberg right ahead and it's right in the movie and the uh the guy of the officer tried to do a port around where you turn left and you turn right so the tail doesn't scrape. He did the smartest thing you could do But one of the really rich guys on board who who did survive, um, he had three hundred thousand dollars in cash jewelry and securities. Instead he grabbed three oranges. He said the money seemed a mockery to me, so I picked up the oranges instead. So that's why the monument says about the rich or poor. Um a lot of laws were changed. One of the survivors, a woman who lived to nineteen ninety-six, she said, If a torpedo if a ship is torpedoed, that's war. If it strikes a rock in a storm, that's nature. But to die because there weren't enough lifeboats, that's ridiculous. So that was quote, great quote. 'Cause uh so soon they changed the policy. We used it had been based on the tonnage of the ship. Now it's based on the people of the ship. Right. Seems very obvious, but it took for this horrible tragedy. Every year on the uh sinking date the the US Coast Guard and the International Ice Patrol drop uh wreaths on that very spot uh where the Titanic went down. They found it when? When did they find the Titanic? When did they when did they find it? Yes you do. Yeah, I don't know. Well I I heard uh saw a documentary not too long ago and there's also some speculation about how it was that they hit the iceberg. And one of the more compelling theories is that there was a soft horizon because of the the the way the air temperature and the uh water temperature were because of a front moving through, it created a uh Kind of almost a mirage effect. Like if you're driving along the highway on a hot day and and stuff and it looks like there's water ahead or it looks like the the road almost disappears in front of you, like there's this There's this layer of of fuzz, if you know what I mean like fuzz, but like distorted vision. You know what I'm talking about? Like it might appear to be like an inch of your vision is like You can't really tell what's there. And the theory is that because of the temperature differences and stuff, that the guys up on the lookout were actually doing their job, but there was this optical illusion and there was this this hazy, fuzzy horizon There's a word the technical word for it, I can't remember what it is now. But I think it might be called Soft Horizon. And they literally could not see the iceberg until all of a sudden it like broke through where the fuzzy part of their vision was. Soft horizon's soft horizon. And by that point they're like, holy cow, it's on top of us and they couldn't get out of the way fast enough. Actually the theory goes that they were better off not trying to get out of the way, just ramp straight into it And the ship probably would not have sunk. Because it was the gash along the side that uh did it did them in. They found it in nineteen eighty five. It took that long to find that ship. If if that's if that's true, then you've got a story there because these guys were only trusting what they could see. But there are things that are real beyond what we can see and perceive believing what you can't see. Oh is that on there? No, no. You you give me the number of add number seven. There you go. I I have something close to that. I said, know your capabilities And spiritually we need to know that the wage of sin is death. None of us are going to get into heaven on our own merit. So that's that's a spiritual lesson. And and maybe it relates to that point. Uh if Experienced seamen certainly would have known about the South Verizon. Well what are the measures they they do that? Maybe a a certain type of telescope? I don't know. But to to know your limitations. You know that's the And part of the theory not that this is has nothing to do with faith debate, but part of the support for this theory is there was another ship not that far away that was with within eyeshot of the Titanic when with the through the scopes, their periscopes or whatever their their uh What do they call 'em? Anyway I think that was the California or the Kapathian. Right. Uh they were further away. Right. California you were right. But there was one that was closer that didn't come and come and bring A and that guy And part of the reasoning apparently was they looked out and because of the soft horizon, the Titanic is a huge was a huge ship. Mm-hmm. And they looked at the horizon and what they saw were little lights of what looked like a little dinghy ship. That can't be that Titanic. Well, the optical illusion made this big ship look small. Hm. I hadn't heard that. I but I have heard that uh the the standard operating procedure when you're in icebergs at nighttime is to stop And so that's what the California and the Carpathia had done, California in eyesight, and they could see the uh emergency flares going up and they thought, oh, the Titanic, a luxury ship, has stopped and they're entertaining their guests with fireworks It's amazing. Tragic, tragic, mistake. Yeah, total tr tragedy all the way around. One of the things that is really interesting as a lesson for all of us is the way that you, Bernie, view the world, I think is instructive and helpful for all of us to think about trying to view the world. If you look for it, you will find illustrations and analogies for the gospel everywhere. In the music you listen to, in the politics that's um bombarding us every day, in news stories. You could very easily find a way to illustrate the gospel from the tragedy that happened not too long ago with the shooting in Las Vegas. I mean everything that happens. Um to to do that is I think there's two things that have to happen. One, you've got to be in t points of time in your daily life where the clutter, where the the static is turned off. And two, you've got to be soaking in God's word so that you can see what is already there. I got some you like alliteration. I've got some alliteration that may or may not be uh already in uh uh in your materials and on your website, but I'm gonna suggest these to these are themes that I that I pull from um Bernie's stuff. If you spend time on his website, you'll see what I'm talking about. Or if you take a tour and get some of his printed materials, you'll see what I'm talking about. History? Uh in parentheses his stories, God's stories. History, heritage, and his providence. So his stories heritage and his process a lot of H's there. No, it's not four H, it's three H. Yeah. Those those things uh seem to be recurring themes throughout. He's focusing on history, he's focusing on Amer particularly American heritage and Christian heritage, and of course all of this enveloped underneath His providence controlling all of that. And then I mentioned this off the air to you, but the idea of friendships, family, and faith are a big part of of how Bernie seems to view the world. Um and family is a big thing. Family, not just the family unit and stuff, but family discipleship. Family headship, family responsibility, uh family contributions to the greater whole. The broader family, the fa the Christian family. We're all in this together. We're all and actually we're talking about the Titanic and this brings back I don't know if this is on the air a couple weeks ago or if it was in between shows. I I can't remember. But you had this idea of talking about ships and family and faith and the founding of this nation. Liberty or something. The ship of liberty. When the pilgrims and especially the Puritans came across, they wanted religious freedom. Uh now, however They uh they euphemistically said that uh we we're gonna worship the way worship God the way we want to and make everybody else do the same in our colony. Uh but over time they expanded the strip of liberty. Not only did they have liberty, but okay, you could be any kind of Christian And then over generations uh then it could be any uh any kind of Protestant Christian, then any kind of r any kind of Christian, Roman Catholic included, and then Jewish people are included in in absolute religious freedom. So the ship of liberty has kept getting bigger and bigger and the principles in the Declaration of Independence moved it forward to certainly th th the civil war is either going to happen peacefully or violently, but slavery's going to be ended because of what it says in the in the Declaration of Independence. The United States would not be sustained. The House was divided against itself. So that ship of liberty has gotten bigger and bigger and bigger until in recent generations. Do you remember who built the ship? Christians built the ship based on Christian principles of liberty that come from the Bible. Liberty for any everyone, not you don't have to be Christian. But you you come to the place where the Christians have enable there to be liberty for everyone. But it's a it seems as if in the recent generation, as if those last people in the boat, if you will, look around the boat and and see Tim May. Or see see Christians and say, What are you doing in the boat? Get out of the boat. Well, those are the people historically that that built the boat. Now you were talking about family. I have um this is radio, so hand motions can't be seen, but I can certainly describe it. Um for Christian families I like to point out that we have three mission fields. And most people when you hear mission field, oh that's the place far away Well a Christian family, and this is the vision of our ministry, Great Commission families. We want to help families, especially Christian parents, see that their first mission field is under their own roof. That's their mission field, their children. God has chosen to give you these kids. Then your second mission field is every relationship you already have as a family. Every relationship can be a bridge for the gospel. That's your second mission field, and your first mission team comes from your first mission field. The family is to be the training center for the Great Commission the first training center. The church supports that, augments that, accelerates that. But if it's not happening at home, any good teacher, any good pastor will tell you, if it's not happening at home, it's going to be real hard. to have it happen elsewhere. It can and it should, and it w and we should give effort to that. But that's the first two mission fields. Then the third mission field is that place far away that you might think of. as the f as the foreign mission field. But if a person isn't faithful in their first and second mission field, God would never call them overseas or some place far away. So that's what we're about in Great Commission families. Creating family-friendly, local evangelist evangelistic outings So that parents can take steps of faith with their kids present. uh to him be on the show. So I'm going to give him an additional benefit by giving a plug. You should definitely go to gcfamilies. org and you'll find the kind of an outline of what they do with their ministry and it'll help you with your own ministry if you're a Christian and you're uh so inclined, uh to understand uh mission, uh, like you were beginning to explain there, and evangelism and maybe some some tactics and some approaches to use. There's some little uh tidbits that are how is I say tricks and that's that's the wrong way of looking at but little tidbits the AIDS. Evangelistic AIDS. I like to use the term full spectrum evangelism. There's all kinds of approaches and strategies And it's not like everybody all needs to do it this way. No. Look at the spectrum and find out where God's gifted and called you. Yeah, and discipleship and instruction And all those sorts of things are things that all Christians and ch and churches should be doing. And so uh as a plug for Tim's church Each of us have uh You do those things at your church, right? Every day. You're on mission? Without question. You remember, Troy, when we leave, we f we say, you know, bless us as we enter the mission fields of life, and we certainly mean that. Appreciate that. Yeah, and everything that we do, whether it whether Tim is doing his radio show Monday through Friday, he's not preaching there, but he's representing the the church in Christ and making a difference in the world. This show that we're doing right now uh is is trying to make that difference. W my regular job I sell advertising. You know, I'm trying to do that in a way that's going to be honoring to Christ. It's going to open doors to sharing the gospel. It's going to be an example of the gospel. So does that give you a charge and encouragement to you if you're listening now? Anyway, we've got about sixty seconds left, so I'm going to thank you guys. Again. Uh I learned so much and I appreciate the opportunity. Tim May, he is the uh pastor of uh oh I have it written down. I always want I want to straight favorite Pleasant View Church of the Brethren in Jefferson And it should be easy for me to remember because if you sit in the pews and you're watching Tree, you get a pleasant view. And he's also the host of MidMarrill or co-host of MidMarylind Live on WFMD Monday through Friday from three to six in the afternoon. And Bernie Beal, thank you so much, my friend. He is co-founder with his wife Linda of Great Commission Families. They're online at gcfamilies. org Uh we are online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. I'm Troy Skinner, our sponsors, Hilo Auto Sales and TireProza Frederick. Thank you so much for listening. Till next week. God bless