This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour. learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The faith debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with a Master of Divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Oh Troy Skinner, Frederick's newest. Author has written the book Renewing Your Mind Daily. Seeks to immediately inform the reader that supernatural experiences are not exclusively reserved for Bible days. They are A reality he enjoyed even in this modern or some would call the postmodern era. Rowan Stewart says that his book is uh it quickly dispels the myth that God no longer communicates with his children through dreams and visions. by capturing compelling testimonies of divine encounters experienced by a number of believers who have chosen to make prayer and fasting a lifestyle. So here for the fourth time is Rowan Stewart, and I need to again thank uh both of our friends, uh Rowan's in mind, Bob Miller, verdict's morning mayor, and a host of WFMD is Morning News Express for facilitating the introduction that led to Rowan's experience uh on the show. If you've missed the last three episodes of the show, you can find those online at WFMD. com. Um and so He uh he we we talked in the first show, kind of a general introduction about Rowan's uh experience uh growing up in the church and and that sort of thing, and his motivation for writing the book and Uh then we transitioned into kind of a a general understanding of what's going on in the book, the big themes, the the emphasis on a kingdom culture, uh i in distinction from the culture of self. Last week we started to share some anecdotes as we worked our way through some of the chapters in the book. And we've got it's a 40-day devotional. And we tackled the the the first ten um last week and we're gonna see if we can kind of go just really quickly through the remaining thirty and what I'm doing is I'm reading the chapter headings and then Rowan is picking one like five at a time and then Rowan is picking one of them to say, oh, okay, let me talk about that particular uh uh issue or that story or here's a fun little tidbit for you. So uh and his chapter headings are days, because again it's a 40-day devotional. So uh Day eleven is beyond imagination. Day 12, the grace option. Day 13, be ready to testify. Day 14, the beauty of holiness. And day fifteen, you are chosen. So Rowan, are any of uh one of those uh jump out at you as the the grace option. The grace option is the one you want to uh Yes. So w what what is it about that particular chapter that that that made you you really quickly wanted to mention that one. in Kingston, Jamaica and uh my buddies are on the street and and there's this one particular home that we would um uh go to and and we'll just have fun. We play soccer we we race, we race in the yard, um from the back back to the front, or sometimes even race on on on the streets. One of those the fastest guy on the block. Of course, I was coming Last. Or third. But the first shall be last and the last shall be first, right? Exactly. Amen. Amen. So so Uh, you know, the wha what my good friend's uh mom I'm not gonna call her in because I didn't have, you know, enough time so um concerned about this. So, um, sh she just i inspired me so much. Uh she her her husband was working uh you know, in the in the in the country, in the in the rural um parts of Jamaica. So she uh you had to um you travel and you you was like away for for weeks, two weeks at a time, stuff like that. And it it so happened that that He got caught up in this in this um relationship and and and and had a child with with uh another woman. And I was thinking that okay uh uh a divorce is imminent. But but that didn't happen. She forgave him and and and even at that point of forgiving him that that would have been good, right? But she she heard about the the plight of the little girl, you know, living with her mom in in the country and stuff like that. And she invited the little girl to come and live with her and she raised this little girl as her own own daughter. I just couldn't understand I I I heard about grace, but I I I I didn't I couldn't fathom what what grace really meant. So so you know, she she really opened it up. She really expound on on this concept of grace. So you would have look, you know, just as God God God forgives us, we we we we we sin and yet his arms are wide open to receive us. And and this this precious woman of God demonstrated that that grace option that you know whatever we experience there's always another side sometimes it it happens so that the fruits can be born the fruits of love The fruits of forgiveness, the fruits of generosity when we see people on the street and they lack. That's how the these fruits, these kingdom fruits are born. It's an opportunity to impact someone's life with with the culture of the kingdom. Giving a drink of water, giving food. These are are open opportunities for us to to take advantage of and and bring the kingdom on on earth So so so so this this lady, this precious woman of God, I mean every time you know I go through circumstances, but I can remember what she did. And I said, Oh yes That's the way she operated. She could have forgiven her husband, but just decided, look, I don't want this chat in my home. But she didn't do that. She welcome Wow what a stark reminder that is. You know, a lot of people it seems are too. uh a lot, maybe it's not fair to say a lot, but there are people it seems who are too quick to look for an excuse to end a marriage. You know, and someone will uh say oh well You know, he or she cheated on me, that's it, I'm getting divorced. Well, okay, that would be biblical grounds. You would you would be within your rights to seek a divorce. But there's no requirement to seek a r uh divorce because someone was unfaithful or you know, if there's if there's repentance and there's an opportunity for grace and forgiveness to uh to to do a work, uh, you know, some unbelievably wonderful things can come on the back end of that. So yeah, that's okay. That's a good chapter. We like that one. All right. Day sixteen. Blessings in Disguise. We're working through uh some chapters in Renewing Your Mind Daily with its author, Rowan Stewart. Uh so Blessing in Disguise is 16. Day 17, living forever. Day 18, love thy neighbor. Day 19, true worship, and day 20, the spoken word. Any one of those jump out if you is something you'd want to Let's look at uh living living forever, is that it? Okay. Living forever. Yep, that's day seventeen. Yes. So so we gotta remember that Um so let me let me backtrack a little bit. Um we we work hard, we we we we save, we put aside money for retirement. For what, maybe 20 years, 25 years. But there is an eternity that we gotta even be better prepared for Because fifteen years will will go like that, but then we and we transition into eternity. Yeah, it's good that we prepare for retirement, right? It's it's it's good. But what about eternity? I would prefer to prepare for eternity than for retirement, which is just gonna be 50 fifteen years. And you go back to the experience of of Lazarus and the Richman. Laz uh Lazarus didn't have anything, but the Richman and at all. He lived in in he uh in his palatial dwelling and and you know the he had all these things at his fingertips. So but but then he died. So what, seventy years, eighty years, ninety years of pleasure? But then an eternity in hell. And that's not where I want to find myself. So so we gotta think in terms of eternity. Yes. save up for the retirement, but we gotta think we gotta pay more attention to where we're gonna spend eternity because eternity is real. It's real, it's coming. We're all gonna go there. It is appointed for us for man once to die. And after that, we're gonna face a judgment. And we're gonna, that's we're gonna know Where we're spending eternity. So right now, I want to make sure that I keep keep my focus on on this eternity, this paradise in heaven that I want to experience. And I want to make sure that I'm conforming to the culture of the kingdom to make it. Luke 16 and 16 says that they were pressing their way into the kingdom. It's not something that we just can just, you know, um just easily walk into. We gotta press our way. From the from the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom is being preached and every man press his way into it. So when you when you fast and you pray and you begin to to to uh discipline your lifestyle to make God your habitation Psalms 91 says, you know, I make God my habitation. When I make him my habitation, a lifestyle of of spending time with him and developing intimacy with him That is where I'm I'm I'm I'm building up treasures in heaven to make sure my eternity is gonna be in paradise. Yeah, as former pop star Prince said in one of his songs talking about eternity, he says, you know, that that you know eternity is forever and that's a mighty long time. Yes it is. And I'm reminded of a of a quote that is often attributed to Abraham Lincoln. I don't know if he truly said it and I don't have the quote exactly right, but the gist of it is, if I were given an hour to chop down a tree, I'd spend the first fifty minutes sharpening my ax. And that's kind of what you're talking about is spend fifty minutes sharpening your act spiritually by pressing into the scriptures and praying and fasting and and and that sort of thing. Uh and don't be so busy about the work of chopping down the tree. Prepare yourself for that work of chopping down the tree by spending time with God, I think. So I'm gonna uh by the way, this is the Faith Debate at 930 WFMD. I'm talking with the author of Renewing Your Mind Daily, Book One, by Rowan Stewart. Uh you can find us online at WFMD. com and I don't know if I've mentioned this, my name's Troy Skinner. There you go. All right, I'm going to uh cover a few more uh chapter headings this time so that we can uh uh cover them all before we run out of time here. So day twenty-one says God rewards diligence. Day 22, seek God early, mind, heart, and ears. Day 23, seek God early, eyes, tongue, hands, and feet. Day 24, pure religion. Day 25, contend for the faith. And I'm going to throw out five more headings. Day 26, strength and weakness. Day 27, God's mercies and compassions. Day twenty-eight, a culture of unity. Day twenty-nine, a love of the stranger, and day thirty, wonderful in the eyes of God. So there's Ten chapter headings. Yes. Is there one of those ten that uh yes want to draw special attention to right now? Right. I think it's day twenty one, um seeking God um first in the morning, eyes, ears. Twenty-two, day twenty-two. Yes. Well well now So both both of them are Twenty two and twenty day twenty two and twenty-three are both about seeking God early and combined they are mind, heart, ears, eyes, tongue, hands, feet. Right, right. So I could just we could just combine those So should I not seek God with my screen? I think we should give that some focus. Okay. Right, yes. So so this one uh Is that the one with mine eyes? Okay. Right. Mine eyes mine heart ears. Mine heart ears. Okay. So so it's it's this kind of uh reminding people. You know, when I get up in the morning time I try to So uh in include in my prayer that that today, Father, I I belong to you. Today it it it's a recommitment, a daily recommitment. That my mind belongs to God, that I'm gonna entertain righteous thoughts That I'm going to entertain pure thoughts. That that ungodly thoughts are not going to be be uh uh controlling me. So so y I start I try to start my prayer out like that and that my heart too that my that I have a heart that that loves God that that loves others the way I would want to be loved and and that type of thing. And that my my ears, these these instruments will be used to to listen to the word of God. to to block ungodly stuff as much as I can and and to just tune tune in, use these these instruments God has given me to listen to the word of God, to listen to to righteousness. and and stuff like that. So uh I try to make it a a a a daily prayer of mine to just recommit these members. You know, as a reminder to myself, as a recommitment. Just to make sure that when I go out there I say, Yeah, oh yeah, my I don't want to listen to that or I don't want these things to be in my mind. I'm committed to God. I am I'm a soldier for the kingdom, I'm a priest, I'm a royal priest. And and this is the way the way royal priests of God operate. A lot of people struggle in their prayer life, you know, they start to pray for two or three minutes and they feel like they've run out of things. to say or they're getting repetitive like day after day they're putting the exact same things. This can be a helpful tip. Um you know I remember when I was in grade school I had a teacher that was trying to teach us some uh relaxation and meditation techniques. Why they were teaching us in grade school, I have no idea. But they were, and but part of it was you know to focus on different parts of the body. You know, and she started I think with I think she started with the head and worked her way down and started with the toes and worked her way up. I can't remember. But focusing on each individual member or part of your body, you know, uh made the process of relaxing and meditation drag out longer rather than I'm gonna lay here and and I'm gonna think about my body relaxing. Isn't as helpful as I'm gonna think about my toes relaxing So in this case when you're praying, uh, you know, instead of just praying, God, I want to have uh uh an an obedience to uh to the leading of your spirit and to and and to uh the teaching of your word. Okay, now what do I pray? But if you say, I want to have a a you know, I want to be faithful and obedient with my mind and you spend some time kind of riffing on that, like what does it mean to be obedient in your mind? You know, your thoughts and your uh and your intellectual uh time and and then y your heart and what does that mean? And then your ears, the things you hear, and before you know it you can spend a half hour just talking about just your body parts instead of just that thirty second prayer, you did a thirty minute prayer Yeah. And and the f and the the the following one or the one before goes into like the eyes. Right. And and the tongue. Right. You know, the the scripture in Proverbs eighteen twenty-two tells us we're gonna have we're good on time? Yes. Says you know, y you life and death are in the So so we gotta commit ourselves there. So today, Father, I dedicate my my tongue to you to speak life even into dead situations, to speak, to speak love, to speak encouragement to others. To speak life and to speak encouragement and to speak speak the truth. And and and not to speak things that that that that that tend to death, but speak things that tend to life. Life. And the eyes. Not not not making sure that we're not focusing, looking at things that we should be looking at, but that our eyes will behold the beauty of w Hmm. Good stuff. So the last 10 days of this 40-day devotional. Day 31, treasure the kingdom. Day 32, the Our Father Prayer. Day 33, A Reflection of Abba Father. Day 34, Following Christ. Day 35, have no fear. And now the last five chapters. Last five days of the devotional day beginning with day 36, Mountain Pulpit. Day 37 is supernatural encounters. Day 38 is pressing into the kingdom. Day 39 is God Knows All About You. And day forty, comfort in God's words. So which one of those would you like to expound upon? It's hard to to pick just one because there's so many that I'm not sure. Exactly. Right, right. So I'm gonna go with um the I think the the first one, the Our Father Prayer. Okay, to the Our Father Prayer. I would love to go into the the supernatural one, but you know we've spent a lot of time discussing supernatural audience know that So let's let's look at the Our Father prayer. So um Jesus taught his disciples to pray, Our Father word in heaven. So immediately you he builds that relationship. Letting us know that look, this is a father son relationship and and then I'm father, I you're a dad and y we love our kids. There's absolutely nothing that we're gonna withhold from them that you know they come and they request something And we can provide provide it to them. We're gonna provide it. And this is this is how Jesus establishes that relationship. Our Father. Who art in heaven. So in speaking to God, in calling to God, I first gotta acknowledge who He is, our Father. Who art in heaven? He's all he's the Father and He's the Creator of all things, he's omnipresent, omniscient, He's the all-knowing God, the All-Wise God, the All-on- understanding God. There's nothing that is impossible to him. And he's my daddy. And there's nothing that he can't do. We we are we have limitations, right? As that we have limitations. By him, the the creator of the heavens and and the earth, there's no limitation. So when I come to him, I've got to come to him with in in faith It's with faith that we please God, right? No one can please God without faith. So I'm gonna come to him as this child, knowing that my abba father can Provide anything I want. No, if he doesn't provide it, it just means it may not be in his will right now. Maybe tomorrow or next month or next year it may be in his will. But right now, either it's not in his will or just oh the timing is wrong. His time is right. So I gotta come to in prayer with that understanding that look, there is nothing impossible with God and is my father, so I can get anything that I want. Hmm. And then this is talking about his will being done on earth as in heaven. Uh it's it's calling for his will, but it's also that's a call to obedience. because if his wills be done on earth as it is in heaven, like we need to like live that kind of life out right for that to happen. Yeah. So um That little s snippet you just gave us was like a little miniature sermonette. You know, that's like uh the the the kind of thing that gets preached from pulpits. And so it sounds like there's a bit of a of an attitude of preaching in this book, which is uh encouraging and uh and and cajoling, but also it's It's convicting, right? Because if you're not living this kind of life, you're gonna feel a little bit convicted. Yes. uh at least in your mind, if not on with pen and paper outline, some idea what your next book is gonna be. So what are you anticipating book two in this series to be focusing on? What I anticipate for book book two is The the the the flesh I see right now we're getting caught up even the even the the the the churches not your church not my church but I see Especially the the the the I love um watching television ministries, right? But most of the time I I I get so discouraged because it's all about prosperity It's quite about feeding the flesh, the same thing that Jesus tells us, deny flesh. Seek the kingdom first And these things we add on to you. So I see the church being like swept away with this this culture of selfishness. Oh, the biggest the biggest car. Oh the big biggest house, the biggest this, the biggest that. And and these television ministries I I noticed they're they're they're they're this is the gospel that they're coming with. spirit the gospel which is a deviation from what Jesus Christ teaches so my thing is no no no we gotta we gotta come back to the the truth It's it's about seeking the kingdom first, it's about denying ourselves that that we fulfill the the the desires of the kingdom. Hmm. Yeah, that's a real problem. Uh and particularly in the American church, the prosperity gospel, which is no gospel uh at all, actually. It's a it's a It's a hoax. It's uh that's being perpetrated on uh um members of uh God's people. If you buy into it, you're buying into a lie. Um You know, uh it if you read your New Testament, it is clear that the Christians will be persecuted. Uh, you know, the last will be first. We're not called to any sort of oath of poverty necessarily. God will bless his people, sometimes with great riches. That's not the point. But to put your faith and hope in those riches Uh and to think that uh God is some sort of a genie that you you ask for your three wishes and you get your big house, your big car, and your beautiful spouse Um that's not exactly what it is. He's not like a a vending machine. You know, that's not God. And yeah, you're you're you're right. That is a huge problem. So I'm I'm thinking about um something like um untethering the the heart from the the strongholds. of the um unrelenting tentacles of the flesh. Something to that nature. Well, looking forward to that. Well the book that's out now is called Renewing Your Mind Daily, Book One. Rowan uh R-O-H-A-N. Rowan R. Stewart. It's from Zulon Press. X-U-L-O-N. Zulon Press. Google it, you know, Rowan Stewart uh Rowan Stewart uh Renewing Your Mind Daily. You'll find it on Amazon, Barnes and Noble, places like that. Uh buy one for yourself, buy one as a gift. I mean every every time you buy a book you're supporting a local author. How cool. is that. Thank you, Rome, for being on the show. Thank you so much. If you've missed these four episodes, go online, WFMD. com. You can find the pay uh the uh the podcast of all of the four shows that we've done together And we'll be back next week with another edition of the Faith Debate with a uh Rowan won't be back next week, but maybe he'll be back some other day in the future. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless