Broadcasting from the center of Big Brother City in the heart of Bridlack County. Where preaching with impact is like ploughing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfied things. This is the perfect way to date on Frederick's Leeds Radio, nine thirty WFMD. It's gotta be the best tagline ever. It's just gotta be. Brought to us by Putin Plumbing and Heating Happy Make You Smile. Cruise Holidays of Frederick and BMC Insurance Crowd supporters of New Life Christian Academy. This is a live in-the-street edition of the Frederick Bay Debate. So as you're walking by, you're like, who are these guys? We're the guys on your radio, on the AM band, AM 930 on Sunday. mornings from eight thirty till nine. And I know you cares and I tell you what I've been reading lately. Yes. 'Cause Jonathan always reads along. Yeah. I don't read near as much as Troy. Timothy reads as much as he does. Jimothy Whitmer, the Shepherd Leader, Achieving Effective Shepherding in Your Church, I would recommend that one. Defeating the what? No. The shepherd leader. Achieving effective shepherding in your church. Oh. All pastors should read that book. I thought you said uh defeating the uh flat sheets in the in the church. I also read a really cool article you would appreciate uh by uh Chad Benjamin. Dix horn, taking care of your pasture. Ah. It's a really cool idea about how children can better take care of a little bit of fertilizer. Yeah, turn them towards the sun. Prune them on occasion. Yeah. Anyway, joining Jonathan Schweitzer, Senior Pastor President Valley Crossworks Valley. I don't know if I did. No, you need to introduce our guest today. Helen Tasker is a Quaker. There you go. That's the simple thing. She's quaking in this right now. She is the clerk of the Curtic Monthly Meeting. the religious society of friends uh here locally. And we're talking about peace. Peace. Making peace, and we're doing the best we can to upset the feeling of peace that we have with the Faith Debate program. Not the way the dirty Harry Callahan talks about a peace. So we talked about Syria a little last week and and and and how we can try to achieve peace from a uh a biblical Christian point of view and a and a uh a traditional Quaker point of view. Right. Uh and we were kind of grappling with well, it seems like maybe it doesn't work all that well. And another example, not to make it all political and international conflict focused But you know, the the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, you know, we were sitting there trying like our darndest to stay out of that thing. Uh this is the Second World War. And then we get attacked and it's like, All right, I just we just can't take the pacifist path on this anymore. would be a a simplistic read of that situation. Maybe the Quakers say, No, no, no, we still had a path that was pacifist in that. I don't know. So there are I don't know what their story is on that one. So there are a lot of practical problems and then there are theological problems as well. And Jonathan touched on those last week talking about uh the teaching example of Christ and the overall overarching uh narrative of the Bible that seems to indicate that uh at some point the patience and the the dialogue runs out and somebody's gonna have to pay the piper. You're either with me or you're against me. And if you're against me, sorry, you come to a horrific violent end. You know? And so where Quakers would take their action, I mean, um in that situation in World War Two, what Quakers actually won the Nobel Prize for Nobel Peace Prize for or the American Friends Service Committee and the British Friends Service Committee ran ambulances um in Europe after that. It didn't matter who, right? Whether they were Germans, um French, whatever, I mean they would they would help help those in need. And that is what has been um their path is to love that person. So no not so much on the blow. I thought everybody did that in w in uh in war, like in America I'm not sure exactly what I think. And if they're the enemy then then you keep 'em under guard, but you still help 'em to you know be healed. I'm not exactly sure what it was about their group that combined to I don't know know if they set up a model but um that action group is still around today and that would be the thing. We still work with prisoners for instance and um work inside to try to help prisoners um contact especially, you know, um well no, men of violence I guess or men who come from these different paths and they've ended up here. Um how can we help them inside? W and there are different conflict resolution programs that have been started and carried on throughout the prisons to work with these men and I guess some women to help them develop skills um of transformation that they can actually sit down and dialogue. instead of going to violence first. And that's a personal level. But that's a lot of the level that friends do work on. Let me let me say there's nothing that I can think of. I if you were to keep talking I might find some things. But there's nothing we had uh a Deb Reeling on the show. Yeah. It's hard to get in a fight with a Quaker. You know? And there's very little that you've said that you know anybody who's got any compassion and has a heartbeat in their chest w would want to argue with. I mean it's it's a very feel good. Hey, why can't we all just get along? It's like Rodney King uh apologetics right here. So the very places that we have issues those precisely It doesn't feel it's too good to be true. The idea that we all are I'm gonna use different language. The biblical language would be, you know, we're all made in the and created in the image of God. Exactly. That's that's that's different than we all have. uh the light of Christ living within us. That will be a a difference there. But we're all made in the image of God. So I'm gonna we're gonna agree at least on that. And we should our our response to things should be love based. And we should have patience and gentleness and kindness and we shouldn't try to have dialogue. and and meet people where they are and all those things. Right. Uh and I but I think the disconnect is the Quaker would probably say because we all have this light, this divine that's that that is of God within us, we're all basically good. And we need to respect that. Yeah. And I don't think that's true. I don't think it's realistic. And one, I could argue from the Bible. We could also argue from the world situation. Look at how many bad things happen. In fact I kinda th we might all basically be good at some level, but we're all basically bad at some level. So what is What's the Quaker response to the basically bad part of who we are? Um and she shrugs and doesn't know how to respond. Um Is there a basically bad part? Are you ri I don't I don't know? Alexander Sultan. Yeah. Oh nice. You would agree with that? That there is a line between good and evil that goes through every person's heart. So you so so I feel like for letting me pick up. about that one maybe. Yeah, I mean it's like one of those queries that's posed in our meeting for worship or in a business meeting. Yeah, what do I think? And then they want to sit with that and Yeah, we keep talking and we talk to the frequency. Well let's talk about a process then. So that's how the the the quicker process of just trying to discover rightness from wrongness as far as what you think about things would be to to wait on some sort of inspiration of of an answer or for somebody else to get an inspired answer to then share with the group. So like our business meetings for instance Um w and that sounds sort of boring but it's um you probably know what consensus is. Not quite sometimes. Depending on on on on the thing. But so we have a meeting for worship with a concern for business. So the idea is it's um coming to a sense of the meeting which is different than consens uh consensus, okay, which is more secular because we're going into worship about these questions. Um Um more or less, right? More or less. So then you r you arrive at some place of a sense of consensus. A sense of the meeting. Right. Okay, I think we've got our answer to that question. Or not. Or or not. I mean we for instance, you know that Quakers um were the were really strong against slavery, but probably what's not in the history books is it took as a body of Quakers to come to that idea ninety three years. It took a Long time. But once they were on board with that, they were on board with it. But once they get to that place of being on board with okay, now we've got our answer how do you have a certainty that you're right? And could there ever be a Quaker that would come back? I mean there's a divine light and and and if we could If we could say that Jesus said something's right but now what he said was right is no longer right, then why can't we do that about that as well? Because that would um defy the basic uh I think the one truth that oh there I go again. That But if you're destroying another right, if you're destroying another by enslaving them or oppressing them, then that's not honoring that light in another. Okay, so that's funny because when My mom and dad gave me um you know, they put me in a timeout. I felt like it was slavery for that time, but in fact they were building me up and they were they were using the training process or the discipline process which felt like slavery for a period of time to bring me to a place of personal responsibility in inner discipline so that I could walk into greater freedom. And so so then maybe there is a place for it. If we just say it just the right way. I think I think slavery is a lot different than a time And I think the oppression is not a good idea. And debt and servitude. Right. I'll give you the next five years of my life if you pay for me to come over. Do you think we're going back there? Do you think we're going back there? No, I'm just saying or in other parts of the world 'cause It still exists in other part of the world. And the slave trade has not gone away. I feel like even in America the there's a sex slave trade control and part of the Hillary elimination process is a lot of people are willing to live as slaves in order to try to get to this country. Slavery has not gone away. And so what I what I like about Ike and Cotton. Uh I get the sense that Quakerism takes a Judeo Christian worldview and then removes out of it the idea of sin and judgment and says, Let's just live by this. Well I mean I feel like Quakerism would never have grown d developed anywhere else. I mean y I mean all your principles of conflict resolution, all those kinds of things basically you you have plundered Christianity for a lot of really good stuff. And then you say, But that other stuff we're not gonna we're we're just gonna get what the bad solution does. I mean um yellow square is it fair wood quakers? What what's the quaker using the woods uh well you know we don't usually use those terms growing up don't don't use a lot of the terminology. Um I when I don't know if it was when I was um going to a Lutheran Bible study years ago um and t and if it was there or if it was my husband who's um who's really well versed with um Quaker theology the idea idea of thin isn't the original um missing the mark. Isn't that the missing the mark. So you're okay with that? Yeah, because we do. And and what we always And then there is a mark. Yeah, but can we define it in our words and and that's where I think integrity um uh kindness gentleness self control I mean uh missing the mark and and the word sin uh that's part of the etymology of the word. Right. But the the the the the poor biblical understanding of the word sin is that in missing the mark you have violated God's standard and have therefore stepped into offense against your creator. So it's not just oh I made some honest mistake but you gotta make it right where God's sending us in is that you have wronged God. Right. And and so then a notion of integrity. Um which is what we still try to hold true. And and you know we all we're human So we're all trying to do the best we can and oh man, like there are moments in my life when, Well, I really said that, I really did that, oh my, you know, I need to go back. I need to and this can be through the fundamental difference by the way. I don't think all humans are trying to do the best they can. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So let's say for myself. I wish I were trying to do the best I can. And I guess that's you know, we try to hold each other accountable, but I think one of the messy things about being pacifist and nonviolent is and this has been the struggle for me because and I think in Quaker meetings all over. It's like, okay, I want to be loving, I wanna be kind, I want peace. But does that mean I always have to feel nice? You know, do I it's the the the whole nice kind of thing. Right. You know, and I think that's a Really hard. Gentle, I guess. Sometimes truth. And I think this goes back to what we were talking about earlier with Jesus. That's hard. That tough flow of notions is hard. Yeah. And so where is that? Yeah, and Jesus wasn't always nice. Oh a bit angry and I'm not sure. Jesus referred to his his leading disciple as you know, get behind me Satan. He can be insulted his leading disciple. You know, uh whatever it was. You know, say it was my wife and I, you know, there's a marriage, there's a relationship. Right? And and I did something that was extremely painful to you. Right. Right, and I was not willing to admit it. Right. Right? Uh at some point you'd have to say man there's a serious problem here right that we can't just kinda brush over. It's not just you kind of fixing your heart and getting yourself right, but at some point you gotta you gotta help me to come in terms of the fact that that I missed the mark in how I treated you. The question is whether or not the same thing is true with God. If I've done something and he's created a world and I have done something that flies in the face of that and he is therefore then um hurt by it. He's wounded by it. I've done something that has caused pain to him because it's it's not right, it's not the right thing to do. Do I have an obligation to make that right with God? And if I do have an obligation to make that right with God, then I'm dealing with again Before you answer the question, put to you, Helen by the by the uh defense attorney here, John John Sweitzer is the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church in Frederick. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. We're brought uh brought to us by today by uh Putman Holding and Heating as at most many weeks, BMC at Counting and Insurance and Cruise Holidays. And our guest this week is Helen Tasker, she's the clerk. with the Frederick Monthly Meeting of the Religious Society of Friends, also known as Quakers. So imagine this, first of all, right? You're married to John. Okay. Swallow heart. That's already Mr. Mark. Already swallowed heart on that one. Alright, so Mary of John, there's this great offense. So if we offend God, do we have an obligation to make it right? with God. Is that a yes no? Sounds like a yes no. I would I would say It is a yes yeah. Yeah. Um e that to live that life of integrity, to keep true to that of God within and and then maybe yeah I guess But I'll just make God the other. I mean I don't have you within me. I'm not apologizing to the to the Helen within me. I'm apologizing to the Helen. Right? And my point is that okay there's a God within me, but am I am I associating that God within me with me? I'm just kinda making my peace with myself or do I recognize that there is a God. I think there's yes, yes, God was and that there's a better that there's that um that greater truth. truth. Capital T, you know, that that's way bigger that not you It's interesting and you use terms that are a little bit less personal, like the greater truth. Not so personal. And I feel like that I feel like that's the danger of my relationship with anybody that I depersonalize them. That's a major conflict resolution principle that I personalize them so that I can treat them with the respect that they're due in and do we depers is it appropriate to depersonalize God in order to make it easier for us to kinda work it through? Do we need to Do we need to honor his personhood so that I can make things right with him? There's my wow question. Wow. Well, there's a question. I wonder, John, are you leading us down the path to the gospel proclamation? I'm definitely there. You know I'm there. step is Jesus Christ. Yeah, yeah, if you're gonna say, well, he says yes, no question. Do you have a obligation to make it right with your higher power or the light or whatever? Right, right. No God. You have a r you have an obligation to make it right. How do you go about doing that? Because the Christian response to that would be is that I have an obligation within. Like if I sin against you and you were my wife it mean an apology but oftentimes it means some restitution. That just would be right in the context of whatever happened wrong. You know, then I'm just gonna make it make it right. I'm gonna I'm gonna show by my actions the sincerity that I'm making it right with her personally. And the same thing's true with God. At a time when there's there's a cost that I'm gonna take upon myself to make it right. I think I I think that's the possibility. Yeah. Right, because the problem is, of course, you know, uh God uh b uh the biblical god I'm not sure if if the biblical god and the Quaker God are the same. I'm not sure about that. That's a good question. I like that question. And so any offense against the infinite God is an infinite offense. And so we are finite and there's no way for a finite individual to make an infinite offense, we need an infinite someone to make that right, which is necessary. But if God's love infinite love is great and forgiving and it doesn't mean that it's not accountable. That's where I guess the question would be and that's where it's a bit of a how does it interact with people that are not being sincere to make things. But I know that I think with a lot of faith groups there are a lot of faith groups for instance again I'm thinking about the prisons um and the people who have committed these civil crimes and most of our civil crimes also would go against the Ten Commandments. Um w that they are working toward that healing, that restorative justice. And that's something that I think um comes in. And you're wondering, I think that's a good idea. So I think when you take that question which which one is you know and then and then I guess My sense is and and coming coming back down is what we can do in our everyday lives. Whether it's with the grocery store clerk who's had to deal with the long line in front of us and this or that or somebody driving down the highway, somebody in our family, just a moment. How can and we have to practice that because obviously none of us are perfect, but engaging in dialogue like this and with openness and a listening heart that is huge. And all we can do yes as individuals, you know, we might write our congressman, but then it comes down to what can we do, how can we witness that love on a daily basis and not be afraid to. Whether we're calling what we're doing as something that I'm doing because this is my faith where I come from in my face. That doesn't mean we always have to mention that. We can live in that life that takes away the occasion for war, injustice, hatred, um whatever the the pain in society is, if we can go to that that love and tap into that. Right, but you're you're beginning with a uh predisposition that love and war are uh need to be separate matters, that you can't have such a thing as a loving war. Right? I mean you're you're predisposed to that definition. And I'm not I mean I think we live in the environment of a spiritual war that's taking place. And and that's all about this being centered on love. Right. And the and standing up for righteousness and justice and uh and and calling a wrong a wrong and doing what you can to make that right for the one who was wrong is all balled up with what is love. So I don't know that we have to separate. In fact I w I would say that that you seem to have what could arguably be argu arguably be said to be a higher hope than what I have in Christ. And I'd say you even have more hope than Jesus had. That Jesus seemed to t to have hope for all those people that are willing to admit that they got a problem and come to a place of repentance and and uh and change and transformation. At that point is the point of the time. which there's reason to have an eternal hope that that people can be changed. But those that can't go there, those people There's nothing we can do for them. Th there there's there's a limit to what we can do for those people that will not admit that there's a need for change. And that being the case, he limits his hope and this is why that's so important. Because if I tell my wife that I'm gonna do this, this, this, this and this and it turns out that I'm just blowing smoke and my my promises the hope that I'm asking her to put in my promises are really illegitimate, then what's gonna happen is she's gonna become cynical in the long run. And so for us to set our hope too high or in the wrong place is gonna breed cynicism and it and it's a fear that uh it's a concern rather than that I have that possibly there's not an appropriate dealing with what truly can be a expected and what is too much to expect and we need to we need to set boundaries for ourselves. We gotta guard our own hearts. Out of that is the wellspring of life. And if we're hoping for more than is reasonable, then we're gonna end up getting hurt and wounded in ways that that are not just unnecessary but that can really undermine the life that is within us. I think we o opening ourselves to being vulnerable, putting ourselves out there, it's um it's a hard thing to do. It's really hard for a lot of us. Here. And I think that's where the dialogue, etcetera, begins on a personal basis. And I know we're coming up to the time, but I know you've been mentioning some books. And um a book that really I think you might enjoy, I'm not sure, but it opens sort of my world about Christianity. I think it explains Christianity in a different way is um the third Jesus, the Christ we cannot ignore, by Deepak Chopra. I mean I thought and I thought, wow, I like the title, I thought Deepak Chopra, wow Wow, woah and I read it and it was it it for me it gave a lot of terminology. Taking um some of the traditional heavy um terminology like salvation and this and that and and it took it And it describes it in a different way using um scripture, using some of the Gnostic gospels, using some um I think Buddhist stuff. And I I I I of course it's a Buddhist describing Christianity. Well, but I mean but you know what Well well do I have a right to go describe Buddhism as a Christian? I mean you just I don't know that he's the right guy to do earthquake prism for that matter. I'm just not sure. I mean what do we say? We have our judgment But again, reading something um you know, and helping us understand because one time long time ago when I was eighteen I wrote a poem to define God is to define the infinite. And where we get hung up is our words. It's the words that stands for the theology, the differences, but if I'm defining love one way or sin or whatever and I'm defining it another way, uh you know, it's just it's it just it's I just don't know that the words are at the root of the di of the difference. That's actually why the words are a symptom of the of the but the question. That's why I was getting out what I was getting at before with w with the the sense of the consensus or the sense of the meeting or whatever. And you have all these different places competing for, you know, acceptance by the group. And how do you know which one's right? But it's all of our job. And it's all of our job the clerk presides at the business meeting and and so but fortunately I know just because I'm in the clerk and sitting up there at that table doesn't mean that somebody might not have the right words, the right way to discern what is happening. So it when when we get into trouble as Quakers, when we go out of that face face, that face of face. That's face to face. It's getting late in the afternoon. We need some sugar. And actually we ran out of gas at just the right time so we're running out of time. So this is the Frederick paper. Thank you, Helen. Thank you. Helen Sasker is the clerk of the Frederick Monthly Meeting, the Religious Society of friends also known as Quakers. Jonathan Sweitzer, he was quaking in his boots heading into this uh uh fray with Helen, but uh he survived it okay. Now I have settled down in my soul. Right, he's he's he's communing with his inner life Hey, come on. Don't be on time. Jonathan Dwight, the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. I'm Troy Skin. I want to thank our sponsors, Footman Clumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? BMC Accounting and Insurance, Proud supporters of New Life Christian Academy. And Cruz High holidays of Frederick, who thankfully are sending Bob on a long cruise. Bob Miller, host of the Morning News Express, here on WFMD. Visit us online, WFMD dot com keyword faith that takes you to everything you need to know. And you can link to podcasts of this very show if you wait about Forty-eight hours from now, the podcast should be up by about then. You can listen to the show back in all its monophonic glory. Thanks for listening. Till next week. God bless