This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Where faith community leaders wrestle over the truth. Yeah, but that's what you in less than 30 minutes learn more about what really matters. than others learn in a month. Oh how convenient. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble. Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of Bridges Connecting. needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder John Soitzer. I'm just getting long done. Lots of people leave a church. Some leave forever. Others leave for another church. Some Some then leave these other churches and bounce from church to church, hoping to find an ill-defined feeling of home. If unsuccessful and frustrated, then what Start your own church, even without a pastor. That's what? That's what happened with Living Faith Ministries in Hagerstown. on the panel today along with uh Jonathan Schweitzer and I are Roland and Dottie Stover, Michael and Kelly Lichtenberg and Diane Lichtenberg. Uh they are uh leaders and regular attenders that started a brand new church two years ago. And it believe it or not, still exists today in spite of my efforts to do everything I can to trash that darn thing. You've heard me mention a couple of times uh in in research I'm actually the pastor of the church now. So um I think we should probably get people to uh start to try to identify voices with with uh names. That's gonna be hard. It's gonna be hard for us, John's like I'm not gonna get all these names right. And uh we we got a bit of an etymology uh on all the names right before the start of the show of where people are are are their ancestries from. So John you're from Germany. And that's me. That's John's. Good to see you today Alright, so can we who wan Kelly, you want to say hello at least? Hello, this is Kelly Lichtenberg. Okay. And Mike, you wanna Hi, this is Mike Lichtenberg. Okay. And Diane? Hi, this is Diane Lichtenberg Alright, keep going. Hi, I'm rolling stover. And I've Dottie Stover. Alright, so we got the whole crew here. This Uh i is either a new record or ties of record for most people ever on the paper date at one time, right? I think we've already had quite this many. Except for my many personalities and you know internal conflicts. Well if those turn up then uh then we'll really interesting to talk about in that there's a church that began that didn't have a pastor which is you know kind of unusual. Uh but before we get there, I I thought it'd be good to kind of lay the groundwork for how that even became a possibility in your mind. So as quickly as you can kind of sketch out, I'm not sure who who wants to go first. Uh Mike I guess is they're we're volunteering Mike to go first. So Mike, you can if if you can just real quickly, you know, what was your experience With church growing up, what did that look like for you as you entered into adulthood? What were you doing right before Living Faith Ministries came into existence? Um actually I did not grow up in the church. Um I became saved pretty much on my own. My parents did not force me to go to church, nor did they go to church. Um so I was saved as I was nineteen years old and um I didn't go to church for a long time but I did study the Bible and I got to hunger for God and I got my Bible out and my concordances and I just studied it and every time I come across the word I didn't understand, I would look it up in the strongest concordance and find the numb find a number to it, see if it was Greek, Hebrew and then just a teenager Yeah, about nineteen twenty, yeah, something like that. Uh and so w what was triggering that do you think? Uh The Holy Spirit's the only thing I I can I can come up with was I you know, I I think I always grew up knewing there was something greater and um just more grandiose than Eve eating an apple. Or the the little cartoons that we see. I knew God was real. He wasn't he wasn't this cartoon character. Jesus wasn't this pencil sketch on the wall. He was something real. And I wanted to know what that real was. I wanted to really know what that real was. I didn't want somebody else's. um idea or pictures in my head and that's why I opened the Bible up and I started with Genesis one one. So it wasn't a youth group or college ministry or anything like that? Wow. No, not at all. Not at all. Okay. And then you ended up finding a church. Yeah, Kelly and I uh we got married and I said, you know, uh for for us to grow we we need to find a church and she said, Go ahead and find one and let me know So I I went and visited a few churches and we landed at at one in Hagerstown and uh we were there for How many years? Close to ten, maybe. Ten, ten, eleven years or so. And uh we grew and we met some great people, such as Dottie and Roland. And um from there we um Dottie and I ended up starting teaching Bibles Bible studies on Sunday mornings there. And uh we always said that our Bible study was the meat and potatoes. And uh of course our attendance to our our uh class wasn't as big as the other ones that were showing movies and stuff, but that was okay. We we were very comfortable in what we were teaching. um teaching there. And then Kelly and I we um we felt the Lord moving us to somewhere else. We had um met a pastor. He was actually a pastor that was um He he would he would guest speak at our church and we just fell in love with him and then he but he wasn't in town and then he came back came back to this area so we started to attend his church and we were there for Three and a half years. Dottie and Rowland had a Bible study going on and we crashed that. We we invited ourselves to her Bible study and then I shouldn't have did that 'cause then I think within the next couple of months I was helping teach that Bible study. Um from there. And um, you know, we you know, a lot of people in that Bible study were we were all from the same church previously, and not many had found a church home. And That was about as close as things a church that we had. There was about a dozen of us, but we didn't have a church re meeting once once a month. And uh I said to Dottie one day, I said uh What do you think about starting our own church? And she said the Holy Spirit said the same thing to me. Okay. And I start and I started going through uh we're getting ahead of ourselves just a little bit. So we're gonna pause there because that's we're gonna pick up on that Uh probably the beginning of next week's show, if we guess. So part of your story is shared with Kelly, so Kelly doesn't probably have as much as she has to say. Uh she had the submission thing down right away, right? You go find the church, I'll just go there. Uh so did you grow up in the church? No, I did not grow up in the church either. I had some teaching from my grandmother who in her younger years did attend a Catholic church. So I had learned some of the Catholic traditions and everything. The churches that I had went to in my teenage years were not churches that made me feel comfortable. They didn't bring any joy to my heart. When I would leave I felt like I was defeated and I was never going to get to heaven anyway. No matter what I did, I would never be good enough. So that was obviously a turn off for me. And so as Mike said, when we were married, he wanted us to begin to to attend a church to, you know, so I told him you find the church because I did not want to have those feelings all over again. And so he did go to a church for probably a month or two before I decided to join him in attending that church. And then I think I think he covered everything else. Okay. And now there's somebody in the room that shares a last name. So so Diane, what's uh what's your story? What's your connection? Uh I am to these two. Guess the the m the mom to Mike and Kelly would be my daughter and be my stuff. Absolutely, absolutely. Love him. Okay. So what's your what's your uh background like? Um, grew up as a child in the church. My grandmother was very much into it, Methodist. and we would go down two Sundays. My mom and dad had split, but we would go down like two Sundays a month. We went to church, Sunday school, uh vacation, Bible school, um, church camp, everything. I loved it Um, but then older and teenage and kinda kinda split away and then grandma unfortunately passed away. And that was pretty much the end of me going to to church. Mom just wasn't really into it and she didn't push the issue. However, when I did get to be in the ninth grade, she put me into a Catholic private school, high school. So I wasn't Catholic but they did offer you had to take religion every s there was a class, mandatory. And they did have a non Catholic religion class that I had to take, you know, all four years. What I did like about that is I got to learn about all kinds of religions and what they believe in and things you know, things like that. They did primarily lean towards Christianity. But I got to learn a lot of different things from there. But then I did stop going after I got older and then um you know just just life just kinda took over. And then I just decided it was time to start getting back into this. I mean, there is something else there and I I want to be a part of that. So Mikey and Kelly said they were looking to start into something and I've tried to be regular attendants and I I like I like it. One of the things there that also drew me with them is that like with my education We delved into all kinds of different things. One of the nice things that I did like about the church starting out is we had no pastor and I got to hear a wide variety of different kinds of interpretation of the Bible and beliefs and things like that. And I do I do enjoy that, but I also now like having somebody that I can put a face on and go to when I need it. So that's nice Okay. So uh were you there from the very beginning? Yes. Yeah, okay. All right. And so uh Mike referenced that he taught a s a uh Sunday school class with Dottie and that uh that Dottie and Mike had a conversation that kind of led them into, hey, maybe we should do this thing that ended up becoming uh uh Living Faith Ministries Uh so now we're gonna turn to Dottie uh and her hubby. And we'll let uh let you guys share your your background uh growing up and your your life with the church. Well, growing up, um, my family would start to go to church for a while and then we would stop for whatever reason. I mean it was often on one but both sides of my family grandparents were Christians and later on I realized they had been praying for us. And I guess I was nineteen um when the Holy Spirit started to speak to me. And tonight's the first I realized Mike was nineteen. I thought, uh, kindred spirits here. Um But the Holy Spirit and at the time of course I didn't know it was the Holy Spirit. Uh it was just thoughts coming into my head that if I uh when I died, if I wanted to go to heaven, I would had to change my life. Well, I didn't smoke, I didn't drink, I didn't carouse, I anything, you know, I thought what is there to change, but I knew God was drawing me to him and to the church So I started going to church and very shortly thereafter got saved. And lo and behold, not long after that, along comes this blind date that I had and he's sitting next to me and um he had just come back to the Lord so we really jumped into Christianity together and grew up in the faith together. And as I look back and think about the churches that we attended when I was young and a a young teenager I never heard the gospel. I never heard there was a Savior. I never heard Jesus Christ died for my sins. But it was the Holy Spirit speaking to my heart directly. to let me know that I needed to be forgiven of my sins. So that's how I came to know the Lord. And um We Roland and I had been married about five years when um the Lord sent us off to Bible College and that's a long story in and of itself, but When we came back home, we thought we were going to be foreign missionaries when we went to college, but the Lord had other plans and He apparently wanted us to be missionaries in our own hometown. because we've watched him move us from time to time into different churches and when we get there it's like, oh, we've been praying for a Bible teacher for our adults class or we've been praying for this or that and it was something that Rowan and I could fit right into. So we've watched the Lord use everything he's taught us up to this point that when Mike came to us and said, I feel like the Lord is leading me down this road It was it was right there. We knew it was right. Now when you were growing up and then when you started becoming more serious about being involved in the church, what were the The the brands, if you will, what what what kind of churches were you involved with? Um we really got involved with the Wesleyan Church. In fact that we went to a United Wesleyan Bible college. in Allentown, Pennsylvania. Um and then when we came back from college, um there was only one Wesleyan church in Hagerstown and it had pretty much deteriorated to nothing And so we started uh tending uh brethren in Christ mostly. Okay. All right. We saved the best for last. I told Roland his job was to stir up some controversy. Well, um thought he said about it all. Well what about you growing up? What about before you were twenty years old? Yeah. When I was about eight or nine the Lord called me. Um I grew up in I mean, I was born in Hagerstown, Maryland, but uh I was only about six months old when my father went to work in Washington, DC. And um so I was about six months old when I went to Washington, DC. They went to church when they were in Hagerstown and they had me christened in church, but then when we went to Washington, um they didn't go to church. So I I I didn't know anything at all about church. I knew church was there and things like that. But um so when I was about eight or close to nine, the Lord called me and uh he told me he said, Go to church. So it happens that there was a little girl in the neighborhood my age and I asked if I could go to their church and so they did. They took me to church and I believe it was a Baptist church. And uh went to Sunday school with Anne, with her, the little girl, and uh that's where I learned about Jesus. And I got saved in that church. And so it went on pretty good from from there. Uh and um I don't know what happened, but being that young I wasn't going to church with them anymore, but I I met a friend that we went to church too, and that was a Baptist church too. So um I sort of was going on from there. But then later, when I got in my teens, I kind of got away from it, as I understand a lot of people do. And uh so After a time I went to Vietnam and when I came back from Vietnam I needed I needed the Lord. And so um I started reading all the Bible stories that I could get my hands on that I read as a child. And uh I just kept on reading and reading and growing and growing. And I asked the Lord to s to give me a good wife And uh lo and behold, he did. Oh really? Yeah. Oh w I wonder I'm trying to help you out, I told you I'd throw some controversy, Roland. Come on, let's go. I wanted to I asked that uh I go go to her church. And he did. He sent Dottie and we went to her church and come to find out we were about the same uh in the Lord. We weren't very far into the Lord. And um so we started growing and reading, reading the Bible and uh growing And we continued to grow up until even this point. We continue to grow. And so we like Dottie said I guess the Wesleyan Church is how we got involved with going to Wesleyan College in Allentown, Pennsylvania. And uh so from there then we started going to the our own church right now, the Living Faith Ministries. We've been joined by the Lichtenbergs. There's three of them, Michael Kelly and Diane, and the Stovers. There's two of them, Roland and Dotty, uh the Schweitzer, there's one of them, John. Um we've got, you know, about maybe six minutes or so left. And I'm not sure if I think we've done this in passing uh in bits and pieces over the years, but I wonder, do you want to take a couple of minutes and Uh in fairness to the panel, tell them your background really quick in a f in just a few minutes growing up in the church. Sure. So my background was uh kinda goes back to my great grandfather. I always like to start there. Uh he um the Schweitzers had lived on the banks of the uh finger lakes in New York for generations and they were uh he had like ten kids and half of them ended up being drunks and the other half uh kind of found God at the same time and so I came from the half that found God and that was my grandfather and he went into ministry with the Baptist church and started thirteen Baptist churches and my dad then grew up in that context and went to Baptist Bible Seminary and moved down here to DC uh with uh met my mom at at the seminary and then came down to the Washington, DC area to to um Montgomery Village. And so that's where I grew up uh in the church there in that context. And so my background has been um Baptist and then uh a very strong charismatic uh through the eighties and the nineties, then went into ministry uh in when I was twenty-five. um uh and moved here to the Frederick area, started a church in 2001 and uh am now in ministry here in Frederick. That's actually when you and I met was two thousand two, is that correct? Yeah, it was uh early in two thousand two. Yeah. Yeah, we met over lunch because you were gonna be having a um Like some sort of a marriage retreat or seminar or something and you wanted to you wanted to advertise it to people outside of your church. Yeah. And so that was our first meeting and then we to see if it would work out or not on the radio. Right. And then uh John was doing a uh was hosting a men's Bible study, I think on Wednesday nights at the time. And so I started participating on that and then our conversations went deep on numerous occasions and we thought, well, we should do this on the radio someday, and then here we are. And what's your background? by technical responsibilities. So um r th the the quickest way for me to describe my background is how I was kind of raised the denominational mutt. Uh the first church I can remember ever being inside of was uh an episcopal church. Um it was right next door to my grandparents' house, and on Sunday mornings they would send me to go there They didn't go. They sent me through the backyard to go to this church. I was a little kid. I was like five years old. And I'd go to their their Sunday school and then afterwards I didn't know I think I was sent there for Sunday school, but I didn't know to leave after Sunday school and so I had some people who were like, Who is this unattended kid? So they brought me into the worship service. uh uh with them. That's my first earliest memories of church. Uh and then with my mom, uh uh She didn't really grow up in in with the church or in the Lord or anything like that, but she felt like it was something that would be important for her son to be involved with, so she started taking me to church and She didn't know where to take me and she just she found a worship service that had uh guitar music and this was back in the seventies, so you know, that that whole hippie movement, praise and worship kind of thing was interesting to her and there was a Roman Catholic church that offered that kind of service. This was post Vatican II, so uh the the timing was right for that as far as that goes. And so um if I'm not giving as long an answer as I'm giving now, I typically will say, well, I was raised Roman Catholic, but now I'm Protestant That's the short sentence version. But it's not really fair to say that I was raised Roman Catholic because it was a window of time that lasted, you know, maybe a half a dozen years, but that's only a half a dozen years. And then during my high school years, uh my family got involved in what I now recognize and identify as a Christian cult, the Worldwide Church of God. Um and so left that thoroughly theologically confused. Uh and so I kinda went on my own odyssey, kind of like some people have said in this room, where you do your kind of your own study and you you look things up for yourself and you try to grapple with the Bible on your own and You're not sure who to trust as as a teacher or or whatever, and you kind of muddle your way through and then finally was uh was kind of rescued from that not too long before uh meeting Jonathan, you know. Uh had a pastor who was very patient and would sit with me for hours to answer my questions. And I could tell sometimes he got frustrated, but he sat there for hours anyway and kept answering the questions. Uh and then not too long after that he asked me to uh start uh leading a Bible study. uh connected to the church and uh I wasn't sure that I was the right choice for that, but he saw something there that made him think that I should. And then it was on the heels of that that he said, Do you ever think about being a pastor? I think that, you know You might want to think about going to seminary. So then I went to seminary and I got my degree and I got into church leadership and then I pastored a different church uh for for a bit and that was a learning experience. Uh And uh this show has actually been part of my learning experience uh as well. Uh because we've had all comers. I mean this is a panel of nothing but, you know, people that go to Christian churches. in this room. But we've had, you know, uh rabbis and, you know, people who are uh I w I would say militant atheist, uh agnostic, uh Buddhist, uh Muslim. Uh Mormon, uh I mean I can't who am I leaving out? And all parts of the body of Christ, those that claim to be Christians. So all, you know, Catholic. you know, Greek Orthodox, uh some more liberal, some more conservative, like across, you know, the United States, the Unity Church, Methodist Church. I mean the whole The whole shooting match, right? Not for lack of trying though. Anyway, well that's gonna be the end of this show, so I'm gonna wrap this up. We're gonna pick up next week and we're going to talk about how Living Faith Ministries kind of was birthed, its infancy. So we're going to pick up there next week. So thank you all for listening. Till next week, uh 167. 5 hours from right now. God bless.