This is the face to base. Much of what is called apostolic in the church today does not measure up to the biblical model, says Barry Star Lipper and the Apostle. Jesus got the book by the way. What is the state of the Apostolic Church today? How does it measure up to the church model that's found in the pages of the New Testament? Here to talk about such questions as these, our Pastor Neil A Chempong from Covenant Family Chapel in downtown. John Frederick, you might already know him pretty well as his sermons are featured here on WFMD each Sunday morning at 9 30, immediately following this Faith Debate Show. Also on the panel today is an evangelist, pastor, teacher Barry Robert Starlipper, he has been in active ministry since the age of 15, so he started a couple years ago. And by the time he had graduated from high school, he had already preached in 36 states, and I'm pretty sure one of those was a state of confusion. He is the author of The Apostle Jesus, The Kingdom Among You. And he actually was on this show uh two or three years ago, I think, when the first the book had first come out. So welcome back to the show. Thank you. Pleasure to be back. And uh we're going to talk primarily about the issues that are raised in uh this book, but Neil, you've written at least one book, maybe a couple now at this point. Time to dream again, I think, is one? Yes, and Max Max is in the power of fasting and prayer. And there's a third one coming. Wow. Peace in the midst of your psalms. You are prolific. So I started off by saying that, you know, uh apostolic in the church today doesn't measure up to the biblical model. But maybe we should start by uh defining some terms. What are In your book, when you're talking about the Apostolic Movement, the Apostolic Church, uh what is it that you're talking about? Well, first I need to preface that by saying that The original reason I wrote this book is because of my exposure to many different organizations and churches that referred to themselves as apostolic. And I had the privilege to preach in a lot of these churches, got to know a lot of these people, and I found that uh the doctrines and the things that they said they believed varied quite a bit, yet all of them referred to themselves as apostolic. So uh it it came to the place where I started to question for myself, what what do we really mean when we say apostolic? What What does that mean? So my question was a good one. Yes, it it really is, because I have found the answer to it varies uh quite a bit, depending on who you talk to. And I mean uh as I point out in the um preface of my book, when I talk about the very thing we're talking about now, I point out that of course um the best known as the Catholic Church, who of course would consider themselves apostolic because in their way of looking at it they are uh following the teachings of the apostles And that in that view they are apostolic. And depending on what kind of religious background you come from, that again is is going to vary. And the people that are apostolic over on the Protestant side of things are very adamant about what that means and every one I've ever talked to in any of those churches will um emphatically say that they are following the teachings of the apostles. And yet You talk to one of their brethren right down the road who says the same thing, and yet when you hear what the teachings are, they don't always come together. So the issue for me was, you know, what is apostolic. In in m doing a lot of research on that The other conclusion I came to was that um trying to identify yourself as apostolic and not making the pattern to follow the apostle who was sent. Because the word apostle simply means sent one. He who was sent. Well, he who was sent was Jesus Which is why the title of my book, The Apostle, Jesus. And the book itself is based out of Hebrews 3. 1. Where the writer of Hebrews says, fix your thoughts on Jesus, the apostle, and high priest, whom we confess. So For me, it became a question of trying to figure out how you could call yourself apostolic and say you're following the teachings of the apostles And in many cases, leave out the most important apostle, the sent one, Jesus, out of it Now, uh by teaching what the apostles taught, which they received from Jesus, that's the indirect way that some of them get to that. But I just found that uh after doing some investigating that um apostolic should be following the teachings of the apostle Jesus. And I think that all uh Christians and and uh Christian churches would be claiming to be doing that, but they obviously don't don't agree on every point. And any church that is creedal typically will subscribe to the uh apostles' creed and so they're gonna be apostolic in that sense. But in today's world, particularly in an American context, and may maybe other places too, but I can only speak to my context In an American context, when somebody's going out of their way to call themselves apostolic, they usually mean something more particular about that. You're nodding your heads. Maybe Neil will get you in on this. When somebody talks about the Apostolic Church Uh what what is very often what they have in mind, do you think? Um my basic understanding of when people talk about apostolic, it differs. I guess um for example, Jeff Reed, um I think the author of Build International, I don't know if you heard his name before, uh pretty much has devoted his life to the um uh an apostolic teaching of the apostle Paul, the Pauline Apostles and how they disciple people and raise leaders. And so he defines apostolic uh in terms in terms of discipling people. and actually following the teachings of the Apostle Paul. Now if you look at others who came recently, there's they're looking at the same subject but They're talking about different things. For example, if I went all the way back to Africa and we start talking about apostolic, it is like a mixture of the Pentecostalism and then some form of um some some other kinds of things that you cannot even explain. Uh personally if I hear people talk about the apostolic, I am expecting that there are people who would say Um this is what Jesus left for his apostles to follow. And so if we're talking about being apostolic, then we are actually following what the master originally left. for the apostles and then has been handed down back to us as a church. But it it's unfortunate that people use the terminology and they use it in many ways. They are self proclaim apostles today who all kinds of things are going on, but I hope that maybe through this program we can educate some people. Yeah, it it seems like uh in in the circles that I've run across. Um it usually is a Pentecostal or charismatic uh mindset that uses that kind of language more frequently. You don't hear Southern Baptists or Presbyterians or Methodists uh using the word apostolic minist words apostolic ministry very often. And sometimes it lends itself into a uh Not all Pentecostals would fall into this camp, but I've I've heard it most frequently in the five-fold ministry camp where they they designate offices uh and gifts from from God in particular offices the uh apostle, pastor, prophet, uh teacher and uh I think I'm missing one, right? Am I missing one? Evangelist. Evangelists, yes. Uh so I'm wondering all that out there, is there a particular one of those that you settled on, Barry, was you writing this book that you were mostly speaking to or speaking about? Well that and by the way, that that's a good question and a fair question, and here's why. Um as I identify in my book and you mentioned in the introduction, I was raised Pentecostal and again started preaching at the age of 15. and spent a lot of time evangelizing and through that, you know, got involved with many uh again, of apostolic view. And so And some of them, most of them, put a lot of emphasis on the fivefold ministry, as they called it. And I have a whole chapter in this book devoted to trying to explain that the fivefold ministry is not a scriptural statement. That came out of the imagination of men naming it that because of those five ministries that are mentioned in Ephesians chapter 4. And they build a whole thing around that. And that is part of what prompted me to write this book. I kept saying, okay, but where is the apostle Jesus? Um hold on a second, the apostle Jesus in the midst of all that he proclaimed. uh you understood from um your upbringing and exposure to Pentecostalism and some of the apostolics there, you can appreciate what I'm probably gonna say about this, at least I think you will. That Yeah, my my point is that all of those apostolic churches that build everything on Ephesians four and the fivefold ministry, basically it was building it upon certain men having authority over other people based on those quote offices. Yeah, that's where the arrow began. That's why exactly right. And that's where I kept saying, but where is the Apostle Jesus in this? How How does this get people pointed to the apostle, the sent one? Yeah, let me interject a little bit. One thing I've realized with most Christians and with most movements is is what I call the essence of purpose. Once we do not understand the purpose of an office and we want to just um uh try to claim it sort of we then misinterpret and then we build all kinds of movements and things around it. You know, every now and then if you can watch it like maybe in about ten years some kind of movement comes up, right? And then it's built around something. I think the current one is apostolic and the prophetic. And then after a while it will move to something else. Then it will move to something else. But my point is very simple. If it is built around Jesus, then it is not something that will come and go. It will stay because that is the one that everything is about. So it's most often it's about misunderstanding. about what these offices in Ephesians 4 are all about. People do not clearly understand what is their purpose in scripture, why What is it that they're supposed to do for the body of Christ and so on and so that's why we we tend to create all those things that really shouldn't be That's the voice of uh Dr. Neela Champong, pastor at Covenant Family Chapel in downtown Frederick. And uh the other voice you're hearing on the show today is uh Barry Robert Starlipper. He has written a book called The Apostle Jesus, The Kingdom Among You, and that's primarily what we're talking about. So I want to make sure I'm clarifying some things. We're going to probably do an arc of shows here, so I want to get the foundation set today. By placing such a a strong, heavy, purposeful emphasis on the apostle Jesus Are you meaning to discount the idea of there being other apostles today? Like does the office apostle are you meaning to diminish that? Because some people in the in the church body would say there's no such thing as an apostle today. So is that part of your argument? Or you're saying, no, there are apostles but but not maybe in the same way that Jesus is, or or we've kind of lost the baby with the bathwater somewhere? What what is your point there? A little bit of all of that. Um no I uh I am not saying nor am I against anybody who wants to refer to somebody as apostle so and so and I I I respect that um based on the understanding of whatever they intend by that. And there were certainly other apostles after Jesus. I mean Apostle Paul, Apostle Peter, uh you know, and so forth. Um so no, um the my uh discussion and argument is not that I'm against something, but trying to bring something out that I think was lost. And for that reason, however, A lot of people have misunderstood my book. I've I've received some criticism from it because of people who interpret it the way that you're asking me this question. They they think Uh some will even tell you that I'm against the church and uh uh and and I am against organized religion because I don't believe Jesus came was sent, the apostle was sent to establish another religion, to change the Jewish religion around and make it the Christian religion. Uh so I I get some undue criticism about that because too many tim I say some things I guess that are so straightforward that people want to gravitate to the wrong side of what I'm trying to say. I'm not opposing anything. I'm trying to present something that I think has been missing. And what I think is missing is understanding that the focus needs to be always on the apostasome, Jesus, who was sent. And what did he teach? Which I suppose will be a nice segue into the second part of my book because the subtitle of my book is The Kingdom Among You. There uh for a long, long time, a friend of mine by the name of Don Mallam, who happened to write the uh foreword in my uh in my book, he and I used to have these discussions. Um Sometimes very late at night and we were bandying things back and forth. And he made a statement to me one time. He said, you know, someone said one time that Jesus came preaching the kingdom. And what we ended up with was the church. Mm-hmm. And I thought, that's an interesting statement. I said, Well who said that And he couldn't remember. He couldn't tell me. And we used to we discussed this for months. So finally I went on a search and finally discovered who did say that. That statement was made, and by the way, the way Don Mallam quoted it to me wasn't exactly correct. Jesus came preaching the kingdom, and uh what we ended up with was the church. It's not quite the quote. It's close, but not quite the quote. It's a quote from a French Catholic priest by the name of Alfred Laoisie, who at in the late 1800s was the top Theologian in the Catholic Church. I mean the top. Everybody followed his theology. Until he decided to challenge his church, the Catholic Church, about what their real purpose was. And it is he who made the statement, which I quote in in my book. Because a lot of the premise of this book is based on Alfred Lawazi's writings about this. He made the statement, Jesus Christ came preaching the kingdom. What arrived was the church. And he wrote several um books on this subject. that so angered the Catholic Church that by uh the nineteen hundreds let me get the exact date 'cause I always get the date of this And while you're looking that up there's th there's an awful lot there. Boy, we could do uh probably a half a dozen shows on the last paragraph. Um do you have um I wanna I wanna be able to tie this up the This episode of the Faith of Bay, I wanted to t to tie it up a little bit. So before we we'll get into some of the the points and these are the the the other thought threads that you've brought up What would you say is the state of that's that was kind of how I started the show, what is the state of the apostolic church, quote unquote, uh today? Um It sounds like both of you would say that the apostolic idea of the apostolic movement is fine. That's biblical. There are others who would argue with you, but we're not here to have that debate uh on this show. Uh so within the milieu of those that are uh advancing an apostolic idea, how close to New Testament teaching, the teachings of Jesus, is that movement? Is is that Entity that that that subset within the church, would you say? And you're pretty deep into it. Your your life is so kind of immersed in it. I'm more of a Pentecostal than an apostolic See the the concept of apostolic today as they claim it to be, um I I would find it difficult to say I'm apostolic even though I believe in apostolicity because of the way it's been looked at and the way it's been interpreted. My clear understanding is very simple, that if anybody said he's apostolic It simply means that he understands what Jesus taught, how he handed it over to the apostles, and how that truth was handed over to us, and you are holding on to that truth. Now anything outside that is man-made. And the truth is, like Paul had to write the entire Galatians just to defend his apostolicity to let people understand I'm an apostle. Why? Because he wanted them to understand that it is what Christ revealed to him on the road of Damascus, is what he is bringing to them. And so the the concepts of um the apostolic and apostolic church today, there's all kinds of mixture around it. And if you look at even the average religious or organized church, whatever it is today, there there's so much deviation from what Jesus actually uh propounded And so we ask ourselves, is that what Christ really left? Now, as you spoke, one of the scriptures that came to my mind is Luke 4. 43, where Jesus makes it very clear. He says, I was sent so that I'll preach the kingdom. Basically that. And all throughout the entire New Testament, that is all Jesus talked about. The problem is the church today, um, let's say maybe in the Western world Does not even have a clue what kingdom concepts are. So when we read about kingdom in the Word of God, it becomes very difficult to relate to it. And so then we tried to bring kingdom concepts to become just anything ordinary. I was actually born in a country where which was ruled by a kingdom. So I really understand kingdom concepts And then we still have some system in my country that still moves in that direction. For example, if you take worship in a kingdom concept, it is not an art. Bowing before a king, his chest, like I have deep reverence and respect for this game, so I bow But then if you bring it into democratic terms, which is what we all live in in this country, and if you put that in church It defeats the purpose of worship because then worship becomes a bunch of songs. It becomes something that I feel that makes me feel good. But then in a concept of a kingdom, worship has nothing to do with your feelings. It has all to do with your deep reverence for the king. So some of these um things have mixed up with so many things that we have misunderstood clearly what Christ has handed over down to us. So I understand the apostolic as it ought to be in the scriptures, but not what is being propounded today. To me most of the stuff that I talked about today has nothing to do with it. My concept of that is anybody who says he's apostolic should follow clearly what was handed over by Christ to the apostles and what's handed over from the apostles to us. know what has been diluted over the ages. And we're going to give the good doctor the last word because this episode's run out of time. And actually you're going to get the postscript word too because your show is about to start here in a few minutes. So stay tuned to hear more. from uh Pastor Neil Chempong from Covenant Family Chapel. Thanks for being on the show today. And uh Barry Robert Starlipper is the author of the Apostle Jesus, The Kingdom Among Us. You can find that on what the what's your it's thinkkingdom. Org. Thinkkingdom. org is his website. You can order it directly from there. It's also on Amazon, but I think it's more beneficial to you if they buy it straight from your website, right? Yes, I I'd actually prefer that. So go straight to Think Kingdom. org if you'd like to check out uh the book. And uh and uh we mentioned at the start of the show that uh uh Pastor Neil's got a couple of books out as well, so you can uh check those out. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Thanks so much for listening. Visit us online at WFMD. com. keyword faith. Give us a couple of days from right now and uh this show should be available on podcast uh on our website as well. Till next week. God bless.