Good morning. If you're listening to the radio. Good whatever time of day it is. If you're listening to the podcast, thanks for listening to the faith debate, making us part of your day. Appreciate it very much. Do not take it for Granted, I am Troy Skinner, the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Joined this week by Imran Rasby and Daniel Rasby. They can be reached online through their ministry website Conqueredbylove. org. They co-pastor a church in Thurmont called the Church of Meets at Imrans. And I've I've been wanting to say this the last few weeks and I keep forgetting, so I'm going to mention it now We had a technical snafu not too long ago with the show that had the shows end up airing a little bit out of sequence and the dates got messed up. So I'm taking a chance by doing this. I typically don't timestamp when the show is going to air. I will sometimes timestamp when the show is being recorded in case something's gonna change. We don't want to feel like idiots. Uh well, too late for me. But uh Timestamping, this show is scheduled to air on January nineteenth. And for me that's an important date to Symbolic of the passage of time and there's great significance to the passage of time. And as I examine what it means, right, to have had this passage of time and the things that happen as time moves forward and passes on. Um we have cleared now the the twenty year mark. The fate debate has been on the air for more than twenty years That means we have done more than 1,000 shows. I've been working feverishly to upload A Faith Debate Well, some sort of a upload, usually it's a faith debate show, online every day until all of the archives are exhausted. I don't think I'm gonna be successful locating every single show that's ever been recorded, but we already have well over, I think, seven hundred faith debate shows that are available online. Actually as this airs, it might be over eight hundred, I don't know. Um so we might be in the ballpark of It's hard to say. Maybe eighty-five, I'm hoping we can get as high as eighty five percent of all the faith that shows that were ever broadcast will be preserved uh online and that sort of thing. So anyway, this wouldn't happen without the support of the listeners and I don't go out of my way to do this very well because it sounds sounds very insincere and self serving to bring it up all the time. But and you also can get in trouble if you highlight things that are specific about ratings and that sort of stuff. So I'll be very generic and j and generalized here. I don't have access to the ratings numbers like I once did. I used to have full, unfettered access to all of the ratings information for the market. I don't anymore. But when I did have that access This show did very well. Did particularly well against this competition and did very well against its uh compatriots on the radio station. for years. Maybe it still is, I don't know, but for years it was the most listened to half hour on Sundays on the radio station. Um there was a span of time of a of a handful of years where it was the most listened to show over the entire weekend. In fact There were a couple of ratings periods uh where I uh the data indicated anyway for what that's worth, right? A lot of people take the data with a grain of salt, but the data indicated that there were only three programs on the entire radio station that had more listeners than the Faith Debate. Mm-hmm. And we were airing on Sunday mornings. So I don't know if that's still the numbers. I will say we have tens. I I I I have access to data for the uploads on the podcast, not the radio station's data, but my own personal data for sermon audio and odyssey and places like that. tens of thousands of downloads uh of the um of the faith debate since I started putting them there a few years ago. So this show doesn't exist. And also by the way, um Was it maybe a year ago probably now or pretty close to that, I had the opportunity to read uh a letter or at least share the uh the gist of the contents of a letter from somebody who went out of their way to share with station management how much they appreciate the radio show and how we uh conduct our affairs and we try to do things with some fun and panache. It's show business after all, but talk about serious matters in a serious way in a way that hopefully will be sticky and get you thinking and that sort of thing and the person gave us some kudos. And I get kudos like that in person on occasion. People will occasionally recognize me or my voice and say, hey, you do that faith debate show. It doesn't happen that much, but it happens on occasion. And say, Yeah, I listen and I love when you guys talk about this and that's always cool. But it's really cool when somebody takes the time to write it down and send it to the general manager of the radio station. Um because They could take the show off the air tomorrow, right? They could. It's their radio station. And yet they see some value in having the s the the the show and they see the value because you support it, you listen to it. And um we appreciate all of that. So anyway, that's all I have to say about the passage of time. Anything. And speaking of which, we are recording this show actually. Um Years ago, our consistent habit was to record the show at least three, if not six months in advance. In recent years, we've been recording the show Anywhere from two to three weeks in advance, up to two to three months in advance. That happens to be where we are now. We're recording the show about three months in advance, so the election hasn't happened yet. So I think this will be fun to be a little time capsule, forced time capsule. This was kinda Daniel's tongue in cheek recommendation earlier before we started the show, but so who won? Well the still don't know. They're still counting the votes. Well because this coming week is inauguration day. Oh is that what it is? Okay. Right yeah. Right. We're recording this in October. Yeah, and it's always what, the third week in January is uh is inauguration day. So inauguration day is this week? They may not have decided yet who's gonna be inaugurated. Oh they have to. If they decided the last one by this date, they decided this one by this date. I'm concerned they decided the result of this election four years ago. That's that's my concern. Well my my my belief was that I uh uh whether whether Trump himself is or not, I don't know, but I I think as a conservative I I believe the signs are pointing to The deep state believes that they can control Trump now and has enough people in place around him that they don't care and I think they would prefer to have Trump in fact because a lot of the Patriots will be more complacent and not protests too much about uh you know injustices of government overreach and things like that. I think it uh because it's more easy to control the population if You have a Republican president, then a Democrat president, uh, because the Democrats will lay down and take it anyway. Um I've heard some others that I know say something similar to that kind of a thing and you know As recently as probably five, six years ago, I would uh psa. Are you crazy? Come on, man. But after what we've all been through these last you know four, five, six years Man, nothing's off the table. Nothing. You know, Kamala Harris and Donald Trump could both be lizard people as far as I'm concerned at this point, right? I mean nothing's off the table. So that For a moment, just for the sake of rhetoric, let's take that deep state thing off the table. Let's say because you're not certain that's the case, right? So let's take the part of your brain that's n that thinks that's not the tr the case. Maybe it's five percent, maybe it's forty percent, whatever percent of your brain doesn't think that, answer this question. This is in advance of the election. Right now Again, he's not connected to the deep state. Donald Trump is next week going to be in office In jail, in the ground. What's the most likely scenario? Um I think I think if if if uh he were to lose the election, I don't think they're gonna care so much about putting him in jail because he probably won't run again. Uh he's not he won't be relevant anymore. Um so th he may win a lot of his cases on appeal. I don't think they're gonna bother too much about it. Um and I think that if that's not the case, if it w it wouldn't be for the deep state, then I think that uh Kamala Harris will win the election because Uh I I think there was so much uh stuff that happened last time, that all was predetermined. Uh I don't see any evidence that things have changed in the last four years, uh, to make it less predeterminable. Um So as of the date of this recording he has been shot at and uh there was an attempt to shoot at him a second time and between now and the election, who knows, there could be more attempts. So that would be in the ground part. Do you think we could have we could have world wars between now and then too. We have Iran could be no Yeah. The only people who hear this show might be those listening on the live stream as we're recording it because we could all be vaporized, right? Like any second now. I mean things that I think we're as a as much at risk of a of a wide scale potentially nuclear level kind of a war They were as close to that as we've been in my lifetime. How many people really have no clue They don't they're not paying attention. All they care about is who's going to the Oscars. What they're wearing. Or or or or not wearing. Yeah. So I mean I think we're closer now than we were during uh Kennedy. and the uh Bay of Pigs. I I think we're much closer now. We've got uh uh su subs and and uh um battleships uh Russian and Chinese uh on the border of Alaska. We've had uh incursions there. So at this time uh in January I have no idea what's happening and uh so we'll have to see who's gonna be well let's uh let me do a segue here and to our scheduled topic off of this. So let's assume that um Donald a and Kamala both survived and one of them is going to be inaugurated into office. And we're not in World War Three. Right, let's assume all of that. And, you know, Kamala, if she ends up being the winner, is going to be portrayed as, you know, this this great h heroine figure who, you know, the first uh woman, first woman of color to ascend to that leap. Yeah, she's gonna be turned into this great icon, right? She's gonna become a a figure And Donald Trump's already for those who support him he's already a figure, right? I mean Donald Trump jokingly once said he could go kill somebody on Fifth Avenue or whatever and everybody'd be fine with it, right? So and there's a little bit of truth to that, I think, sadly. But they're they've both these her they would be positioned as by their side as heroic figures. So should either one of them be given a statue A statue. Should anybody be given a statue? Are statues okay? Are they are statues ever appropriate? So biblically speaking, or are statues, biblically speaking, akin to idols? Well let's let's take a step back from statue. I think by statue you're you are referring to a image of a person. Correct. Yeah. Like in the rotunda capital building there a whole bunch of. So let's take a step back from that, right? Because there is biblical basis for and monuments. Yes. Stings, piles of stones and other structures that are set up specifically to remember times in history. Correct. And so the Bi Bible says build this is twelve stones from the Jordan and put them on top of each other and then your kids when they ask you in the future you can tell them, This is to remember the time when God brought us over Jordan. And those stones weren't chiseled at all. But the point is, monuments have biblical precedent. So I think that's that's that that's one thing. So the Washington monument is safe. We're okay with the Washington monument. Potentially. You might not like the the the the inspiration for the shape it took or anything like that, possibly, right? Potentially, yeah. Okay about the wall. That's just uh wall with a bunch of names on it. Right. So Is that okay? I don't know. Yeah, I I I don't think monuments are a problem. I think what the So let's here let's look at another example. God commanded Moses when there was a plague Make a brass serpent, put it up on a stick, hold it up high, and everybody who looks upon it will be healed. Alright? So God commanded a graven image to be made, not to be worshipped, but as a symbol of here is God's uh God's gonna save us from these serpents. So remember God. When you look at that you remember God. And then it says a few hundred years later and then such and such king, I forget which which of the good kings, maybe Josiah um or um Hezekiah, what one of one of the good kings destroyed the brass serpent that Moses had made. Because it says, in those days the children of Israel worshipped it as a false god. So The idol itself, it does say in Scripture, it can neither see, nor hear, nor taste, nor smell. It has no power of its own, but the power that we give it. And yes, you could argue that there is demonic presence around it and there could be demons that control different things, but ultimately people are the ones that give idols the power. And I think the context and the um uh uh the mo motivation behind the image or the or the monument is very important. Um Now I would not it I think who you're making the monument to is also important. There there's this whole big push that you should tear down the statue of anybody who was they did some bad things that you found out later they did some bad things and uh I don't I wouldn't go there because Gotta take down everybody's standard 'cause they're always done some bad things. Right. They're all serious. So that's not saying you the full point of the monument is to remember some specific good thing that was happening. Or Potentially some bad thing so that we don't repeat it. Yeah, and I'm not sure uh where this thought line began for me, where the beginnings of the thread are, but I think To the best of my recollection recollection, I think it was when I had friends visiting, possibly family, I can't remember who was with me, visiting from out of town, and when they've never been to this area of the country before, they let them go down to DC Right, see all the monuments and maybe go to the museum or the zoo or whatever, that sort of thing. Pardon me if I clear my throat. Um And so we're walking them all, and you know, the Washington Monuments there and the the Lincoln Monument, the Jefferson Memorial, all those sorts of things are there. And I've seen those bunches of times in my life actually at this point, and it never really hit me until I saw the one from Martin Luther King Jr. And have you seen that one in person? No. It maybe it's been a while though. It feels almost like the Martin Luther King presence presence is Godlike. He's emerging from from the stone. He's like he's he's at the real. There's some and he's It is huge, by the way. And and it unlike some of the other monuments, which you kind of take them in from distance, this one you're standing like on top of it, it's right there. worshipful to me. Like should we really be making these monuments? I get the same words. But I get the same feeling when I go by the Lincoln Memorial. Yeah. Lincoln is also this giant impressive figure on a throne, looking out into the distance. And it's it's a very majestic, very Thea Theo type Uh it's almost like he's in a Holy of Holies kind of a setting, right? It's kind of the vibe. It's like a a Greek version of a Holy of Holies kind of setting. And a lot of the architecture in DC was very much Greek inspired Enrollment expired. And you got a whole bunch of uh statues of actual gods and goddesses all around DC as well on some of the buildings and things. And so those I would I would say would would uh should be torn down. Um If you're gonna remember a specific person for a specific thing? It's also history. I mean the miningness are there to talk about history. I mean uh the left who've been in cancel culture taking all the monuments down. Um, even Lincoln monuments they wanna take down, Jefferson Monument monument they take down And that ties to the second phase of my thinking on this. So I remember at some point, I think it was that visit to the to the to the mall and seeing the Martin Luther King thing. And yeah, you're right, the Lincoln thing. I've had the same impression myself actually. And thinking, boy, are we should should we even be doing this? And then Five years ago there was all the the push to take down the monuments and people were defacing monuments. And then you want to say, No, come up. Exactly. uh on a whole slate of issues were very vocal saying that that was wrong and I'm thinking, do I do I want to die on that hill? Do I want to invest any ammunition in fighting that fight 'Cause I'm not even sure that having statues of men that look like idol worship from a certain point of view anyway, th that that's even God sanctioned. And so yeah, the the Washington Monument or uh I'm trying to think. So well, Statute of David He headstones at a at a gravesite. That's a m just a monument, a memorial of of the person, right? And that they're buried here and it has their name and their dates and stuff like that, and maybe a little s a say a phrase or something that tells you about them. That's a memorial. Like if we had little carved images, could you imagine how creepy if if we went to to walk in the uh in in the graveyards and instead of memorial stones it was like life-like carved images of all these people? That'd be creepy I think. I don't know. Well there is a there is a service I believe where you can get your body embalmed and put in a glass coffin and have it made into a coffee table And put it in the living room. A coffee table. Yep. And so your family and loved ones can stare at your embalmed corpse. In the living room. That can't be real. Who would pay for that? Who would do that? Crazy people. Oh my god. Alright, so I don't know. I I I'm I'm again I'm not gonna die on the hill the other side either. I'm not gonna take a firm stand and say we should never have any sort of statues of a human you know, or a creature like a s a snake and that we would potentially risk bowing down to. When I start thinking about it biblically, there are examples of statues that look like men. Yeah. And every single one of them is bad. Every one. So I'm like, I don't know. So I don't want but I don't want to like surrender the fight to the wackos and and like just sort of like saying, you know, people are drunk driving so just get rid of the cars. You know, people are gonna be people they're gonna worship uh images, they're gonna worship uh statues or whatever and they're gonna l you know, lift them up But that's that's a sinful behavior. But you can't eliminate uh history or historical objects because somebody's gonna worship it. And when they do start worshiping it then there is cause to take it down and that's what the king of Israel did with the serpent. And I think that was that was the right move at that point. And they had made it into an idol. So anything can become an idol. Now we've talked on the show about bringing in statues into your home, a statue of Buddha. And that can invite uh demonic presence into your home that you don't need uh. What if you don't rub his belly? Is it okay? I will say it's not. We've talked about this before and we had some slight diff disagreements, but mostly we agree that If uh err on the side of caution, then don't bring in things into your house that may invite uh d demonic influence, right? So Any idol, the truly an idol, can be a g can invite that. Um and I think if you're making it into a god and you're calling it that, that's one thing. Um if it's a supposed to be a specific person and nobody's under any delusion that this is anything other than a remembrance of a specific human person that lived a long time ago. I think it is the same thing as writing a book about the guy Right. For a long time in many places, uh it uh until the invention of the printing press anyway, it was very difficult to get a lot of printed copies of stuff that would last And so one of the best ways is uh to remember things is by storytelling and having object lessons will be very useful for telling stories. So your children like God said, your children are gonna see this and say, Daddy, what does this mean? And you say, Well, I'm glad you asked, because it's this history. And I think that is important. You were channeling Bernie Beale right there, a good friend of all three of ours. That's a he tells stories about it as a kid and you know and and they and somebody would say, What does this mean? and I'm glad you asked. And then you tell all this history. It's just a common religion. I know, I know, I know. So let's um put a more uh a a more firm religious spin on this because the things we're talking about are pretty much in what are call what's called the secular sphere. We're talking about government statues and and community statues and war memorials, things like that. Protestants don't typically have statues like in their churches, in their sanctuaries. But uh Eastern Orthodox will And Catholics do for sure. They'll have statues of Mary, of a variety of the saints, and of course they've got a statue of Jesus hanging upon the cross. Uh up front and center and in fact if you go to Rome and and you go to the Vatican, all the false god statues that they that the Catholic Church confiscated from all the different countries that they that they Christianized They didn't destroy them. They brought them to the Vatican. So the Vatican is full of these Roman and Greek and and Hindu gods and goddesses statues all over the place. So that's that's a whole other thing. But it that's uh if you wonder why why they uh there's such a darkness there in the Catholic Church, that may be one one of the things. Well, I think I'll say this as a practical thing. I'm not gonna get all worked up in arms and somebody puts a statue um let's say in Frederick of a former mayor or somebody. No. But if somebody were to ask me before they did it, do you think we should I think I would probably say, you know, we can do some sort of memorial, uh, some sort of a thing that represents what their life meant to the community and and put a plaque on it that explains what this represents But let's not make it a statue of the person because the human heart is so sinful and we can Uh people aren't bowing down and praying to the statue of Abraham Lincoln. But Abraham Lincoln has taken on kind of a deified level of of of uh of appreciation in in American culture, whether it's deserved or not. And then there's some debate over that actually. And I I think some of the accusations against him are unfair and I think some of them are fair. Um you know Jefferson, same thing. And less so, it seems to me, Washington. I think there's more of a reverence for Jefferson and Lincoln than there is Washington, and it might be because there's stat statues of the other two and there's not one a George. I don't know. Isn't there a statue of George Washington riding riding a horse? I'm sure there's statues, but the main one is just this main mortic. Right. You know? It is. You know, I I didn't realize this. I just learned this recently, but at the time of its construction it was the tallest man made structure in the world. In the world. Yeah. Wow. Yeah, I did not know and now it's dwarfed by so many things, but yeah. So Well go back back to the Catholic Church and the and the statues they have and and real right near my house is Mount St. Mary's University, in fact. You can see the shrine, you can see the this big giant statue of Mary Uh is there a lot of Mary there to walk the garden? I think it's Mary. Yeah, I think so. Um St. Mary's, right? So uh the you can see that from from my house, in fact, you can see it. It's only a few miles away. And it's It's very impressive looking. It's covered in gold and pray in this direction three times a day or anything? I don't but there are people that do and that see that is an example of an actual idol that should be destroyed Right? Because people are actually re reverencing the statue and talking to the dead when they are near the statue. And I think that is wrong and it's ungodly and it should cease I think that's very different from a political or historical remembrance of somebody, you know, if it's not being worshipped. I think I'm gonna put this in the category of statues they might be permissible, but not all things are helpful. Yeah. I think I'm gonna put it in that category. Muslims don't have uh uh strict Muslims don't have any pictures of of people either. They won't even put pictures. And the reason was they didn't want anybody worshipping Muhammad as God, so they didn't want any likeness of him. So he's been played. Well how would you ever prove if some or disprove if somebody's a ghost or not? So they don't you know, that's why they have a lot of uh designs and things like that, but not actual statues of people And uh many Muslim homes don't have pictures of people on the walls either. Hm, interesting. Did not know that. Yeah? A little uh cultural lesson here on the Faith Today towards the end. I think it's two weeks in a row, Imran got the last word. Good for you. Imran Razby, also Daniel Razby on the show. I'm Troy Skinner. You can find the rasbeys at concordbylove. org. All their contact information is going to be there. That's their ministry. You can find me online at household of faith in Christ dot com. That's Church I Pastor. Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Of course you can find this show and this radio station and all things related to the faith debate at WFMB dot com. Thanks so much for listening. We'll be back next week again as uh the passage of time continues because it's very significant the passage of time. Back 157. 5 hours will pass. Till then. God bless