We affirm the propriety of using inerrancy as a theological term with reference to the complete truthfulness of Scripture. We deny that it is proper to evaluate Scripture according to standards of truth and error that are alien to its usage or purpose. We further deny that inerrancy is negated by biblical phenomena such as a lack of modern technical precision, irregularities of grammar or spelling, observational descriptions of nature, the reporting of falsehoods the use of hyperbole and round numbers, the topical arrangement of material, variant selections of material in parallel counts, or the use of free citations. That was a mouthful. Welcome to the How too I almost said my churches now. Um I d I I'm not drinking enough these days, I think. This is this is a faith debate on News Radio 930 WFMD, I'm Troy Skinner, pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, which is what I almost said a second ago. You can find our church online and all my contact information online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Of course you can listen to this show every week on the uh AM at nine thirty AM. You could also listen on the FM on the H D two channel of ninety nine point nine. And um Until they finally collapse this beast known as the internet. You can hear us on the World Wide Web at WFMD. com. The panel this week picking up with the uh where we left off last week on the show with the Chicago Statement on Inerrancy uh is Daniel Razvi, Imran Razvi, and David Forcy. All three of them are pastors uh in the area. Uh the Razves of a church up in the Thurmont area. I say up. I gotta stop saying up because I don't know where you are Up geographically speaking, assuming north is up from where I am right now, but I don't know where you are right now, so I apologize for that. Anyway, you can find out more about them on their website. um conqueredbylove. org. David Forcey doesn't have a website, so if you want to get in touch with him, just get in touch with me and I'll put you in touch with him. And his church is uh uh the south end of Frederick County and Washington Counties and sometimes West Virginia, we found out last week. So what I started the show off was Article 8 of the Chicago Statement. Um and we touched upon some of these things overlap just a little bit. Some of the articles are offering more clarity or more specificity. Uh on that's a fun word to say specificity. Uh it's almost as fun as hyperbole. Hyperbole. Yep. For the educated among us. Um quick story by the way from what it's worth, there was a guy I used to work with years ago and he was, you know He might have been from West Virginia or something. He has that s this very thick kind of country accent, you know, he's that kind of guy, you know, very homespun, earthy kind of guy. And we had a Christmas party uh at the place I worked way back when and uh they wanted to make it a really, you know, fancy kind of affair so they encouraged women to wear their fanciest evening gowns and men to they owned a tux to wear it and if not to wear their best suit and their best tie, that kind of thing. And it was a really nice uh uh gala, really cool event. And the invitations went out and and uh the guy he was so excited, he'd never been invited to anything like this before. And he's showing off this th You know, I look what I got. I got here at this invitations party and they got this and they got that and they're gonna be gonna be wearing their finest clothes, they dress in the T's to the nines, whatever, blah blah blah. And look at it, they're gonna have there some uh some horse doovers. I don't know what that is, but I'm gonna get me some At least uh at least at least he knew phonics. So uh horse doovers, in case you're wondering what is horse doers or d'oeuvres. But if yeah, if you see it written down, it it's like, how do you say that word? What is that? It must be a foreign language or something. Oh, what do you know? It is. So, uh and the Bible can feel like a foreign language to us sometimes, and maybe we're not exactly sure what it is, but we're gonna get us some So let's get us some let's get us some Bible here. Um what what's being said there in Article 8 that you guys would want to pick up on and talk about? Well, that this kind of explains why different books of the Bible don't feel like they're uh necessarily written by the same person sometimes, because they had a different style of writing or different personality is is showing forth. That doesn't mean that God didn't write it, just means he used chose to use different people in their own gifts, whatever uh uh their strengths were. Yeah, I think it's accurate to say God wrote it, but let's say you're talking about the Book of Romans, I think it's also accurate to say Paul wrote it. Both are true. It's it's And Paul did not decide what to write. God decided what to write and he told Paul and Paul wrote it down. Well, he didn't say I mean God didn't dictate to him. But he didn't sit down in the corner and say, Hey Paul, write these words down for me. Maybe, maybe not. That's what Articles seven last time was saying we don't know. The mode of divine inspiration remains largely a mystery to us. So we don't know exactly how that went about. We know in many cases it does say God said write this A lot of the Old Testament prophets so specifically. Oh yeah, I think yeah, there are yeah. And there are times when the when the scriptures themselves explicitly say God gave a particular message and said, Go say this. So yeah, I would agree with that. Um but I'm not sure that I would be comfortable going so far as to say that God was told Paul, okay, now write this down, Paul. Now see how I write with such large letters in my own hand. I don't know that You know what I mean? I feel that's an instance, an indication that it's Paul and his personality. Uh I I think it's both and. I don't think it's I I I don't um I don't think it diminishes the reality of God's word because he chose to perfectly use imperfect vessels. allowing them to have their own personalities and their own brain waves involved in the process. I don't I don't I don't think that that uh that one has to cancel the other. You're looking very pensive over there, David. Uh no, I was just gonna say, right, it'd be like uh like an artist using different brushes, different colors. Right. Different pens, different strokes, right? It's it but working through the medium, right? We are a medium through which God expresses himself, right? Through that God uses, right? Uh and so so we we are still that medium. Oh absolutely. Yeah, and I agree with that. Yeah, yeah. I'm I'm affirming what you're saying, I think. There's a little bit of a difference in that analogy though, in that the brush has no free agency. Right, whereas humans doesn't doesn't have a brain either. Right, that's what I mean. Anyway, sometimes some would wonder whether I do. So maybe I'm more like Like those paintbrushes that I like to admit. I think I think part of what Article eight uh here is saying, uh so right, like things like reporting of falsehoods. So just because uh the Bible records a lie that somebody told doesn't mean that the Bible is lying, right? And uh like use of hyperbole, right? It it means that uh it's also saying all right there are different types of literature. There's there's poetry, right? There's there are figures of speech that are being used. Yeah idioms that that create quite the challenge for the translators. And so it uh So so they're almost saying here, right, that uh that the Bible is not always to be taken literally, right? Unless it is it wants you to take it literally. And that's something that uh if we get into hermenutics. Right. If we get into hermeneutics at some point, right. And we almost have to to to find Literally, because what what is the literal sense is something that's debated like crazy. And I would argue that the entire Bible should be taken literally, but then we have to be careful about how we're defining literal. Literal meaning taking it literarily. So you take it within context. No word has meaning outside of its usage. So how is the word used in context that tells you what it means and that is taking it literally? That's like the the like a precise kind of technical way of thinking about literalism and I would agree that that's how we should take the Bible. That's actually the task of the of the person who's doing the hermetics, who's doing the interpretation, the expositor of scripture to use some fancy theological words all in a row here on the Faith Debate. That's part of what has to happen there. Anyway, in the interest of time, let's do uh nine and ten together. Or uh nine and uh the wrong page? Looking at the wrong page. Here we go. Nine The brief. How did I did I do something wrong? What I what did I do? I think I did 'em out of order for a second. Did I do eight? Yeah, you did eight. Or did I do thirteen? You did eight. What page am I? Well you I think I read eight and then part of thirteen. That might have been why you guys were looking at me funny. You guys are looking at me funny. That's all right. We can go on to nine. Because eight was we affirmed God and his work of inspiration utilized their distinctive personalities Right? Did I say those words? Alright, let me do nine and ten. No. Do nine and ten. Alright. My New Year's resolution is definitely gonna have to pick back up. I promised myself I was gonna drink more. And So nine and ten. We affirm that inspiration, though not conferring omniscience, guaranteed true and trustworthy utterance on all matters of which the biblical authors were moved to speak and write. We deny that the finitude or fallenness of these writers by necessity or otherwise introduced distortion or falsehood into God's Word. Article 10 looks lengthy, so let's stop. That seamless uh repeat a redundant com uh from a what we've just read. Seven and eight Are you pointing out an error in the statement on inerrancy? What are you saying? No, I not an error. It's just a repeat. Then we can move on then. Alright, so ten is longer. It's uh it's it's it's uh two or three sentences per piece. They got the affirmations and denials. So the affirmations. We affirm that inspiration, strictly speaking, applies only to the autographic text of Scripture, we'll define that in a minute, which is the providence of God Which in the providence of God can be ascertained from available manuscripts with great accuracy. that they faithfully represent the original. We deny that any essential element of the Christian faith is affected by the absence of the autographs. We further deny that this absence renders the assertion of biblical inerrancy invalid or irrelevant. This is a big one because you'll hear I hear this on occasion. This is one that I've actually been confronted with, you guys probably too. How can you say it's the word of God? We don't even have the originals. The autographs are the original text. So you go to get somebody's autograph, that's they used a pen or whatever to write on that paper themselves an original signature. It's their autograph We're talking about the original writings. Those have probably, I mean, they're lost to us. I'm assuming they're lost to us because they degraded and disintegrated over time into dust. I don't think we have access to them. It's not like somebody misplaced them. We've lost them. I think they're lost to us because they just they don't exist. They degraded back into dust. So how can we know we have the Bible? This gets into textual transmission questions and all that sort of stuff. But they're they're but without getting into all that, they're saying you don't need that. We have enough to know what that was. Right. I agree with that. I think you guys agree with that. How do we try to maybe persuade somebody or what what do we say to somebody who says, Yeah, you can't know that for sure and I'm just not buying it. A lot of proofs for scripture. Vodibacum has a really good talk on this. If if you're listening and you want to Google uh uh uh or go on YouTube and type in Why I Believe the Bible by Vodibacum, it's like half an hour. He's given the talk several times. It's a very well done explanation of why, uh and and what are all the reasons for You know, it's a reliable collection collection of historical documents written down by eyewitnesses during the lifetime of other eyewitnesses which reported supernatural events that uh took place in fulfillment of specific prophecy and claimed that their writings were divine rather than human in origin. That's his statement and then he spends half an hour explaining each word in that statement so you understand why he's saying that. We don't need to go into that now because he's done a very good job of that. So Google that. But that's kind of what they're saying here is you can tell Uh we know the scripture is true because everything in it can be tested independently and verified. And what lit what we do have remaining of the original manuscripts are as close as we can get to the originals. does not change or alter what the church believes in any of these things. It's it's all there. It's say all the essential elements of the Christian faith are there. Anytime we find a newer and older manuscript, uh well, new newly found, more old manuscript, somehow, like the Dead Sea Scrolls, they always back up what we already believed the Bible said. So we've it's never been the other way around. Yeah, and I sometimes wonder if I mean I couldn't prove this scripturally, so it's just my opinion for what it's worth, but I sometimes wonder if God did us a favor by superintending things in such a way that we don't have access to the autographs, because wouldn't our propensity be to worship those parchments? Mm-hmm. Wouldn't that be our instinct like, ooh, we're gonna bow down over this is the word of God after all, and we start to worship in a as though the paper itself is is deity. I think that that would probably be the case. Well, still see that. It's been going on for millennia in uh certain church traditions. I mean even uh i now there are certain sects In within Christianity, I mean they'll have a Bible. You've heard about the the bleeding Bible or the or the the oil Bible. You heard about that one? Where there's this Bible that's supposedly keeps leak leaking oil? Oh really? I have to say I'm not familiar with it. Um we could probably use some of that right now with the Ukraine war going on. Just saying All right, I'm gonna do eleven and twelve together. We affirm that Scripture, having been given by divine inspiration, is infallible, so that Far from misleading us, it is true and reliable in all the matters it addresses. We deny that it is possible for the Bible to be at the same time infallible and errant in its assertions. Infallibility and inerrancy may be distinguished but not separated. We affirm that Scripture in its entirety is this number 12 now is inerrant being free from all falsehood, fraud, or deceit. We deny that biblical infallibility and inerrancy are limited to spiritual, religious, or redemptive themes exclusive of assertions in the fields of history. Uh and science. We further deny that scientific hypotheses about earth history may properly be used to overturn the teaching of Scripture or creation and the flood. This is exactly what I was talking about last week. Where I said that you cannot have a quote unquote modern scientific view of creation or the age of the earth. And believe in the inerity of scripture. You would be wrong at that point. Yeah. Well, as we talked about last week, I don't I don't think I'd degree w agree with going quite that far. So you would not agree with the Chicago statement here then? No, they're saying that scientific hypotheses about hi earth history uh shouldn't be used to overturn the teaching of scripture. Right. Right. Evolution did. People no, but people who we were talking about the day-age theory and and we didn't mention it, but the framework hypotheses hypothesis, things like that that relate to the first two chapters of Genesis W are advocated by people that are staunch uh advocates of biblical inerrancy and they would agree with this Chicago statement a hundred percent. They just have a different hermeneutical idea, which we'll get into that maybe we talk about hermeneutics later. But I'm not gonna say that I would still push back on that. I would say that no They're try they're they are separating in their mind inerrancy from well, except in this spot, because in this spot science really uh modern science really explains what the Bible means. Well we'll have to have a separate show probably on on Genesis. Um I I totally agree with the instinct to want to defend biblical truth and the inerrancy. I totally agree with that. So we're on the same page. I'm not so sure that somebody who wants to say that uh the six days could have been six one thousand year days or something that they would necessarily be in violation. Well let's let's pause. Are you making a distinction between the theory of evolution And I reject evolution a hundred percent. And so do these people that would hold to that view. Yes. What we're all saying is that yeah, e even the is people that the choice often and I have friends that Oh would also believe in an old earth but whole hardly reject the theory of evolution. Exactly. Yeah. No, well to be honest, you don't even have to have ever read the Bible to reject evolution as a separate size. Seriously, it doesn't withstand its own weight. It collapses in on itself. People are Darwinian evolution is basically dead. Most people don't know that. And so it's been replaced over the last twenty, thirty years by scientists who know that it's dead with newer versions of evolution theory that are not Darwinian and those fail too. So it does not sustain its own art, but that's a separate argument as well. We keep going back to Genesis. Do we want to talk about the difference between infallibility and inerrancy? Anyone feel equipped to to to split those hairs of what those words mean? I think um it's very important. There are two different words. Infallible means that what we know now could make the Bible false because we they didn't know before and that would be infallible. So it cannot change. People tend to say, well that part of the Bible is really for people of that time, not for people of today because we have different understandings. that would be infallible and that's not true. Inerrancy is that it was it just had a mistake that it was wrong and or errant and inerrancy is that it never did. So not only is the Bible for all p people at all times, it is also the truth and will never be false, it will never be wrong, and you'll never find a mistake in it. And I if I understand correctly and go I'm really going back to my old training. I haven't studied on this in a while, but I believe Infallibi infallibility as important as that understanding is that it's actually uh lesser than inerrancy. Inerrancy is a bigger, stronger position to take that the Bible is without any error at all. It's not to do about whether it's frail or it can fail in some way in circumstances or no. Right, whether it will um yeah, error error inerrancy so it doesn't have in there are no errors in it. Infallible means it won't fail. Sorry, just to finish there as any specific. So I I was just going to say so so that means that right. that it says will happen will happen. So er yeah, I would I would almost say inerrancy can s to some degree have to do with what has happened. Right. And probability also covers that man cannot do something or invent something that could make the Bible fail. Right. Yeah yeah. So nothing in the future could happen that could that could fail, make the Bible fail. It cannot fail. So for people that are trying hard to mix species and do that, that's that's sin. And it's not gonna make the Bible fail Or we can't we can't design a technology that will make us go to heaven or help us to live forever or you know that type of thing. Right Now to clarify any confusion I brought to the table, please I I do I think I blended eight and thirteen last time because my Roman numerals got all messed up. So just to clarify for the record, Article 8 said we affirm that God in his work of inspiration utilized the distinctive personalities and literary styles of the writers whom he had chosen and prepared. We deny that God, in causing these writers to use the very words that he chose, overrode their personalities. We actually had a bit of a discussion about that earlier. And now 13, which I read part of it earlier but out of context, so this is Article 13 We affirm the propriety of using inerrancy as a theological term with reference to the complete truthfulness of Scripture. We deny that it is proper to evaluate Scripture according to standards of truth and error that are alien to its usage or purpose. We further deny that inerrancy is negated by biblical phenomena such as a lack of modern technical precision, irregularities of grammar or spelling, observational descriptions of nature, the reporting of falsehoods, the use of uh hyperbole and round numbers, the topical arrangement of material, variant selections of material in the parallel accounts, or the use of free citations. So Meaning there's some latitude depending on the purposes of the author of how exact they're going to be. So it says there were twelve thousand people, there might have been twelve thousand and two people. There could have been eleven thousand nine hundred and ninety-seven people, but they were rounding off, and that is okay if that's what's Uh that becomes important because there are different parts of the Bible where the numbers one might be more specific, might one might be more rounded and say, ah see, the Bible doesn't even agree with itself. Well no, one author was rounding and the other author wasn't. So that's what they're thinking. An uncountable number of people, but all twelve tribes were represented. And it it's meant as a symbolic reference. Yeah. So we do this all the time, right? But people get squeamish about wanting to to uh allow this for the Bible. People speak in with hyperbole or round numbers or uh Uh we might use what seems to be um less educated grammar. That doesn't mean it's not making a solid good point. But no one is ever sarcastic, Troy. Like I might make the point. No? Oh. I guess Gotta get myself educated. I gotta get myself educated on that then. And God is sarcastic in several spots. So that's that's been interesting. I think we talked about that a few months ago. So and like the observational descriptions of nature, I think what they might mean there is a lot of the things that are talked about as natural observations are from the point of view of a human being. So we still do this today. We talk about the sun rising and setting. Well we know or we think we know anyway, if if the science is to be believed, that the sun's not going anywhere, that we're going around it. Yeah, we're spinning. But from our point of view, it looks like the sun is rising and setting. We use that language, and so the Bible authors are using that kind of a language uh as well, right? Right. All right. So we're gonna have to array this. Yeah, that's a good question. I'm sorry. No, I'm just repeating what you said. Oh. Well, you said it. I appreciate that, but You weren't gonna say it better than me anyway. Exactly. This is the face of eight Daniel Razby who I'm giving a hard time. Before that was uh David Forcy's voice. You also heard Imron Razby today Check them out online at um conqueredbylove. org. You can visit my church online, Household of FaithInChrist. com. Of course, the website for the radio station is WFMD. com. Until next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless