We affirm that mankind's dominion over the earth imposes a response to the earth. Responsibility to protect and tend its life and resources. We affirm that Christians should embrace responsible scientific investigation And its application in technology. If you don't know what that means, that's okay. I don't know yet either. We'll figure it out together. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I am your Host and moderator. I don't moderate so much anymore. I just jump into the fray these days, so I don't know. I used to call myself the host and moderator, but I'm more like the host and instigator. Your host and instigator, Troy Skinner, and the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. The one you just heard chuckling a second ago is David Forcey, he's also a pastor in the area, his church doesn't have a name, doesn't even have a permanent location. So If I were you, just wander around aimlessly on Sunday, you'll probably run into him and his church. Well, if if you ever do make it the uh We're very consistent in who is there and what we do each week. So Yeah. And and the reason they're in different locations, you know, they've got a handful of families that uh they they like to host too and the houses are are different. I think one of them has a swimming pool, one one of them has a big backyard with a wooded area. One of them has maybe a nice big entertainment area on the inside of their house and the weather's not so nice or I'm there's different circumstances that make sense for different people to host and so they they kinda all pitch in and that's uh that's nice. That's nice. Well yeah mine's just uh it's always at the same place, same old, same old Nothing exciting about that. Well yeah, always know where to go on Sundays, yeah. Well well yeah, although we need on Saturday. Oh good point. Never mind. You could go there on Sundays, but Yeah. And uh and uh this has come up a couple of times and in case you're wondering since it just came up, uh it's not because of any sort of theological or biblical conviction that we meet on Saturday. Uh my family needs a day of rest too and we we were finding our Saturdays, particularly early parts of our Saturdays, being really busy. And then we were doing church on Sunday and of course work Monday through Friday. We had like no day of rest And so what we've done is we've taken our busy early part of the day on Saturday and made that day even busier by doing uh a church gathering later in the day. So Saturdays are hard days, to be honest with you, but then we have all day Sunday off, so that's all good. That's good Alright, so we're on the Article sixteen of the uh sh Chicago statement on biblical application. And we've been picking this thing apart in recent weeks. We'll see if it continues. We're on uh stewardship of the environment. We actually started it a little bit last week. And now I just uh read a couple more. Um I'm gonna read them again because uh there there's a lot of big words, multi-sylla uh syllable words. We affirm that mankind's dominion over the earth imposes a responsibility to protect and tend its life and resources. So that's a long way a w around saying, you know, God's been has given a responsibility to mankind to uh to take to take care of this planet we live on. Okay. Right? To protect it, to tend to it. Yeah, those are uh those could mean a lot of different things. The protecting, the tending. What is that what does that mean? Yeah. I mean uh so uh in the in one of the earlier affirmations it it did affirm that human life is the of the is the highest value. Correct. Human human life is the the reason we we ended last week's show on that point. Yeah. Well and and and yeah, maybe we should should be clear, right? The the creation that God has made was created to serve mankind who is made in his image, right? Male and female, he created them in his image. Uh and he created them last after he had created the place for them and the and the work for them to do there. And as I'm looking at this a little closer now as you know as we're pausing 'cause at first I yeah, I think I know what they mean and okay I think I generally agree with what I think they mean. But again, this is not there's some sloppiness here because again um See if I can shorten this to s to to illustrate the point. So they're affirming, they're saying this is a good thing, right? We that we we we're we're all for this, that that mankind has a responsibility to tend to the earth which is an it and has life. That that that sounds odd sounded odd to me as well. Right? As if the the earth sort of has a A dominion over the earth, and we should protect and tend to its life. Like the earth has a li that's kind of a mother. Yeah, but I I I'm almost positive that's what they meant. Yeah. It would be nice if that was a little more clear. As in the the the plant and animal life that is here on Earth. As part of the creation. They put all these qualifier words in the next one. We affirm that Christians should embrace responsible scientific investigation and its application in technology. Okay. Okay, responsible. What does that mean? I wish they would say something like uh m you know, the the moral application of technology. I would like that that better. uh ris I'm not sure what risk uh maybe by responsible scientific investment mitigation they mean uh Scientific investigation that isn't destructive. Is that what they're talking about? Yeah. Right? Scientistic investigation mean don't use stem cells from aborted babies or kill babies so you can use their body baby parts for for doing experiments that or doing data function research. Things like that. That's irresponsible to Is detonating atomic bombs uh irresponsible scientific investigation because of its destructiveness to Life on Earth. Well a Pietist would certainly say yes. Uh I wouldn't say yes. I I I don't I don't mean in the context of war. I mean in the context of experimentation, right, to right, try and get to that point. Or are those animal sacrifices for the good of humanity, right? Is that would it fall into that category? When they were testing the bombs, other than just blowing up a desert, would it is there m um maybe there's some that is there more to it than that? Oh I mean I'm sure they blew up places that were, you know where it would be the least destructive. But there's still some destructive. And I'm sure that there was some testing, actually I'm thinking I've heard the stories now where there was some testing where they purposely expose people to the radiation to see what the effects of the animals, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Right. So Yeah, so that's again moral though would fit that, right? Because if it's wrong, it's wrong because it's immoral. Right, not because it's responsible or irresponsible. Yeah. So th th so again we're We should make all these notes and send it back to them. And they can give us like a And basically just say use biblical language, please, in your statements. Or at least if you're not going to clarify what you're what you're meaning. Right. What biblic what biblical language are you substituting with the words you're saying? What biblical principle and idea are you meaning by these words you're using? Sure. And you're not just trying to squish. Well, I'm glad we're here to bring clarity, Troy. That's what we're here for. We affirm that stewardship of the Lord's earth includes the productive use of its resources. Which must always must always be replenished as far as possible. I guess this is when uh recycling was a big deal. That must always is very strong language. Uh must always be replenished as far as possible. I well I don't know how we how we replenish Well last time I said anytime always or never is in there you're gonna just discount it right away. But here they put always so we almost by definition have to say no. And uh there's no exception to this rule ever There's got to be. Well it says must always and then it says as far as possible to uh you know try and let us off the hook sometimes. That's how the Battle of Gettysburg was lost. Right? Lee sent his uh one of his uh generals instructions to take the hill if possible. Or if prudent if pro if prudent or if possible, something like that. And what he meant was take the hill Right. And uh Stonewall Jackson had been his uh right hand man and he would have taken the hill, he would have understood like that was just gentlemanly kind language. Right, right. You know. Um But the uh Stonewall ha wasn was wasn't there for the battle. And so the other guy, the newbie general, he misunderstood. Well, that doesn't look possible to me So so you didn't take the hill and and uh it changed the whole course of the war because they lost that battle because of a a phrase such as far as possible was in there. Mm-hmm. So is this our Gettysburg? Maybe so. Oh boy. And also I don't know how we would replenish resources. Like we can create them? Right. Yeah. Yeah. By definition we don't do that, right? Yeah. Again, I think it's a I I think it's a uh recycling thing. Okay. I do. Could be. And that was beginning to be a big deal in the eighties. Yeah That's that's when it really took off in the eighties, I think. It's definitely big on on children's shows that I was watching in the early nineties. Yeah, yeah. We affirm I mean it be it started even in the seventies I think, but by the eighties it was like really a thing. Mainstream. Yeah. Yeah. We affirm that avoidable pollution of the earth, air, water, or space is irresponsible. The avoidable pollution Avoidable pollution. Okay. How again, how do you want to define if I if I decide So we are we saying intentional pollution is bad? Like pollution just for the sake of I mean I drove my car here. I didn't have to. I could have walked. It would have been quite a long walk, but I could have, it was avoidable. Well, I don't know, your the carbon footprint of all the calories that you burned and animals that you consumed might have might have been even worse. Huh. I could stop breathing. Is that is that avoidable? Right? If we if we all just collectively stop the breathing, we would avoid the pollution. So one of the one of the things that uh the principles that I we talk about with our kids is uh, you know, if they're doing something that we want them to maybe rethink, we say is that is that productive or destructive? Mm. Right. And so a lot of this seems to be aimed at just saying you know, not taking into consideration the the production value of things, but just kind of focusing, zeroing in on on what's, you know, destructive in some way. And, you know, everything is gonna have some sort of uh some sort of side effect Right, that that is negative to some degree to something, somewhere, someone, right? Yeah. The animal dies. And you're talking about but on the whole, the net. Right, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, exactly. And that result because But we benefit well, in it in this technocratic state we live in maybe it's not a benefit, but uh for the sake of argument, we benefit from having uh mass communication available, which is made possible by the satellites Right. But those satellites don't stay up there forever. Okay. Or if they uh I mean they they maybe they stay up there forever, but they're just circling the globe forever. Right. We have a bunch of space junk. Yeah. Right. We're causing pollution in space, which is one of the things they're talking about here. It's actually they talk about space. And we affirm that avoidable pollution of space is irresponsible. Well, if we never sent a satellite into space, we'd be avoiding the space junk. But then we wouldn't have any of the benefits that would come from that. So yeah, you're On the whole, is it more productive versus destructive is a much better way than saying whether it's avoidable or not. But if we all held our breath until we died all sort of human cause pollution would end. Right. It would be avoided. And they would agree. So again it's just what they're because I've seen irresponsible again here. We've seen responsible earlier. I wonder if if that's what they're getting at, you know. Responsible, irresponsible is what is the the net benefit, right? Uh net uh net loss would be irresponsible, net benefit would be irresponsible. Maybe maybe that's what they're saying. I don't know. I'm gonna crawl inside their head, let me see. Yep, that's what they're saying. Alright. Next one is we deny that the cosmos is valueless apart from mankind. Okay, so all of God's creation has some level of innate value because it it displays his his attributes. I agree, but why are they saying it? I don't know. Right? I agree it's true, but why are they saying? Maybe they feel like they have to balance out the earlier statement of saying that mankind is the highest value. Maybe the next one will help. We deny that the biblical view authorizes or encourages wasteful exploitation of nature. It's related, but it's not exactly the you know piggybacking on it, so it's a totally different thing. Uh biblical view says it's okay to be wasteful and exploit nature. Yeah. Well you don't want to wastefully do it. Of course not. Yeah. They're denying that we should be wasteful. We should be good stewards. Absolutely we should be good stewards, and that's what they're saying. Right. Yeah. They're saying we should be responsible. Whatever they mean by that. We're getting loopy. We deny that Christians should embrace the countercultural repudiation there's a word of science. Or the mistaken belief that science is the hope of mankind. So Christians should not embrace should not embrace the repudiation of science. Yeah, of course not. But what do we mean by science? Are we talking about science or the science? We're talking about Dr. Fauci here. We should not embrace the repudiation of Dr. Fauci. Yeah, but it doesn't say the science. Right. So it just says science, so I'm agreeing with them. So b because hopefully they mean the what actu actual science is. wasn't around yet, I guess. Uh or the mistaken belief that science is the hope of mankind. So it's sort it sort of is is saying uh we shouldn't fall into either either ditch, right? We shouldn't deny Right. Science we shouldn't say science has no value and we shouldn't worship science as the ultimate value. Right. Okay. Yeah, because if you worship it as the ultimate value, you end up with the science, I think. Yeah, which is where a lot of lot of people are these days. Alright, there's two more. I'm making good ground on this one. We deny that individuals or societies should exploit the universe's resources. That's an interesting phrase, for their own advantage at the expense of other people and societies. What are they getting at there? We deny the individuals or society, so like our country, right? That's kinda what they're speaking to here. Right. The United States of America should not exploit well of course we shouldn't exploit anything. But uh but but maybe we uh depending on how you define it, normally I think of it as uh in pejorative terms. Right. But maybe exploiting an opportunity it's just taking advantage of like in uh like Uh making good use of instead of taking that's pejorative sounding too. Making good use of is a way to understand exploit too. So if it's understood that way, it's not pejorative. So let me let me insert let's insert that in and see if it changes. We deny that individuals or societies sh should make good use of the universe's resources for their own advantage. At the expense of other people in societies. At the expense of other people. Am I am I being sloppy about my I don't know, about about my oil drilling in a way that it poisons the crops of the farmer next door but I get rich? Off of the s sale of the oil? You know? Is it uh Yeah, if you do something untoward, Then uh you know that's bad, then yeah. But what if you're doing something good? Like think of think of it in like just classic business examples. Um I own a retail store and I run a big sale, 90% off. I'm not going to siphon business away from my competitors? I'm not going to do it for my advantage at their expense? So I mean this the yeah, so this is particularly talking about the the resources that are in creation. I don't know if that's I don't know that that example you know, speaks to what they're they're trying to get at. The universe's resources makes it feel like they're almost talking about space. Right. Right. I guess I'm going to do that. Yeah, well they're they're trying to include the the entire cosmos, I guess, in this. You know. I shouldn't uh I shouldn't build my solar panels over other people and block their sunlight so they can't get any vitamin D. Well, okay. Is that uh using the universe's resources for my own advantage and at the expense of other people's? Maybe they're also talking about like strip mining Or uh you know, like y y you go to some other part of the world to uh take all their uh their precious metals out of the ground. So you can enrich yourself and your situation at the detriment of those who are native to that land, kind of thing? Yeah. Or like uh like going out and just shooting all the buffalo and cutting out their tongues and then the Native Americans have nothing else to eat. Something like that, maybe. Yeah. But I yeah I feel like it, you know, other Other things get to you know, there's other things that are being done that uh that get it to that point Yeah, I think the spirit of what they're intending here, you and I are both agreeing with it. But again, I'm just not satisfied with how they're saying it. Because it it it it opens up an avenue to just drive a whole bunch of Mac trucks right through it. from those that wouldn't be looking at it as our worldview. Yeah. Right. That's that's that's the challenge I'm having here. Yeah. It works for us because we're able to insert biblical language where they're not using it. Yeah. We deny that a materialistic worldview can provide an adequate basis for recognizing environmental values. Okay, so they're saying if I disagree. So it sounds like they're saying because of the word adequate. So a a m if someone has they're saying if someone has a materialistic worldview, they will not be able to That is not an adequate basis for recognizing environmental values. Yeah, but I disagree. How do you disagree? So somebody who's rejecting God, by definition, has a materialistic worldview. Right. Right? Yes. You and I have a Christian worldview. Those who reject our worldview, they're gonna have a materialistic worldview. Right. Through God's common grace, through his providence, people who are all about I'm gonna make some people mad, but heck, we've made some people mad the last few shows, I'm sure. I'm not persuaded. Now God knows the heart for sure. Okay. But I'm not persuaded that Donald Trump is Christian. I don't think that Donald Trump has a Christian worldview per se. I think he has a pragmatic, materialistic worldview. Doesn't he has no responses to what to do in the world that are adequate to recognize the need to value things in the environment? Of course he does. Our next door neighbors might not be Christians, and yet they take good care of their their lawns and they they recycle like we do. And I I I think that we can have an a that's why I the adequate. Do they have a superlative or the best possible basis for recognizing a verb? Well no. But do they have an adequate one? Of course. I I'd say they don't have an adequate basis for uh Having a complete uh or entirely accurate understanding of environmental values. Right. So because they're they're they're working from uh a limited amount of the truth, they're only going to be able to recognize so much truth But you're adding words like I'm I'm changing words, you're adding words, right? So are you on my side of this fight now all of a sudden? Uh yeah, I would I think I think I would want to add some words in there for clarity to uh To say yes, I I totally agree with this denial. Alright, so there we are. So we've made it through. Now I will say if you think we're done We're not. The pain continues for one more week and we're doing things a little bit out of order. So next week what we're going to do on the Faith Debate is we're going to wrap up our look at all of the Chicago statements from the seventies and eighties because we've already done biblical inerrancy We've done biblical hermeneutics and now we're we're wrapping up biblical application. We've gone through all of the articles, all the affirmations and denials. Right. But we haven't talked about some of the things that were said in the uh introduction to the statement of biblical application. And there are a few items in there that are worthy of of of talking about briefly. So next week we're going to uh go back to the beginning of this statement and uh and and wrap it up. It'll be it'll be the addendum for us. Maybe it'll clear up all of our misunderstandings. Yeah, and we'll have to go back and edit the show and make ourselves sound like we knew we were talking about the last four shows. Could be. That's a lot of post production, let me tell you. Oh man. Alright, so anyway, that's uh David Forcey. Um he pastors a church uh that meets I I I used to always say in like the the southern part of like Frederick County, Washington County, but that's not true. Sometimes they meet in West Virginia, sometimes they meet in the northern part of Frederick County, like they're all over the place For all I know he meets in Arkansas, you know, once a quarter or something. I have no idea. Or he will now, giving him the idea. I see his wheel return. Ooh, Arkansas. Sounds good. Uh anyway, so he's David Forcey, I'm Troy Skinner. I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. I encourage you to visit that website and connect with this show and all sorts of other goodies uh when you go there. And if you want to connect with David, the best way to do that is go to household of faith in Christ dot com and and give me a shout out and uh I I can figure out a way to get you in touch with with David. All right. Uh he is the more reasonable of the two of us, so if you're gonna talk to either one of us Either one you want to talk to. Uh anyway, thanks so much for listening. We'll be back doing this again, finishing up the uh Chicago Statement on Biblical Application next week. That's one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours from let me check my watch. Yep, right about now. God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com, a service of Holtsupple Heating and Air Condition.