Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty W Up MD brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating, How Can We Make You Smile, and Deer Valley, Hardscape, Landscape, and Masonry. I'm Troy Skinner, your host and moderator. And we have a special edition of the show. If you listened last week, you got a kind of a foretaste of what you can expect a little bit this week as well. Before we get into that, I want to remind you, visit us online at wfmd. com keyword faith Here you'll find a daily blog for Faith Debate. Really my blog is your blog. You send me stuff, Troy at WFMB dot com and I will post it on the Faith Debate page. Um with very mild, modest editing only if absolutely necessary. Uh it clean, you know what I'm saying? Um and you'll find a link there to the audio vault where you can listen to podcasts, the Faith Debate Show, and you can find a link to Jonathan Schweitzer's um uh blog. He doesn't update it quite uh as often as as he would like, but he does when he does It's pretty good stuff. Jonathan's not on the show today. In fact, there is no panel today. And the reason is, if you're listening last week, this is old news, but I'm gonna uh share it with you anyway. Somebody was crazy enough to invite me to speak from their pulpit Why would anybody want to do that? Uh but I did. I survived it and actually they they didn't mind it so much that they actually invited me back. So We didn't have time to finish the message in last week's show that I shared with you, so we're going to hear the last third of that message, uh Reason to rejoice, focusing on uh first John chapter one, verses one through four. And then as time allows, we might uh jump in to to the follow up on that, which goes into the next verses from First John. Don't know if we'll fit that whole message in either, but we'll we'll do what we can. The reason I'm doing this, other than being self indulgence, is I thought there might be some interest in hearing what is that guy that's been doing the space debate show for like seven years and he's always poking holes in theories and he's got his own silly opinions and whatever. You know, what would he sound like if he were preaching? So here you have a chance to to see how how horrible that would be in reality Alright, so here we go. Part two of Reason to rejoice. So being raised in Christ, Christians share in the justification and sanctification. In the legal sense, justification, Christ is for us. And in the vital sense, sanctification, Christ is in us. This fellowship with the person of Christ brings with it all of Christ's blessings, such as favor and mercy, and love. And these benefits, of course, again, also include justification and sanctification, which are distinct, but they are inseparable. They're both tied to our union with Christ. Paul eloquently expresses this in Philippians 3, verses 8 through 11. What is more? I consider everything a loss compared to the surpassing greatness of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord, for whose sake I have lost all things. I consider them rubbish, that I may gain Christ and be found in him. Not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ The righteousness that comes from God and is by faith. I want to know Christ and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship. of sharing in his sufferings, becoming like him in his death, and so somehow to attain to the resurrection from the dead. Christ's justification is the believer's justification. Christ's sanctification is the believer's sanctification. Christ's suffering, victory, resurrection, and eternal life are the believers' suffering, victory, resurrection, and guarantee of eternal life. By one man, Adam, all are condemned and inclined to sin, but so too by one man, Jesus Christ, all are justified and sanctified. Believers are no longer in bondage to sin, but we rather have freedom in Christ. Believers are no longer dead in sin, but made alive in Christ. Believers are no longer under the curse of the fall, but are blessed in Christ. Amen. Hallelujah. It is hard to imagine that it's possible that John could have packed all of this into just one verse, verse 3, and then remember that all things are possible through God. In verse 4 of 1 John chapter 1, which is the last verse we'll be looking at in great detail, John says, We write this to make our joy complete. Well, I'll say. If this doesn't make your joy complete, I dare say nothing will. The word complete, that's a word I think that we understand reasonably well. When something is complete, there's nothing missing. It's whole, it's finished. There's nothing more needed, nothing at all. It's perfect, right? This is this is the sort of joy that John says he has by writing this letter to us. I say it's likely that we understand the word complete pretty well, but I wonder if the same could be said for the word joy. Do we really have a full understanding of what the word joy means in the biblical sense? We could spend hours talking about what the Bible teaches on the subject of joy, and we don't have time for that this morning, but I do want to capture the general idea of joy that we find in the Bible. Think of all the passages in the Bible that speak of shouting for joy, leaping for joy, singing for joy, skipping for joy, even rejoicing with joy. Can you get a mental picture of this? A friend of mine once shared with me an analogy that is likely one of the best analogies. It's his understanding of joy, and it really spoke to me. I don't know that I can think of a better analogy than this one. At least I haven't yet. And so I want to share it with you. Alright, so a little bit of mental imagination, a little theater of the mind. Need to imagine Imagine you're at a baseball game. By the way, some people find it easier to try to take themselves somewhere mentally if they close their eyes. So if your eyes aren't already closed at this point in the sermon, you know you're welcome to close them at this point. And uh and try to imagine, okay? So imagine you're at a baseball game and it's the biggest game of the year. The stands are packed to the rafters. There's been a tension and an energy hanging in the air since before the first pitch, and you're surrounded by a multitude of like-minded, die-hard fans. The home team, it's been your favorite team since early childhood. And they've done nothing but disappoint year after year after gut-wrenching year. But they're still your team. And this year things seem different. However, here it is, the most important make or break game in franchise history. And your team's been losing the whole game by more than a few runs. Imagine yourself there. Now imagine it's the late innings. Everyone's getting restless on the inside. Remain almost motionless on the outside. You're afraid to even hope that your team will come back and win the game. And then the opposing pitcher walks the first batter. A ground ball dribbles between the legs of an infielder. And then a fly ball, a guaranteed absolute certain out, and the ball is dropped. Then a base hit. And then a smash that drives in several runs and the crowd, it explodes, it erupts with such noise and cheering. Everybody's Jumping up and down. You can't describe this scene. The pandemonium of absolute sheer exuberance that's going on. People are singing the fight song. You turn around and you hug a stranger. You know, with the absolute certainty of hope, your team will win this game. That's joy. That's what John says he has by writing this letter to us. You and I, as believers in Christ, can share in this complete joy. Share the gospel as John has. And make your joy complete. Let's recap for a moment. The first half There are the first four verses of 1 John establish, among other things, that the author of this epistle and his buddies, they were eyewitnesses to God incarnate. They saw and touched Jesus Christ, the Son of God. This is not fantasy, but reality. Made possible because Jesus is God and man. Again, in addition to seeing and touching, they heard Jesus. And what they heard they now testify and proclaim and declare and write about. Why is this message from Jesus shared with us? That we may share in fellowship with Jesus Christ. By sharing the truth of this fellowship, With others, by sharing the gospel message, we make our joy complete. John goes on in the rest of 1 John chapter 1 and beyond that to say that this fellowship with Jesus is important because this fellowship, it is in this fellowship that we're cleansed of our sin. Forgiveness for sin is the result. Praise the Lord. But what does this fellowship with Christ look like? How do you know if you're in really in fellowship with Jesus? John says We can recognize the forgiveness for sin by our freedom from sin. And that's what he will begin to tackle in the rest of Chapter 1. further deep on into the epistle, but that will be a message for a different sermon. Perhaps there'll be a next time and I'll share that with you. Who knows? Anyway, I thank you for your attention. Would you join me in a word of prayer? Father, we thank you that we can gather together like this in fellowship. We pray that you would encourage us not to just gather together on Sunday mornings, but that we would gather together throughout the week, that we would seek opportunities. To meet with others, to make our joy complete by sharing the gospel message with others, that we would be an instrument used by you. As you call people unto yourself, they would come to recognize Jesus as their Lord and Savior, and that we would have complete joy in seeing transformed lives. I ask that you would help us to internalize this message today, all of us, to think about how complete our joy is. I ask that you would help us to think about what we can do to experience the fullness of what you have for us in Christ. We are weak vessels who are humble that you would choose to use us in your work of advancing the cause of your kingdom. We thank you for revealing your word. We thank you for giving us your Son, Jesus Christ. We thank you for the words that you penned through. John the apostle, so that we might still have them today to learn and courage and encourage one another. I ask your blessing upon us as we depart this morning. I pray that the word would not depart from our minds and our hearts. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host, Roy Skinner, and today It's a special kind of a show, so I don't know if I call myself a host so much as uh as uh I'm I'm your preacher of the day. Anyway, uh I had a chance to share the message you just listened to, the last half of that message uh that you just heard. You heard the first half last week Um called Reason to Rejoice, focusing on the first part of 1 John, which is kind of the New Testament. I was invited back and uh a number of months later uh to speak again and uh shared a follow-up message called Transparency by Trust uh focusing on the next section of first John. And so we're going to listen uh to that now or as much as time will allow of that now. Alright. So um uh bear with me if you would. I hope you're enjoying it. Good morning. Yes, my name is Troy Skinner, and a reminder I am a sinner saved by grace. I want to uh thank you all for welcoming me again this morning. It was about eight months ago that I was here last, and uh I don't know if my entire family was here last time, were we? Okay, but you might not remember them all, so I want to uh point them out for you so you can Make my daughter feel embarrassed later that I pointed her out. My beautiful daughter Danny is uh seated at closest to the end, and next to her is my wife, uh also beautiful wife, Dina, and my beautiful son Tyler. Um we are going to be covering uh an early portion of uh first John today. And if you were here eight months ago, and I think many of you were, and some of you might actually remember uh what what the preaching was like We went we dove into four or five verses, I think, in very minute detail. We really got into the minutiae and really kind of we went micro to understand what John was saying. And this morning we're gonna look at basically the follow-up to that section of his of his uh of his book, of his letter. But we're going to go more macro. So we're going to be studying what it and learning and understanding what it is that John means for us to understand, but we're actually not going to spend a whole lot of time in 1 John this morning. Uh we're going to be actually bouncing around to eleven different books of the Bible. So fully one-sixth of our holy canon will be put touched on. It'll be a little bit difficult for you to probably keep up and flip pages fast enough But if you're one of those who likes to try to do that, I would encourage you to at least stick a sum in a handful of sections where we'll spend most of our time. We'll be in Romans 10 for quite a stretch. We'll also be in Colossians 3 Romans 7 might be an important one for you to stick a note in. And James chapter 2. So again, if you want to try to find those, Romans 10 and 7, Colossians 3, and James. And this is the passage that we'll be unpacking and unlocking through the rest of the scripture. I'm going to read it to you now. This is 1 John. Chapter 1, verse 6 through chapter 2, verse 6, and then we'll jump ahead to chapter 2, verses 15, 16, and 17. If we claim to have fellowship with him, yet walk in the darkness, we lie and do not live by the truth. But if we walk in the light, if he is the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus, his son, purifies us from all sin. If we claim to be without sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just and will forgive us our sins and purify us from all unrighteousness. If we claim we have not sinned, we make him out to be a liar, and his word has no place in our lives. My dear children, I write this to you so that you will not sin. But if anybody does sin, we have one who speaks to the Father in our defense, Jesus Christ, the righteous one. He is the atoning sacrifice for our sins and not only for ours. but also for the sins of the whole world. We know that we have come to know him if we obey his commands. The man who says, I know him, but does not do what he commands, is a liar. The truth is not in him. But if anyone obeys his word, God's love is truly made complete in him. This is how we know we are in him. Whoever claims to live in him must walk as Jesus did. Do not love the world or anything in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For everything in the world, the cravings of the sinful man, the lust of his eyes, and the boasting of what he has and does, comes not from the Father, but from the world. The world and its desires pass away, but the man who does the will of God lives forever. Father, I ask your blessing upon this word that I'm sharing with this precious congregation of yours today. I pray that you would have only the truth be proclaimed, and that would be proclaimed boldly and clearly. I ask that you would open our hearts and our minds To receive it and to apply it to our lives, to trust in you and your word. In Jesus' name. Amen. Excuse me. So for the Christian, what does it mean to be a believer? And how can the professing Christian be sure of salvation? These questions are related, I believe, as part of a larger question, which is what is expected of those Who profess Christ as their Lord and Savior? That's the question that we will be answering this morning. What's expected of you, of me, of us? God's perfect love is demonstrated powerfully by his gift of salvation, and we are commanded to respond properly. To that gift of salvation. From my perspective, there are a few things that weigh on a person's heart more than concern over someone's salvation, over your salvation. I mean, really, what weighs in your heart more than that? Well, what does the Word of God say about it? In Romans chapter 10, verse 13, it says that everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. Have you called on the name of the Lord? If so, you're saved. God's Word says so. However, what does it mean and how does it come about that someone should call on the name of the Lord? The same Romans passage we just quoted, in fact, goes on to address that exact question. In verses 14 to 15, it says, How then shall they call on the one And how can they believe in the one of whom they have not heard? And how can they hear without someone preaching to them? And how can they preach unless they are sent? As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who bring good news So you see what Paul is saying here? We can't truly call on a Lord in whom we don't believe, and we can't believe in someone of whom we've never heard. And we've heard about this one and only great and glorious God through the preaching of those that have been sent by this very same God. And what they preach Is none other than the good news, the gospel. Now we hear all the time over and over again the gospel is the good news, the good news is the gospel. Pretty much interchangeable in meaning. Which leaves us with a problem because they don't provide a real proper definition of well, what does that mean exactly? It does tell us that the gospel is good. And that's important to be sure. But what exactly is the good gospel that's proclaimed? Well, God gives us an answer in an earlier verse of this very same chapter in Romans, chapter 10, verse 8, says that what's proclaimed is the word of faith. Faith in what? Faith in who? Faith in Jesus, our Lord. The full verse says, but what does it say? The word is near you, it is in your mouth, and your heart. That is the word of faith we are proclaiming. The thought continues the following verse, that if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. The point being made by the Apostle Paul is really quite simple. We are saved by faith in Jesus Christ. We know in our hearts that this is true. Because of the testimony of the Word of God. If the Word of God didn't reveal this to us, we'd be utterly lost. We can trust the Word completely and without reservation in this matter and all matters, because from the very beginning the Word was God. Famous words from John's Gospel, chapter one, verse one. I think we should pause. Reflect on that for a moment. Let us sink in. The word is God. Think about all the things that we know to be true about God. Right? God is is love and good and light and trustworthy and holy and righteous and truth. God is everything imaginable that is perfect. That's true about God. That is true about his word. We can can and should completely trust not only God, but His Word, because they're one and the same. And God tells us about Himself in His Word. And one of the things He tells us about His Word is found in a passage of Scripture that I find to be one of the most comforting. It's Jeremiah 29. Famous, famous passage, Jeremiah 29, 11 through 13. It says, For I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord. Plans to prosper you and not to harm you. Plans to give you hope. and a future. Then you will call upon me and come and pray to me, and I will listen to you. You will seek me and find me when you seek me with all your heart. This passage begins with God basically saying to his people, look, you can trust me. I have only the best of blessings for you. And God proved that he's true to his word when he humbled himself to become a man who was rejected and scorned and ultimately killed. as payment for our sins. And then demonstrated his power over even death through his resurrection, so that we might have hope and a future. And that we would prosper. God didn't do this because we deserve it. We deserve only punishment and death. But despite the fact that we deserve only death, Christ gives us life. God gives us life in Christ. The Jeremiah passage in chapter 29, it ends by telling us that we find God and we seek him with all of our heart. So in seeking him, where should we look? Well, certainly we should look to seek God in prayer and in worship by the guiding of the Holy Spirit. But these are all grounded in a primary place in which we can seek and find God, and that is His Word, Scripture. And that's going to be the uh conclusion of today's show, obviously not the conclusion of the message. So we will pick up and hear the last part of the message with next week's show. And it might time out pretty well I think because uh I think uh about as long as the show is about as how much time is left in uh i in the message that you were just listening to. Uh this is the Frederick Faith Debate Special Edition. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks to our sponsors. Putman Fleming and Heating Help We Make You Smile and Deer Valley Heartscape Landscape and Masonry. Visit us online, wfmd. com keyword faith Until next week, thanks so much for listening. God bless.