Welcome to the Faith Debate. Thank you for spending part of your Sunday morning with us here on News Radio 930, WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. You can find us online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. You can find the Faith Debate, of course, at WFMD dot com as well. Joined as per usual these days, Daniel uh Rasby is uh here with us today. Hello Daniel. Hello. And uh David Forcy, he's uh with us as well. Hello, David. The three of us are pastors in the area. org. David, he's a Luddite, he has no web presence whatsoever except for the presence I pretty much give him. Although he has a Facebook page, but I think he checks it I once every three years, I think. He's got it on his calendar to remind him. Every three years check my Facebook page. So that's how you get in touch with David. And we've got the pleasure of being joined uh for this episode by Dan Cox. Might be a name you're familiar with. He four years served as the uh in the Maryland House of Delegates for the Fourth District. He's uh made made a name for himself across the state running for governor uh back in twenty twenty two uh where he ousted the uh establishment Republican candidate in the primary but then uh unfortunately did not win in the uh in the general uh election. And now in 2024 he is running for Congress uh to represent Maryland's sixth congressional district, the uh the the the job that has belonged to David Trohn for a number of years Now. So um having a politician on the show is is not completely unique. We've had politicians, uh US Senate candidates and And local politicians, uh trying to think who else we've had. So this is like maybe the th sixth time in the uh twentieth year history of the show. But it's relatively unique. It's always a fun thing where we cross pollinate, where we talk about you know, religion and politics, you know, church and state, that kind of thing. Two topics you're never supposed to talk about. And we haven't had more, not because we're resistant to it, but because usually the candidates don't want to come on a show like this. So I I thank you for taking the time to come on and and and share your your worldview as it relates to all matters, not just political. Well, it's my privilege. Thank you for the opportunity and I would I always kind of uh cringe when I hear say you know, people saying, Well, it's nice to talk to a politician because uh I think of myself as somebody other than a politician. Well I'm a dad, you know, I'm I'm a husband. But you've been either in office or running for office for quite a long time now. So you're a politician. I understand that that's that's what people think. But No actually I'm just a guy. I'm I'm a dad who is uh you know honored to serve when uh in and out of uh politics, in and out of government, and um grateful for the opportunity. Now, I've obviously paid attention to the news, you know, locally and statewide, and so I have a sense of who you are, and we've we've uh you know, full disclosure, I've I've met uh Dan, two other occasions I think combined. We spoke for six minutes. On those two occasions. So I don't know 'em well. And I imagine you listening to the show, you know him, but you might not know him real well either. And I I mentioned before we started the show today, I said, So Dan, I know you profess to be a Christian Uh I know that you're a pastor's kid. I know that um you're an attorney and you've got a big family. I think it's like ten kids. Is that right? That's correct. And that's like all I know. So I thought, you know, I don't know how often a long form interview uh situation you have, just kinda share the man a little bit. So can you talk a little bit about what it was like being a uh a pastor's kid, what kind of church you went to growing up and w what helped to form your worldview and those sorts of things. Sure, well I started out, um my earliest memories were at Bible college with my father, Washington Bible College and Seminary. uh in Washington DC. So I was born in D. C. and raised the first four years of my life in Tacoma Park, a little place called Hamilton Gardens. And I um saw my father uh as as I um as we uh launched into his ministry. move to Frederick, bringing the family and establishing a church. He was ordained and sent out to to church plant So h that began um about when I was five I think and uh And who sent him out? Was it a denomin denomination or uh a a network of churches or I was a non denominational um affiliate of WBC and I think it was called uh South River Bible Church. was the affiliating um church. There were multiple churches obviously that affiliated with the seminary. I'm not quite sure um how that network worked, but I do know that uh it was South River and Pastor Gary Smith there and the elders at that church that that sent my dad and mom to do a a church plan here in Frederick. And the vision was, as they shared it with me, was that Frederick did not um have a a lot of uh non-denominational churches per se. From what they could tell there was no um Bible church movement here yet. And it was a a ripe opportunity to really reach a lot of people who might have come from uh traditional church backgrounds but yet may not be attending church. And um to preach the gospel, bring the gospel to Frederick. So that I think began the ministry. My dad has stayed faithful to that all of these years and he is still pastoring. Uh I forget how many years it's been, but I think it's over forty. Um because uh I'm forty-nine, so it's got to be over forty. Uh and I'm not quite sure um uh exactly um all of the uh the details that allowed him to to uh plant the church other than the fact that I remember a lot of hard work, a lot of Blue collar work where he would run a construction company on the side and I'd be with him on top of a roof at age eight. And Then on Sundays he was church planning. We were building that congregation. He was working hard with with mom to do that. So you were violating children laws right off the bat. In in that day uh there were things called internships and they still are actually plus I know the rules are different when it's a family related kind of a thing too anyway. So I'm joking, honestly. I I'm very grateful for that opportunity. I'll get you with some got It it ties into my life story. Believe it or not, it ties into my life story and a passion I have for young people today, that aspect. So I don't know if I can get into that now or not, but real quick, a snapshot of this. Yeah. Because my father who launched his ministry side by side with the tent making business to be able to make ends meet, and because he included me I learned some construction skills at a young age. So by the time I was uh seventeen, I had um helped build a a very large addition on my parents' house as well as replace the roof as well as um work on external buildings like barns And um I had done incredible um wide array of construction projects. Um everything from foundation work to the framing, to the roofing, to the external. And that experience lost me the w when I was married. Um my wife and I, we were young, she's nineteen, I was twenty one, and at age twenty two and twenty We were able to purchase a little lot with my savings for $2,000 and with a construction of perm loan. um use our construction experience with my father's um guidance, you know, his his kind uh benef beneficial help in the background and and every day on the job many times as my G C Uh we we built our house at age twenty two and that prepared a a as a young man y we had no option. I didn't have many options I was making. My income was so tight that I was barely able to to afford the rent. And as as we know it's only gotten worse in the last twenty years. I was just thinking if you were to f if that lot still existed today it probably would go for like fifty thousand dollars or something. Well I mean it actually I I bought it for fifty at the time but Oh god. Or they it would pay it'd be seven hundred thousand today. That's what's crazy how things go. So I I firmly believe that young people need hope and opportunity And I think the church can help assist in that, giving opportunity and vision to young people who want to get started. The end result, long story short, was I used that money, I used that house, that sweat equity um to launch our ability to go to law school. We were able to sell the house later to a great Frederick County Sheriff's Deputy and The rest is history in terms of why I was able to become an attorney and work in politics. Now I want to get uh Daniel and David in in a second, but I do want to ask this one last question selfishly. uh go back even further than being, you know, sure twenty newly married, buying a house and stuff. Your dad being a uh a pastor, can you remember a time when You wouldn't have thought of yourself as a Christian? Do you have a conversion story? What's the testimony of your walk with the Lord, you know, the early part of your life? Sure. Um, no, I do not remember ever uh not being um someone who put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ. I remember distinctly uh being concerned when I was five coming home coming home from school of whether or not um I was truly a Christian and whether or not I was um I had um as a small five year old. Um been given a little tract at school from my teacher. It's a little smiley tract. You might have seen those in the past, but the little smiley tract you opened it up and said, um, Jesus loves you. But it's kind of like um the four laws or whatever they call it and that you're separated from God and going, you know, to on your path of sin and darkness to hell unless you trust Jesus as your Savior and that In that trust, he himself saves you, redeems you, and comes into your heart. And it was a very simplistic track. It was for kids. You were five. I was five. But I understood it enough to be concerned. I came home and spoke with my parents about it. and I distinctly remember um kneeling down in the living room and asking Christ to save me at age five. Um I don't remember the date and my father jokingly says uh uh today says uh yes you did that. Maybe five or ten times you did that. Right. So he he thinks that I I uh multiple times uh wanted to be um be sure of sure of my salvation. Now do you remember the multiple times or you just remember the one? I just remember one. I remember it that day in the living room. I remember getting off the bus. with that tract in my hand and I remember the conviction That was the day you really meant it. That I now know. You know. Well when you were a kid sometimes um may impute things. But yeah I think I think you're right. I think the Holy Spirit awakened my heart at that moment and that became a a very helpful point in my life as a young man growing up who it wasn't always perfect as a teenager for instance. But it certainly informed my motivation and like the uh the press, I have got to get baptized. And so at age twelve, um, I asked to be baptized. Because we came from a background of non-denominational, more Baptistic viewpoint that it would be on profession of faith as um As you got older. Some some Baptists are more younger profession, some are older, so you know, we were kind of like a happy medium like whenever Jesus and Dad said. And that's a joke. But it was something that my father wanted to make sure was sincere and not a not a uh not a false profession, so that was age twelve for me. Either one of you guys have something you wanted to ask about? No, not off the top of your head? No. Okay. So I have I have I have a stack of questions, sure. Go for it. I'm sure I'll get to something So I was gonna ask you some of the nondenominational doesn't help give you any markers, but you said, you know, t Baptist in orientation. Um Probably m maybe congregational in its uh polity and the church governance, uh you know, that kind of typical Baptist kind of thing. No? No, he's elder led. Yeah, it's more like uh Bible church, um, along the lines of say a John MacArthur t style. Um it was always elder led. Okay, they mentioned John MacArthur, so reformed? No, not entirely. Okay. Um although I always joke with my father that he's about a four and a half pointer. Okay. It's a joke. But I am reformed, so he we can joke like that. Okay. Okay. So so a four and a half pointer reformed uh Baptist kind of a uh uh of a thing. So uh so it's interesting. So you diverted from your father on that half a point. Um where did that influence come from? What are some of the the leading voices? Pastors you like to listen to their sermons or resources you've tried, you know, names that we might recognize, not like the local pastor down the street, although you can mention that too, but you know Who are some of the people that we might know you're like, Yeah, it had a huge influence on me. So obviously the Holy Spirit, Word of God, my my father actually, because he always put the Word of God first. Now my dad came from a background uh uh a Catholic background. He was Um, always joke about this. It's true. Um he studied to be a uh uh Catholic priest with the Roman Catholic Church. He was Top of his uh game, top of his class, sings Latin, um you name it, he's good. And the Lord allowed him to um come out of that simply because he shut the seminary down. The seminary got closed. So he ended up wandering in uh high s public high school and then Towson State University. and almost lost his faith entirely through the um uh degree program he was studying um to uh Uh I forget exactly the degree. I think it had something to do with um well he w he was going for his um potential for his um medical doctorate and I think he was studying the um uh the social sciences and the mental health uh world at the time for undergrad. But in any case, it was the Lord through a What we joke about and it's true, um uh a uh the seventies Jesus Freak the seventies movement called the Jesus Freak Thing had a um uh a young man uh that was kind of like so my dad was the the nice Catholic boy with the perfectly combed hair and he never overpartied or anything like that. He never drank he wasn't a drinker or anything like that. And uh this this guy comes in and where my dad worked and befriended him and he was this long haired hippie commie freak is what my dad said. My dad was raised very conservative. And this guy found Jesus, this long haired hippikami freak had uh found Jesus on the beaches of somewhere, probably California. Like the Jesus Revolution movie. It was to the T, that was the kind of guy who came and grabbed my dad and and he said, You need to be saved. You need to you need to know Jesus. And my dad said, um, I know him every day. I pray the rosary and I've done that all my life and I don't have I don't necessarily see whether, you know, he had some questions and doubts. And so he dragged him to church Got him to go on a Sunday morning and um in that church, which was uh Hereford Baptist and Hereford Um near Moncton, Maryland, h where my grandmother's from. Uh my mom went to that church and in that church, um, he heard the altar call and went forward. And felt the Holy Spirit tugging in his heart. He went forward in the altar call and then the pre the the preacher had him recite the sinner's prayer. And my father was totally deflated. And went back to his seat and said, Lord. Oh, and the reason he was deflated is because he had said this in his prayer uh as part of, you know, Catholic rituals, part of the Catholic ritual, and he had never really felt um the Holy Spirit's encouragement. He didn't really connect. It was just part of ritualism to him and he was pretty much over that. So he went back to his seat and he was just like, God, if you're real, you gotta you gotta find me because I can't find you or something like that. And he said at that instant He knew the Holy Spirit was alive. He said it was like a lightning bolt. As his back was turned, he was walking back to his pew. And um He decided, okay, I'm gonna go get a Bible because he saw everybody in the church with Bibles and he's like, Man, these guys are all like serious about their Bibles because but remember back then it was Even though it was post-Vatican II, the Catholics were not reading, right, not encouraged to have their own Bible. So long story short, um God did that miracle in him. God saved my dad. God brought him to Christ, established, and then everything that he had been taught as a kid as a Catholic. became fresh and real. For instance, every Sunday at Mass he heard the scriptures read and all those scriptures came to life. He realized this isn't Santa Claus This is the God of the universe. And uh quite the the transformation. Raised Roman Catholic then almost loses his faith and then becomes uh four and a half point Calvinist and his conversion story sounds reformed, right? I can't do this, God do it for me, kind of thing. So how does that compare with your story. Well and that's kind of where I was um meandering and and wanting to go, but uh because in our home he established the scriptures as the authority. Um It really meant meant something to me. Without the Word of God as the foundation for what we believe We are kind of um more than on shaky ground. And one of the interesting points was when he was when he was graduating from Bible college the professor said, um, you have to sign this doctrinal statement that says that all Pentecostals are going to burn in hell. And my father So this is Dr. Pendell, which is a really nice man. It's just their doctoral statement. And my father said quite quite a doctoral statement. Yeah. Well that they've since well then they're no longer open but at the end. He might have. Uh but uh it and I don't think I'm overstating that. Okay, so 'cause this is the story that he tells, that that they were very strict. They have to sign this thing that's saying that those are doctrines of demons or something to that effect. Or you don't get your diploma, right? Or you don't get your degree. You're done. And he refused. And they said, Well, why? We know your faith. You're cle it's clear that you're walking with God. We we we want to give you a degree. Why can't you sign this statement of faith? It's a simple statement of faith. You're n We also know you that you're not a Pentecostal. And my father said, Well, sir, I stopped following the Pope when I became a Christian. as the finality of my doctrine. The finality is scripture, and I see the scripture doesn't quite say it the way this says it. So I can't sign that. And Dr. Pindell looked quite Dr. Pindell looked at my father and said Son, you'll receive your diploma. Ah. Well cool. So that kind of created a foundation for the way that I view life and as a family, you know, we have grown in our faith and and grown in our perspective. Now you say your dad's still a pastor, you still attend that church? Uh we support him, but um no we actually attend uh Presbyterian PCA church in Hagerstown and it was somewhat because of the similar story you had with COVID, uh the church we were going to at the time. uh had some issues with uh c shutting down another regulation. Not my dad's church. My dad's church c stayed open and then the church that we went to stayed open. But no we we have amicably um been worshiping uh and members at a PCA church because of my doctrine of the way I want to raise my kids in the doctrine of of faith. But it sounds like you you came to some n maybe minor doctrinal differences more from reading scripture rather than just hearing various pastures or reading other books. It's more from as a Berean studying scripture as kind of Yeah, so the historic Christian faith became very much deeper to me and a dear brother who today I just got a text um praying for him, John McCullough. Um a a dear brother who's a uh Reformed Baptist on the Eastern Shore and very well renowned. He's been also an a leader in various aspects of business and politics, but he is um fighting uh fighting uh pancreatic cancer, I just found out. Very sad. But that man, Mr. Drama Kulla Stayed in my law office until two in the morning one night, convincing me from Romans 9 that I need to trust in the sovereignty of God over salvation. That if he is sovereign enough over the hairs of my head, how can we say that he's not sovereign over the salvation of our souls? And uh studying the scripture drove me to that final understanding that we can trust God. He's in control, including, of our salvation. He's a good God. And um You know, we went over things like my attack was, well, how in the world could pre- God predestine people to hell? And it was like, no, no, no, no, that's false teaching. That's called double predestination. It's not biblical. So that was helpful and we had those good conversations. Now you haven't name dropped and maybe that's on purpose because Daniel's kind of hinting at that, but are there uh you know, may maybe even at this stage in your life, who who are some of the notable names that I might recognize or somebody hearing your voice on the radio might recognize, you know, like an RC scroll or somebody like that. Certainly, certainly. So you mentioned that you lived in Orlando once and I was realizing uh and I was wanting to mention that uh before we got on the air that um That's actually a special place for us just north of there because of uh my daughter graduated from Reform Reformation Bible College, which is Arcee Sproll's um his vision and his college there and that is that's been a real blessing. My daughter Patience is um more skilled at doctrine than I. than I am. And uh I've been so blessed with that. So we love RC, um probably agree with him almost almost every time. What I like about him, like for instance, I'll just give you an example. When it came to the eschatology discussions He said, I just want to start out by saying this. Uh of the four main views of eschatology, I have believed every single one of them at some point in my life. So everybody Basically take a chill pill and let him study this biblically. Um some of the others would be Alistair Begg. Uh I love Alistair Begg. He's more baptistic. Yeah. Although he stepped in it recently. Have you heard about the controversy with Alistair? I did not. We we can talk about that. We can talk about it on next week's show or we can talk about it in between shows, but yeah, that he's really stepped in it and it's shocking. Shocking. And and John MacArthur is an American hero in my view because he's one of the only pastors in America that defied the illegal shutdown orders and um I was in the mix at that time. fighting for the um you know for the first time in four hundred years we had for the first time a governor close our churches. Not even King George the Third had done that. And what was the result of most of America, most of the pastors of America was to acquiesce. How dare they? Shame. And the blessing. of John MacArthur leading the way and telling the nation's pastors and the Canadian pastors stand up against this tyranny. It opposes everything that we believe in in the history of Christianity, all through uh the history of a thousand years in Europe. Um, let's stand up and I was so grateful for that. So those are three more quick ones. Yeah, well the last uh couple of things you've said have sparked uh some thoughts for how we might begin the next week's show. So I think there's some uh some good stuff there. Thank you for being so transparent and sharing all that background. We barely I think we heard David say hello. Do we want to hear David say goodbye? See you next week. Sorry to take us so much time. No, no, no. David Forcey, uh Daniel Razby, I'm Troy Skinner. We're joined this week by Dan Cox, running for Congress, US Congressman. Oh, what makes you think you can do that? Yeah, we'll ask him those questions too. M if not next week, maybe in a a show after that if he's willing to just stick around to do that many shows with us that many weeks in a row. He's got a busy schedule. Anyway, I wanna thank you for listening and spending part of your day with us here. You can find us online, of course, at WFMD. com And the church website, this is the church I pastor, it connects to the faith debate and all sorts of other stuff and vetted resources and that sort of thing. That website is Household of FaithInChrist. com We'll be back next week. I think if I'll check my watch here, yep, about 167. 5 hours. 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless.