Broadcasting from the West Side of Big Brother City in the hearts of Gridlock. County we're preaching with impact like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hopes in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman, Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? You know, I just realized how many peas there are. We're gonna go back and count them later on. Face debate is online at WFMD. com keywordface. There you'll find links to podcasts and news items and a a whole bunch of different religious worldviews if you want to kinda get a quick, you know, uh religion one on one uh overview different things. You click on there and it tells you all about Hinduism or Buddhism or various uh brands of Christianity and so forth. Um did I mention my email? I don't think I did because I don't think I mentioned the blog. You'll find the blog on the Faith Debate page. Our blog is your blog. 18 items go up there a day, Monday through Friday. That's 90 a week. How do I do that? Well I depend on your email. So email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. You send me, I post. It's as simple as that. you to pop in and see what other people are saying. On the faith debate today, Arm Bjorn Dahl, who is with the Youth for Christ of Central Maryland, Jonathan Sweitzer, not here. He's on vacation for the holidays, ho ho ho. He's tired after delivering all of those presents and spitting down all of those chimneys. I didn't think he could sit down a chimney. No, you've you've met John, right? Yeah, he doesn't sit down anybody's chimney, that's for sure Alright, so let's see. We've got peas here. We've got uh preaching, plowing, pavement, people, place, putman plumbing. That's a lot of peas. That's a lot of peas. And they're almost always doubled. It's almost always PP. Mm. Little kids listening just got a thrill out of that. I'm not gonna comment on that one. He is the smart one in the group, Arn, aren't you? Um Hey, happy holidays, Merry Christmas, ho ho ho, all that Christmas Yeah, we're not well we're not planning to talk about Christmas, but if we run out of other fodder, we might swing back around because every couple of years I think a good stab at Christmas, if you know what I mean. So I don't know if you have any issues with the whole Christmas thing, but I do. But we've been doing this show for over ten years and we've talked about the Christmas issue prob I would say at least five times in those over ten years because about every other year we we tackle it and I can't remember if we tackled it last year or not, so Anyway. What we are what do you have something on your mind? No. He wants to stay away from the whole Christmas thing there. Uh so if I go in that direction I'm going solo, it seems. Um what we are here to talk about. Art is with the uh y the youth. That's right. Youth for Christ, as a matter of fact. Absolutely. Right here in Central Maryland. Mm-hmm. Been doing it for like twenty six years. That's it. Going on twenty seven. But it feels like A day. Just yesterday. Because for Arn a day is a like twenty-seven years, twenty-seven years is as a day. That's right. Yeah, he's he's not God. If you were God it'd be a day as a thousand years, but he's only Arn, so it's It looks like a thousand years on me. Well twenty-six years. You started nineteen eighty eight. Goodness gracious. Mm-hmm. Man, has the world changed since nineteen eighty eight. You know it has. But in a way it hasn't. You know, there's like a yeah the more things change the more they stay the same. There's nothing new under the sun. No not to quote scripture or anything Uh but we have you on to talk about uh some school issues, educational issues, youth related issues. Does that make sense? You're kinda good at that sort of thing. Yeah, got in the school kind of stuff. Yeah, and we've done two shows on things. Uh two weeks ago we talked about uh the curriculum in general. Last week we talked about edu uh evolution and how it's taught in schools and uh uh and this week There's been some stuff in the news that always pops up. Mm-hmm. Pretty much every year around graduation time it pops up. Yeah. And uh we don't have you on around graduation time, but in a few months You know, we'll know who our valedictorians and how do you say it salutarian? No. Salutorian. Salutorian. I've been saying that wrong my whole life. Or salutatorian. Salutatorium? Salutatorian? Yep. I got you off on the wrong direction, didn't you? You got me on the way off. See, I think he said it the way I always say it, which is wrong apparently. Yep. So that's my one glitch. You know if you remember that fairy tale about the uh the princess who wishes to be perfect And she has a beauty mark on the back of her neck that nobody can see, but it drives her crazy because if only she could get rid of that one little mold, that one little beauty mark on the back of her neck, she would be perfect. And so she keeps going to the magic mirror on the wall and saying, Please, please, please, magic mirror on the wall, make me be perfect, make me be perfect, make this beauty mark go away. And so finally the mere grants her wish and then Beauty Mark goes away and the princess poof vanishes, ceases to exist. And the moral of the story is, go to your dermatologist. Well, okay, that's a good one too, and stay out of the sun, and you send block and all that. But the other thing is nobody's perfect. So Excellent. Yeah. So anyway, there's your little story. You're good to feel good story for the week. Now we're gonna bludgeon you with hard, cold facts. Yeah. There were a number of stories that made the news. One of them uh was last June graduation. It happened over in California, big surprise there. You probably know the story better than I do, so what can you tell me about that? Because it's gonna set the stage for what we talk about today. Yeah, the student Brooke Hamby was uh uh submitted his speech to uh the authorities uh for being the salutatorium and he included in it a reference to God. And uh three times he was rejected for the uh approval uh based upon the reference to God and on the on the th fourth submission there was a communications gap and he went even though he didn't get appr approval or denial on the fourth submission he went ahead with the um uh the um reference to God. Now let me make sure I understand. The first three times it was rejected and they told him specifically it was because of God? Or they just rejected didn't tell him the reason and so he wasn't sure and he kept leaving. Why did he keep leaving God in there Every time knowing they were going to reject it because God was still in there. Well because he he I think it's because God was such a significant part of his life. uh being selected as you know salutatory it was like uh a passive resistance, a stubbornness, like I'm just gonna keep submitting it until they can see I'm serious about this. And eventually they'll call me on the phone and we'll talk it out and they'll let me talk about God on the on my speech and everybody'll be happy. Yeah, and he uh yeah, he was pretty passionate about it. Now do you think he legit uh you can't know the man's heart, this young man's heart, but Do you think he, oh, they didn't get back to me on the fourth submission, so it must be okay? Or he was like, aha I got 'em now. They never got back to me, so I'm gonna hurry up and do my speech before that anybody notices. I'll let you decide. I don't I don't know him personally. Hey, be wise as a serpent, gentle as a dove, that's what I'd like to say. Yeah, well he not to quote scripture etcher or anything. Yes, of course. But he went ahead with the uh the reverence to God and uh he was uh you know denied his uh um Diploma and he he was He was denied his diploma? Sure. Holy cow. Mm-hmm Can I say holy cow? Yeah, why not? You can say can I say holy cow if I'm dil delivering a speech at a graduation ceremony? That's a good question. There's some other words you can't use but You know, one of the things that I'm I'm thinking is that the crux of the issue is what's the nature of a valedictorian or salutatorian speech? What is that purpose of it? Why are they selected for it? And what the what is the um the essence of that? And uh what control does the you know school system need or uh need to exert over what is said. Yeah, because these are the the you know the the top two students in the class. Yeah. Right? They're they're exceptional performers. Absolutely. They're probably very good studious, hardworking folks that achieve that level of accomplishment. Yes. And they are representatives of what the school system can produce. Mm-hmm. And there and there's arguably if not the best, among the best of what the school system can produce. And so they're a good representation to go up there and be a representation for the whole student body. Right. And to represent that their classes experience, their personal experience. Mm-hmm. And that sort of thing, right? That's what that's and and here's the here's the conundrum the difficulty that the school system has. I'll I'll I'll state their case. Okay. Their case is that it's still a school sponsored event. And they feel as though because they are sponsoring the graduation, they are uh organizing it, they still have the control over what takes place and the responsibility associated with whatever is presented. So if if a if a student says something irresponsible erratic or whatever, uh they they feel as though they would be held responsible for every word that's said there. Uh so That's that's the opinion of the school. Now that is up for debate. Uh w what what should it be? Should it be a school sponsored event? Should it be controlled tightly uh or is it is it a perhaps a a place of where we are transitioning from uh being under the control of a school, under the control of parents When you graduate, you're moving on to the next step. You're demonstrating independence. You're demonstrating your own uh you know, stepping out into the world. And Does that need to be edited? Does that need to be strictly uh controlled by somebody else? I I think perhaps That's something that needs to be. Let me ask you this. What would uh how would the school system this is kind of borderline r rhetorical question maybe, I don't know. How would a school system recognize an atheist's graduation speech. What words would they have to excl what would be diff definitive? That's a good question. I I think uh an atheist would probably have to uh s make references to God or the lack thereof, uh in order to be edited, I guess, in some way. The reason I'm I'm I'm kind of putting it in some rhetorical in my mind is What does atheism, ah theism mean um by definition? Theism, theist, you know, has to do with God Ah, non, no, no God, non-god. Right. So if there's no God in the speech, it's an atheist speech. It's a non-God speech by definition. So if the school system is only going to allow Atheistic speeches. Atheistic speeches. Hmm. They are taking a stand in favor of atheism atheism. Hmm. That's a that is a an interesting logic. And that only uh works if you will acknowledge that atheism is a religion. And I think that it is. I think it has the I I think it has enough of the characteristics of what we describe as religions, even organized in some cases. It even fits the definitions of organized religion in some cases. that the school system, where do they get off, you know, saying that uh atheism's okay. So anyway, so h this uh this young man, Brooke gives his speech anyway. Mm-hmm. They don't like yank him off the stage. They wait until it's all over. No. Uh and they wanted to show him who was boss. Now do we know from this story in California, did any of the parents or students that were present for that speech complain aft at the conclusion of the speech and say, Hey, he mentioned God. They um just so you know, they uh they do reference in the story th about this that they They were acting on the basis of previous problems with complaints from the ACLU. Oh, so not from the parents of the students present, but from the ACLU who wasn't even there. That's what one of the stories that I read uh indicated. And sorry, but it's not funny, but it is. I know, I know. We should look at is perhaps the graduation should be sponsored by Parents. And the reason uh I I suggest this is that you'd need a lot of volunteers and the parents don't step up for those sorts of things. Oh they just don't. Uh my my my wife I've been a huge supporter of my wife's been a big time volunteer over over a couple of year period with the Safe and Sane that a number of the schools do in Frederick County. You know they have a after graduation party. It's uh designed to keep the kids from going out and drinking alcohol and g getting killed in drunk driving accidents and that sort of thing. It's a place for them to stay safe so the parents can stay sane, you know? Mm-hmm. And it's a lot of work putting that event together. And you need committees and volunteers and stuff. And it's It's tough to find parents to step up and do it. And so the parents that do it can only do it for a year or two and they're completely toast. They're burned out by the conclusion. Because they do everything themselves. Well it's a I don't know. Maybe it could be a cooperative effort, but the essence of it would give the ability of the um the student to be able to speak freely. Uh and We as you know, I'm a Christian. I have to be willing in that case to also hear a uh a speech from someone who is of a different religion. Sure. And I I'm a conservative. I would also have to be willing to hear a speech from a someone who was a liberal or uh someone who felt communism was a a great uh Formally, even though it's a school sponsored event, I don't think in terms of those students who are speaking in the event as being agents of the school system. No, I don't either. They're they're representing themselves, representing their class or the classmates. They're they're representing the student body perhaps, but not the school system. So whatever they say, whether they're gonna talk about uh Prophet Muhammad or uh entering Nirvana or or you know, uh skinning cats and burning them uh uh uh uh uh uh in front of a full moon. Right. But that's easy for us. Lord forbid that literally don't that's uh that's a really horrible example. But Troy, that's easy for you and me to say that. And that w we both agree at, believe it or not, on that one. I I believe that it's okay to to say that kind of stuff because I again it's a it's a time of transition from uh childhood to adulthood uh your graduation from high school. It really is one of those marking periods of of change in life. Uh but the problem is that the schools face a very serious issue with things like the ACLU s suing them on behalf of uh complainants that say, hey, this isn't right. I you're sponsoring this, you're a public school, you're supposed to stay neutral on this stuff. So my m my suggestion is that take it out from underneath the the school's responsibility. Let me ask you a follow up on that segment first. The uh Youth for Christ of Central Maryland. I'm Frey Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. The question we're kind of asking is shouldn't students be allowed to express their faith at graduations? Uh but earlier was it this show or last week's show you were talking about uh you know the students have a lot of power in the classroom and they can talk about their faith in the classroom. Um so let's take it out of the gradua what's different about graduation and a student having all these rights and this power to say what they believe and in the classroom, which is still taking place inside of a School system building, uh led by school system administrators, taught by a school system teacher, why is that student speaking before the classmates not considered a school-sponsored event a teaching event, each classroom being dis and I don't want to stir up a can or open up a can of worms and they'll start using this argument against the students. They have the rights that they have now. But what's the difference? Uh good question. Uh I would say it's because you're giving the platform to a specific student who is uh being given uh a high degree of honor, it would be equivalent in a classroom of the teacher expressing their faith in God in some way and giving their personal with one another because the student is not the teacher. No. The student doesn't have authority. It's a place of honor. Right. But it it's it's a celebratory honor. It's not an authoritarian uh uh position that they have. So uh yeah. That that's convoluted. It is. Logic. That's just people the ACLU who doesn't want God mentioned in in any sort of public forum uh exercising their muscles. That's what that is. And I uh pardon me for u using that word, but if they say something that's you know, uncalled for in some way, there's a s a certain sense of You can use that word by way. I've live rebuked by my wife for using that word, but I heard Tim Keller use it in a s in a sermon. Yeah. If Tim Keller can say stupid in a sermon, well all I'm saying is that there's a certain level of of um uh peer um discipline that takes place when someone, you know, uses the platform uses a platform to present something that is just you know, n nonsensical. Uh even vulgar. Uh most most uh students would probably object. To their their graduation being used to do something that would be make it be dragged down into something that's uh now some would not, but Typically your salutatorians and your valedictorians are typical typically people who are not going to be doing that kind of a thing. Now I I uh put the the the split before you between the classroom Now in graduation time. Yeah. In graduation time. But now let's look at you mentioned teachers. Mm-hmm. That they're in a position of authority and so these like a teacher, these speech givers are are having a uh a position of honor and therefore maybe some authority. Let's talk about the teachers. Mm-hmm. You mentioned the students got a lot of power. They can go stand before the class, say here's what I think and why and the other students can then respond and go up and say what they think and why. Teachers can't do that, right? Or can they? And should they? Okay. When it comes to God, they they don't because and they're afraid of being sued by the ACLU. Yeah, well I don't know about that. But they're you know that's I would be that's not the place for them to to, you know, tell kids about their personal faith of whatever faith persuasion it might be. Um you know what if What if my student my my child was in a classroom and uh you know was learning under someone from a different religion? I might feel I I would feel poorly about their sharing their religion in in my culture. I can see it, but I think it might depend. For example, in the context of why we were talking about this, let's say, you know Little Joey gets up there and talks about his uh what he believes to be true. Yeah. And little Amy gets up and says, Well, I think Joey's wrong because I'm Jewish. Right. And then somebody else is there, Well, I think you're both wrong 'cause I'm a Muslim. Right. And then everybody turns and says, Mr. Bjorndah What do you believe? What do you think and why? Yeah. In that context, I would have no problem saying, Well Here's what I believe and why. But you know, I'm not going to uh say anything that's gonna make Amy or or or Mohammed or whoever the other students are that spoke. speaking a uh necessarily speaking against what they believe, but I'm just answering your questions, sharing what I believe and why. What would be wrong with that Even if in this case Mr. Bjorn Dahl is you and you're a Christian. But even if you weren't, if you were a Hindu, I wouldn't have a problem with you sharing your belief and why. But there are people out there that still the conversation at home. Little Amy's gonna come home and say, Oh, my teacher said all about this Hindu stuff, what do you think? Gives me a chance to Well l let me just say it this way. Remember we talked about people of influence? A lot of times kids who are not equipped with a personal faith of some sort will hear about s will hear about something for the first time and they'll hear it from a person that They know and love their teacher, and they will be immediately influenced to believe whatever they say. That's why teachers have to stay away from that stuff because they recognize and they do a good now, just so you know, I I think Frederick County especially has an amazing set of teachers. I hear very few, if ever, complaints, mostly compliments about how good the teachers are in the school system and so forth. And I don't hear that you know, teachers are trained and they're told, you know, your personal religious beliefs are something that you are to keep to yourself. And w should they be able to speak it? Um I don't know. I that's a that's a very good question. But there are probably a number of good reasons why people who are of significant influence in a kid's life in a public school environment should probably be uh you know, should not probably need to follow what the the Board of Ed tells them to do and that's that's just basic. Real basic. You probably in a position to answer this uh to some degree and I've never thought to ask it before. Well I'm not sure why, it's an obvious one Uh I was taught religion uh when I was in school. I went to a public school. Mm-hmm. But I was taught a dead religion. Mm-hmm. I was taught mythology, ancient Greek and Roman mythology. Um and I was taught religion in the sense of Western civilization history, where they talk about, you know, the um the Crusades and the Inquisition and the the Reformation and Martin Luther and John Calvin and all that gets taught and it's it's more history, but it's it's history and also religious history kind of intermingled. So there But that's okay, I guess. So where what is the line drawn? Is the line drawn what, when there's supernatural stuff that's brought in? Like w what what's okay and what's not as far Why can I talk about mythology? That's supernatural, I guess. Why why can't I be taught about mythology and not be taught about the history of Christian belief, biblical belief? Oh, you have to be. There's there's a ton of of history that's associated with the Yeah, so how do you do that and not get sued by the ACLU? Well y that's i you just stick to the facts and that's that's how it works. And there's an awful lot of facts associated with God. And it and well how are you define I I would take it as a fact that there is a creator. Okay. I agree. Who spoke the universe into existence for me That is a settled fact, but I can't say that, right? No, probably not. That's and you part of the you're talking like empirical evidence. Yeah, empirical evidence. And it's absence of the supernatural basic. See, that that's what the school system is about. They're talk they talk about fact. They do talk uh most like Um a verb is a verb. They teach verbs. They teach parts of speech. They don't go around telling you uh they don't teach you, you know, God is in the speech in some way. They they don't That's not their job. Their job is to to speak to factual things. So where does religion come into that? Where does God, where does Jesus Well the facts about Jesus. The facts about you know historical facts. Yeah, but I would take as a historical fact that there was a man in in uh you know two thousand ish years ago, by the name of Jesus from the town of Nazareth, who literally lived and preached and was literally killed and buried and then three days later he's alive again and then forty days after that he's ascending up into heaven. I take that as historical fact. It is. But the school system wouldn't take it that way. Well would they? I don't think so. I think i I think there's if you uh Uh if you look at the evidence for it, the answer is there's uh more of historical fact for that than there is I agree. So let's let's petition the schools to have a class on that. Okay. Let's do it. All right. That'll be our New Year New Year's resolution for two thousand and fifteen. Yeah. Well I think the the again, kids need to be equipped to know what they're looking at when they're looking at a fact or whether they're looking at an opinion or when they're you know when the fact is missing. time or two shows ago and I didn't I'm going to say it now because this whole because this is a big theme for you, this whole fact and the the the students being equipped and having a level of discernment. That to me is the next wave for this this generation that we are now in and maybe through this whole next century uh different things become critically important. They're always important, but they rise to a level of critical importance. And right now I think the critical important thing is discernment. There's so we live in an information age, an overly saturated age of information. And so we need discernment to figure out, wait a minute What of this uh these different elements of information is true? What really is a fact? What's merely a theory? What is just an opinion? And what and if it even if it's just an opinion, what makes a valid opinion from an invalid opinion? What makes a a logical or acceptable opinion uh an illogical or unacceptable opinion? An acceptable an in unacceptable meaning even morally. You know, we have so much information. How do we discern it? Anyway, Arm Yard with uh Youth for Christ of Central Maryland. Thank you for being on the show again. Thanks, Troy. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putman, Plumbing and Heating. How can I make you how can I make you, how can we make you smile? How can they put my pumping and heating make you smile? Visit us online, WFMD. com keyword faith. What have I been reading? Not one I'm recommending, but I read it. The essential Enagram by doctors David Daniels and Virginia Pri Virginia Price of Stanford. It's like one of these personality test profile things and I I don't know, it just didn't didn't connect with me. I didn't ring true and anyway, so don't waste your time. I did. I saved you from wasting your time. Until next week. God bless and happy new year