Good morning, welcome to the fake debate on News Radio nine thirty W FMD. Thank you for spending part of your Sunday habits uh with us here. I know some people it is a habit. I hear people say, Oh, I listen to you every Sunday as I'm doing this or doing that so uh appreciate that. And hopefully last week we didn't uh alienate you too much with what we had just say as we we we talked a lot of religious bubbles I think. We're talking about all the the fake theology that surrounded the Trump assassination uh attempt. Uh I told it was only attempt as this airs. Uh 'cause as this airs, the election hasn't happened yet and uh Who knows what could happen between then and now? It's like a time capsule episode. I'm Froya Skinner. Uh you're listening to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. You can find us online at WFMD. com, also at my church's website Households of Faith in Christ dot com. Joined this week again by Elijah Dirksen. He is a seminary student and uh has a uh A long loving history with the uh the family that's represented uh at the a as a figurehead, the the the head of the family, Imran Razvi. Uh and uh the Imran is the pastor of the Church of Mita in Ron's house, and also is the founder of Concord by Love Ministries online at conqueredbylove. org. So uh as we uh are Giving voice to these words on today's program, the Olympics are are uh underway and some things have happened rather noteworthy that won't be forgotten by some people for a long, long time uh by the vast majority of the population. They were forgotten about five minutes after they happened. I understand that. Uh I don't want to beat to death the whole opening ceremony thing with the the uh the Last Supper and Dionysius and all that sort of stuff. Uh but I think we need to talk about it to put a a good biblical lens on it and there are other things related to the to the Olympics as well. Uh first off, are you watch I wasn't watching the opening ceremonies. I wa I I was watching a little bit later on, but that was before I actually figured out what was going on. Makes your stomach stomach sick. It really disheartens you. Yeah, I have not watched a single second of the Olympics in quite a number of years now, so I I can't remember the last time I watched an actual live well, none of them are live these days. Actual broadcast as it was happening kind of you know, broadcast thing. I I can't remember the last time and I I I made my living in sports radio for quite a number of years. So I was a sports guy, a sports junkie d uh uh unfortunately in too many ways. And I lived and breathed at this stuff. So I've I've just I haven't watched an NFL game in over two years. Um I I haven't watched a major league baseball game in probably three years. Can't remember the last time I watched an NBA game. I mean it became a league of thugs and I just was So how are you filling this void in your life with all this forces you've got? It's amazing. I've been able to read more, uh you know spend more time with family, do more faith debate shows. Uh yeah, it's it's amazing. But did you happen to see it when it was happening, Imran? I saw clips of it. I again I'm like you, I I don't even have a TV in the house. So Uh, we'll put the uh computer up and watch a video with a with a as a family for certain things. And uh yeah, we watch usually Maryland Terrapin's um uh football and basketball that's we went to and uh we s you know, we got our kids involved in that, but we don't watch any professional sports. And uh Olympics we used to watch a lot. We used to be glued to the T V watching Olympics, but we really haven't for the last several cycles. And this time it just was disgusting. I mean I heard it, I posted it on social media, I heard it on the news and the radio and I was like, wow, what in the world is going on? And I was almost afraid to look. I I didn't want to actually see what these people were saying, you can't unsee this. Yeah, and what was your My reaction to all this is this is the world taking the victory lap. over Christianity. This is them saying, I we ha we have you guys conquered. You don't have any power here. We can do anything to you we want. Hmm. That's an interesting take. I don't know if I accept the premise of that take. Well I don't I don't accept the premise. I accept it from the point of view of the Olympics, the world, the the world system. Yeah, now there are people who are listening to what we said so far and are already crawling out of their skin because you Christians are taking it out of contact. Okay, listen. This is my understanding These are just facts, okay? This isn't me trying to put a Christian take on it or a secular pagan take on it or anything like that. This is just, these are the facts of the situation. Based on what has been is i unless it's been expunged from the social media records and stuff, uh th th the the French officials, the Olympic officials You know, they're all on record on s on these points I'm about to bring up. It's really unassailable unless they're changing the facts, which in a George Orwell nineteen eighty four world is certainly within the realm of possibility. But the facts of change the facts on uh Kamala Harris and how great she is is you wanna you want to get rid of her before, so that's a teaser of next week's main topic, by the way. So these are the facts. The organizers did intend to make a connection with that now very popularized image of debauchery to to mimic and draw attention to a connection with the Last Supper. It the they also they weren't merely doing that, they were also making a connection from that last Last Supper imagery to imagery about the whole uh Greek god and goddess Pantheon, uh Dionysius uh particularly and all of that sort of stuff. But even that is part of the Mockery it i if this is where Elijah would go anyway. Because they're saying, look, Christ is no different than these other gods He's basically just as debauched as they are. One God's the same as another God. And in fact, the fact that the Lord's Supper imagery then morphed into this other thing, it's as though the one was superseded by the second thing Well, the blue man superseded the Last Supper imagery, and so that's to put Christ underneath the the blue Greek God of fertility or whatever the heck that was supposed to represent. So that's all part of what's going on. And let me just finish one last factual thing. The other thing that a lot of these these countries do when they host the the the the the Olympics The opening ceremonies that give them an opportunity to talk about their culture, their history, what's important to them, the touchstones of of who they are as a people. And so this is the French telling us who they are And so that's why you've got a decapitated uh woman talking in part of the opening ceremonies. That's why you've got all this debauchery. This, you know, my my father in law I said, I can't believe they did this. French. Uh France. Uh th they're a Christian nation. Well, first of all, that's a debate about what a Christian nation is or isn't. Can there even be one? But if they ever were, they're certainly not now. And the French are going out of the way to tell you so in the opening ceremonies of the Olympics. That's part of the narrative. Look We're enlightened now. We're all inclusive. We let all this debauchery stuff not only let it come in, but we celebrate it. We throw a party for it. We we make it It's bigger than Jesus Christ. It's bigger than the Last Supper. Those are the facts of the rally. Now, what's our reaction as three Christian men to all of that? We need to do better. We need to show them that they need to respect Christianity. Now how do they don't. But how do we do that? How how do you sh how do you make somebody respect you or show them that We're gonna be respected, gosh darn it. How do we do that? We need to actually have opinions in culture again. A lot of times we've had the uh Have you listened to the Faith Debate Show? Churches everywhere. They pull out of society, they pull out of culture because, oh, it's a lost cause. It's all all gonna go bad. It's never gonna be good I you see so so many pastors, even people that I respect a lot, like John MacArthur, say, We lose down here. We're never gonna win. We're only going to lose. Now in fairness, first of all that clip is like decades old and uh you gotta be careful 'cause that's like proof texting out of the Bible. Uh i if you take him in his fuller context, even within that moment, but certainly the the broader context of his ministry career Uh I I don't think that that's what defines MacArthur's take. I will say though that it is an Achilles heel for the dispensational theology that dominates the American church. Landscape. Because you aim at what you you you hit what you aim at. And if you're aiming at just getting out of here without without having to fundamentally change society before that happens and in in fact you get a benefit if society gets worse. I I know a lot of dispensationalists will say we'll we still need to do the work. But it gets better for them if things get worse. That's not automatically going to make it make it a game change though, right? I mean Jeremiah spoke it boldly about the truth and things didn't change for the better. Right. But it takes a really strong will that I don't know if a lot of the church has to go against what you think is best for you. But what's the platform? See, what is what is the church's platform? The church's platform is the church's the the meeting and and there 'cause they're not involved in entertainment. The problem is we are so rich in fat that we are like Rome and that we are just inundated with uh with the entertainment And look at these people that are getting fifty million, hundred million, five hundred million, seven hundred million dollar contracts to play a sport to entertain us. Okay? Yeah, it was I think seven hundred uh twenty million dollars was a record deal but for some baseball player just recently um to play baseball Does he deserve it? Sure he deserves it. He's better than everybody else and somebody's willing to pay it and and that's all that's how it should be. That's how capitalism is and you you you demand what you're worth. But Christians are not in that arena. They're not in the entertainment arena. They're taking care of their families, they're taking care of uh their the their fellow men uh you know, helping people around They're not out there trying to entertain. And if we have left that arena and and there are a few Christians or s uh supposed Christians in Hollywood, there are a few people who stand up and many of them get cancelled, don't don't get uh movie roles, don't get T V roles and and get harassed and harassed and harassed to get 'em out of there. Um, but it is, uh the Hollywood is dominated by uh genetic Jews. There's a lot of genetic Jews I'm saying, because they're not practicing Jews. There's a lot of Jews in entertainment And uh they've really lost their connection with God and spirituality and they're doing this garbage out there. So I think that's one of the problems that's dominating the airwaves of everyone in this country around the world. That's what they're seeing. And so in coming my family is Muslim from Pakistan. And that's what they see. They see this and they see this as a Christian country and and like uh Ladia said, you know, this France was a Christian country or you said it I don't remember who Yeah, my yeah, uh my my f my not to call them out, but my father in law was shocked because I can't believe France did this French. I mean the French people did That's a Christian nation. I was like, Dad, they haven't been a Christian nation, i if you want to argue that there even is one. Since since the French Revolution. Right. That's like a couple of weeks ago. Your dad sees this, but uh think about it from the Muslim world or from the uh Hindu world or from the um Buddhist world They s they still see this as a Christian nation and they see this is what they're doing and now that's a recruiting tool for them away from Christianity. Well absolutely. People like I think it's Andrew Tate became a Muslim because he looked at Christianity, he looked how weak it was, and he thought, I want strength, I'm gonna go to the the the religion that has principles. Yeah, and I wanna I want to uh address the Andrew Tate thing. I had a note to to do that and uh Elon Musk similarly. Uh but bef before I I I get into that, just to put a a cinch on what the brute facts are, there's nothing new under the sun. And all we have going on here with this Olympics mo uh opening ceremony is a dog returning to its vomit. The Olympics started out as debased entertainment. You know, this uh the the the the the the Greek wrestling of the time that was featured in the Olympics was nude guys grappling with each other in their nether reasons regions. You know what I'm saying? I mean they're racing across the field in the buff Like, that's not, you know, decorum. That's not modesty. Now it was sanitized somewhat uh over the last, you know, hundred or so years and the era that we grew up watching it on TV, you know, the Olympics in the sixties, the seventies and eighties, it was wholesome. It was It was good family entertainment and and uh you said earlier and I I I I don't know if I said it, but I I was gonna say that uh until recently I would have never missed a moment of the Olympics. You know, I was hanging on. That's why the nineteen eighty hockey teams win was such a big deal 'cause the Olympics were front and center in my life and so many people's lives. But that's not what it was once upon a time and that's not what it is now. And the Olympic costumes are getting skimpier and skimpier. That's something I wanted to mention actually is Have you seen what these uh gymnasts and swimmers, like these synchronized swimming ladies It's like pornography. Like nothing, nothing left to the imagination in some instances. They might as well be nude. It's like stuff that Unless it's your wife, you shouldn't see. Right. And it's on oh that was in the opening ceremony too, by the way. Did you pick up on that? There was one guy who is his uh junk hanging out. Oh, was that the blue guy? No, no, no, no. One of the uh like probably the guy that was supposed to be like, you know, the Apostle John or something. I don't know, one of the people on the main stage. He was wearing black. And if you uh it's n now I'm gonna draw people's attention like I do. But uh if you pay just like it caught my eyes. What is it I'm looking at? And I was like, it can't be and so I zoomed in and sure enough he's got his junk hanging out On national international television. But y y you you you also remember that after this imp opening ceremony there was uh literally tens of thousands of French people in the streets singing hymns, singing uh Christian uh you know, modern songs as well. and protesting. So there were a lot of Christians and that comes to my point. It's just they're not involved in the entertainment side. You know? There are plenty of silent Christians out there and and they and many of them are not what we would call real Christians, real solid, you know, saved um dying for Jesus Christians. But they're still have some Christianity in there so they were offended enough to come out and sing and and uh uh do that. Yeah Christianity used to drive society. We had a a country that was based on Christian principles. How many people decide, oh, that that's a horrible thing. It's true. You l you look at the common law that our country was founded with, they're pulled straight from the Bible. So cultural Christianity is something that y we used to have, now it's reversed. Now we have society and worldly culture infiltrating the churches. Yeah, culture is changing the definitions in the Webster Disc Dictionary. When the Webster Dictionary was based on the Bible And now the definitions are changing as we speak. As as something happens in culture, they change the definitions. Now, uh you mentioned uh Andrew Tate, who was just a gross individual, as far as I'm concerned. And uh and Elon Musk who is an anti-hero. Uh some people want to hold him as his great hero. I think he's a he he's a hero by accident for the most part, because his worldview does not match a biblical worldview. So he's an anti-hero. Um I think that we run a really grave risk as as followers of Christ if we start pointing to um Muslims like Andrew Tate, like gross Muslims, like Andrew Tate. And uh and anti-hero uh self-professing, well maybe I might possibly be a cultural Christian, Elon Musk. Uh we point to that because Elon Musk uh uh uh publicly said that you know Christianity's problem basically is it's tooth toothless and he's become hit some teeth in Christianity again. I think we've got to be careful because they don't have a Christian worldview. Well absolutely. And I'm not so sure that those sentiments of we gotta get tougher and we gotta be Get put teeth in our bite and stuff like that is necessarily not necessarily tougher. He he was saying if unless there's more bravery to stand up for what's fair and right, Christianity will perish. And honestly I think I do agree with that sentiment. Bravery doesn't need to be violent. It doesn't need to be um it doesn't need to be attacking someone else. The uh probably the most the bravest people in history were the apostles getting slaughtered for their faith. I don't see any higher standard of bravery. So in in today's context, what would that bravery look like? Not being afraid of getting canceled. Okay. Speaking up and So you and I are doing that right now. Imran's doing that right now. So we are the church. We're being brave. Hopefully. So uh right? I I I'm not I just don't I think that these the we wag our finger of accusation uh saying the church needs to You know, there's the there's the um in in my theological circles, there's a distinction drawn between the visible church and the invisible church. The visible church, the institutional church, those that we see with our eyes, that those that human eyes can see, the visible church. But not everybody or everything that comprises the visible church is actually the church. Not all Israel is Israel. So there's the church that God sees. And so that's the invisible church, meaning it's not invisible to God, but it's invisible to us. And so some people in the church uh shouldn't be in the church. And some people that aren't in the church yet, uh, God sees them as his elect and they're they're they're maybe they're They're you know, they're being drawn, they're gonna be in the church tomorrow, they're not there today, but God knows they're his, that kind whatever, there's this distinction. I would argue that those that are the church are being brave. are standing up for what's right, are living their right their lives righteously as consistently as they be possibly can. And those that are weak in the knees, like the David French's of the world, you know, that uh I think At this point we have to we have to suspect that they just have a false profession of faith. They do and and also Christians that are actually going to church should hold their pastors accountable and the church leadership accountable because that's really where the money is, right? So th like that church down wherever it was they started doing those videos, those movies that actually were uplifting and had c Christ centered uh meetings. I I don't know, they haven't done it in a in a while, have they? Yeah, you're talking about the Kendrick brothers? Yeah. I think they're still doing movies. They're not as high profile. Surewood pictures maybe I think was in the right. uh you know, you as an individual, me as an individual, Laj as an individual, we just don't have the funds to fight against this jagger nut of uh, you know, entertainment and and cycle with all this money that's involved. We can't do that. We can't buy um you know twenty million dollar T V spot on on uh Super Bow Sunday. But you know, obviously the devil can. They got all this money in the world. Yeah, and and trust me, I get it. You know, I I try to take the whole council of God into account and so we are to be salt and light and so we are to be uh to salt preserve what is good, uh to give flavor to the world, to uh the light cast out all darkness and sort of expose the the you know the the best disinfectantness sunlight kind of thing. Like all of that is true But our primary mission isn't to win the culture war, right? Our primary mission is to preach the gospel and then make disciples. Yeah. But if we do that, culture is naturally going to be affected by it, right? Right, so I'm concerned that we've got the tailwagging the dog. I think that's my pushback. For sure, by the way, and the thing is like you know, we've we've got to preach the gospel and then Uh hold accountable those that are Christians. We should evangelize, but that evangelism should have an effect on the culture. I'm not going to separate my Christianity from my world from my society. We talked a few weeks ago, maybe a few months ago, about that uh great big thing that they did on the Super Bowl Sunday with uh he's one of us and he gets us he gets us. That campaign was supposedly started by you know people like from Hobby Lobby and other Christians But it was such garbage. Mm-hmm. They had nothing. It had baseless completely I mean if you're gonna do it, if you're gonna spend your money, you gotta at least have Christians that are that have strong faith and understand the Bible to do that. And they didn't. They they're still trying to appease everyone. that they appease no one. If he guts if he gets us were a food group, it would be a cancer causing, sugary laden, you know, garbage treat, right? I mean that's what it is. Yeah. So so th I mean that was another another attempt, uh like the Kendrick brothers they to go after culture, but that was such badly done. And then we have the the Jesus movie, we have several and again they're led by Mormons or Seventh day Adventists. And that's one of the things that Daniel, my son, uh often talks about is all a lot of these so called conservative uh movements are led by non Christians. You know, Blaze T V run by Mormon, right? Um uh you know, this is Trump's Freedom Network, whatever, it's it's by Trump who's not really a professing Christian. He sa he Yeah, he says though by God's grace I'm here, but uh he hasn't repented, he hasn't uh led in prayer, he hasn't uh yeah, and and again one of one of my big litmus tests for that is does he value life? Like God values life, and he does not he has completely gone away from uh pro life to pro choice. In the last handful of minutes we will have on this episode is a foot foot to uh talk about the other big uh theologically charged uh story from the Olympics, at least as we are recording to this episode, who knows? The Olympics aren't quite over yet as we record this. So something more could happen. But the the uh two uh boxers from uh countries uh one's Algeria I think and the other one I forget where they're uh where they're from but Um biologically male apparently fighting against women uh in the boxing ring. Uh we have time for some quick And Algeria doesn't doesn't allow transitions and he was actually born with a w that's what I come to talk about with the female genitalia and so he's actually female, he's always been a female's life But he failed the genetic test and he has the bone structure of a man. Yeah, so I think to be accurate, I think he's intersex rather than transgender I think a lot of people have been pointing that out and I I don't wanna and again, I don't know what the truth because these days you don't know what the truth is. But it does seem like there was a commission. But and but it's more than that. Apparently, down to the g genetic level, right, has X and Y chromosomes. And the bone structure, the muscle structure is all of a man. They tested that it's all man and m uh it's a man, so is it women that are fighting a man. And what we know for certain is it's not a woman. And and that's the p uh a side point there, that's what gets me so disgusted about today's uh movies and stuff. All these women, these short little five foot nothing women are beating up these giant six foot five men that are bodyguards and that again that's unrealistic. And that's why these new Marvel things are not showing. The new Marvel movie that just came out It's been a hit. Why? Because the two m main characters are men. So stupid it it gets me. Anyway, this whole transgender issue is the reason why we have that is because we've abandoned biblical principles Biblical principles bring logic and order. When we abandon those, kick those out, say those are wrong, then we end up with madness. And that's what we have. And I just want to say, you know, any uh man or someone that uh has a lot of uh uh man male masculine things going on in their DNA and their body chemistry and what have you. Um The fact that they would desire to get into a a ring and start just pummeling a woman says something about the psychology of that individual to me, right? I mean that's the psychology of a wife beater Mm-hmm. Right. That's that's the psychology of an abuser. Like who who wants to do that? Now we we don't talk about this that often. It it's uh the you know, I don't know what the percentages are. It's it's less than a percent or whatever of these odd medical abnormalities that we're in a fallen world and and bad things happen in the fallen world. So you have these confused situations. And so this individual might fit in that situation, but knowing that he's got this enormous physical advantage, he wants to go pummel women in the face? I don't I don't understand. And they feel they feel it's more important to be fair to this person than to be fair to the women sports and the women that that are actually women. You know what? If he doesn't uh if he's not allowed to box or he shoe, whatever you want to call him, he's not allowed to box it's not the end of the world And it's okay. We don't get to do everything you want to be. I want to be on on the on a jet that I own. I I can't do that. Well and that's the voice of Imran Rasley before that was Elijah Dirks and I'm Troy Skinner. You know we're right because there was a big blackout that happened at the Olympics and that just proves that God's on our side, right? So that's just the way that goes. Anyway, this is the Faith Divade on News Radio 930 WFMD. Find us online at wfmd. com and at household of faith in Christ. com. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless.