Welcome to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio. Radio 930 WFMD, I'm Troy Skinner, broadcasting today from the Police State of Frederick City. Joined today by Jonathan Sweitzer Senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel. And Bahim Yunus who let me take a deep breath. Secretary of Education, Abadian Muslim Community, USA, Associate Professor of Medicine at University of Medical School of Medicine. Okay. All of that said more slowly. Yes. Uh Fahim is the Secretary of Education for the Ahmadian Muslim Community, USA. And he's also Associate Professor of Medicine at University of Maryland School of Medicine. And he does other things too, but Come on. That's impressive enough. Yes, it is. So I'm going to stop right there. By the way, Johnson, president, current sitting president of the uh Evangelical Ministerial Association of Frederick County. Yep. EMF And you're a vice president on the board of the uh Marriage Resource Center. I had to make him feel better. Thank you. Thank you. I feel like I'm on a par with the uh with the board, even though I'm not, but I feel like I am and that's what counts. So you guys with all these important, you know, titles and stuff, can't you do something about Frederick? City being a police state? You're very Orwellian today. Like what's driving your uh angst about the uh police state here in Frederick? I've been hit more by those cameras than I ever would have expected here in Frederick. I call them very surprised. I called them Frederick's You're Not Welcome Here Centuries. What's that was a century? Why do they have a century? To tell us you're not welcome here. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So okay, so so you're a conservative and you're a Christian. Yeah. And so when you discipline your children, are you telling them you don't want them there? Are you actually telling them that you love them? This is why it's a police state though, right? If a police officer pulls me over and gives me a speeding ticket and says, you know, you that wasn't yellow, that was red when you went through a kind of thing. Right. I c I'm all about that. I deserve it. You're right, you you could make a judgment there. Yes These cameras don't make any judgment. It's ironclad, letter of the law. No opportunity for any mercy or grace. None whatsoever. How many times have you been pulled over in your life when the cop says, you know what, you're going a little bit too fast? But you seem like a pretty good guy and you have a pretty good excuse, so don't let it happen again and let you go. Okay, but it doesn't happen with the camera. Nonsense. You could go in law, no grace. Have you tried to go into the court And to say, look, this is what happened. I think it's reasonable. You can look at how I uh how my record is. Uh this was an unusual situation, and I ask for your grace. You could do that and the judge could could give it to you. In fact, I'm wondering how many people are willing to go in and make their appeal. But it is true you have the opportunity to make an appeal. In fact it could be that you show up and the and the cop in charge of that doesn't show up that way. Move the comma. Because the police officer could give you the ticket, you could still go appeal that before the judge. He's got that. Regardless. Yeah. Like if you're m if you don't discipline your children the way that uh your kids like, yeah. They could go complain to mom, can't they? Yeah. Might not change anything, but they could go complain. I'm not letting them listen to this though. Anyway, so from here forward until they take those cameras down, the police state of Frederick City. Alright, so but we're not here to talk about that. Very wisely just being quiet for this whole thing. Do you guys have any of these in uh Baltimore? Absolutely. Oh in fact I have uh the pleasure of seeing one of those tickets at home when I received that ticket and I just Called my kids around. I said, Hey, you see, dad is very popular. These guys are paparazzi are after me. My daughter, you know, she probably thought I was like, Yeah. Uh I used to always Well, I was down in Montgomery County where they have these things like every quarter mile. Right. It's crazy. Yeah. I was like, man, I'm so glad I don't live in Montgomery County. Yeah. If they do that in Frederick County, I'm gonna have to think about moving. And here they are. So here you they take the worst in Montgomery County and they bring it to Frederick. Right? Why can't we take the best of Montgomery County and bring it to Frederick? Why don't we try that for a change? Alright, anyway. Fahim, Jonathan, you didn't come here to talk about speed cameras. We did not. But it was fun. We came here to talk about uh the uh Ahmadiyyan Muslim community. Yeah. Uh in distinction to what most people think of as the Muslim community. Maheim wrote an article Uh I forget exactly what that article was about, but it was dealing with the issues of uh what's going on over in Libya, what's going on in Egypt. And uh and uh specifically I had questions about um the Sharia law and Demi status uh in these cause when Fahim writes uh he he writes for uh the Huffington Post. Uh and when he writes these articles, uh he's he's being kind of touted as a moderate Muslim voice here in the United States. And really the Ahmadians represent uh what I what I call Jeffersonian Muslims because uh they they approach the Quran uh from a more liberal direction. Uh they're not so fundamentalist in their approach to the Quran and they're, you know, what going on 150 years as a as a over a hundred years. Yeah. Yeah. And so uh they have a well established they've they've received persecution all around the world from Sunnis and from Shiites. for being more liberal in their approach to scriptures, more uh intellectual, maybe more um uh more trying to align themselves with a scientific modern uh worldview and all that being the case they've suffered for it Uh I think they've got a right as a result of that to be heard uh in these kinds of discussions and certainly uh uh Fahim has a voice uh with the Huffington Post. It's quite possible people are very familiar with. And if you're listening to this show, you're s smarter than the average bear. Uh because of us. But I don't want to take it for granted. So if you could really quickly um help us to make sure that we know what is meant by sharia law and what is meant by demi status. Right? What is a demi? And of course you're probably going to need to give two definitions for each of those, meaning how do the Sunni, Shiite, people that are more fundamental than how the Ahmadians approach. We are the Muslims who believe in the Messiah, Mirzahullah Mahmad. You cannot talk about Hindu Hindus and the Indian liberation movement without knowing Gandhi. You cannot talk about Buddh Buddhists without knowing about what Dalai Lama says. Yeah. You cannot talk about Christianity without knowing Jesus Christ. Yep, good. So similarly For Ahmadi Muslims you need to know who this man was, Mirzahullah Mahmad, who we believe is the second coming, that all the Muslims are waiting. And he claimed 110 years ago in India that I'm here to reform Islam and to unite mankind. And he did that by knowledge, by a rational discourse, and by eliminating a lot of those problems within the body of Islam which we're talking about today, which we're gonna come to, like Dimi status and Sharia law and extremism and the when you say second coming, you mean second coming of Second coming of Jesus, peace be upon him. Now that's a huge clip, perhaps a big discussion in its own. The point is that Islam Uh e ye even the fundamentalists are looking forward to a second coming of Christ. So the Ahmadians believe that this gentleman represented the second coming of Christ. And that's what his claim was. um uh era for Islam and promoting Islam no longer by the sword and by force but by appealing to men's conscience. That's exactly right. And realize he said all these things in an India that was under British rule, so the masses were Muslims or Hindus, the government, a minority part of the population was a British government. So they were kind of living as Dhimis, if you will. They're living as uh as a protected citizen of a government which is not of their own faith. Nothing could be more politically incorrect for a religious Muslim scholar to go ahead and say, be loyal to these people, these British and don't kill by sword and don't go on a jihad against these invaders, quote unquote, as British was being called. So this is our history. We are not some post nine eleven bandwagon. We have just, you know We are the first Muslim organization in America. We had the first Muslim journal in America called Muslim Sunrise, which is the longest running Muslim periodical even today. And it's interesting, in nineteen twenty when you go and look at the first copy of that journal you find an article about jihad, which says there's no j no need for jihad of sword. What you really need is a jihad of the pen and go and engage pe in people with uh in a rational discourse. I don't want to go off on a on a rabbit trail, but I are you now waiting for a third coming? No. No, in fact What he said was this is the reformation that Islam needed. And after him, he clearly prophesies that once I'm gone A second manifestation will come. What he meant by that is a spiritual leadership. Our community, Ahmadiyya Muslim community, has been blessed with that spirit spiritual leadership, which we call the Khalifa. Or the caliphate as some people will say. However, the interesting thing is now we have our fifth caliphate and all of them have categories. Or the the Ummah, is that the right word? Exactly like you would say the first caliph then he passes away. So caliph is the individual that rules the caliphate. Who is the spiritual guiding light? He made a very clear point. He said we are not interested in any political power anywhere in the world. Our goal is spiritual. And in so in that sense is almost uh the uh w when you talk to Ahmadian Ahmadian leaders, they they would claim that that the second coming of Jesus did to Islam like what the first coming of Jesus did to to Judaism, to to um to the Old Testament. that it that it spiritualized it and it made it uh something that everybody could connect with, you know, without it you know, so it's hingers not of this world. It's It's very interesting, Jonathan, you say that because that's what we get that from Zaki Cow's remote. that with Moses Mosaic law was followed by the agree with all uh you know with the I I know you very well by now. Absolutely agreement and understanding. For the sake of the listener I say that's exactly right. So just like Mosaic Law was followed by the peaceful teaching of Jesus, peace be upon him, Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam Prophet Muhammad's law Similarly, he had his Messiah, which is Mirzahullah Ahmad as we believe. So this is Ahmadiyya Muslim community which people need to understand that we stand for that when people say where are these moderate Muslims, we laugh because we've been around for hundred years right here in America. And I that's why I make a drive up here two and a half hours because you provide us that platform to talk about it. And I've got to be a good idea. And you have and you say that there's you're on your fifth That's exactly right. We have an electoral college which is international. So when one caliph dies People from all around the world they fly in and then they get together and there is an election held where the Distinguishing points in our community is number one, there is no convessing. We do not believe that leadership is a feather in the cap. Leadership is a huge burden. And we believe God canvassing you know, you you don't go and promote elections. You canvass an election to try to get people to vote. Exactly. I thought you said confess No no no no canvassing. You can do you don't go out with posters. Yeah, you don't buy T V time uh to promote yourself. In fact the idea is that God will elect the right person. You can buy radio time though, right? That's exactly no nothing. You don't buy any kind of time. You get a body of righteous elected working for a little more money. Elected people will get together with prayers and anyone can promote present a name if some somebody else seconds that name and then there is open voting. But one last point on the distinction of how many Muslim community, in our history, we are a self funded organization. We do not take a penny from anyone. We do not penny for money one, I mean you take y we don't take money from any government from any NGO from you know petrodollars. We don't we control our own message. It's the membership that donates their own money and that's how we build it. Any religious group different from that? Are there religious groups that that are defined as l religious groups that take money from governments? Well there are Christian agencies that do, right? Like the Salvation Army, for example, would be a uh quote unquote Christian agency. Yeah, they've set themselves up and they work social programs. So I'm not sure if that's government give to charity and you wouldn't base kind of that's what I'm saying that as Ahmadiyya Muslim community we have a humanitarian organization by the name of Humanity First Where of course anyone can contribute and we do a lot of humanitarian work. But as far as our spiritual cause is concerned, to give you an example, we have over fifty mosques here in US. Not a single penny was borrowed from anyone in Saudi Arabia or no no government funded our mosques. We and some of them are very humble mosques and realize this as well. We don't as a part of our faith, we don't take money on interest so we don't have mortgages. We collect whatever money we can and then we go and buy whatever we can afford. So we live within our media. I'm all for that. By the way that's the voice of Fahim Yunus, Secretary of Education for the Amadian Muslim Community USA, Jonathan Sweitzer. on the show again this week, Denny's the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel here in Frederick. Um is there an English translation for the word Demi Or is that an untranslatable kind of a word? Yeah, I think the Dimi basically the translation will be a protected citizen, someone who is under protection. Okay. Okay. Now Jonathan uh has had issue with that word in the past on this show. Um we had a local s uh um a gentleman from from a local mosque was on the show and I asked him on the air what was the definition of that word. And he ref he he claimed he claimed he'd never heard of the word. While he was on the air, he claimed he'd never heard of the word, so so I said, you know, well what about the Jizzy attacks? He claimed he had heard nothing about it. This is a a gentleman that I had been closer with. Uh uh that I was closer with, and he claimed to be a spokesman for Islam here locally. And so on the air, I shamed him for it. I said, You claim to be a spokesman and you have no idea about this major um uh issue in in the history of Islam between Islam and Christians and Jews. And he said, Not nothing whatsoever. As soon as we got off the air, he said, Oh, you must mean the Yzy tax. Instead of the Jizzy tax. And so I shamed him for it again. I said, You just lied on the air in front of everybody. I can't believe that you did that. So you're not ashamed to admit that that there's that there is a demi thing or that there was a jizy attacks that that was a part of Islam uh all through the the centuries. It's not a question of shame or not shame. I think if something is mentioned in the Holy Quran We need to understand first of all that's a part of my faith. J Z attacks is mentioned in the Quran. It's part of my faith. The real question is Do you understand all the pieces of the puzzle? And how do you piece it? And how and where do you how do you practice it? The reality is that there there's gotta be three different elements to that. One is how do fundamentalists uh interpret those passages, two, how do Ahmadian Muslims uh uh uh interpret those passages, and three, how have they been applied in history? You know you know, which oftentimes is different from even what would be interpretation. And that's why I brought up that that thing from a few years ago now, the with the the other guest who was uh reticent to talk about this issue Not Ahmadiyyan. I'm not sure. Sunni uh Yeah, you know it occurs to me that I don't know. I think he's Shiite. But regardless he was from Egypt. Is it likely that he would be See I don't know. Let me let me make it w you know I don't claim to know everything. So I'm sure th there's a question you can ask me where my response is. I don't know. So I I hide it really well. If the gentleman didn't know about it, honestly, I think that's perfectly fine. If he lied, that's a question of intention. God knows best. But if you didn't know about it, to me that's that's cool. But that's for you to judge because I think that's a good thing. Why do you think he felt the resistance? Why do you think that's the way that you're not going to be able to do that? So let me ask you the best person to answer that. I'm aware in Christian history of there being significant events that are embarrassments to Christianity. Inquisitions, witch hunts, crusades. Absolutely. You know, it's it's without a doubt it's true. Jews are aware in their own history of uh Manasseh, Jezebel, Ahab, you know, major failures of of who they are as a nation. Alright, so all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. Alright, that's true for all of us. Would you say that it is true at any level that the history of demitude uh those that are under uh protective status and the jizya tax uh has any record in history of being abused by Muslim rulers Why not? Why can you know why are Muslims an exception to that simple human with you? So you have that. Any law Anything you give to human beings and you give it to a large enough group and you will have variations of application. You know, you just had power corrupts. Absolutely. You have Michelle Michelle Obama and Dr. Biden down in Florida and there is a group of people who are booing them. And they asked somebody on the on on T V about uh an expert and he's like, How do you control a crowd who's sitting in a stadium? So you can't control a crowd sitting in a stadium. How do you control millions of people practicing the faith? And how do you control leaders who have power and authority? And so it goes to their head and they use it poorly. So it is true that that Islam has reason to give an account uh just like Christianity has reason to give an account for its failures along those lines, the Islam in general has reason to give an account for uh the failures of application in different uh uh uh parts of their history of DIMI status and the jizy tax. My my my only point will be Muslims and j like you very rightly said, the leaders of Muslims. Yeah. They owe us an explanation as to how have they abused these laws. The question is Islam is the faith and Muslims are the followers. Okay, so break it down. How do how do Sunni and Shiites tend to or those that are more fundamentalist You know, it it's it's so hard 'cause that's a one dimensional uh a distinction between different parts of uh of Islam and you know, two dimensional would be better and three dimensional would be better, but unfortunately we're not gonna be able to do that. So We'll just deal with fundamentalists versus versus moderate. Your uh Ahmadians are more moderate. Fundamentalists are gonna gonna tend to interpret passages about the jizy tax and dimistatus in what manner? if they're being orthodox. Right. The problem with that is when you start combining religion and state When you start combining secular life, which is what fundamentalist Islam does, it combines the two. If you want to combine the two and you want to say God owns all the land. Islam is the religion of the God. Therefore I own all this land in Iran. And therefore anyone who wants to live in this land must live by my rule. Or Here are the conditions and then you for forget about a core principle in Qur'an which is that of justice. There's a very powerful verse in Quran. Quran, by the way, not at any point says that this is one only way of governance. No, that's the interesting point is that's why I mentioned Quran. Uh-huh. Because Ahmadiyya, your listeners need to know, Ahmadiyya is nothing but pure Islam. We don't have a new book. We don't have a new teaching. We don't have teaching. But you would you would agree that Ahmadiyya Muslims take that same Quran and they they pull out of it They understand it. Right, right. Do from the same book. So I re I I I I recognize that it's the same book. But my point is that you slipped into an Ahmadian interpretation of the Quran Right. Which by the way, millions of other Muslims agree with that as well. It's not like we're the only ones. Okay, so this is an area where where fundamentalist Islam agrees with now where we have an opportunity Because Islam is not a monolith. Like Christianity, Judaism, you have many sects, you have many different interpretations. Islam is not a monolith by any stretch of imagination. What happens is Somebody may not call themselves Ahmadi, yeah. But they may understand and may agree on a law of my un you know, my uh interpretation without you know I always give the example somebody living in Europe may agree with freedom but they may not call themselves American. Sure. So they may agree with those core values, but my point here was That's why I want to bring whenever I talk to Muslims, the idea is though what is how the decisions, how understanding develops in Islam, the highest level of evidence is holy Quran. Yeah. That is the highest level of evidence. If I have proven something from Quran, anything else, I don't care about one thousand scholars. You could put one thousand scholars on one end. Does not mean anything. Yeah. So that's why I keep going back to Quran and after Quran like the word Tahoe Taweed Tawheed, right? Tawheed doesn't show up in the Quran. But it is a big part of uh Islamic tradition. Just like Trinity doesn't show up in scripture, but it's a big part of the side. Okay, but my point is just to recognize that that you're saying that you gotta go back to the Quran, but then there's But I I'm just recognizing that there's ideas that are in the Islamic world that build off of their understanding of the Quran. So let's not get into Tahweh versus