Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. Fate debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com keyword fate. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with the Master of Divinity. From Reform Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Troy Skinner. One of your neighbors has written a book. In it exposes uh Through his personal experience and those of others, the author uh what he calls the unfathomable joy of tapping into God's omniscience Rohan Stewart is his first book. It's called Renewing Your Mind Daily. And he's ambitious. He's planning another one because it says right on the cover, book one. So there's a book two that's in the often. Uh in Book One, he shares a number of messages that he got through dreams. He provides his case that the culture of God's kingdom mandates that its citizenry experience the supernatural realm. I was introduced to Rowan by Bob Miller, Frederick's Morning Mayor, and host of WFMD's Morning News Express. So once again Part of the panel this week, Rowan Stewart, author of Renewing Your Mind Daily on nine thirty WFMD and the faith debate. So I just uh uh talked right there in the in the open about uh you know God's kingdom and um that we we don't do a good job maybe of embracing that the the the the the kingdom culture you call it. And last week you you talked about you kind of drew that in distinction with the the culture of self. So um I think you've talked around it. Anybody who's paying any attention gets a sense probably of what you mean by the uh the kingdom culture, but in kind of in a nutshell, you know, what are you meaning by the kingdom culture? All right. So the kingdom culture specifically is encourages us to develop an intimate relationship with God. The kingdom expects that that its citizenry will experience the supernatural realm. So it's not Merely like, you know, I was growing up um eight, nine, ten and I was just, you know, going to Sunday school and then meeting my buddies, my friends. and memorizing the scripture and then went home and then just didn't have anything supernatural. Everything was just natural. So the kingdom culture is we've gotta experience this supernatural realm. We gotta experience greatness. We gotta experience revelations. And God is there. He's no respectful person. He has his arms open wide to let us enjoy and sharing these. Intimate moments, things that we we experience and we know this is not natural. This is only God. This is only from our relationship with God. So yes, this the the the culture of the kingdom is not just about going to church and and and doing the the the the the godless stuff and and service and all that type of stuff. It's it's It's much greater than that. It's it's pressing in to intimacy with God, experiencing the supernatural realm. So my way of doing it as I'm doing today is Fasting, meditating on scriptures, worshiping. By the time I leave and go back home, I'll worship, I'll pray. And and continue to fast. And that's all we we we get into. We can tap into God's omniscience. And don't get me wrong, I'm not saying okay, we have the power to do all this. No, but but by the time you're doing that, God God loves worship. By the time you begin to get closer to Him, He's gonna reveal things. He's gonna reveal things to you. So for anyone out there who Is unaware that this is possible. I'm a living testimony that yes and choose by my good friend and and mentor He is a living testimony that once you put the time in and you and you fast and you you you read scriptures and you make this a a lifestyle, routine. God is gonna minister to you. The Holy Spirit is gonna minister to you and reveal things to you. So so so reading your mind daily, book one, embracing the culture of the kingdom, is calling back people to a to this lifestyle of fasting and praying and reading scriptures and worshiping God and and and this thing of uh overall it's it's it's denying self because when you deny self You will forgive. You won't think that okay it's my it's my right to take revenge. No. You you will you will forgive because the flesh is being killed. The flesh is being destroyed. And that's what we're called to do. Destroying the flesh. Walking in the spirit, that we will destroy the works of the flesh. So it's a reminder that you know Christ's kingdom is not of this world. You know, it's a call to be more heavenly minded. You know, there's an old phrase that uh has has been used, uh in my opinion, unfortunately, uh for for a lot of years that says uh you know don't be so heavenly minded that you're no earthly good. Uh and the reason that bothers me is I think you would agree based on the what your book is all about, the more heavenly minded we are, the more earthly good we will be. Because we're it we're we're diving into the scripture because we're thinking about God and the things of heaven. And then we and then we have insights uh in those moments that God is able to show us because we're not distracted by the things of this world because we're having heavenly minded and then we can go be useful for the advance of the kingdom and make a difference in the world here and now. It sounds like that's what you're exactly saying, right? Yes, we we should be heavenly minded. Why? The scripture teaches us. In in in the O Father prayer. So thy kingdom come on earth as it is in heaven. So for the kingdom to come on earth as it is in heaven, I've got to put my mind, I've got to be heavenly minded. I gotta meditate on these things. I I gotta develop a heart th that that that reflects Jesus' heart. I gotta his interests, whatever whatever he is interested in, I've gotta make that my interest also So so advancing the kingdom, seeking the kingdom first, all these things. So yes, I have to be heavenly minded so that I can be good to this earth. Because it's being heavenly minded that I can reflect the true nature of God's kingdom and bring heaven on earth. Now what's the advice that you have um for somebody, you know, me, let's say. I press in, I read my scriptures, I fast, I pray, I I try to live uh uh this lifestyle of of the kingdom culture and as a result maybe I start to have insights or I have visions and dreams. uh maybe for the first time or more regularly than I've ever had before or whatever. What's your advice? 'Cause you've been living this life for a little while now. Yes. Of how to How to uh process through that? How to understand what these visions and dreams mean? How do you apply them in a practical way? How do you how do you guard against um misunderstanding what the vision and dream might be That's that's a very good question. That's a very good question. And when I got this dream about 911, as I mentioned before, I didn't have the correct interpretation. I d I didn't I didn't know that it was gonna come to fruition the exact way God showed me in the dream. I thought it was the church church that was gonna be shaken up Uh if I can just um just a bit. I went I was invited to a church in Washington DC and this probably about 2003, uh some of my friends from Brazil and so you know Brazilian church. This is documented in the book also So I went in and as I went into the church, the pastor, we weren't there 10 minutes. We went in, we sat down. Me and my friend sat down. And the pastor called me up and he says, come come here, young man. And I went up and I'm saying, I don't know this pastor What is all this about? So I went up and he began to tell me, God is speaking to you in dreams. He's speaking to you in dreams. I said, My goodness. I said, God, only the Holy Spirit could reveal this to this pastor. Only the Holy Spirit. So so my thing is you will get Jews and God. He can give you dreams exactly the way things are gonna happen. Then he can give you dreams that that y you probably need to consult. your your pastor and say, you know, I got this dream. What what do you think? Like like remember Joseph. Joseph was God used him to interpret dreams, right? So sometimes too we we gotta go. So God operates in different different ways. But like Chukes did, his dream was just The dream that he got was what he experienced, what came to fruition. And just like me, the dream I got came to fruition also. And there's several other dreams. Same way. Just came the the same exact way So you know if if you start a fast and experiencing dreams, if if you think you may not have the right interpretation, consult the man of God. Consult your Pastor and and hopefully they'll be able to to you know guide you along the right path. Right. And and and consult the scriptures. Make sure that whatever you think they might mean, make sure that whatever you think your vision or dream means isn't uh in conflict with what the Bible clearly teaches exactly right. Because if it disagrees with the Bible, you either you got a a dream or vision that's wrong Or you've misunderstood your dream or vision or whatever, right? Because there's Spiritual war going on. Exactly. You know, could we be tempted to to believe something false because uh we've been given some sort of vision that's not from God and we have to test the spirit. Exactly. But against principalities, against powers, against the rules of darkness or this world against spiritual weakness in high places. So so yeah, we're wrestling against all these forces. But you know The the the force of good is greater than the force of evil. So w God can give you the dream g give you dreams that you you will you will know and you'll see them come to fruition. The thing is Pray. Read scriptures as as you just mentioned and consult your your pastors. Don't just get a dream. Say yes, this is it. Like when I got the dream out 911, I I began to tell my friends the dream, but gave them my interpretation of it that okay, I think the church is gonna be shaken up. Well, I was totally wrong But but God can give dreams in in he can give dreams that that comes to fruition just the way that he he he showed them. But then you can give it can be a mystery that you need to pray about or you need to read scriptures or you need to consult pastors about. So My recommendation, my suggestion would be, you get the dream, pray, read scriptures. If nothing is coming, consult your pastors And and and hopefully you know and and the Holy Spirit, if it's from the Holy Spirit, he will he will allow you to to get the revelation. Just like like like this man of God, Joseph. That we're you know, reveal the dream to to these prisoners and he was right on target. Yeah, um if you're not among the initiated, Rowan is uh mentioning the story of Joseph in the old Testament in the book of Genesis, uh the latter part of the book of Genesis. So if you uh aren't familiar, you can turn there and you can see what uh what he's talking about with uh with Joseph in that story. And if if if you're wondering, if you missed last week's show, Rowan's mentioned a couple of times his dream that he had regarding uh nine eleven, a a rather detailed dream that he got about eight months or so before nine eleven happened. And he shared that story with some detail last week. So if you missed it, you can check out the podcast online. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD online at WFMD. com. I'm Troy Skinner and Rowan Stewart is our guest. He's written a book called Renewing Your Mind Daily and he's a a local. He lives n next to you. You drive past him on the road all the time. You're pumping gas, you probably see him. That's how that's actually happened. He was pumping gas and Bob Miller knows him and saw him pumping gas and said, Hey Rowan, what's up? And Rowan said, I wrote a book and he said, You wrote a book and here he is on the Faith Debate Show. So uh I I mentioned this last week that I was gonna do this and uh so I wanna uh follow through on my promise. I'm going to read the uh the the chapter headings of the first half dozen, dozen uh uh chapters of this 40-day devotional in your book. And uh you pick one that has a story that would be kind of fun to give a a nugget about. So any one of these uh uh any one of these you're saying, ooh, yeah, that chapter. Let me let me talk about this. So day one The power of forgiveness. Day two, divine connection. Day three, divine visitation. Day four, faith-based relationship And day five, a message from hell. I'm gonna stop there. Is any any one of those? Day one. Day one definitely is uh talks about forgiveness. Okay. That that is what we we our world needs more of of We we need more to forgive. We need to forgive more. So that that is um very a very good very good to read. Yeah, there's uh uh a a song from the I think probably the very, very late eighties by a a secular artist, Don Henley, who was uh is, was and is a big part of the Eagles and he had a b good solo career. And one of my favorite songs ever is a song that he wrote, uh called The Heart of the Matter And uh he it's a song about forgiveness. And he says he's been trying to get down to the heart of the matter, when the flesh will get weak and uh and and the ashes will scatter. But I think it's about forgiveness. Forgiveness, even if you don't love me anymore, which is the idea of even your enemies. Extend forgiveness even to your enemies who are not showing love and forgiveness towards me. Right. Okay, so uh chapter uh I guess I'll call them what you call them in the book, Day Six, A Mother's Influence. Day seven, winning the battle of the mind. Day eight, a meek and gentle response. Did I say day nine? Day eight. Day nine, praying and giving. Day ten, the gospel of self-denial. Is there any uh anecdote from one of those five chapters that uh you'd you'd want to point out? Yes. Could you read the could you read those again please? Sure. Message f uh uh a mother's influence winning the battle of the mind. Winning the battle of the mind. Yeah that's the one. That was day seven. Yes. Okay so is So what happens in um in chapter seven, day seven, winning the battle of the mind? What's what's the point there? All right, so the point is is in in second Corinthians 10 and verse 4. We it it tells us or from verse 3, 2, 3, 4, that that though we walk in the flesh, we war not after the flesh. flesh for the weapons of our warfare are not carnal but are mighty through God through the pulling down of strongholds casting down imaginations And every high thing that exalts itself above the knowledge of God and bringing every thought to the obedience of Jesus Christ. So the mind is is is is a real battle. The people who find themselves in in in in in adultery, in in fornication, in in um looking at at pictures uh w th that shouldn't be looked at uh as children of God. It's it's the the the first place that you lose it is right here. By the time you lose it right here, we're going down. It's it's we we we start to go down uh uh down that hill. And but right here you mean in the mind? In the mind. Right. In the mind. Once you lose that that lose the battle right here in the mine, that's where we start going downhill. You don't have to to to um fall As yet, but but it's it it's gonna happen once you lose the battle here in the mind. So so the the thing is guard our hearts Guard our minds. Think the thoughts that are pure, that are that are righteous. as as it is stated in in I think Philippians four verse eight. So so things also are pure and righteous. We're all human. We walk in flesh, right? We're spirit beings, but we're clothed with this flesh that is so carnal. So every one of us Get these thoughts at times. We go outside and we look at this thing or or or that and the thought comes to the mind. But we have the power to cast it out to cast down any thoughts that that that that tries to rise itself above the knowledge of God. We have the power to bring it into captivity To Jesus Christ. So every one of us will get these we'll get evil thoughts, thoughts of unforgiveness, thoughts of take take revenge. But we just said, No, let me control what's going on here. And go back to the scripture. When Jesus says Forgive when Jesus says love. Love God with all your heart, all your mind, all your soul, all your strength, and love your neighbor as you love yourself. This is the culture of the kingdom The culture of the world says, okay, an eye for an eye. If you do me something bad, I have the right to do you bad. You know. So but but but the culture of the kingdom is different. So but guarding the mind is where the battle starts. So in a very real way, um your book uh uh is a call to obedience, not just to spirituality, but it's a call to obedience, to right living, to not uh giving sway to carnality. I mean, in until the second coming and the glorification, we all wrestle against a carnality, against the flesh, against our our fallen human nature. So that's there But your your book is calling us to uh to fight against that, to work towards what's uh in theological terms is called the sanctification process to become increasingly pure in our in our thought and in our attitudes and Exactly. Exactly. And and let me just clarify that point too. It's not that we're we're gonna have we're not gonna be be having bad thoughts or evil thoughts, ungodly thoughts. As I said before, we're spirit beings wrapped in this, in this, in flesh. Excuse me. So the thoughts are gonna come, but do we Meditate on them. Do we make it our place of habitation? No. We cast them down. They come in and we say, No, that is not of God. I rebuke you devil. And we cast them down. So so No one should depict themselves as being being free from those thoughts. No, the thoughts come, but we take authority and we bring them, we make them captive. To the name of Jesus Christ and to the Word of God. Yeah, I'm reminded of uh first John. The chapter is alluding to I want to say it might be chapter three, but I'm not as good at this as you are. You cited some very specific uh uh books, chapters and verses. I know it's in First John where he talks about uh Christians not true Christians, true believers don't continue in sin. And that can be a real wrestling point for Christians. Like, what does that mean? I I sinned. Does that mean I'm not a Christian? But if you read it in context, what John is saying there is exactly what you just said a second ago, uh, Rowan, is is that um you don't marinate in it. You don't stew in it. You don't continue to chase after it. You don't, you know, it's not what defines you. You know y y y y y y y you know, you know, I've said in the past uh in different contexts that You fall in the mud puddle, but you don't lay down and take a nap there. Like you get up and you clean yourself off. So you're gonna you're gonna get dirty. You're gonna sin, but you don't continue to sin. Like it doesn't define your very essence and being. So I think that's That's part of the point that you're making. Um so I I promised myself I wouldn't make the mistake three shows in a row, so I'm not gonna do it. Now you mentioned that your book is available on Amazon dot com and and probably other places that people sell books. Yes. Barnes and Noble Ben Alva books But they take a fee. So is there a way for somebody to buy your book directly, like on your website or some other way, or does it have to go through one of these outlets to take a fee? Yes, unfortunately I don't have a website now that that does that. Okay. But but you know, Zulan Press, uh if if one should go to just Google my my the name of the book, Renewing Your Mind Daily by Rowan Stewart as you carta said. R-O-H-A-N-S-T-E-W-A-R-T. If you Google that and go to Zulon Press, that would be that would be good. And Zulan Press is X-U-L-O-N. Exactly. Exactly. X U L O N Press. P R E S S. Yes. All right. So now you know how to get it. Uh Renewing Your Mind Daily, Rowan Stewart, Book One. Book One. Next month? So so so book one book one took me took me uh uh six years. So but I expect book two to be out uh relatively um quick. Uh because I've learned so many things going through this tedious process. But some of these things I got onto my bed. But yes I know how to maneuver these circumstances. So yeah, so I'm I'm thinking within two years Okay. So uh I won't hold this here. Within three. If you don't have it down in three, I'm coming after you. Anyway. Rowan Stewart, Renewing Your Mind Daily is his book. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. I'm Froy Skinner You're listening to us uh uh possibly online at WFMB. com. And if you missed part of this show you want to hear uh you want to hear the past couple of shows, like his story about nine eleven, for example You can access the podcast of the Faith Debate. Just go to WFMD. com. There's the drop-down menu of the Faith Debate Show for the on-air lineup. You can find our page there. You can go to the Audio Vault You can put type in the keyword faith in the keyword section of the website. There's all different ways to get to the Faith Debate page. And you can also find us. I usually post uh links to the podcasts of recent shows on the WFMB Facebook page. So there's a whole bunch of different ways you can do that. In fact you can make uh make uh the the podcast something that will automatically show up in your feed. You can subscribe. So you know you can do that. I know several people that do that as well. Anyway, until next week One hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from right now. God bless.