This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all form. Community leaders wrestle over the truth. Yeah, but in less than 30 minutes, learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Ooh, how convenient. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to run. Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Fate Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Get a moron. And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder, John Swaiser. Now I'm just getting longed up. Lack of accountability, lack of justice. Their deaths matter, their lives matter, the issues can't be avoided. Someone, somewhere, somehow needs to do something about it. We're talking about quote unquote racism. Some say we're talking about quote-unquote systemic Racism. We talk about every time something takes place like what happened in August of two thousand fourteen in Ferguson, Missouri. That's when and where a white police officer shot and killed Michael Brown, a black teenager. And we've been talking about it like crazy this summer. And here to continue our talking about it, John Schweitzer And uh with John and me, Vaughn Thurman. Vaughn is a pillar in the community of Frederick and the son of a formerly trained pastor, so he knows a little bit about what he's talking about, probably more than I do. Certainly more than Jonathan does, there's no doubt about that. So any uh now it's uh it's good for us to start out with some abuse because Now I alluded to some of the phrases that came up at the the end of last week's show, systemic race racism and how to understand the the the overall views and perhaps agenda of the Black Lives Uh Matter Foundation and um other buzzwords in this movie Deep on Police, whatever We're going to talk about some of those things and try to define our terms and see if there's a place where we can have a meeting of the minds and agree either that they shouldn't be used or that they can be used and how and whatever. But before we do that, in fairness, John Schweitzer As is his habit, got the last word in last week and so uh I want to give Vaughn the chance to uh 'cause some people listen to this show Uh we do what I call arcs. We do you know three, four, five shows in a row on the same topic. And some people are in the habit of listening to all of those arcs via podcast in succession so they hear the fullness of our of our conversation on the issue. With popcorn, six soda, you know. Absolutely. So anyway, John crack out the runs for this one. Dude, we should sell it. We can make money off of that. So John got the last word in last time, so we'll make sure that uh we give Vaughn the first word in this time. So Thinking back on what we talked about last week or anything that has to do with the issue that has to do with uh um you know, getting real about quote unquote race and all of these things. Uh context or at the thing. uh to dole out without giving a little background on me and where I got this context uh or the you know these opinions. And they're strongly held, right? I I uh I grew up uh by God's grace with a set of parents who were pretty colorblind and uh The you know the largest evidence of that was uh they're adopting my brother. He was three months old when I was eleven years old. I think I was about to turn eleven, in fact. Uh he was an African American, uh they were very excited, they just wanted to adopt a child. They were one of the few parents that the social services could find that didn't care about the race, the gender of the child. And so we were able to get a child into our family sooner. We moved to Baltimore about the time that uh my younger brother uh Logan joined our family And and I'll tell you, you know, just like uh when I brought my second child home, uh our oldest daughter, Grace, my oldest son Jake saw her come in the door and he pointed at her and he pointed at the door and he said, Go. He was only he was only eighteen months old. He didn't want the competition. I was much the same with my brother. At eleven years old having been an only child all the twenty I wasn't that excited about it. Um, but I really became um, you know, uh I I I came to love my brother as if he were my own. And so I I have to go a little bit further back into the context. We grew up in a city called East Orange, New Jersey. It's the underarm of Newark, New Jersey, which is the underarm of New York City, right? Uh and and it was a uh uh a a largely uh black community. Uh not the part of the state referred to as the Garden State. That's correct, right? No garden there. I I was one of I was one of two white kids in the entire school that I went to when I first experienced public school. Uh when my father was assigned to a smaller church elsewhere in New Jersey I got to go to a you know a preschool that was part of the church and And then uh suddenly this kind of culture shock is I showed up at a place where they chased the two of us out of the school, my third day there because we were white. I came home with a black eye, uh probably a broken wrist, but I never got treated for it 'cause I I didn't want to tell my parents how bad it hurt. I was afraid I wouldn't get go go back to school and I'd have to go back to a church based school or something and I kinda wanted to make it Don't want that. I I got I got I got it. Um and and there's a longer story but that I won't get into. I spent a lot of my life trying to oppose and run away from God, but luckily He was gracious and drew me back in. Um but we we moved from that area right as we adopted my brother down into Baltimore in an area called Edmondson Heights, and people who know it will know it's on the edge of Edmondson Village and between there and Engleside It's a mixed neighborhood and if I drove or drove road my bicycle two blocks in one direction, I would be the only white kid there And if if my black friends rode two blocks with me in the other direction, they'd be the only black kid there. And it was a neighborhood in transition. Um I played with a lot of the white kids that I met there and when they realized that that black kid that they'd seen riding around on a tricycle was my brother They went from seeing me as the new kid who was cool to an end lover, and that's what I got called. And I had to fight two of them to keep them from attacking my brother. This this spectrum of experience gut continued on when at uh twenty-six years old back from the air force uh you know I was in downtown Baltimore riding through downtown. I was over on the far side of town helping a friend fix his boat And uh, you know, four guys, uh four African American guys came up to the passenger side window where we were waiting at the red light and said, Do you have a dollar? The honest answer was no, I didn't have a dollar on me. I said, No. And the guy hit me so hard he ended up having to put s uh six stitches on my eyebrow up here. I ended up in the VA hospital spending the night in there. My wife, who was then My brand new girlfriend, I was so embarrassed I didn't want her to see me for a while because my eyes all swollen up and black and it took about nine months for me to get my day in court. Uh when I got in there, the black officer that finally found him and arrested him, based on my description, described to the black prosecuting attorney what had happened. my black public uh uh uh representation who was there with me or or maybe it was the I think the DA was on my side. He had a uh a a um public defender And and they all kind of colluded without me and decided that because he'd already been in jail most of that nine months for breaking into someone's home, that they were going to flee out and give him time served for his attack on me And the black judge said, you know, hey, uh I understand you've already been in jail. We're going to find you guilty. And I thought, yes, finally, justice is served. And he said, we're going to give you time served. And he was due out two days later, and he looked at me and he looked me right in the eyes and he said F you across this courtroom and he smiled at me, right? And so I I left there and I felt like no justice had been given. So, and this is the same kid who ran home and it happened multiple times, kindergarten, first grade, second grade. This is the same kid who fought to defend my brother because people were maligning him because of his color. I've been all around this issue and I'm very, very close to it. And and I grew up as a kid who talked out of one side of my mouth. I don't know what the heck that was all about But, you know, I grew up with I was very poor. My my father was a Presbyterian pastor who suddenly decided he was filled with the Holy Ghost and wanted to come down to Baltimore and co-pastor an assembly of God Church. So we went from uh you know, you don't close your hymnals too fast because they'll make noise in the church we were in in New Jersey, to um, you know, pr practically we weren't quite there, but practically to handling snakes and and And the weekend we got here the church. Exactly. Here the church split. It left my father without a job and he had spent all of his life savings moving down here and getting a new townhouse for us to move into because he'd always had amants provided by the church, right? So we went into economic chaos. Uh I remember by that first Thanksgiving we were having trouble having uh keeping the lights on. My my new adopted brother is here with us and there's all kinds of crazy stuff going on and And and and what's you know, what's the point out of all this? Um I I was the poor kid who couldn't afford to have shoes that didn't have holes in the bottom or or tears in the knees or whatever. in a neighborhood where I actually more closely aligned with the black families that were struggling economically than I did with the white kids who decided they weren't going to associate with me because I came from a mixed family. I've seen racism up close. So I never deny that racism exists. What bothers me is someone who had to overcome economic adversity. and and who had to overcome circumstantial adversity, who had to overcome racism, is I and I I I will use a very strong word, I hate when I see the the none of us are as easy to deceive as all of us. And and when I see a message coming out to the masses saying, accept that you are lesser And and so what bothers me about white privilege, I've seen it defined by so many people, by those who are proposing it, uh those who are uh uh you know suggesting that we should all admit to it And I've seen it defined by people who say, well, I just want to admit to a little bit of it so I can say I'm down with this and move on. And I don't agree with any of it. Not not because I don't understand what they're trying to do. The spirit behind trying to say I understand that being white may give me easier access to the majority of the culture trusting me in a business transaction, right? But I am not down with the inverse of it, which is I am therefore, if I'm on the other side of this, black unprivileged. And and I don't believe that. I believe we're all created in the image of our Creator. And and so for me to say if I were to come into Uh if I would move to Brazil and and and teach myself or my children to believe that there's Brazilian privilege, but we're white and we're American and so we're just never going to get these opportunities down here That would be teaching my children that you have a hill to climb every day that nobody else here has to climb. And and what concerns me very deeply is that what you believe about yourself will significantly impact the risks that you will take betting on yourself And and the only way to change your economic status, having been through there. I have been so poor that the lights were off in our house and Thanksgiving we had no food and the the neighbors were too embarrassed to embarrass I mean did they they were too kind to embarrass my parents. So they came over and claimed they got called away for an emergency and needed to leave their food with us because they didn't want it to go to waste. Right? I almost tear up thinking about these things. And I've got it to point now, by God's grace, listen, I I've got a net worth and the millions of dollars. I live on a beautiful home and a farm. in in Middletown, God has given me the ability to to span many, many things in my lifetime and see many perspectives. And I've learned I I I used to be a skinny kid and I used to joke about fat people. Now I'm overweight. I have learned not to to abuse or try not to be gracious towards what anybody feels because God may end up wanting me to experience it But what I can say to you is is this what you believe about yourself is is more significantly able to limit you than what anyone else believes about you. And I do not want My children, I do not want myself ever to say, oh, I'm sorry for my white privilege, because the flip side of it is we're looking over to our black friends and neighbors and saying you don't have the same opportunity you I do and I'm sorry for that. No, I believe they have the same opportunity because God created them with it, and they may have more adversity to accomplish it. Just like I had more than the kids who grew up in that neighborhood not far from me who were gonna go to college when I didn't. I didn't even finish high school because I didn't believe in myself. My belief limited my capacity. But thank God God gave me a new identity. He showed me that I could be like the flower that was grafted into a tree, that it wasn't it wasn't my roots that created my ability to be sustained, it was his roots. And by having a different belief about myself, I began to take different bets upon myself that changed the economic course of my life. That arc changed And and that's that's really a very when I hear systemic racism, it's not that I don't believe that there are parts of our system that are racist. It's not that I don't believe that there are parts of the way our system is structured that may advantage or disadvantage one group. But to make it so broad as to call it systemic period is to say that in all of our society there are all kinds of rules and barriers which a anybody who's not part of a certain group is not going to be able to get over. I don't want somebody to accept that and believe it and then begin to base their choices or their future generations' choices on that. That's the voice of Vaughn Thurman. I'm Troy Skinner. You're going to hear in a second, I'm sure Jonathan Schweitzer. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD online at WFMD. dot com. So yeah, that that his uh that backstory helps provide some uh context for the things that Vaughn's gonna say. Uh I'm tempted to add some of my personal backstory, but um um I'm not sure I'm gonna do that right now. Maybe later on I will or in another show at another night or something. We we record at night by the way. You're hearing this in the morning. But um uh but you you talked about the systemic uh racism uh thing and the uh white privilege uh phrase and those and so that gives us a chance to transition into how we want to define some of these terms. And I just want to say one thing and then I'm going to let Jonathan run a little bit with this because he had a lot of dialogue with um uh some local thinkers that are wrestling with these particular questions and I'd be curious to hear how those d conversations have gone. But just so you know where I'm coming from on some of this, you might have noticed last week and again this week, whenever I've talked about uh use the word racism. I've kind of gone out of my way to couch it in terms that draw attention to me not really wanting to use it. Quote unquote racism. Because I'm a biblical a what some people call a conservative Christian. I prefer the word biblical Christian because it it it doesn't so easily get confused with political ideology. Uh you hear conservative Christian, you think, oh, he's he's a Christian who votes Republican. Not necessarily. Uh it's it's uh I'm a Christian who believes that the truth is found in God's revealed written word and in the personal work of Jesus Christ, and his written word helps us to understand who that person of Jesus Christ is. So that's that's my framework. And in that framework, there are two races. There's the one race that all of us belong to well all we have a common blood, right? That's what race is all about. We have a common blood we all trace back to Adam. According to the Bible, the biblical view. So there's one human race. We are one. But then on top of that, so you're born into your race. But Christians are born again. So Christians are born into Christ, and so we have this idea that we are a we are a uh a royal priesthood, a holy nation, we are a a chosen race. to use New Test New Testament language. And so there is a Christian race that has nothing to do with our blood. It has everything to do with Christ's blood. So if we're going to talk about race in those contexts and say there's more than one, I would say, okay, there's the race of all humanity, of which the three of us in this room are members. But then the three of us in this room are also members of another race that those who aren't trusting in the blood of Christ aren't. So we're in two races at once, the three of us, and anybody who's a believer in Christ. But all of us collectively, believer in Christ or not, are one race. And so it bother I don't like using the word race. I prefer other Ways of providing differences, whether it's different you know different uh tones of skin, different um uh was it melanin, is that the word I don't like the groundhog race. I'm particularly racist towards them. The groundhog race. But it's a great movie. I mean come on. And so Even in our conversations we've talked about, you know, ra gender is another word. I don't like the word gender. Gender in my mind is a literary term that talks about, you know, the uh uh whether or not something is feminine or masculine in in in the words. Is that a feminine word or a masculine word? It's a literary term, and yet we've taken this literary term and we've used it in biological terms, and I don't like that either. And yet I'm not criticizing anybody who uses those terms. I'm just I I'm trying to get away from using those terms that I think have allowed us to get sloppy and allow for a worldview that I think is contrary to biblical Christianity to get more of a toehold. And so all of that said, w how have these conversations gone that you've been involved with, Jonathan? You're not gonna have time to get into all of it today. We've only got a few minutes left on today's show, so we'll carry over into next week's uh show. Uh but How are they talking about white privilege and uh what what is meant by Black Lives Matter and all of it? I just want to say this, that something just happened on the show. today as Vaughn shared his story and that is that we were drawn into Right, a perspective that that is profound and powerful and compelling. And uh an interesting thing happened to me when I went over to Israel uh to hang out with the Arabic Christians in Israel. And that is that whenever I hung out with the Arabic Christians, It seemed like when I heard their story and their perspective that Israel was the problem. But I've spent a lot of time in my life hanging out with messianic Jewish believers and whenever I talk to them it's always their perspective i it always feels like uh the West Bank uh i is is the problem. And I I get stuck this way as well. Like when I When I listen to African Americans uh that that feel like there's systemic racism and I hear them refer to their data and their stats Right? Uh and whenever anybody talks stats, right, unless you're really good with numbers, at some level, you know, you kind of blur over and you're like, huh, they got their stats, man. It sounds pretty compelling. Right? And so I'm pretty good with math Right. Uh I did better than most coming through high school and so I can I can stick with it for a certain distance, but honestly I uh you know, I get to the point where I'm like, wow, they got their stats, you know, and it it looks to me like they're lining up. But then when I listen to people on the other side of the political spectrum and they give their stats about, you know, black on black crime and and other things. Once again, I'm like, hmm. Maybe they're right. And and I find myself in this space where, you know what? It feels to me like there's truth on all sides. And there is blind spots on all sides. And so your story speaks to so many of those, which is why it's so powerful, because the reality is that all of us, if we If we take and t Thomas Sowell writes a book called Black Rednecks and White Liberals that that basically traces um a whole bunch of different people groups that came from Asia, that came from the Middle East, that came from uh Eastern Europe, that got spread all over the world, some of whom wherever those those groups went in the world They succeeded wildly. And others, wherever they went in the world, they they they failed miserably and that there seemed to be something in their culture, culture by culture, that either helped them to succeed, you know, to have an image of themselves where they took the risks, where they went for it, or something in their cultures that caused them to just give up. and feel like the world was against them. And so so that mentality of well I'll call it privilege, right? There's there's something in there that when you came to Christ you knew that there was privilege. Right? And so when I think of white privilege in particular, now the people that define it the best I think of it this way, and this is God's blessing to Abraham in in Genesis chapter 12. I'm gonna bless you And the whole earth is going to be blessed through you. And anyone that curses you, I'm going to curse. And anyone that blesses you, I'm going to be blessed. And then your seed. all nations in the earth will be blessed. Right? That is the beginning of privilege after the fall of man Right? And ever since then those that have been in God and following God have been walking in privilege that God intended to give them for one purpose, and that is that those that have privilege would use their privilege to extend that privilege to as many people as possible. And To the extent that there is white privilege, and I think there probably is in a lot of places, more than I realize there is, then my job, to whom much is given, much is required. Right? To the extent that you didn't have it, you ended up getting it because you realized that Christ was there for you. And Quite frankly, the more God has challenged me and the more I've obeyed to be a giver, the more he has given me. We're out of we're out of time. John Sweitzer, Von Thurman, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD online at WFMD. com. I encourage you to visit the webpage. You can see you know the the the description of the shows that are coming up. You can see what's aired recently. and access all the podcasts and take them with you. So we're going to wrap this up for now and we're going to pick up on this topic on next week's show. And that'll be, I don't know, about 167 and a half hours from right now. Until then, God bless.