This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gap fest. with the mixed master of the Master of Ceremonies and the Notor B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes we can. The Faith Debate is a Free for all four. Where faith community leaders wrestle over the truth. Yeah, but less than third or more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Ooh, how convenient. Are you ready for us Yes, are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble! Let's get ready to rumble out! This corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Get a moron And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. Ooh, mama. The notorious big bridge builder John Swaitner. No, I'm just getting warmed up. The Trump administration has taken a stand against critical theory. The executive branch says it's gonna cease and desist from using taxpayer dollars to promote anti-American training specifically dealing with any form of critical race theory or white privilege where that says the United States is an inherently evil country or that any race is inherently racist or evil. Until this hit the news. Did you political race theory? Was you know that was a thing? Even now do you know what it is Well, it's an issue that's been plaguing the Christian church for years, and people like Adam A. D. Roblis have been following it and commenting on it for all the world to hear. A D has a YouTube channel that he advertises as uncompromised Christian commentary, and we welcome back him back to the show for the Second consecutive week. And if you want to follow him on YouTube, go to YouTube and type in A D Robles. It's R-O-B-L-E-S And you'll find his channel and and he he puts a lot of stuff. They're short, I'll give him that. They're usually ten, fifteen, twenty minutes at the max, mm usually. Uh so then ten minutes. But he has a lot. Like do you post every day or something? Yeah, just about, uh at least once a day, sometimes a couple times. Yeah, so it's like a Twitter feed for you. Don't check my Twitter feed if you're uh if you're sensitive to that. Oh really? Okay, now I'm I am not on Twitter, so I've never seen your feed. So what do you mean by that? What do you put what do you put on there that you don't put on your video? Uh just a lot more stuff. There's it's nothing different really. Okay, but you Little bit more bombastic on in the world of Twitter than you are in your YouTube world? No, no. I I I was just joking. It it's it's it's all the same kind of tone, all the same kind of mentality, and just a lot more of it Yeah, we alluded to this last week and and I I almost I think I might even start it with questions about your tone and and that sort of thing and I'm not I'm not asking to beat you up. I'm asking 'cause I'm kind of curious and anybody who's listening to this that might also be familiar with the YouTube channel might have similar questions Um, how much of that tone is merely for some sort of creative effect you're trying to be an entertainer, and how much of it is That's the real Adam coming through. Like you're really aggravated or you're really nervous where they're coming from. You're really angry. How how much of it is real and how much of it is showbiz? Yeah, great question. Great question. So um I I would say this. I would say that, you know, ninety-nine percent of the time um if I elevate my voice, I'm in complete control of it and I'm doing it intentionally. But that's not to say that it's not that's not it's not real. I mean I'm often feeling frustrated, but I just because I am frustrated doesn't mean that I'm gonna come across as frustrated. So Um I try to stay in control as much as I possibly can, but um I don't want to say it's uh it's like a false feeling or anything like that. Does that make sense Yeah, so uh it it's it's you, but it it's you in a heightened kind of a state. It's you trying to be the biggest version of yourself kind of thing, maybe. I mean I guess that makes sense. I j I guess I I just I just don't um I try not to let my emotions get the better of me. In fact if I if I ever do, um which I have done on a video I typically don't post it. Have you ever put a post uh a video up and then because of some comments from others you've thought, Oh, you know what? Actually I didn't realize what that was gonna Yeah Do you still gonna take it down? Has that happened? So I've I've I've posted videos that I regret um because some of the information was not uh correct. Um and so what I typically do in those cases is I'll contact the person that I was talking about or to and I'll ask them what they want me to do with it. And typically what I'll what I what I prefer is to keep it up um for posterity so people know what we're talking about and then I'll usually post another video explaining why what I said was wrong, what I should have said, and things like that. So I've done that a number of times, maybe a handful of times um in that I can remember. But it's never been because the effect was not what I expected. Um if I say something true and I feel good about what I said and and I can defend it, um to be honest, I don't care what the effect is Um but if it's something untrue, uh I I want to rectify that as soon as I can. Now in between shows, you and John Sweitzer uh had a little bit of a dialogue and John has a question. I'm gonna give him a chance to kind of pick up that off air conversation to bring it on to you. But before I do that, I'm I'm wondering because you named a whole bunch of names that we'll pay attention to theological uh movers and shakers in America. They recognize some of those names and and you're suspicious of some of them. I'm wondering When you do your videos, who is your audience? Is your audience those movers and shakers hoping that somehow they'll either see it themselves or hear about it? Uh or is your audience people like me who don't ever interact with the movers and shakers? Yeah, I'm definitely not speaking to the movers and shakers. Um sometimes I'll address them personally, and if they see it, then so be it. But um My understanding is that they typically don't watch that kind of stuff. Um I'm speaking to the person in the pew um who maybe they're Maybe I'm preaching to the choir. They're already on my side of this particular issue. Um I'm all about preaching to the choir and encouraging people. Or maybe they're, you know, a little discombobulated. They haven't heard this kind of speak ever before and all of a sudden there are pastors talking about white fragility and they don't know what that's all about. In fact, um a few months ago I did a video I think it was called Look at Me, You're Not Crazy And I got so much good feedback from that. People said, look, I was crazy and I saw this video and I'm like, okay, at least I have some footy here. I don't really know where I stand, but I know that there are other people like me And so those who th that's who I'm speaking to. I'm speaking to the person in the pew. Let's not take anything for granted here. So, you know, somebody just heard you say white fragility. What is that? Well it's it's um it's uh it's a term that was invented to basically mean that white people are wrong no matter what. So if somebody If somebody were to come to you and say, hey, Mr. White person, you are a racist. If you accept that you're a racist, that's the only way to not be white fragile. But if you start defending yourself in any way If you say, I'm not racist, I've got a black friend, uh what do you mean racist, any kind of response besides you're right, I'm sorry, that's a display of white fragility. So it's a way to be right no matter what in the conversation about race. Hm. So uh um all right, so that's an interesting uh reality, right? So i everybody that is attacked by any argument when somebody comes at you, right, that means they they're put on the defensive, right? And so so in in any situation, I don't care what the issue is, if if If you're accused of lying, if you're accused of cheating, you're accused of racism, you're accused of of lust, whatever it is, you know, it's uh um it's it's gonna put you on the defensive and would, you know, when it's when it's a legitimate uh or a a serious um accusation, uh then deserves, you know, a thoughtful uh response to it. And so what you're saying is weight fragility uh is uh is a way that critical theory, it's a term that critical theory uses and that they use many of these, I guess to put people on the defensive in a way that doesn't really allow for reasoned debate or or discussion. Uh but rather um elicits it is it elicits the only response that you're gonna that could be expected, which is defensiveness. And so then therefore it's bad. Therefore you're fragile. Yeah, absolutely. I mean it sounds really stupid when I say it that way, right? So so, you know, if you're accused of of of of something s and you say, No, I didn't do that Well, it it sounds crazy that someone would think oh the fact that you said you didn't do it means you did do it. And the only way out of this is to admit that you did it. It sounds stupid that someone would actually think that way But that's exactly what this is. White Fragility there's a there's an entire book by the title White Fragility that explains this whole process. And um I know it sounds stupid, so if someone's never heard that before, you're like, how can anyone believe this? This doesn't sound real. It's it's all too real, and that's actually what it is. So um I the rules for radicals uh says in there that that one one tool of attack is to accuse conservatives or religious people of violating their own uh principles. And that in doing so, what you do is you kind of tie them up and you tangle them up, and then you end up, you know, having the space to push whatever your agenda is. The reality is that when Adam and Eve were uh you know exposed by God, all of them uh responded i with a sin fragility uh what you want to call it. I mean the point is is that we're probably a lot more guilty of these things than we think that we are, while at the same time if it's approved i i if it's approached The discussion is approached in an accusational way, meaning Satan's the accuser of the brethren. There is no way to respond, right? The the response requires a long careful, reasoned, personal analysis and then response to say, okay, is this really true or not? Right? And so um so my point is is that I think it's legitimate for us to ourselves the question whether, you know, how much was our early nation steeped in slavery, which there's quite a bit of it that was going on and cotton certainly was king and and there's aspects of that that that sh you know, just like the Bible tells an accurate story of King David and Solomon and all the others, you know, the good, the bad, the ugly, it it doesn't whitewash the the history. Like I don't think we should be afraid of going back and in having those discussions, the the difficulty is when the language or the having the discussion by the critical race theorists is to automatically assume the guilt of everybody involved. Right? It makes it impossible to have a discussion and so So anyways, the the you know, white fragility is one of those that, you know, how do you get to a legitimate discussion? 'Cause and and that again, we were talking about this last week. A lot of these pastors, I think, are legitimately trying to respond to the racial discussion. And so they're not willing to go after the critical race theory language right now because they genuinely want to figure out how to deal with legitimate racial issues to the extent that there are issues there. So the question is, you know, how how do you not fall into the polarization But move to what, a third way? Is there a third way? I don't know if that's the right language. and the evil uh of of segregation in the past and things like that. I don't even grant that at all. And it is and and the primary reason I don't is because it just hasn't been my experience. Now this could be because I grew up in Connecticut when I was a kid in in in before high school I I lived in Connecticut and so I'm a Yankee. Um but everyone I knew was was well aware of of our of our racial past and things like that and all of that. Um my brother went to a uh a Presbyterian, very conservative seminary in Pittsburgh. Um and he was taught about um the the complicity of uh of of Presbyterian s um denominations in the South uh with slavery and things of that nature was never hidden. Um And uh so often it's presented to the church as if this is something you've never heard about before. They they're intentionally hiding this history, and I just don't buy that at all. Um so if if there's a person out there, and I'm sure there's some that haven't come to grips with the fact that um the um the uh the American um church ha was involved in some of these evils Um then I would suggest that they do do that. But I I don't grant to the critical theorist at all that that hasn't been done uh widely and often in many, many contexts. I don't grant that at all. And it's not just your experience. I mean it's actually it's demonstrably true. The PCA was in the nineties, I think, right? They came out publicly and and renounced and repented and f the the sins of their denomination. And so Uh been there done that uh twenty-five years ago. And the Southern Baptist Convention did something similar. Um and so yeah, you're right. I mean it's not just your experience, it's the entire world's shared experience because we have primary source documents we could go to to say that that happened. So so Black Wall Street in Tulsa, Oklahoma, the story of of how that burned to the ground That's new to me. Did you guys learn about that in high school? Uh I did not learn about that in high school, but I did but I did know about that Hm. You know, five years or so. And I understand the point of that kind of a question, but I gotta say, if if if every individual doesn't know about every sort of atrocity and bad thing that happened, that doesn't mean they're not aware of the issue. Because I could go to somebody and say, Well, did you hear about that time of a bunch of black kids beat up that white guy until his head exploded? And you're gonna say, No, what are you talking about? And I say, Okay, well what if this other time when a different group of black kids beat up uh uh a a Hispanic kid or a Latino kid or whatever the uh the label de jour is for that. Uh and there's a no, I didn't know about that either. Oh, so you what you're saying is you don't believe that there's ever been anybody who's had dark skin who's attacked somebody with lighter skin. And you're like, no, of course I don't think that. Okay, well that's not a fair thing. Maybe. I I mean I think the Black Wall Street issue would be one of those that should be, you know, 'cause it's a larger event in the history of the nation. It seems to me like is it happening right now? Uh I don't know that that whether or not it's happening right now is the is is the if somebody's not aware of it and they find aware of it, are they gonna all of a sudden be able to go back and make it necessary? Um so can you go back and make it right that David slept with Bathsheba or that Solomon decided to marry a thousand women uh against the So I repent for David's uh adultery? Uh no, but we should rehearse it for the sake of learning the lessons of the past. That's why the Bible gives it to us so that we can uh uh be aware of the potential and um and note the places where Solomon made poor decisions so that we could not make those decisions. And so so that kind of historical processes I mean we do that every week. We study the Bible and what happened in Philippi and what happened in Ephesus and what happened with Jesus precisely because it's it's teaching us to you know, uh walk consciously. Everybody who's on this show today is a Christian, and I'm willing to bet that all three of us we don't know about all of the atrocities committed against our fellow brothers and sisters in Christ around the world. That that probably happened today. That's true, yeah. So that doesn't mean we're not we don't care about the issue, that we're not uh uh speaking to it, praying about it. It doesn't we don't have to say happening. There's like eight billion people left. I'm not accusing people of not caring about the issue. I'm just asking Uh specifically about history. Is it right when we deal with history to find ways to deal honestly with the good and the bad? And is it possible that there's that there's a whitewashing of that that is more more pervasive than is righteous before God? Like there's plenty of times that you and I have even had the discussion about what is an American gospel as opposed to what's a biblical gospel. And the problem is that the American gospel is rooted in the sense that if you move to the United States and you work hard, you can have the dream Right. And the reality is that there's a lot more to both life to righteousness uh biblically than than that American gospel. The American gospel ends up being a false gospel. So my point is just that there's places where it's right genuinely for us to let history be told fully. Yeah, I don't know anybody who's advocating that it shouldn't be told fully. I guess that's my frustration on the issue. By the way, uh uh we we we ignored him now for the last three minutes, but uh Adam A. D. Robles is the uh guest on the show today. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. uh online at wfmd. com, also available as a podcast. And on ninety-nine point nine HD2. I'm excited, huh? Wow. We sound bigger and better than ever. Yeah, if you thought we were sexy before, you just listen now Uh Jonathan Schweitzer of course is on the show and I oh did I say I'm Troy Skinner? There I am. I did in in case I didn't, I just did. So by the way, I can't believe I have to ask this question. But I'm I've never asked have we been doing the show for sixteen years, And it's the first time I've ever asked a guest this question. But so you should feel honored, A D. Uh what's your ethnic identity? Yeah, definitely. So uh I'm a hundred percent Puerto Rican. Which um if you don't know the history, that's totally fine. I'm not gonna accuse you of anything. What that means is that I'm about sixty percent European, twenty percent African, twenty percent native. Hm. Hm. Okay. So it's just one hot mess. Yeah, every yeah. Ancestors brought over the slave trade, my sixty percent half brought us over and then uh the twenty percent part was taken their land was taken over. So it's a big mess. And the reason I ask isn't because I care. I mean whatever. I mean I not I don't care. I'm I'm sure you're proud of your Puerto Rican heritage or or or maybe not. I don't know, but if you are, great, good for you. And I I have s I used to live in Florida and I had a number of friends and neighbors and stuff very proud of their Puerto Rican heritage, so I get that. And that's totally fine. So I didn't mean to dismiss it in that way But your opinion on these matters, it doesn't matter to me what your opinion is on these matters based upon what ethnic background you have. But I do understand that those who don't think like I do, that carries a lot of water And so I wanted to clarify, you know, are you are you white? Are you white Hispanic? Are you Hispanic? Are you Latino? Are you African in any way, shape, or form? Yeah, yeah. You know, so So I guess anybody that wants to say, Oh, there's just a bunch of three white guys talking about things, what do they know? Uh y you technically aren't a white guy. Well I I I I've always thought of myself as a Latino. Uh I've been told that I'm white many, many times. Um but uh yeah, I I I would assume if you saw me, y I think you would know that I wasn't um just a purebred, blue blooded white guy. You know what I mean? I think you would know, but some people say that they that they wouldn't know, so that's fine. Yeah, well you could look Yeah, like Mediterranean, right? They might think that you're Spanish or Italian or Well I'll tell you what, I I take a I take a lot of pride in a weird way, and this is not really pride, but but when I went to I I was in Egypt for uh about twelve hours one time on uh in between uh flights And uh an Egyptian guy came up to me and started speaking Arabic to me because he thought I was Egyptian. So I was like, Yeah, that's cool. And he was shocked when you answered him, right? Uh yes. Well I I try not to say mu too much, but Troy, is it not true in Adam that The Bible spends an awful lot of time um tracing out the genealogy of where people come from, like what their background is, and and uh and in fact that was even part of the struggle with the gospel in Acts 10, Acts 15, Galatians. where the gospel was breaking out of the group that could be trusted to tell the right story to all the others that had never been trusted to tell the right story. And my point in saying that is that At the center, and I think this is what you're getting at, maybe I'm wrong with uh addressing uh Adam's uh uh Puerto Rican uh genealogy, uh is that is that Just because you're from a different a certain background doesn't make you more authoritative on a topic. And I think I would put a put some nuance to that that yes it's the case that Critical theorists try to make that some kind of an absolute, just like heresy is good truth taken, you know, to to the to the wrong extent. Well, but it is true that that for me to hear your story, Troy, or to hear um Adam's story or the guy that spoke at the RNC convention about Cuba Right, that there's a certain amount of authority, gravitas, uh credibility that comes when when a person that's been through the battle uh speaks to a certain issue. And and so my point is just that there is some truth to that. The problem is when you take good truth too far. Yeah, but my I would I would counter that that would be true for each every person's each and every person's story. Yeah. So the Puerto Rican story matters, but so does the Cuban story, so does the Native American story, so does the European story, so does the Asian story. I mean everybody's story matters, but what what's happening now in our culture is that only certain stories carry real weight and gravitas and the other ones are dismissed as privileged. I'm not uh yeah, I mean I'm I'm I find myself in a different place, I think, from what feels to me like is some of the polarized positions that are out there, only in that uh that I know so many African American believers in Jesus Christ that are really on on the other side of this issue and have worked figured out how to navigate the critical race theory that is the language of the left. And and those guys have moms and dads that are still alive that live through things that I think it's right for me to commit myself to hear their story. Yeah, uh yeah, I I don't think uh well I can't see we have to wrap up so I can't he see if Adam would agree with you or not. Uh I I'm about to disagree. I want to hear everybody's story. Uh but I would say that everybody has a story, so we want to hear ev do they want to hear your story would be my question. Hopefully the answer to that is yes. This is the Faith Debate. Adam A. D. Robles, our uh telephone guest from uh somewhere in like Vermont or something. Some sorta horrible northern eastern wacko yankee state like that. And uh Jonathan Sweitzer I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith of Eight on 930WFMD. Find us online, check out our podcast, that sort of thing.