Welcome to the Faith Debate. Thanks for spending part of your Sunday morning with us here on News Radio 930 WFMD. I am Troy Skinnard. Host of the show and the pastor of Households of Faith in Christ. You can find us online at Household of Faithinchrist. com. Of course the the show has a page at WFMD. com. You can connect with all of the podcasts and things like and the The outline of uh show topics and that sort of stuff is there. Um that's also on the Household of Faith in Christ dot com website. In fact, that's a better one-stop shop to be honest, because there you can link to the sermon audio podcast and the odyssey dot com podcast. Um there are way more podcasts of the faith debate available through the Household of Faith in Christ website than there are on the WFMD. com website. That's because the radio station over the years has changed ownership a few times and whenever that's happened, old shows got lost. And I downloaded a bunch of those shows before they got lost, and so I've been uploading them on Discernment Audio and Odyssey uh one a day for the last uh several years. We're up around a thousand uh faith debates that are the faith debate almost as good as a sermon. Almost um Yeah, so yeah, sermonaudio. com is they specialize mostly in sermons, but there are other people that put stuff on there that aren't just sermons and I I clearly mark it out as it's the faith debate and it's not uh i it's not earmarked as a sermon, it's earmarked as a radio show. So anyway, so you can check all that out. Anyway, the one giving me a hard time over there is David Thorsey. He pastors a church that meets in various locations uh depending on the week in southern Frederick County mostly. And Daniel Razby, he's uh one of the pastors at the church that meets at Imrans. You can find them online at concordbylove. org. So we spent the last um three weeks bludgeoning to death the war question. And um we made a lot of ground. Actually not we didn't make a whole lot of ground, but we're we're gonna move on. I think if nothing else, we gave you fodder for con for consideration. I don't think we found a hill to die on. Yeah. So uh but I I think if you want to try to think things through and see what some different ways to approach the question of when war is justified, if ever and when it's not justified and and when people should take it into their own hand and that sort of thing. Uh I I think they were interesting shows. I encourage you to go check out those old podcasts. But now for this week Uh as we're recording, there were only two, there might have been another one by the time this airs, but there were only two really, really nasty hurricanes to affect the United States of America. There was uh uh Helene and Milton. And Helene uh uh probably forever changed certain aspects of the Carolinas And uh Milton, not quite as bad, but pretty significant uh as far as not nearly as bad and even in the same ballpark. No, but pretty significant monetarily because there's a heck of a lot more rebuilding to do in Florida. than there would be in the the the hills and mountains of the Carolinas. So the long lasting effects in the Carolinas are are far more dramatic for uh uh at the personal, you know, existential level. Uh but what happened in Florida's pretty big deal too. So hurricanes as they always are, you know, the sum late summer, early fall is they're always in the news and This is why we have to fight against climate change, don't you know? Um I believe in global warming. In the last day God will destroy the entire earth by fire. Very rapid onset global warming. Yeah. Maybe since we brought this up, we could take a few I don't want to spend most of our time on that issue, climate change and all that, but uh the climate does change I think the science backs that up. There's been cycles of warming and cooling and that sort of thing. I th I think there's reason there are there are places in Uh in Europe now that had been covered by snow for generations and generations, ice and snow and now because The earth is warming, it's it's melting, but we're we're seeing that beneath that ice and snow are roads and and remnants of houses and things like that. So obviously it wasn't frozen tundra Once upon a time, so there's evidence that there has been some changes. These things happen. It's just it's part of the cycle. I don't know if the earth wobbles or what's going on there, but Th there are cyclical changes that happen on the planet. And that's the encouraging thing also, you know, when you think about what God's plan for the for humanity and for the earth is. If you're a Christian, you should Yes, you you you you were given the very first command g God gave to Christians. I know you don't want to spend too long on this, but very brief. Um very first command given to anybody to uh man in the Bible is Be fruitful, multiply, and subdue the earth, and have dominion over the fish of the sea and the fowl of the air and the cattle and over all the earth and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth. So everything is under man's dominion on this earth That means you should use that responsibility wisely, so you shouldn't frivolously destroy the earth, but the i it it all is also ours to do with what we please. So the government wants to make the hurricane stronger. Yes, it'll get to that in a second. Is that them exercising dominion? But my but the the the the reason I say this should be encouraging to the believer is because you should not ha be in living in fear that we will not have a planet in ten years or twelve years because of human caused CO two emissions and climate change all that. Neither should you be I would say, and maybe you won't quite agree with this, but neither should you be in fear of total nuclear annihilation of the earth such that all life on earth perishes. Because I also I believe that neither of those things are possible biblically speaking. We know how it turns out. We know that the earth eventually is destroyed by God, by fire, someday, and there's a new heaven and a new earth. We we disagree on how and when that happens potentially, but there is a future time in which there's a new heaven and a new earth. Um and God is the one that destroys the earth, not man. And it isn't by some kind of nuclear winter. There may be nuclear attacks and certain you know, people have found symbolisms in in prophecy that seems to resemble various nuclear disasters. But That is something that I believe strongly does not line up with scripture. just as I believe that uh the earth being destroyed by human caused climate changes also not lines up with scripture. So you should not be living in fear of those things. You should still be wise, you should be good stewards of what God's given you, but there are many, many people Not always believers, but there are many, many people that live in fear of one of one or both of those uh eventualities and um You know, even if it was true that they could happen, that's n you shouldn't be living your life by fear, but you should be wise, uh and and and plan, you know, for just uh Praising God and and trusting God through everything. So that's that's my bit of encouragement to the believer. And it might just be semantics, but I I I tend to think less in terms of uh the earth being destroyed, maybe the earth as we know it being destroyed, but it's more of a renewal. Um and remaking, yeah. Uh remaking and heaven comes to earth. You know, that kind of thing. But yeah, the the earth as we know it uh does cease to exist as it n does now. So Um so we have these hurricanes and every time there's death and destruction this question gets asked, but I'm going to add something that we haven't talked about specifically on the fate debate that I can remember. Okay. We've been doing the show for two decades, and I don't think I've ever asked the second question I'm going to ask. So the first question is these natural disasters like these big hurricanes and stuff, are these God's will? God takes responsibility for them. And the other thing is, the sec this is the second question. Can Satan control the weather? No. Okay. One that comes with Oh you want to go first? Go ahead. I mean the the only one I can think of, okay, is is the there's there's the whirlwind, right, with Job that comes and destroys the That's the one I was gonna mention. Okay. All right. So but Satan got permission from God to do that. Everything Satan does though is by permission from God. Right. So so I I think the only reason to ask that question is to think like somehow like Like who are we blaming? Well, uh, okay, maybe maybe God gave Satan permission to do this with the weather, maybe he didn't, either way. Does not God take responsibility for what happens with the weather? And I I think that that seems very clear to me throughout scripture that God is always saying, like I I I own the things that happen on the earth. So if Satan is controlling the weather ever And I think because of that particular story, um in Job, that that's an that we can we can we can say there may be occasions when is is yeah, at least on that occasion is given permission to have some control over the weather, but even that's not outside of God's sovereign. But there's all there are there's uh there's other instances recorded of supernatural miracles being done by uh workers of demonic like the Pharaoh's uh uh magicians, for example. Um what do they what do they do? I mean they turned their staffs into snakes, so that was you know, that was a winter. I know. They they also turned the water into blood. Which is more weather like. Um, you know, I think the first three or four plagues they they they basically replicated. Um and you could look at that and say, Oh, it was just like today's magicians, they're just illusionists. Maybe But I think the implication is given in in Exodus that these were like supernatural things happening. Um and they were they were trying to copy God. Uh and God let that happen, right? He didn't stop it from happening. He just kept making his miracles bigger and stronger. Um But the as far as the weather goes, I think the third question is. And maybe maybe maybe there is something instructive there, right, where it's clear, okay, well like there are other spiritual forces besides God at work in the world, but God is supreme over all of them, and so Yeah, and I like the turn this is taking because uh I I think it's Yeah, I've mentioned this off the air to uh to you guys, uh Daniel and I had this conversation not too long ago. One of the primary motivations I have for continuing to do this show after all these years, you know, uh uh I mean it's It is a privilege. The radio station allows us to come in and and record user studios and use their airways to broadcast it and then they convert it the audio into podcasts, which I'm then able to download and put on other platforms. All that's possible because of the radio station. We're grateful grateful. But it's also a commitment of time. We're taking time out of out of our day. We're gonna we spend, you know, several hours recording multiple shows, at least once a month usually. And then I have to uh uh manage the web page on the radio stations and I have to download those podcasts and then upload them on other platforms and main I mean there's a commitment of time and I'm not suggesting I have better things to do But what what I'm saying is, okay, I have to justify there's this commitment of time. And so there's an instructional aspect. So we have fun, we talk about stuff that hopefully is gonna be interesting and You know, get you thinking, maybe get you laughing every once in a while, maybe get you a little incensed with us every once in a while. But also hopefully you can learn something here or there. And not so much always trying to get you to think what you should think Uh, although there's certain things I would like you to that I think you should think and I would like you to think. But mostly just to try to get you equipped to start to think. Like how to go about thinking about things, how to try to compare your current thinking with what biblical thinking is and how does it match ma m m m uh match up and if it matches up well good for you and if it doesn't you you can adjust accordingly. So I think the surprising answer to this question is Uh I think the answer is yes. Satan can have control over the weather, with it with at least one proof text to go on. Uh however, and this is a huge however It never happens outside of God's control. God is it's not like Satan's out running rogue And he sent a hurricane to the Carolinas or sent a hurricane to Florida or something. Uh and God's like, Oh, what am I gonna do now? I didn't see that one coming, oh that sneaky Satan he got me again, you know. That's not what's going on. So I think that's uh I think I I like that. So it then pivots back to the big question. When these natural disaster type things and it's not just hurricanes, it's earthquakes, volcanoes, what have you. You know, if God is sovereign Is it God's will? People died in those cases. And the other question, which you may uh laugh at and w we may have different opinions on that fact, but it is being talked about a lot now, even by politicians, um, is does the government control the weather? Ever and if they do, it's under God's sovereign hand, right? He's allowing it to happen at the very least. Anything that we do is under God's sovereign hand. I mean my hands are not going to be able to do that. Probably yeah. But at the hurricane level everybody I'm a hundred percent certain that we Huh? If they at least say the word contrails. I don't know what that means. People are concerned about the the uh the jet uh um exhausts in the sky Okay. Certain weather things. Oh, interesting. And so the debate is whether their contrast mean condensation sales uh uh trails, meaning merely water vapor Or if they're cammon trails because the government or some evil, nefarious group out there is polluting our air on purpose. But there is such a thing or to create There is such a thing, and this is not a conspiracy theory, there is such a thing as cloud seeding, which is being done by many governments, and the idea is if you put certain types of chemicals in the air over a certain spot, it will cause clouds to be it to form and cause water vapor to to condense and and then turn into rain. So to basically make rain in the desert, um governments are working on the ability and perfecting the ability to do that and to some greater or lesser success in various locations, but every major war uh you know, government and scientific community would admit and agree that this type type of thing does happen and it actually has been effective, at least to some degree, in certain areas. Now the more uh uh extreme uh uh claims which are not generally admitted to by governments would be that you could they can use certain types of energy weapons or razors and other things to also impact uh w you know, weather events or start fires or earthquakes in different places. Um and you know, I I I I've I've researched it Somewhat and I d I don't see it out of the realm of possibility that there is something that can be done that is more than just cloud seeding by some governments. Now, whether that means they have total control over all weather, no, I d I don't think that's the case But I do I have seen certain things that that do appear to be outside the normal pattern um that could potentially be explained by some kind of technology that is not widely known. And see we're talking about this now and you were laughing at Orange Man bad when he suggested the possibility of maybe using some sort of nuclear detonation to diminish or wipe out a hurricane. Remember when he got laughed at about that a few years back? Remember that And there's actually a certain logic to that when you think about it. If you were to detonate some sort of a huge explosion, the heat would evaporate so much of the moisture in those clouds that maybe it could have some sort of an effect on it. Who's to say? But Anyway, anything that Orangeman bad says is going to be viewed as bad because it came from Orange Man. So if we I mean if we were to so let's take this down to like a smaller scale, right? And we'll say Um, you know, like, okay, the we we think of the weather as being something really big and th the most difficult thing to harness, right? As far as natural Stuff on the earth. Right, you know, because I can you know easier than harnessing the sun. But or even the moon to affect the tides or whatever. But um You know, I mean we we do uh we we are supposed to exercise dominion over the earth, you know, going back to like the you know, Daniel's earlier points. Um And and and so, you know, I mean like when I have a garden like I'm I'm altering the ecosystem, like I'm you know I'm changing things, I'm affecting things. The butterfly effect. Oh yeah, maybe maybe I stopped the hurricane, yeah. By my by my little garden. Um so uh Yeah, so so I I'm I I don't think we can say like it's necessarily uh wrong. I think I think you could have hubris and I think I could have hubris and in the way that I'm trying to do my garden, right? Just as much as a government could have hubris and thinking that they can, you know, do something really big weather wise. And may maybe they can, right? But Uh, you know, are they are they glorifying themselves in that? Like do I give myself glory for for my garden? No, I give glory to God for you know, allowing giving me knowledge and causing the growth of of my seeds and giving the sun and the rain and all of that. So Um so I I think that's another sort of interesting element to add in there too. Like is it is it wrong to try and control the weather? Not not necessarily. Uh-huh. Of course. Of course, yeah And solariums and whatever those different rooms are called in the house. Okay This is really destructive, right? This caused a lot of. I think I was thinking conservatory, but I said solarium. Is it solarium I don't know, Troy. Anyway, I felt like an idiot for half a second then. For the record, I should feel like a idiot all the time, but I felt like an idiot In fact, we're only half a second. I'm sure somebody could, you know, send you an email for the technical details. No, I well I think I think the struggle is, right, like why we want maybe we want to blame Satan is because You know, like a lot of a lot of death happened from it, right? A lot of destruction, a lot of horrible things. And why we, you know, wanna maybe let God off the hook, right? It's because Uh, 'cause then if he is responsible for all of that death and destruction, now we have to resolve that with him being good. Right? So I I think I think it gets down to the heart of of that that ultimate question, right? Of Uh, you know, why if God is good, why do why do bad things still happen in his world? What about those who are very staunch and they're Christians. Uh in leadership positions actually. We've had them on this show. I've had these discussions. I had one pastor who's I count as a Oh call him as a friend, exactly. We're we're we're uh very pleasant uh with each other acquaintances. You know, like we don't have dinner at each other's house or anything like that, but uh and he got red in the face talking about this issue with me. When I said, Of course I mean God is sovereign. So he either caused it or uh allowed it through some natural means that God put in place to begin with anyway. Right. But I mean God ultimately is responsible for any and all things that happen because as R. C. Sprohl used to famously say, there are no maverick molecules. There's no molecule out there doing a dance on itself that got it, oops, come back and kill and then grab you. No, he's He's in control of everything, including hurricanes and tornadoes and earthquakes and volcanoes and and uh tsunamis and all that sort of stuff. And he got beat right in the face. He was very angry. Uh I I think he stayed angry with me for a little while. He got over it. Uh and I don't talk about that with him anymore. Uh but what what do we say to somebody who's that adamant? No. Because God is good and he's loving and he's caring and you know that's because of the damage we've done to the ecology through our carbon footprints or that's because of Um uh like attacks from Satan. Right. Uh what do what do we what do we say to to talk them off that ledge? Well, I mean i i you can either you can either be a deist or or not. You know, you can say well spitan words right there. You you you can say, well, you know, like God God wound the whole thing up and it's just running and now whatever we do is, you know, what causes things to happen, you know. Um and then I don't I don't know what you do with Satan at that point. Right. Or you or you can be uh Uh I honestly I would say or you could be a polytheist if you're gonna say that Satan and God are actually fighting each other and there's some sort of equality in that fight, right? Or yin and yang kind of a Right, yeah, yeah, yeah. But you're a polytheist if you believe that, I think. Um and so so you can you can be a deist or you can be a polytheist or you can be a monotheist, right? And you can say, you know, like If God is not bound by our sense of morality. You know, who are we to say what is good or bad that g that God does And that was the whole argument of Job, right? The whole book of Job is about, you know, why God, why God, why do and all the suffering happen? Why me, why me, why me, or why them or whatever And for forty chapters or thirty thirty-eight chapters, we go back and forth on that. A lot of the theories why God might have done this And then God answers. And he speaks for like four chapters and he doesn't answer the question. Basically, he doesn't say why. All he says is, You are man, I am God. Shut up. Did you make the earth? Did you cause the the the animals? Did uh did you did you create man? Did you put things here and there in their place and set everything in motion? Did you do that? No, I didn't think so. So be quiet, pray uh for forgiveness and and know your place. And he wasn't being mean or wrong to say that. He was ex a explaining we have our place. We are man, we are not God. So to ascribe m immorality to God is is so heinous. And what what God was saying there is I I am the teacher and you are the student. Mm-hmm. Right? Like I a and and ultimately really like everything I do is is with purpose and is is instructive. Right? And so uh you know, as as hard as that is, you know, all things that occur are are instructive to to those who will will will look to to God. And from God's perspective there are no innocents. We're all guilty. Yes. That is that is a very significant point. Every single person deserves death. Right. None of us was owed the life that we have. God gave us the life that we have and it's his to do with what he will. And we have to remember the lesson we learned from the tail end of the book of Genesis with the story of Joseph, all these horrible things with all Joseph. But then the the lesson we can glean from that is that they intended it for evil. So even if it is Satan doing something or if we are screwing up our ecology such that the storms have gotten worse or what have you, that uh okay those are bad, tragic Terrible things and yet God is going to use those for good. He's got purposes that are beyond our imagination and that we have to just lean into that and trust that he is a good God and when things that appear to be evil to our eye We might say, you know what, they might be evil and God's going to still use it for good. Or might not even be evil. It might be tragic and but not evil There could be some sort of a um you know, some sort of a uh a good tragedy. Uh I'm not sure what that looks like exactly, but at least you know how we define our terms of what God is good And God is but these are foundational for me and they should be for all Christians, I would argue. God is good, God is all powerful. Like and nothing happens that d God doesn't know about or hasn't allowed to happen. That doesn't make God evil. And though and th and even that is just a human way of of trying to trying to grasp at an understanding, right? To say, well, God allows things. Well d or or did he make things happen, right? Like it's like none of none of those terms that we use uh to talk about how we use our human will, right, or try to impose our human will can can even comprehend it all. God. And that'll be the final word that was David Forcey. Also heard from Daniel Razzley. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. Find us online at Household the Faith in Price. com and WFMD. com, God bless