Welcome to the Fate Debate on News Radio 930 WFMB. Thank you so much for spending part of your Sunday morning with us here on News Radio 930W. MD. Haven't done that in a while. Every once in a while I gotta wake up the people on Sunday morning, you know. Anyway, if you're uh you're on your way to church Pull on over, we're gonna shock ya. We're talking to a politician. Who know who knows what might come out of that mouth, huh? No, seriously well. Yeah, yeah. He pushed back on that last week, but I'm not you're gonna own that. You're a politician. Uh uh until the day that you're a former politician you stop running for office until you until that day comes you're a politician. Even Donald Trump is owning it now. He and he admits he's a politician now. What are you gonna do? Anyway, I'm rambling. Uh uh I'm Troy Skinner Pastor and don't it's no reflection on the truth. That I'm the pastor of this church, Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. David Forcy is a pastor in the area as well. He doesn't have a website. And Daniel Rasby, he is a pastor in the area. And uh his church, they have an organ uh a ministry that has a website. website. It's uh Concord by Love Ministries online at Concordby Love dot org. So we had uh Dan Cox, the esteemed Dan Cox, on the show last week. If you're not familiar with who who Dan is, he's He's the father of ten children. He turns fifty this year. We found that out last week. Uh he's been married goodness um twenty-eight years. Something like that, right? So Lots of kids and I think you grew up in a big family. How many kids did you grow up with? As old as the ten. Okay, so you're copying your dad like right down the line here. What's going on? So uh we talked last week and it I would encourage you if you didn't if you missed last week's show to go find uh the podcast uh on WFMD's website or you can access it through Household of Faith. in Christ. com's website because uh all the podcast end up there eventually on Sermon Audio and on Odyssey. And uh we're live streaming. You'll find the video of that on Rumble. uh things like that. So uh I would encourage you to find that. He shared his background growing up as the uh the son of a of a of a preacher. So he's a preacher kid, preacher's kid, a PK, as they uh say in the in the church. Uh I think you were a PK too Right? Yep. And goodness gracious, all three of you, David, Daniel, Dan, you're all you're all preacher kids. That's right. Well I d I just made that connection now. And we got uh two Daniels, I'm assuming, named after the biblical prophet. Yep. Yes, sir. Wow. We're gonna find some other commonalities before this is all over. But before I I wanted to pick up the thread from from last week's show because uh it came up almost as an aside. But I am curious because it does affect politics, so we're gonna start to transition slowly into those kinds of areas on on our discussion time here. Uh eschatology and you mentioned how R. C. Sproul, a guy who's uh you know, pretty well known and very influential before he passed in twenty eighteen, and he was influential for you, he's influenced a huge influence for me. Uh and he was all over the map. He's f rather f famous really for having publicly changed his esc uh eschatol eschatological view as a big word It's view of the end times, how things are going to play out at the at the end of time, uh in life as we know it. He he changed quite a bit. I'm not sure if he was ever dispensational, but I think he was historic pre mill I think he was omil and I think he might have ended his life as post mil, if I'm not mistaken, but I'm not sure about that. Anyway, you brought up the eschatology thing and with what's going on with Israel in the news and all that sort of stuff, that has an impact on things. So, you know, how would you describe your millennial view? Which which camp would you most neatly fit within? That's a good question. Uh as a Historic Christian, what I mean by that is um Reformed, Bapto, Catholic, Presbyterian, Methodist, non-denominee. Uh whatever you want to call me. No. I I'm technically uh you know, we're as a historic Christian I believe in the creeds. Very firmly that the church is the uh vehicle that God has put on earth for salvation for all. And so I would politically separate out our um national alliances good or bad or in between from our from any logical viewpoints um because uh I would want to make sure that justice is done politically and government-wise for promises that are done on paper and promises that are not being kept or or should not be kept or should be kept, uh those discussions need to be done uh without a sense of um a debate on whether or not You know, for instance in the Israel case, whether or not Israel is is um um you know has uh uh God's special uh place re being reunited there in the land. Um that's, you know, obviously a lot of Christians believe that, but that's that should not interfere with with the government um carefully reviewing the rights of man. D do you mean uh are you are you sort of referring to um The idea of not not seeking to use uh political uh influence to uh, I don't know, br bring about God's God's will on earth kind of deal? Or yeah, I don't exactly. I I don't see government as a um an end all for God's I I I see government as just another calling by God. to help with the peace on earth until because remember, as Christians we believe Christ is king. He's not will be king. He not he's not was king. He is king. And so as Christians we serve Jesus Christ and He is the answer to everyone's problems. But He has also ordained, you know, Romans 13 and other passages that Christians are to be involved in government and that's not the answer. It's just an ordination temporary on earth to establish justice and peace. And so that needs to be respected and honored. So you would not be in the camp of like trying to build a kingdom in the government or you know, w by theonymy or that type of thing. I don't know what else they call people kingdom now. You must be a Christian nationalist. I'm not a Christian nationalist. You must be, you're a Christian. You know what's funny is I've been smeared as a Christian nationalist, but they've never asked me that question in a debate. And if they ask me that question in a debate, they'll find out I'm a Christian internationalist because Christ is King of the nations all over the earth. And we are equal as Christians. um before him. It's not you know, there's no American Christian uh exalted position in heaven. you know, because if we're both saved than I do with right you know, my neighbor down the street in Thurmont, who may not be saved, just because even though we live we have a di very similar culture here, but the culture of Yeah. So that that's certainly as where our citizenship is. No, you're you're absolutely right. The citizenship that we have in heaven uh is far superior. And so that's that's what drives Christians to be so hopeful. Whether it's in communist China like you mentioned, or in America right now where we have a lot of upheaval going on. Communist America, you mean? Yeah, I mean we're dealing with We're we're dealing with uh communists in our land and statists and uh authoritarianism uh from you know, the current administration trying to uh literally undermine and destroy the very foundation that they seek to govern with, uh, throwing out the only and sole authority that they have to do justice, the constitution. And uh pretending with a with a um uh sh you know, a very uh inappropriate misuse of um of the government, weaponizing it as a pretense for doing what is right. And it is the epitome of every evil government on earth of of how they have handled things towards their political opponents is what's going on at this very moment in America. Yet Christians especially can exhibit hope, can exude hope to to all of Americans into into the world because no matter our circumstances, like you were just saying, we have uh we serve a risen king and we have a uh a more perfect uh country. If I can take a stab, I'm gonna guess of all the the different camps. And you you mentioned earlier there's four major camps on eschatology. I didn't answer your question. Not dispensational, probably not historic pre-mill either. I'm gonna guess probably a mill, and if I'm wrong, post-mill. So those I'm gonna I'm gonna put Ninety percent of my money on ah mill and ten percent of my money on postmill. Am I am I close? You're very close. You're very close. To be honest, I don't know exactly. Um, I do know this. My dad has always taught this very well as someone who comes from a background, a WBC, that taught in premillennial uh whatever. He hasn't embraced that, but he what he has seen in scripture and taught is a pre-rath um position of God's church being delivered through the grace of Christ and the return of Christ. from the um the evil lest they be completely destroyed. You know the script Jesus says this too. You see, no, that time was shortened lest we lose all the church. Um uh I'm paraphrasing, but basically my The best that I can see, and I've studied it, um the the best that I can see in scripture is I'm more of a post uh millennial in the sense that Um we are living in the kingdom now. That's the my the all millennialist position. This is the kingdom of Christ, but it's not so much as what Paul warned of. where he said, um some people say that Christ you know the Christ has already returned. They're misguided. That's what Paul said. And he's right. I mean you know, Christ is coming. We can all as Christians, no matter what, you know position we are, I think we all as Christians should uh acknowledge the fact that we long for that day when we see the risen Savior, our Savior, returning to establish peace on earth um and to establish his his um already reigning kingdom. And this is where a lot of my friends that are maybe um you know, premillennial or baptistic and the the pre trib rapture, whatever they believe, um get so confused I think and and uh despairing and thinking, well, you know, can't get much worse than this. You know, Jesus must be coming back any day. Exactly. And I what I like to share is what my dad taught me and what I've read in in the um uh the hiding place when um Cory Tenboom lost her father Uh Mr. Tenboom was killed by the Nazis through neglect and misuse and and and and torture. Her her sister then died similarly. And in the midst of that pain and suffering, the women that she was trying to minister to in that barrack there at um at the uh concentration camp, one of the women was a Baptist woman who told her And Corey was Reformed Dutch, but she had a problem with her pastor who had completely handed over the church to the Nazis. But um Corey was confronted while she was reading the scriptures. Had that you know she had snuck her Bible in her she had miraculously gotten the Bible into the um concentration camp through the grace of God turning the Nazi guard's eyes away right as she went through the line and then so here she is reading at night secretly And she was confronted with anger by the uh the young the the lady who was Baptistic who had always believed that Christ would return before such horrors would ever happen. And she said, I don't believe in God anymore because it can't get worse than this And he didn't come back. And so Corey had an opportunity. She was able to teach her, well, keep your faith and keep your hope because Christ is reigning. He's doing stuff we don't understand. Look at Job. Look at these other greats in Scripture where we see Christ is at work, and yet that doesn't mean that we have to accept the evil around us as um as good. God will turn it to good. We can acknowledge this evilness, you know, the the evil nature of it, but ultimately Christ will recompense this. Just because he's not doing it now doesn't mean he's not reigning now. The dispensational, you know, pre premillennial they're they're they're very much of the opinion. Well what would be raptured before anything really bad ever happens And and we haven't truly been persecuted in America. I mean we're starting to see some of them there there's that pastor that was shot in the head in Arizona while he was pre preaching recently. I don't know if you saw that article. So there there's there's hints at it, right? And there's a lot of people that are killing us with words and you know, forcing us out of our jobs and things like that. But we don't have persecution the way people being burned at the stake and stuff on a regular basis in America and when that happens, if that happens, uh that's gonna cause a lot of people to lose their faith because you know, or or to i if maybe you could argue they weren't saved in the first place, but they won't be part of the part of part of uh calling themselves Christians. And I think that that is the danger. That that in and of itself, that danger does not make the position invalid necessarily. You know, we I I don't agree with the the position uh either of myself, but it is something you should you should be aware of if if you hold to that view, you know, there will be persecutions. You should expect persecution. Yes. And I mean Christ said I mean if you're not being persecuted, then maybe you're not you know, fighting hard enough for God right now because it means you're not much of a threat to the devil. I just had the privilege of returning from um Oxford. So because we home educate, my son, uh, who just graduated from high school, had an opportunity, was invited to do a a study course there. It was brilliant. And I told him that um I'd like to tag along, so he let me tag along. And I, for the first time, um had the privilege of standing at the site where they burned three bishops. And it's right outside of the square at Oxford. There's a memorial that stands, I don't know, sixty some feet high. And the the memorials there and the story is Bishop uh Latmer had turn uh you know he he had he had um turned to bishop ridley whether b I think it's bishop latimer and ridley or might have been the other bishop anyway. Two of the bishops were there. One was a young man in his twenties. The other one was an old man Ridley was in his twenties, and the older gentleman, as they were being burned, turned to the despairing young man, and he said, Play the man, Master Ridley. For we shall this day light a fire for the gospel that shall never go out in England. And I contemplated that when I stood there And then I walked through Oxford wondering if Christ was still alive in this place, of this ancient Christianity, where all these buildings are a thousand years old, and I heard the bells. playing Christian hymns on the half hour. And I thought, this is amazing. It's very amazing. And then By God's grace, I was able to connect to a hall. There's an evangelical hall there called the Wycliffe Hall that to this day is the old one of the oldest evangelical missions in a university in the world, and I was able to meet gospel leading university. people there. And it just reminded me of this point. No matter the persecution, we need to hold fast to our King and play the man. And at the end, Christ will do the rest. Saying the kinds of things that you've said on on this week's episode of the show, um those would be likely to not support you They're gonna be offended at everything any of us has said on the show, probably, right? Because we're Bible believers, Christians, you know, conservative, they hate us. But it seems to me that political I think they might vote for me. Okay. Because I'm the only guy gonna defend their religious freedom. But okay. And I'll I'll pick up the name too. Remember that thread. To the end. Remember that thread. But I'm wondering are you if you feel any sense of taking political risk uh with the what w seems to me would be the core constituency 'Cause most of them, if they understand what their end times view is, would probably call it dispensational and you're not saying you really identify with that. And then those who are younger and on fire for changing and winning back the country and you know those twenty and thirty somethings, the the they they wanna they wanna restore everything. They're mostly hardcore post mill take you know build the kingdom Take society by the throat and slam it to the ground and win it back kind of thing and you're not really there either. Do you have concern that you're you know a the faith debate is unintentionally alienating part of your base in these Conversations? Good question. I don't think so. Because practically to serve in government means to serve with honesty, integrity. And I believe firmly um in the fear of the Lord. You know, Jesus or God said to um David that um Uh the qualifications for a ruler of the people were to be humble and to fear in the uh to rule in the fear of God. And Um then we see in Micah 6 8 saying the same thing that what is the qual what is what does God require of you? To do justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with your God. And then when you look at um people that are out there in uh the Christian circles, those who are voters, um, they get it. They understand that the mission is to be consistent as a conservative to our historic constitutional principles. And um that's what they want. They don't want. They're not out there voting for, you know, the best preacher or the best pastor or the best theologian. They want somebody who's going to obey the Constitution. And people are fed up with whether it's a Christian waving his Bible or somebody who's an atheist They're fed up with the politicians trampling on the Constitution. And that connects to the threat, I think, is where you're going, but what religious liberty Are they worried about losing? Do they have religion that they Well sure. I mean just look, I I was the guy. People on the left? Well sure. I U believe it or not, I had a huge following, and I still do, of those who object to being forcibly experimented upon by injections. without their consent. The informed consent crowd was the first group of people to endorse me before any Christian group. So they're like NRK supporters. Well half of 'em, por sure. Uh because the informed consent people include uh I would say, you know, seventy percent uh Trump supporters and maybe twenty, thirty percent RFK supporters now. But in theory, it they're not anti vaxxers. They're informed consent constitutionalist, meaning I even had the endorsement of Nancy Pelosi's niece, who was a a Democrat of Democrats, and she came up to me and I have a picture with her in her dreadlocks and she tell she told me I am voting for you and a lot of our Democrat friends are voting for you for one reason and one reason alone. No one else will defend my rights. for informed consent before the government takes possession of my body and starts injecting me. And they're terrified of this because they've seen it in other cultures where you now you can't in China for instance, the communism And China has progressed to where you can't even open a uh a you know a a a door to go to a restaurant without swiping your card and seeing if your social credit score, you know, gives you a green light. And that's tied in to funny 'cause on the left it used to be a lot of free speech advocates. You had all the Berkeley stuff. And and now it it's it's really swell in the opposite direction. But I think there's a lot of liberals who really Th maybe they're scared to speak up, but they really don't have a lot of the anti-free speech beliefs that you're seeing in many of the the very woke uh activists. Yeah, I I would agree. I th I think um there is a large crowd of Democrat liberals who are what I would call traditional liberals. They still believe Bill Maher, for example. Right. They still believe in the Bill of Rights. And they their party's been totally hijacked by communists, by insurrectionists. Yes, I said that word by them. They're the insurrectionists, they're the ones that are trying to destroy and offend our constitution and they're doing it at this very moment. And their party doesn't know what to do. And a lot of these uh Democrat friends of mine are like they're just shaking their head like, wow, we just gotta you know Navigate this because these people look the president of the Senate of Maryland who is a liberal. It's a liberal Catholic um had Antifa protesting his house, terrifying his wife and kids from my understanding. I wasn't there or anything. I just heard about it and I saw some of the I don't know what's going on with Fetterman, but I mean I seriously, he's as a senator is more conservative than Oz would have been. I don't know what's going on with that guy. Maybe the the brain damage from his issues or something has made him more conservative, which is a weird thing to say. But seriously, he's he's he's he's been almost based for like the last four months. So I don't know what's going on with that guy. Well I I have I have two political answers for that. His poll numbers were trash and he had to bring them up because remember Pennsylvania is a swing state. Right, right. And uh secondly Uh look at his votes. And you were involved with the Mastriano thing, I think, right? His campaign, weren't you? Uh no, I was on his uh I was Chief of Staff for Mastriano. Right, right. And uh yeah, so I was very much in the Capitol there watching what was going on. Uh if you look at Fetterman's votes Uh you'll see they do not add up to his rhetoric. His votes are hardcore against everything he's saying in public. Oh, is that right? Okay. You pay much better attention than I do. It's a typical uh you know, the typical liberal politician. This is why the American people are so fed up. They might get excited when they see somebody on TV being pumped up and they're like, Yeah, I like that guy, and then they're told later By the way, you know the guy's a slime ball because look what he's voting for and they're like, Oh, I can't trust anybody. Well, that's the way politicians run things and that's the what they're doing in our country right now. And so that's why people are so appreciative of those who stand up and then you're not going to be able to do that. then uh and it well if i i i if you don't vote for it then I'm never gonna speak to you again and you're never gonna get any of your bills passed. And if you if you do vote for it, your opponents are gonna say, Well key voted for XYZ terrible thing But i that's kind of the the state of things in politics, how do you get around that? I mean you've been in Annapolis so y you have some experience with that We might have to uh give him a whole week to think about the answer to that question. Uh make a note though so we don't forget to begin next week's show with it, because we we've got less than a minute left on this week's show. So um This we had a little more participation, although we've got to get David w I think we stuck him in the corner and that's that's a problem. We gotta figure out how to get David to to to to to give Dan Cox a hard time here. I mean Daniel and I can't do all the heavy lifting to try to destroy this guy's candidacy. Come on. Anyway Uh I am Troy Skinner. We're joined this week by Dan Cox, who's running for US Congress. Um, Daniel Razby and David Forcy on the panel as per usual these days. You can uh connect with us all through WFMD. com or uh easiest way is probably to go to Household. FaithinChrist. com. And you know what? I've neglected to do this next week. Remind me, I've got to ask you how people find you online, Dan. org. There you go. Until next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless.