Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy. Frederick Faith Debate is designed to be an open and honest forum for our local faith community leaders to share and discuss their views of the truth. Thomas Jefferson said of the clash of ideas and has founded freedom. You'll hear lots of freedom on today's show, I assure you. So we seriously rest. with the important issues that face us, and uh we're almost certain to disagree just a little bit. So hope that through our wrestling you will develop a better understanding of the truth about the most important issues that face us in this world. And by the way, a reminder that our show is brought to us by Ultra Mobile document destruction, all shred, they sell security, shredding today for growth tomorrow. Back from last week's show we have Bob Lehman from Bethel Lutheran Church, Jim Eaton from Mosaic Church, and from Crossroads Valley Chapel, John Sweitzer and uh last week if you missed it you missed uh probably it was a mess from but uh but fun nonetheless as we we we argued over the these uh issues surrounding the Terry Chavo uh case. Uh and again a quick recap, Terry Shivo, the woman who uh who uh died uh not that long ago, her feeding tube removed after she had been in a vegetative persistent vegetative state for a number of years and uh her parents wanted the keep her alive through the feeding tube, her husband said no, and uh the law was on his side, and so Terry is uh no longer uh alive with us. And um resetting the stage real quickly Unfortunately, uh I give uh Bob great credit and Bob has uh is standing up against the firing squad because he has three people in the room who have kind of disagreed with him a little bit and I I appreciate his willingness to to share and be honest and open with us. Um How do we start this half hour? Alright. What does the law say? What did Terry say What does the husband say? What do the parents say? I say, who cares on all fronts? I want to know, what does God say? Because only God knows what's right. Only God can tell us with absolute certainty what we should do. So we should seek His will in this. What does God say the right thing to do is? And how can we best try to figure that out? Obviously godly people disagree. So but how do we let's let's wrestle with this From a godly perspective, what scenario would bring God most glory? What scenario would bring to light his truth for what Power is supposed to be controlling our lives. If Terry wanted to die, you know what? Judas, after he betrayed Jesus, wanted to die and he killed himself. Was that the right thing to do? I think the Bible teaches us that it was not If my son, when he grows up, he is mentally incapacitated, and if he doesn't ever get beyond that, we have hopes and dreams and prayers that that he will be fully healed. But if those hopes, prayers, and dreams are dashed And he should be twenty-five years old and say, you know what, I don't have the same quality of life as my sister. Would you please not feed me anymore? Should I say, you know what? Okay. If my wife finds herself in a difficult situation and I have a difficult choice to make, do I pull the plug or do I fight to try to keep her alive? These are practical issues that we have to practically deal with. I'm confused, I'm fallen, I'm sinful, I'm gonna make the wrong choice every time if I leave it up to me. So what does God say? And I turn to you three pastors, men of God, who lead flocks in the community What are we supposed to make of all this? Uh it says in Hebrews that uh that we should move beyond uh issues of the basics of the faith. and go on to teaching about righteousness. And when we deal with the righteousness, we're dealing with the ideal, with with what is right in God's sight, not what's right in my sight or your sight. I think that's what you're grappling with, not what does the law say or what does uh Terry think or what did her husband or parents think, but what is right before God. And uh I think it's very important w if we go in that direction as we go in that direction that we uh that we realize that um that God's grace, whatever we come up with that would be the absolute ideal, and and Bob you had mentioned this last week, that God's grace is sufficient that even if we don't get it right, he forgives and he loves us. And as we in repentance are in an attitude of of being open to that, I think there's every reason for us to believe that he will forgive us. Uh this in particular is a more complex situation, but when we're grappling with righteousness, I think that this is not something that that is easily handled in any sense of the term. And and I heard um I I think I heard Dr. Laura say it this way one time, that Jewish philosophers or ethicists have have said that there comes a point where the where the value of the medicine overrides the the the value of keeping somebody alive and the value of working so hard to keep them alive uh is is beyond what is reasonable or common sense. And Uh I think that's a good standard. I I I don't know exactly where that falls out, but the point is is that um if God's allowing somebody to die, then should we work hard to keep them alive? And um Uh the the feeding tube thing, I sh it's it's hard for me. I like I question whether or not was it possible that they could have just poured liquid down her throat, you know, that was fortified or reinforced, you know, like a like a soup broth kind of a thing, that that could have kept her alive, so that a tube was not necessary. I know Bob you you you were defining some some legal uh legal uh definitions of feeding tube that uh I guess I'd like to hear again, but yeah. Um The only thing I can report is what I had heard uh one broadcast that uh uh medical ethicist from uh Northwestern had reported that um you know historically Um that use of a feeding tube is seen as a medical procedure. Uh again, we don't know all the basics and specifics of the Terry Schibo case. Uh for one reason or another, she was unable to swallow and therefore needed uh the feeding tube for uh her nourishment. Um so I think as I even had said before last week, uh that um the Terry Schiavo case is um lifts up uh a critical need that we all need to be able to talk about uh regarding what it is uh first of all, what are each of our own wishes in terms of our end of life questions. Uh because they do come up uh very dramatically sometimes. Um and it it's not always uh an age where there's it's just a matter of uh seniors or elders. Um but also uh when there's a critical automobile accident or an unexpected stroke in a family that that these kinds of issues, uh, letting others know what your issues are and what your wishes are as these kind of i questions come up. Um but back to uh regarding the um use of the fiend tube, was that this what medical ethics is said historically has been seen as a um medical process by which in terms of keeping people alive. Um and as reported in the news and as we've heard uh many, many times, it was uh the wish of Ms. Shaibo and that her husband was trying to be able to uh fulfill this uh wish for her. Uh Jim, let me ask you this question. Um can we find anywhere uh a a foothold in the Bible that somebody could interpret at least if it if it's not a uh if it's not a blatant scripture passage, something that could be interpreted that shows that an individual has a right to die. That you can think of. No, it's never sanctioned. Uh you have you have cases where, for example, uh Elijah the prophet was was uh deeply distressed. and fled because he feared for his life and he said to God, It's enough, let me die. But that was a very different thing than taking his own life. I think the Bible's quite clear that A life is a gift from God, and it is never right for someone else to take a life, unless of course it's in self-defense or if it's in a just war type situation. But um yeah, I would I would also agree with uh what many Christians have taught over the centuries that it is not right biblically to take one's own life. I think on this Uh you know, we were talking the last um session about how there are some complexities, and I think there are, but for me, at the heart of it is the matter of the uh compassion and a culture of life. I read a uh interesting speech by former Pope John Paul II where he said this if I can just read one sort of statement. This was a speech he gave in March. And he said, I feel the duty to reaffirm strongly that the intrinsic value and personal dignity of every human being does not change no matter what the concrete circumstances of his or her life. A person, even if seriously ill or disabled in the exercise of his highest functions, is and always will be a person and will never become a vegetable or an animal. And he went on to then say calling for the medical community and the culture at large to to do all it can to not only facilitate a culture of compassion in life but to build in supporting structures. And I think that's a very, very important issue. And that's why I had such a difficult time with the media saying over and over again, specifically this question. Therefore we all need to have a living will so that our end of life wishes are made known. Because I'm not convinced that I have a right to have an end of life wish. I'm convinced that uh that Christ said, Father, if it be you will, let this cup pass from me. But not my will, thine be done. And I think if we're talking about the ideal, the righteous ideal, we have to say with Job. Job's wife said, Curse God and die. And he said, What? Am I supposed to accept only good from God and not bad also? And and I think the very question that says, I've got my own wish about when I want to die is taking it out of God's hands. And I don't think I don't think that we have biblically any right to make that decision. I think we've been given this life by God, and because we've been given this life, we we have a responsibility to live it for his glory and to love God and to love one another and and if at any point we so lose hope that we just want to die, that's the point at which we're slapping God in the face as well as everybody else. Because God seems to be of the opinion in Scripture that there's never reason for us to lack hope or purpose or a sense that God can use me despite how uh how um poor the quality of my life is. It somehow can use me to birth faith and hope in other people as well And from a Christian perspective, because that's it's no secret at this point that uh that I come from a Christian perspective on on on things. Um I'm concerned that the Christian community is surrendering ground too readily and too quickly to uh the the secular humanist worldview and and those that would embrace an evolutionary thing. You know, if a horse breaks his leg the the hum humane thing to do is to put them out of their misery 'cause the the leg will never heal and and and you just need to put them down. You have a a dog or a cat, for example, we do all the time, bring them to the vet and you put them down. Um and that to me seems appropriate for an animal Uh and when you look at the world through a secular uh a hu uh secular humanist view who who might embrace evolution and just seize uh mankind as just the next step in that evolutionary chain. We're no different from the animals, so we might as well put them down. Terry Shabel should be put down. My son maybe should be put down because he has his challenges or whatever. And I don't think that that's the message that we're to glean from the Bible, man is created in God's image, is set apart. Uh the animals can't claim that God ever, you know, came down and uh became one of them. You know, God came down and became a man uh in the person of Jesus Christ. There's something unique and and glorious about being a human and that should be guarded and protected, it seems to me. And it I just get concerned when we uh surrender that too quickly Um obviously Bob you don't necessarily agree w with that. Uh do you I mean do you do you're making me into a secular humanist here? No no no I'm saying y you wouldn't necessarily agree that we're surrendering ground to the secular humanists. I think that um Uh when I see situations like the the Chivo case and where anybody is is in a um becomes in a critical uh care case, uh chronic illness uh cancer where where all means for a person who um is facing life and it's in. Um that there's not a lot of alternatives for giving care. Um I think the the compassion comes down, uh the love that comes down that that we are to share as a community of Christ. in these situations is is that that uh there needs to be support for both um the person who's going through this, um, whether you're uh technically uh uh described by the neurologist as at a persistent vegetative state or if um um or whatever is that that you uh should be a part of the community, you should not be ostracized. Uh that uh There's a community that surrounds you that gives you the kind of love that Christ calls us to care for in the least of these. Um illness, uh disease. Um all of the different kinds of um things, afflictions that people now face, both as adolescents uh or uh in end-of-life things that come about. I mean, John, Swift Service, has this issue come up in a pastoral sense in your congregation? Has this been part of a small group Bible study? Has somebody pulled you aside after a church service and said, Hey John, I guess uh I mean I I gotta talk to you for a second 'cause this Shivo case has really got me thinking. H has that happened? Uh no. Okay. How about how is it happening? Actually I had um I I did have one lady who uh whose mother was on a uh a measure of life support and they had to make a decision at one point whether whether to continue it or not and uh she actually tended in the direction of saying that that it was okay to pull Chiavo's um feeding tube. Um in we didn't We didn't actually have an extended time to talk about it, but she was inclined in that direction, having had to go through some decisions along those lines herself. Before uh Bob Shares uh New story. Want to reset the stage. Uh you're listening to the uh Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. You just heard John Sweisser, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. You're about to hear the voice of Bob Lehman from Bathell Lutheran Church. And uh you're also later on after Bob's done we'll hear uh Jim Eaton from Mosaic Church. I'm Troy Skinner. And we're talking about uh end of life stage things inspired by the Terry Scheiho case. Uh w is it appropriate uh for somebody to uh uh to be allowed to die or or however you want to view the the situation And the question uh before us right now uh uh from a practical pastoral sense, how much has this really resonated and impact people? Are they are people really wrestling with this? Has this opened eyes? Um in my congregation it has, uh particularly with uh with young people Uh and once you can get them beyond saying what they keep hearing in the media or uh hearing what their parents say, um, it's a struggle for them in terms of what what would it mean if if they were placed or someone they loved or cared for uh were in the kind of situation that was experienced in Florida uh over the course of the last several months. Um You can come down I think you can come down on the issue uh uh in a little bit different place once you've uh experienced it or gone through it uh and seen uh the kinds of questions that you have to wrestle with. Um In regard of um teaching people, making this a teaching moment in my congregation, uh, is is that um there needs to be a l more acceptance that uh you know if you're born you're gonna die. I mean that's that's the whole case of it. Uh we live in a culture that says oh that you're going to live forever. I mean this is the kind of earthly life that um you can expect and we want to be younger looking and stronger looking and oh well you know the new fifty is now the uh the now the fifty is now the new thirty. I mean People w wanting to protract this life expectancy we have in this world. Um, but it's going to come to an end. Um and with that come end of life questions. Um I've had uh workshops in pre-dis congregations where um we've had people come in and talk about end-of-life issues. Uh uh someone from a funeral home, uh an attorney when it comes to talking about all the different things that have been thrown around over the course of the last several weeks, uh durable power of attorney, medical power of attorney, um living wills All of these become particularly important as you reach different stages in your life, even down to the point of um what do you want in your obituary? What kind of hymns would you like to be sung at your funeral? These are the kinds of questions that um we do as Christians, as uh responsible Christians, have some r uh right in terms of what we would like to have as part of our um Um life is God's creatures. I didn't realize I got the right way on a obituary. You're more than welcome you can start on it tonight. You know, one of the thoughts I had, Troy, was it it it seems to me like there are There there are a couple of different impulses or issues that are pulling at us. One is that, as I mentioned before, there there is this desire, and I think that on on the part of a lot of people, perhaps all to value life and at least to say we value it, we value compassion, we value uh each individual and each person, regardless of which side people are coming down on that debate. As I talk with people in the community or one on one, I I find that all of the time. But I think on the the the other thing is that this strikes very close to home for just about everybody as people were watching this, probably everyone seeing something on television or hearing the radio or reading in the newspaper They could think of a relative or they could think of a a friend who who who's gathered around the bedside of somebody and making that uh working through those agonizing choices. And saying how how much longer? Or we have a we have a will written here that the person has said, When we get when I get to this certain point, just let my life end. So these are the points at which there is a very uh difficult struggle. what for me is the the most defining issue is just to make sure and in this particular issue it it was difficult because News media being what it what it is, very often what drives it is sensationalism. And how can we boost the ratings? So the to make a a flam inflammatory statement boost the ratings and it's often difficult to get down to what is really going on, what were the true facts in the case. And for me as I was looking at it, studying it, researching it, I just kept coming back and forth to back to the point where I wanted to make sure Is this really a situation where compassion and a culture of life is being cultivated? And I finally came to the point where I really was not convinced it was. And I felt like we need to be pushing more for the cultivation of life here and compassion. But I I I do see a lot of reasons why it was tugging back and forth uh for for so many people. It seems there's there's been a shift uh and tone in in society, certainly in in American society. I when I was much younger, so I can't so young that I can't remember the exact name. Do you remember the name of the movies Soilent Green or Salent Green or s does that ring a bell with any of you? Something along those lines. I I'm butchering it but I think that's close enough. Hopefully those who know the movie and are listening right now will say, Oh yeah, I know what you're talking about Uh but this was a futuristic movie. It was it was set in the future. And it was about, you know Charlton Heston right. Right and people they came to they came to to sort of experience a an end of life where uh they had sort of this futuristic you can see things the way they used to be, you know, with trees and Right, exactly. Yeah, things that people were living so long because of m modern medical advances and all that stuff that nobody was dying and so there was this this huge overpopulation problem. And so everything was built up. There were no trees or nature anymore. There wasn't enough food anymore. It was really bizarre and horrible. And then finally when you felt like you'd had enough. You would just go to this place, this center, where you'd be assisted to die, and you'd go into this room and they would show you whatever you wanted to see. If you wanted to see the ocean, they'd show you a video of the ocean. If you wanted to see trees in nature, they'd they'd make it they'd take you there. They transport you there s uh sensually anyway. They transport you there. And then they would kill you somehow. I don't know how I can't remember the details of how you but you were allowed to die somehow, some way you died. And then the weird part of the movie though, this is nothing with our talking about, but the bodies were turned into food. So but that was a shocking movie when it came out thirty years ago or whenever it is. That was a shocking movie. Now we're living it. Well I think there are I i th this is just my opinion here w as I've been looking at this. I think there are two things that seem to be resonating with at least certain portion of the population right now on this. One is there are some who would argue that we are becoming more and more individualistic, more and more calloused, more and more selfish, really, as a culture. where the the moral fabric is getting frayed, the the sensitivity to something that is coarse or vulgar or improper is going lower and lower and what is rising is this sense that I can have it all and I can have it my way and I want my life to be all of this and if it's not all of this, something's wrong. And so it it's moving in where my life becomes more and more self centered. And I think that's a real concern that was working with this case, and I think a second one, which may seem to be unrelated, but perhaps is related, is that there are many who think that our court systems are becoming more and more intrusive. where i when there is an action by the legislature or there's a ground swell effort that the courts then step in and reverse it. And I think there are some And I'm not at all saying that in all cases it's this way. But there were some that in this case felt, okay, here we go again. The courts are just stepping in. They're overturning what a lot of people are saying. This is what we really would like to see happen. So those are two more bigger picture issues. that can step up outside of the immediate Shivel situation in my opinion. All right, we are heading down the home stretch. We've turned the final corner and uh our head for the finish line. I'm gonna give everybody a chance to kinda have their their their their final word And in fairness, because uh poor Bob I'm gonna let Bob have the last word. So uh uh John Sweitzer you can go first and then we'll uh let Jim Eaton go and then Bob Lehman can go last. Um I guess I would start by saying that Bob I'm in complete agreement that we We have a level of arrogance due to technology that that we seem to think that we want to live forever and we want to try to make that happen and look twenty for the rest of our lives and you know, have the perfect body and all these kinds of things and Uh I think that that is one danger and I think the other danger is is euthanasia in creating a society where where people that are older or their quality of life isn't quite big enough would feel pressure at some level to end their life because they're just being a burden to people. And I think I think on the one hand we need to we need to know that it's appointed to a man wants to die and then the then the judgment we need to even as Christians anticipate that, but then on the other hand we need to make sure that we're not leaving any doors open for there to be pressure on people. to that that they're just not worthless anymore, so therefore they should end their life. I I think that that somewhere in between there is an appropriate balance. Well, I just think that it's important in situations like this to try to look at all sides of the issue, try to hear from the various points of view, what are people trying to convey from their heart. But at the end I think it is very important to make sure as a culture that if we're going to err, we want to err on a side of compassion and of and life. And I I think that's very, very important. And um to make sure that whether it's in the medical profession or the teaching profession or at home or wherever it is, that we're trying to stimulate compassion and uh people Valuing every life regardless of how someone else outside may measure that quality. Okay. And Bob? Just finally is is that um uh anytime there's end of life issues or there come becomes some moral ambiguity, um it becomes a time of discernment, uh prayer. Um People and families facing these kinds of issues, it is something that you don't have to do alone. There are pastors and there are nurses and hospice providers who um provide marvelous care beyond even what sometimes the clergy are able to do as people face these kinds of issues. Um and uh it's very important for uh both uh local faith communities and families to be able to support each other Um in many ways it was sad and unfortunate that the Shaivo case had to bring that all into the public, but I think uh in the positive part of it it did bring uh a lot of issues. to the forefront that we all need to be able to to think about and uh be able to clearly articulate with one another. Um and also uh see Seek God's guidance in what it is that uh we're to do uh as we face those kinds of crises. Well thank you all gentlemen very much. Bob Lehman from Bethel Lutheran Church, Jim Eaton from Mosaic Church, and Jonathan Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel And thanks also to All Shred, our sponsor. All shred shredding today for growth tomorrow. All shred mobile document destruction based sell Security. We'll be back next week at the same time. Thanks so much for listening. Be in prayer about these things and get into the word about these things as well. Douglas.