Welcome to Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Online at WFMB. com, I think we're still on HD2 of 99. 9 FM. I'm not sure. You can check that out and see if we're over there You can always stream us though at WFMD. com and you can follow along what we're doing. One stop shop, go to Household of Faith in Christ dot com. That's where you'll find all my social media, all the things related to this show, the Faith Debate. My name's Troy Skinner. I'm the pastor of the Household of Faith in Christ. And our panel, our newly comprised panel of experts We're all experts in something. Um the one laughing at me is uh David Forcey. He's the pastor of the house that meets at David's house. Uh last week we heard the testimony from uh the the life story and and personal testimony and some interesting things about different cultural w ways that people uh court and get married and celebrate those wedding ceremonies with Daniel Rasby and the week before that. We heard the rather compelling story, the abbreviated version, the abridged version from Imran Raz Razvi. Uh they both the Razvis are involved with uh a house church and they are uh And uh Imran and his his wife Cammy founded Conquered by Love Ministries. They have a website, conqueredbylove. org, so you can check all that out. So why are we doing all this sharing and testimonying, giving our background and all that? Because the voices you're gonna be hearing these past couple of weeks, this week, next week Use a voice you're gonna hear for the rest of your life. We are gonna dog you. We're not gonna let go. We're gonna grab onto that bone and wrestle you to the ground. Well, no? Selling a little too hard? Trying too hard? Anyway, this is gonna be the the new format really for the Faith Debate Show. We're gonna have a regular gathering of these voices. sharing our perspective on things and our hope is that over time you will learn what we believe already to be true, that we are trustworthy voices to speak into your life. Sounds arrogant maybe to say that, but we are all deeply rooted in scriptural understanding. We have spent years and years and years studying the Bible, training other people up in uh the scriptures, raising families to be Christian families uh the combined life experience in this room is probably bordering on 200 years. I mean I don't know. There's a there's a lot here and I think that over time you're gonna at the very least you're gonna know where we stand and why You're not gonna get a lot of squish from the faith debate. You're gonna know where we stand and why we stand there. We're not gonna be all wobbly and punting on hard questions and stuff. And so you gotta know who we are. I feel like we owe it to you for you to know who we are. And so we've been doing that. And so far you pretty much know who everybody is except for Pastor Forcy. So David Forcy, I've known you now for what is it, two years probably, something like that? It's been two years. And we've had an opportunity to spend some time together and share some stories and that, but I gotta be honest, I feel like I barely know you So I'm excited to hear what you're gonna share. So tell me all about yourself. All right. Keep up with that that that energy that you start every show off with, Troll. I can't either. Oh my god, I'm done now. I've got to go take a nap. Oh man. Um Yeah, so so I'm David Forcey and uh I guess if we're we're looking at my um uh my my story uh especially from uh You know, from from the you know, what looking and and seeing what what God has done in my life. Um And uh, you know what what he's doing is uh that's the thing that that matters, that's significant. Um So uh so I grew up in a in a Christian home. Uh my dad was a a pastor. And uh You were a PK. I was a PK. I I think I was I think I was spared a lot of uh uh some of the mo some of the typical experiences that uh the PKs have. Um and uh You didn't live your life under a microscope? You weren't held to a different standard of the UK? You know, it's possible that I was. I was just not aware of it. So, you know, I think I think my parents did a good job in in that respect, whether it was You know, either uh, you know, protecting my my innocence there or uh um you know actually protecting me from uh And was there a particular examination your father was passing? Um No, it was uh it was a Bible church. Um and so my uh my dad was sort of uh sort of a combo Presbyterian Baptist, if you will. So that's an interesting combination. Well, it all d it depends on which which pieces you're putting together, right? There's there'd be a lot of different ways to uh to splice that. But uh so um yeah, I I don't I don't remember a time when I I did not um belief in uh God or understand that I was uh a a sinner in need of salvation. Um You know, or that uh that that Jesus was uh that way to be saved and the only way to be saved. Um So I I I have I have no memory of a uh of any sort of conversion experience, if you will. Um so I mean I I grew up uh I was I was homeschooled as well. Um just like uh like you, Daniel. So um You know, I was uh my my life was was steeped in um a biblical worldview, uh in um in the truth of the scriptures. Um And uh so so yeah, so I uh I I I certainly, you know, throughout my my young life struggled would would struggle with uh um You know, with various uh various temptations. Um I would struggle with uh um with occasional an occasional uh, you know, doubt and uh and so those those things would would pop up here and there. Um and God was continually faithful to to help me through. Each of those each of those times. Um I went to uh I went to a Bible college and uh met my wife there And then uh we we got married um part way through school and we now have I guess this year we will be married fifteen years. Um we have five children. And uh So we um that's that's sort of you know some family side of of things there for me. Uh you asked a question of Raz a couple of weeks back about what his you know, to talk about his wife a little bit. So since you brought up the bigger thing. She her uh her her grandmother was a a solid believer, one of her grandmothers, and uh you know, was a uh pretty influential uh matriarch in the family, if you will. Um so Meg's uh you know she had she had that Christian influence in her life. Um And but but she and her immediate family didn't uh didn't really attend church regularly um or uh or faithfully until She was in middle school they they had some some family difficulties and uh and so uh so then you know, a a uh uh a a a bright spot. We've uh uh we've talked a little bit about uh some of the downsides to to youth groups. Um uh you know in in her particular circumstance she was at a at a small church in the um the the youth pastors family Um, you know, his wife in particular sort of uh mentored Megan and so um you know, so there was uh it was a small church that she went to. I also grew up in a small church, didn't have uh large church experiences. Um and so so that that might be something something interesting there. And uh and we we also both grew up going to uh the the same church for you know for for all of our all of our childhood. Um So maybe it is a it's certainly a different experience from uh some others here. And um her her church was very, very I'm gonna say Uh a old school country Baptist would be uh a good way good way to describe it. So um her her church was uh very different from my church in uh in a lot of ways. Stylistically, mostly or also theologically? Um uh I would say I would say Both. Um you know there's certainly it it's uh it's hard to hard to paint a clear picture of of all that in in a few words. Right. Um but uh sty stylistically, you know, somewhat somewhat similar as far as small churches go. Um but uh theologically certainly very very different. So when you guys got married, well you probably maybe your school had a had chapel and that sort of thing. So mm when you first were kind of striking on your own as a married couple uh w what kind of a church were you going to at that point early on in your relationship? Uh we didn't uh we didn't look to uh to go exploring or or branch out. We uh um to we we went to the the church that my father pastor for gotcha, okay. Uh for the remainder of the time when we were when we were still in college and finishing up there. And then uh then then after we we'd both graduated uh we moved uh out to where her her family was and uh Um attended that church and and participated there. And so when did you have your first foray into like vocational ministry. Um so I became the uh the youth pastor there at uh at that church, uh the church where Meg Megan grew up. And um and so that was uh I I did that and then I also I also worked full full time in other uh in other uh another discipline. So um Yeah, so that's uh that's one thing. So you were the guy in charge of the youth group. I was, yeah. Yeah, unfortunately. So Um well when you do it, you do it right. Uh I I I will I I'll I'll I'll be the first to admit that I have uh You know, I I've I've not done many things right over the course of my life. Yeah, but we get through anyway, right? Yeah. And and hopefully become writer as uh years go by. That was at At uh your father's church or your uh or at the church your wife was going to that you became the youth pastor? Uh that was at the church that my wife was going to. From there to um help me connect the dots to where we met. How'd you get from there to where you were involved in you weren't the pastor, but you were involved in leadership at a downtown Frederick Church. Right, yeah. So we'll we'll get me local here. Um yeah, so we uh we were we were at that church uh the Megan grew up in, my wife. And uh we were there for um probably six or seven years. Uh and then um So I guess uh a little bit of a little bit of the story of of our story leading into that we uh were a part of um we were involved in a in an organization that was within the the Baptist denomination that we were a part of that um was very involved in um helping uh helping to sort of uh um get uh get get new church plants um established in their communities. Um and uh and so uh So church planting was something that was sort of on our on our minds and uh something we thought about and prayed about um frequently and um sort of wondered about You know, if there was uh if we would ever be involved in anything like that. Um and then we had uh uh a some good friends of ours Um long story short, say we're we're going to be part of a a church that that's being planted in Frederick and would you uh would you pray about coming uh coming out to do that with us and being a part of that. And I'm drawing a blank for some reason on the name of that church. Uh Redemption City Church was was that church. And uh it was there for uh it was there for about three years. Um And it kinda was taken off Right. It it it got to a point where it was becoming like, okay, we're legit, like we're gonna make it. Like in the two year market, my sense of I wasn't there, but my sense is like two years in You know, the membership was was growing and it seemed like it was vibrant. Uh the people seemed tight and then unfortunately through you know church politics maybe or personality conflicts or theological differences or a combination there, who knows. Right. Yeah, it just kinda wilted on the vine. And that's actually when I met you Right, yeah. Like uh like three three weeks to to close or something like that, right? And uh Yeah, so what's what's interesting is we um uh w you know things have been been difficult there for uh certainly a number of months and we've been been well aware of that. Uh and so we um you know we we submitted ourselves to God in in in prayer and um you know just just entrusting ourselves to him to um you know, take us take us where we should go. And uh and so uh so yeah so so we were convinced even before um there was any uh sort of um short closing of uh of uh of that church in downtown Frederick that we would um you know, at at some point, whatever uh whenever that was, that that we would um that we would uh do church in our home and uh and invite people to do that there with us and And that's what you've been doing the last couple of years. Yeah, it's been uh it's been two full years at this point, uh th that we've been doing that. So Yeah, outside of the church stuff, um, you know We got a little bit of a flavor about what professionally, you know, as far as income generation, uh what the Rasvies uh tap into. So talk a little bit about that. What do you do? I know I think I know some of it. I don't know the exact title for the I'm an arborist. Arborist, that's the word. Yeah, which is th there's still a lot of things that you could you could do there. Um but uh I'm the Um I I've been doing tree work. You know, I'm a tree guy. There's there's your uh your production term for it. Right. Yeah, so I I still get the to climb the trees and is that what that means? I thought production arborists had to do with you trying to save the trees, nurse the trees, take care of the trees, prune the trees, not tear down the trees and remove them in somebody's yard. Do I misunderstand what that means? Maybe. One of us does. Uh I front. I think I think I think production arborist means you're uh you're you're you're producing a uh You you're out there doing the work. It's a maybe a fancy way of saying I'm I'm A working arborism. I'm a I'm a laboring arborism. I'm a theoretical arborist? Or you manage other arborists. Yeah. More of a where do you fit in the business sort of deal. So when you get to be, you know, old and cranky like me and you can't climb the trees anymore. Now I'll I'll no longer be productive. So then you just be harbor. Yeah, but yeah. A sales arbore is a very good thing. So Uh uh I t seriously, that's all that means is you actually do the work in your production. I am fascinated. All right, so I don't know either of the Raspberry's have a question that they they they want to ask or prod into. Huh? Oh your mics are on? Yep. Yeah, yeah they're on. So looks like you you're leading in a little bit. You have something, Daniel? So uh so you say you you are uh used to small churches. H what does small mean to you? Because small means three or four hundred people. Yeah, no. So uh small church uh to me growing up uh was um Uh probably uh just under a hundred. Okay. You know, going over a hundred we'd we'd feel like we were On our way. Because the pastor can actually know his block if it's that block. Yeah. Mm-hmm. Um we were vi I was visiting a church recently which is not a home church, but they're actually considering an intentional church split on amicable terms, which is very strange. But The purpose being, th one of their bylaws in their congregation is each man over twenty-one years old has to have a private discipleship meeting with one of the elders every month. And so that they can keep in uh uh tabs on the flock and continue to disciple and grow the church on one-on-one. And that's becoming harder and harder to do because now their congregation is growing so large that there's not enough uh there's too many people for the elders to adequately have a a great relationship with so they're considering splitting in a good way which uh is something I've never really run across before but it is interesting Because of that. And I think that's a really cool model. Yeah, it's it's it's more of a subdivision than a split. The split carries with it it's like a loaded word, right? They all start throwing plates at each other, they're angry and they it's like a divorce But this was a purposeful strategic okay, we're gonna subdivide. Yeah. This was a stock split, right? Yeah, with dividends. Yeah. Yeah, that was good. Alright. So but there's not uh it can't be close to a hundred probably in a house church though, right? So it's even smaller. Oh, for sure. Yeah. Uh yeah. I I mean you know, if we're gonna start getting into the the differences between, you know, house churches and small non house churches. Right. If everybody who's involved in your house church, David, were to show up at the thing because I mean people, things happen and you know everybody's there all the time. But if everybody did show up all the time, how many would be cramming into your living room? Uh there's f there's three other regular families at this point. So Okay. Uh Somewhere in the teens then probably as far as I count. Yeah. Under under twenty. Under twenty. Which I didn't think to ask you guys that question. How many if if everybody showed up, how many might you have? It's varied over the years. Um I mean we've had fifty or plus before that used to be regular, but now it's it's a lot less Well fifty, that's not your living room. Yeah, we we have we have a decent sized house. I mean I'm I'm the oldest of thirteen kids and so we've we've had a and I and I did I I've I've been to both of your house churches and so the setups are different. So I'm I'm kind of playing. Because at David's house it is the living room and you're sitting on the couches and chairs and stuff in a typical kind of a living room setting. And more than twenty would be difficult. Like there's It's there's like no furniture other than the furniture you need for church, at least when I was there. Maybe you change it over for that day, but on the day I was there, it was basically it was just uh It's nice for a multi-purpose room. We we we like to to have our house that can be livable and so you can do all sorts of activities in there if you can rearrange the furniture and do different things. So not just for church, just for anything. It's good to have overseas. We're minimalists. We don't like a lot of stuff, although we have a lot of stuff. And uh um when we first started the home church uh in our house it was we had several families that were coming regularly and uh just our family alone is fifteen people so if you're looking at teens, I mean this is our family And then you add another family with n another eight, ten kids, you're in the twenties, mid twenties. So you've got five families with ten kids each. Yeah, you're looking at a hundred people almost, right? So um we did have a time for about three or four years where we had close to fifty to seventy people showing up at our house every uh every Sunday. And then um there were some disagreements on you know, really where we're going 'cause um somebody wanted to change the music and we're adamant about the music in the church and uh some of this uh worship style and so forth and we said no we're s this is what we're sticking with and that kind of split and some other people were looking for different things. But during that time some the other church that we left had uh sent a few families to us that was looking for something different, more conservative, more really reaching into the Bible and learning and discipling. And so that's what we were all about. Well, and uh it's not my turn to share about that sort of stuff, but since we're talking about that, if everybody showed up at the exact same time for the house of the faith in Christ, we'd have nine. So uh when we talk about small churches, that's a good question that you asked, Daniel, 'cause that's small. Nine is small. You know, hundred, that's that's a lot. Ten times, more than ten times. Eleven times. Anyway. Well, you've now gotten to know um the What was it two weeks ago, I guess, now, uh Imran Raz Razvy's story, and last week uh Daniel Razvy's story, and this week David Forcy's story. You've gotten to know the the the newly comprised panel and their story Hopefully you got a sense of where their thinking is, where their heart is, what their personality is, what their backstory is, how you might be able to connect and relate with them. Hopefully that'll prove to be fruitful to you as we tackle the traditionally difficult, hard to grapple with issues here on the faith debate. And you'll be hearing my story you If you've been listening to the show for seventeen years, you know an awful lot about me, but I don't know that I've ever actually taken a whole show and just shared like my testimony and my story. I'm not sure if I've ever done that. So this a it's the first time for everything. Unless I change my mind and uh we'll talk about something else. Find us online. The easiest way to connect with us, one stop shop, go to householdfaith in Christ dot com. That's household of faith in Christ dot com. From there you can connect with the show, you can connect with the podcast, you can connect with social media, you can connect with my email. If you have a question you want us to tackle on a future show, email me. Find my email again at householdfaith in Christ dot com Thanks so much for listening this week, spending part of your Sunday with us till next week, 167 and a half hours from right about now. God bless.