This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The faith debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with a Master of Divinities from Reform Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Troy Skinner. Let's see if this sounds anything like you. My concern is that I haven't been born again because I haven't had a change of nature or a change of any kind in fact. I think I'm still living in the land of mental ascent when it comes to Christianity. I've never had any evidence of the spirit's work in my life. No joy, peace, gratitude, humility, generosity. It's not just a dry spell. I've never exhibited the fruits of the Spirit, and that terrifies me. I think that perhaps deep down I know that I should believe because I'm aware of what happens to those who don't. Yet my heart remains blank, cold, and unchanged, and therefore unregenerate, I'm afraid. My experience of faking it till I make it hasn't panned out My heart remains the same, full of despair and hopelessness. When I set my mind to trust, I fail because I'm trying to do it in the flesh, by willpower, rather than from a genuine love for God, because what he has done for me. I have a relative who married a woman he didn't love because his father approved of her and he wanted to please him. For twenty five years he tried to gin up love by acting toward his wife as if he loved her, but it didn't work And they finally divorced and are much happier. So I doubt the conventional wisdom that acting as though something is true makes it so. Those are actual words from a listener to this program and an email exchange that she had uh with me. It was a lengthy email exchange that I shared in its entirety with you, um the first two Sundays of this new year, and then last week it was our third show in a row tackling the subject matter of this email, uh, this time with a panel. And so now our second show in a row with a panel to talk about this Are the Razvies. We've got uh Daniel looking splendid today, by the way. Nice power tie, expensive looking jacket. I'm sure it wasn't expensive because you're thrifty, I know. But uh looks really sharp Uh Daniel, he's uh he's a law student or maybe he's done with his student part and he's he's just getting ready for the passing the bar, that sort of thing. So Need a good lawyer, you know, wait a few months and give him a call. Um his mom, very proud, mom. You look good today too, by the way. You look or you're gonna You can have a complex. Tammy Razby. Uh she's an integral part of of a ministry that the Razvies uh have been involved with for years now called Conquered by Love. They're online at conquered by love dot org and they've got a number of of books or booklets. They're kind of smaller. Yeah, right short or quick reads. Right, no bluff, just practical. Yeah. Grab that book, spend a few couple hours maybe and blow through it and uh and and change your life forever. And then um Daniel's father, Tammy's husband, uh Imran goes by Raz Razvi, he's a financial planner locally, but also uh is involved with the Concord by Love Ministry and also uh is you know heads up for a long time has headed up a uh a church meeting in the Rasby home, a house church, part of the the growing uh house church movement over the last uh decade, decade and a half. So Thank you guys for being on the show again, not just two weeks in a row, but all of you have been on um collectively maybe a dozen shows now, probably over the years. We appreciate the opportunity to uh share and to hopefully make an impact on people's lives. So thank you. And you brought up something toward the end of last week's show that we're gonna pick up there. We were talking about this email, this concern that this listener has about all right I go to church, I know my Bible inside and out. Um my pastors tell me I'm saved, but I'm just not feeling it. I'm just not getting jiggy with it. I just it um I don't feel like I've had a transformation. And uh Raz made the point last week toward the end of last week's show about, you know, a lot of people struggle with these kinds of doubts, but they don't voice them because they're afraid of of uh exposing what's behind the mask that people tend to wear uh t unfortunately in church. You would think that that wouldn't be the case in church. And I'll tell you if you remind me, I'll tell you kind of a personal family story along those lines of how how important what you just said of an insight that is. But I know that Tammy's been itching since last week's show to kind of follow up on what her husband said last week. So have at it. Uh this is absolutely a common a common theme where someone has doubts, someone has concerns, um but uh there's a lot of pressure among the Christian community to to kind of fit in and they have there's standards where we have these standards that this is this is what your life should look like. And uh I i in our ministry when we're working with adoptive families, there's a lot of people who just don't even say what's going on in their family relationships because they're going through some crisis and and they're having doubts about the family relationships and uh they get a lot of pressure from people to look the way they oughta look. And I and my heart is just going out to this lady who emailed you Um, in the sense that it it feels like there's some standard that's been set by other people that you will have these these feelings and you'll have these specific uh attributes um that that will be present in your life. And the reality is God grows each person in a different in a different manner and and we walk a different path. And and we have to we have to be less judgmental as a Christian community so that we we actually reach out and care for each other and we don't set the standards that everyone's life ought to look like this. And It she's almost at war with herself. Part of what I read last week is she she goes out of her way to say I'm not looking for an experience, but I'm not looking for an experience but that's an exact quote, actually a partial sentence there, but I think she's been told by people that you're supposed to have this experience and what is the experience? She's looking for a change uh of nature that would somehow result in What whatever we whatever we understand to be joy and peace, those were two big words that she used in what I read last week. She wants I'm not experiencing joy and peace the way that I'm supposed to, so Therefore I must not have had this change of heart because everybody else I look at around church, they always seem to be peaceful and filled with joy, and that's not me. And I think what we're saying here is that's not them either. No. They've got the company faces on, right? And and and we have to be able to be real with each other. And so that's this this is Yeah. It looks like Daniel, you had something to add? You're not looking for experience, but uh uh uh salvation there's a there's uh a few different ways to look at salvation. w uh we touched last week on, you know, y you just have to believe and then you're saved. There's nothing to to do necessarily, although you will do works if you love God. But There's a good quote I heard once uh where the question is, Are you saved? And the answer is, I have been saved. I am being saved, and I will be saved. And the it it sounds a little cute that way, but uh what they're getting at with that quote is, I have been saved. Jesus died for my sins. I am saved. There is nothing that Anybody can do to take that away from me because I believe God. At the same time, I am not a perfect human being I will never be perfect until we have our heavenly bodies. So I there is the your whole life long is a process of sanctification. You are being saved. You are gradually becoming Um as uh an elder in one uh my church used to say, gradually becoming Jesus' identical twin. You are trying to become more and more like Jesus. And that is a gradual process. That's not what saves you. You are already saved, but you are being saved, meaning you're gradually moving towards your uh heavenly body, and then you will be saved uh as in you will have a perfect body with Jesus. after you pass away. Um but that first part of it, you have been saved, Jesus died for your sins. There's nothing that's that's uh the uh nobody can take that away from you. You can't undo that. That's already done. There's nothing that can uh th that uh can get in that way. One of the things that uh has come to mind, um we wr uh Tammy and I wrote a book and it's uh available on Conquerorby Love uh dot org. It's emotionally healthy children or emotionally healthy parents. And there's five emotional needs that we have and those five emotional needs are met in us in God. And I'd like Tammy to go over them. She does a pretty good job. in how it mirrors God's relationship with us and how we m do that with other people. But it may seem uh to me that um this listener of yours may not have uh feel those emotional needs being met by God in her and uh that's where the relationship may be uh what's the breakdown is so where she's looking for these emotional needs to be met and God does meet them, um she has to be able to identify and let them be met. So you want to run through let me say something real quick about the um The when you're saved things to saw it, cause it won't make sense later in different context, probably. She does mention in one of these email exchanges with me about that her current church this belongs to is a PCA church, a Presbyterian Church of America church. And so that means I know that is where she's always gone, but that's where she's going well, it's not where she's always gone, but that's where she's going now. And the theology's getting there is reformed theology. And so we a reformed pastor would tell her, you know, when were you saved? Well, we we talked last week about, you know, conversion experience and that sort of thing. And I don't have one of those epiphanal moment stories either where, you know, uh at twelve thirty-two PM I was not saved and at twelve thirty-three PM I was. Like I don't have that story. I've ha I know some people that do have that kind of experience that they share. I don't have that And so when somebody asks me, well then, you know, how do you even know you're saved if you don't have that moment you can point to? And well part of it is, you know, when you're baptized, you know, that's a picture of of a reality and so you point back to your baptism because uh that's the seal of of o of of God's saving work. But the other thing that a reformed pastor would probably tell her, maybe he already has, is you were saved before the foundations of the of the world. You were saved. Uh you know, God knew you or he knew that you were going to be his elect before he made you. So you were saved uh g because God's outside of time. He's not bound by time. You know, for for God, time is like this eternal instant, like you know, from beginning to end. And so there's a sense in which God saved you before there was a you And there's the idea that you know the God will save you in the future when you're perfectly glorified. I mean there's there's all different ways to think about this. Yes, but I think your listener's actual question is not so much that, because she understands that. It's written in the Bible, she reads it, she understands it. is personal to her is how do I know that I am the elect? How do I know that even though I know all these things, how do I know that I am actually saved. And other people are saved. Uh I've seen it in their lives. I've seen uh changes in their lives, I've seen the fruit of their uh s uh being saved. But I don't see it in myself. So am I being, you know, m misled by my intellect saying that I sh I should be saved, but I'm not really saved? How do I know that I am? So that What you just talked about, uh the the predestination and and before the foundation of the earth. Yes, but in my situation how do I know I'm one of those? I think that's where the problem is. Right. And that's leak that's a nice transition back to Tammy to go through the five um what was it? The five emotional needs. Those are all met for us in Christ. And and this is really an emotional question that she's asking. Um, you know, that that that Christ wanted us, that he uh that he uh he he he wanted us in his family that he um uh makes us secure through his death and resurrection, that he uh uh approves us. I get to stand boldly before God's throne 'cause I'm clothed in clothed in the blood of Christ. And he approves me. Uh that we are capable. He gives us spiritual gifts and that we are needed. That he gives us a place of service in the body of Christ. and that no one can say we're not needed. The body of Christ can't say that we're not needed. So those those five emotional leaves are ultimately God's love. And those are met in us strictly through Christ. Uh but uh it it feels like she's not experiencing some of those those cares in her life. That doesn't mean that God's not not giving them to her. She's not experiencing them. So this Th there's there's two separate questions. One we're addressing here is is could she be actually saved but still be not experiencing those things? Does her life have to look exactly like everyone else's? And then the second thing is Well how can how can one move to a place where you have that close relationship? Um, which is clearly what she's after. But I'm I think I'm not sure sh whether she's after it to have the relationship or to believe that she's saved. And so that's That's the question. Right. That's the voice of Tammy Razve. Before that was her husband Raz, Imran Razvi, and their son Daniel was on the panel as well. This is the Faith Debate on nine thirty WFMD. Yeah, I wonder if she's phone prone to uh here's uh a warning, warning big theological term, if she's falling pro prone to what uh theologians refer to as an overrealized eschatology. Um eschatology is, you know, the study of last things, things to come. And and Daniel touched on it, which is made what made me think of this. And then you and then you are you know perfect and you're you're you you share all things with Christ in that way in a way that we don't know. And sometimes I feel like we try to pull the future forward into the present more than than uh the Bible really allows us to because once someone is saved, the Bible tells us that we are then justified. We are declared righteous by God, not because we're righteous, but because of Christ's righteousness. He he he chooses But then there's the other piece is sanctification, which might be part of what she's struggling with. She's not feeling like she's become really generous and really grateful and really patient and filled with joy and the fruit of the spirit kind of thing. But that's a process that happens over time and if it's happening really slow for her, let's say I mean she s she mentioned that she was sixty-six years old in one in one of the email exchanges. Well, I wonder if she's able to see herself accurately when she was thirty-six and compare it with who she is now at sixty-six. Uh, I'd be willing to bet, I mean, if she has some old home movies or something, maybe there's something there that would would would spark something in her. She'd say, Wow, I have progressed. I can see that with my mother You know, my mom sometimes has these kind of questions. Oh, I'm not a good enough Christian. I'm like, man, mom, you are I mean none of this is a good enough Christian But you are so much further along in your walk than you were five, ten years ago. And she's like, Oh, I don't think so. Well, I see it. Others are seeing it. You're so close to it you can't see it. And I wonder if that's going on with this listener, that this letter writer, that she's so close to herself she can't see the progress maybe that she is. making. Um by the way, uh this is a good time for me to share the uh uh the st the personal story. So my wife uh had kind of a um I don't rebirth is is not the right word I want to use here because it's going to give the wrong intent. I believe that my wife was a believer when we got married, but she feels like at best she was a backslidden believer when we got married and she doesn't think of herself in terms of having been a believer back then in retrospect. At the time she would have said she was a believer, but then, you know, ten years later she's like, oh, I thought I was a believer. I wasn't a believer until this happened. And she had this this just this burst of being on fire for the Lord, as uh people in the church sometimes say. And She just heard we were talking with the masks and stuff, people pretending, living a Facebook life at church, that kind of thing. And she just took the mask off And she was just raw and real and sharing her baggage and her story and putting it out there because, well, hey, we're all in this together. We're all we're all one body. One body of believers. We're all joined together in Christ And she had a a wise friend pull her aside and say, Hey, uh appreciate where you're coming from, but you can't just put all that stuff out there. People will judge you for it. They will think differently of you. It won't be fair, but it'll happen. And you've got to learn how to guard your heart and guard your words a little bit, and they've got to earn the the right to know some of these things that you're just putting out there. And at the time I thought it was really horrible advice But I've come over time to realize some wisdom in that. I don't think we want to live guarded. I think we I think we should be on the hunt looking for opportunities to be raw and real. But I don't think we just cast our pearls before swine uh you know uh uh completely unfettered. I don't walk up to somebody that we don't really know who claims to be a Christian and tell them everything in your life Uh I think there's wisdom there. Um so I understand the idea of being judged. You're talking about people judging. They they do. And there were people with my wife, she show shared her story, and there were people that to this day I don't think really look at her the same, think differently, think more poorly of her, uh than they should. So that absolutely is a is a reality. You guys are looking at me quizzically. I'm not sure if you're liking the story, not liking the story. Well, I agree with you that it's a reality. I I would wish that we could be more honest and humble in our in our Christian community that we could be able to be completely open because it it really feels like some of what this listener is struggling with is that. Is that is that reality that you're going to be um uh judged but if we can look at the reality of our own sin there's there there's no way to judge others. Um but the our culture is not that way. Our culture is not that way and our culture has overridden the Christian church where we can't confess our sins before others without having some sort of situation where people are looking at you indifferently and and it puts a a problem in the relationship as opposed to be able to to pray with one another and things like that. And and and so that will be a an encouragement to to everyone in the church, not ne not people who aren't struggling, you know, with their Assurance of there was a lot of things. What I'm saying is there should be a a a a a guardedness, protect and cherish what is most dear to you and our stories are very dear to us and somebody we need to be able to trust to expose our nakedness, if you will. with with individuals, but we should be on the hunt looking for those. We should we should be trying to craft and formulate those kinds of relationships. Uh press into somebody's life in such a way that they know that uh you're there to meet their five emotional needs. And you feel like they're meeting your five emotional needs. Um and then you could there's nothing that my wife doesn't know about me, and I don't think there's anything that I don't know about her Um and there's a freedom in that and then there's a real accountability that comes with that and there's a real iron sharpening iron that comes with that. uh and and true authentic uh encouragement. But you can't if you go to a church with five hundred people in it, you're not gonna do that with all five hundred people. Well Ecclesiastes tells us that they're time for everything, right? Yeah, and and the point I guess in for this particular listener is to know that those five hundred people in her church are all masking at some level, guarding their heart. And maybe if she gets to be really dear, close personal friends with some of them They'll start to share some of these same doubts. And she's gonna be able to see in them, like, wait a minute, you have these doubts too? But I know you're a Christian. Like I have no doubt about your salvation, and you have the same doubts I do, that might somehow help her I agree with you. I mean many times I've heard people say, Wow, they got divorced. I thought they were in love with each other. And all of a sudden they divorced. Well, because that mask was there. They don't want to share that. The the things that we see in church and I've had people say, Well, I thought you were a Christian, but you don't act like one You know. Thank you very much. I'm a sinner. You know, I'm I'm I am a progress. I'm in progress. I'm I'm trying to get there, but that doesn't mean that I won't sin. So the biggest assurance we have is one we know that the Bible is God's Word If we accept that from beginning to end, from Genesis to Revelations, that is God's word and that is perfect and holy, then we have to accept that what God says is that His son Jesus died for our sins while yet we were sinners and we didn't know him or love him. So we accept that, and then we choose to repent of our sins and love God. Once we've done that, we may not have that amazing life changing experience that we hear about in some of these missionary stories and these uh these great uh sensational uh things that we hear and see. But we should be assured that God didn't lie. That God did save us. That so long as we know that and accept that, that's all that matters. The rest of the experience is not And if we're not at that point where we feel that joy and that burst, well let's work towards it. And it's not fake it till you make it that we heard about in in the email exchange. It really is a desire to please God, a desire to love him by pleasing him, that's not going to save you, but that comes from your genuine acceptance that He died for you. That He Put it all on the cross for you that you can't do anything and there's nothing that you have to do anymore. Out of that should come the gratefulness and and and move forward. Two shows in a row, we're giving Imran the final word. How about that? Raz, Razby, Imran, uh his wife Tammy and his son Daniel on the Faith Debate Show. I'm Troy Skinner. We're online at WFMD. com keyword faith Again, if you're kind of joining in the middle of all of this, if you want to go back to the very first show of this year and listen to the podcast, uh I'll read the first half basically of an email back and forth with a listener and then the second Sunday of the year, uh the last half essentially of that email exchange. And then now these last two panel discussion shows, uh fleshing out January for us. And we're gonna come back with this panel again 'cause there's more uh of this onion to unpeel. And I hope uh listener this is benefiting you. I hope so. Truly that is my prayer and my hope. Till next week, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from right now. Now, dog less.