This is the Fate Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Fate Debate is a free-for-all form. We're faith community leaders or true in less than 30 minutes to learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. How convenient. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to- Rumble. Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah. In this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a morning. And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges connecting needs and resources in the local community. Ooh, mama. The notorious big bridge builder John Sweiser. No, I'm just getting warmed up. What does the Bible say about homosexuality? What does Christian tradition say about it? Can two people of the same sex be married? Why or why not? When, if ever, is sexual intercourse a sin? makes us say so, whatever our answer. On the panel today we have Sharon Watts, rector at Grace Episcopal Church in Newmarket, Maryland, and Jonathan Sweitzer, founder of Frostbridges in Frederick, Maryland. And this week I want to pick up with some of the specific verses in the Bible. that are almost always bandied about and cited in this sort of debate because last week we ended up talking uh about kind of the the the the context uh for the argument that's made uh by by the Episcopal Church. uh you know rooted in reason and tradition and uh uh uh a high view of uh of uh what science and scientists have to say we even touched about the importance that uh evolution plays uh in in the thinking. Um and Jonathan would has been uh saying but hasn't had a chance to fully give full throat to it. Uh that well his argument, yeah he doesn't disagree with the importance of those things, but his argument rests on the Bible So do you have any I have some I can cede to you, but do do you have any uh that you would want to point to and say, Yeah, you know, my argument for thinking what I do is the Bible and these are the passages I Okay, so I just wanna recognize Miss Watts. I always call my daughter uh miss whatever when I'm feeling affectionate. So we're having a good conversation here, you know, uh as we're talking together. Thank you God for helping him to see. So the point is is that uh I was just gonna say as I'm answering that that that I get it that um that going to specific passages and just kind of having the discussion about, you know, what do passages in Scripture prove is is not where you tend to be on the issue. So I just want to recognize that that's the case. Even as we're gonna go this way. Yeah, yeah, yeah. If you would have told me that, I would have liked to be. So Genesis, you know, uh, where Genesis one where he says God made them male and female, you know, and uh that um You know, they came together and they were one flesh. Uh I'd uh look to Leviticus where it says a man doesn't uh should not lay with a man as he does with a woman. Uh I would uh look to um Genesis uh referring to Sodom and Gomorrah and what happened in Sodom and Gomorrah. Uh I would also refer to um Again there in, I believe it's Matthew where Jesus refers back to Genesis 1, Romans chapter 1, 1 Corinthians 6. uh First Timothy, like all of these include in lists of sins, uh a term that we uh translate as homosexuality. And so And most of the ones you mentioned are what are usually referred to as the clobber passages in these debates. Yeah yeah. And you're not meaning to do that, you're just citing them I'm just citing these are the ones that that I think I would refer to. And and there is some reason for some legitimate scholarly uh respectful debate over how certain words should be understood and and what point they have met in a particular cultural context, in the in the textual context Uh yeah. All of those sorts of things. But I'm gonna do what I what what you always do though. Like the story of the Bible From beginning to end, right? This is where you always go. No, it just it's accidental. It's in this one situation. By the end of today's episode, two of them there they got. That was good. Okay. So um bumps. But the big story is that we were all created in the image of God, perfect and good, but that when we fell into sin Right, that our hearts were changed, and that now that we've been redeemed by the blood of Jesus Christ and by his forgiveness, that that all of us have parts of our identity that uh that are defined by how we were created, good and parts of our identity that are defined by the fact that we fell. And so there's all kinds of things in me that I desire every day. Sorry, you don't want to know this right now, but that are sinful, right? That are self-centered centered, lustful, greedy, envious, you know, all these things. And those parts of who I am, uh It's not right for me to to identify myself, my many sinful selves, uh the many the all those parts of who I am To identify myself by those things, but it's right for me to identify myself by how I was originally created and by what God is restoring me to, all of which is a journey And so and and something that requires me to say to God, God, I'm not sure that I really know who I am, but I'm asking you, because of what you did in Christ to show me who I am. And I feel like I feel like I want to lay that foundation that all of those passages of scripture like I don't come to anybody. uh w to define them by their sin, or to define them by by uh a part of who they are. I'm looking to define them by creation and redemption and so that being the case Um my my appeal to everybody is, hey, you know, we all come to the cross and let's not start with me trying to tell God or others who I am. But us saying, God, you show us who we are. You're the Lord, you're the Redeemer, you're the Creator, you do that for us. So um I would answer some of those passages. Um what Where I am is none of those passengers are the ten commandments and the everything that we do is under the great commandment that you you should love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind. and you should love your neighbors yourself. And everything falls under those two passages. And so we define ourselves as people of love and we are there to receive whoever comes in our doors to love them and to uh give them the same pastoral care and the same concerns as anybody else who comes through our front door. And that's where we stand with it Um, so that last part I would say that that uh we just actually at our church spent four weeks on this topic. Um and uh it took the pastors like three weeks to get to saying where they stood on the issue just because they were laying the foundation. And the foundation that they laid was what you just described that that we would argue that That it's right for us to accept, embrace, and love everybody that comes into our midst. There's additional parts of that, but we would agree with that. Some of the passages that are described and some of the ones that you quoted, we would also probably um state that a lot of the behaviors like Sodom and Deg Gomorrah are really um what we would consider felonies now, predatory behavior, um gang rape, those types of issues. So we see more than homosexuality in a lot of the passages also in the first century there were cults in which people would go to and have different types of sexual experiences as part of worshiping foreign gods and we would see that as not worshiping the one true God So some of the scholarship on that we would probably have differing ideas about what these passages were telling us. But that said, I'm gonna go back to um personal experiences a little bit. Um during the AIDS crisis, um I happened to be one of the nurses who was standing there when we had young people coming in with AIDS that we had no idea what was going on and they were dying because we couldn't we had no treatments. Um and we slowly worked up to be able to manage people for short periods of time And I felt called to go into the community and do AIDS work. So I worked during the height of the AIDS crisis in Baltimore. Uh with a What years was that, by the way? Um okay, you're gonna catch me. I can't um I can't give you exact years. Okay. So don't don't quote me on that. Sure. But um while we were it was way before by the time we got to the triple retroviral therapy, um, that's when I left because everybody's immune system repaired about fifteen years and I felt like I had to leave my patients safely and and move on and because we had experienced so much death that it was just very difficult to continue for any long period of time. Um but I'd been in it for over ten years Um and what I found in this community um was a group of in especially in the early years, twenty to thirty-year-old young men who were homosexual at at that time, that was the word you would use. And um some of them ended up being people that I carry around with me to this day. They were just amazing people. And they suffered greatly And because a lot of the symptoms that they had, we were just developing treatments to be able to manage them as we went. Um and what I found out is that the majority of these people had been expelled from their sacred communities and it broke my heart to have people that age facing death alone without God. And what ended up happening is I spent a tremendous amount of time trying to find people from their primary denominations who could come back and heal them before they died because it just was wrong. And so I had to step back. That's when I really began my personal journey of s stepping back and looking and challenging different positions that I'd heard before because it just did not seem correct. And then on top of it, after you took care of someone and A lot of these um young men were in monogamous relationships that had been going on for a long period of time. I remember coming home to my husband and saying, I don't care what you call it. It's a marriage. They're in there, they're fighting over money and who's who's taking care of the house more than the other, just like every other marriage. The only problem is is when they went in the hospital, they had no rights And so when they went in the hospital they could be barred from they had no say in what was going on with their partner. And it was heart-wrenching to watch this entire experience. And it became a very formative experience for me. I couldn't look myself in the mirror without trying to do something to bring harmony within this community and God, the community of people that I was dealing with. Um my husband at the same time, my husband died last year, but he um had a very difficult dealing time dealing with the LGBTQ plus community. And he ended up being called into a sacred group, which I think was a blessing from God. And one of the young men that he was um in a small group work with had been uh gay bashed terribly. He had almost lost his life. And it was so bad that he could hardly come out of his house. But he got himself together to come to work with this group of religious people. and himself being religious also. And shook for three days. And my husband said somewhere between day two and day three he had to co totally think about what his feelings were and he changed completely. So I believe that we were brought to these different experiences because it was important that we need to sit down and think about the effects of our community, what we were doing as people of faith. Um I believe strongly that we are not called to judge people. I don't get totally upset about every sin everybody did. If I did, I could hardly go into the pulpit every week. because all my people, including me, have great brokenness. And so for me to sit there and tell some people that they had more brokenness than the other just doesn't make sense to me Every my job, my job is to bring people closer to God and to allow the transforming power of God to infuse them, infuse their heart. And all of us, no matter who we are, at some point are gonna have to go and stand before a loving God who has done so much for us in Christ, has done so much for us by encircling us with the Holy Spirit. that in this space we will have to stand and open our hearts with all that we've done that's been good and that's been bad and just trust that we are people of God. So that is Very powerful and um and I'm uh I'm super grateful for uh the compassion that you describe in that context and and even the the you know the the transition for your husband um There's a little passage there at the beginning of John that says Jesus came from the Father full of grace and truth. Amen. We've seen his glory, right? Um I I might have even said it at the kickoff that that everywhere that we go, everybody I talk to lives with these two uh scales. The one scale is the health or the death scale, the other scale is the uh the acceptance scale, right? And and the more likely that it is that something causes death, right? You're describing the AIDS crisis that that that people are experiencing death or opioids where people are experiencing death or whatever it is where where death is involved, the ability to at the same time embrace and accept those per people is very difficult, right? And and so part of the problem that uh that we are in the middle of as a culture, and we've already talked about this, is is that Are we allowed to recognize that certain things cause cause death? So in the early 90s I was working at the National AIDS Clearinghouse uh as a temp when I'd graduated from college. I had uh some free time before I went into grad school and so I was I was there at the National AIDS Clearinghouse and every single study that was coming through at the heart of of the AIDS crisis was homosexual communities. Now we all know that that it's not just homosexual sex sex that can uh that that can cause the the disease to spread. However It is the case that the genesis of it in every situation was was a homosexual community, right? So I say that to say we weren't allowed to say that in those years. Right? It was against political correctness to admit the truth about the fact that it was creating that that there was death that was coming out of those situations And it and and so it was true that that it could be passed through heterosexual activity as well. becoming a heterosexuality. Right. But but but the point is is that is that it was the case and we weren't allowed to admit it that that it was y and so for that mat as a as a individual that really appreciates not no. Let me say that differently. uh that that would would would uh work really hard to keep scripture as the definer of what's right and wrong. It felt to me like the reality was lining up with what scripture had said. One that that uh you know homosexual activity, you know, carried with it, you know, great dangers, but two, that heterosexual immorality uh was also uh a very unsafe environment, right? And so so to the extent that we're not allowed to talk about the truth when the truth needs to be discussed I'm saying it makes it that much harder to show compassion. If we can tell the truth and people are willing to accept the truth, well, this is even what Scripture says, that God resists the proud but gives grace to the humble. If we're willing to accept the truth It's a lot easier than to show compassion. But if but if there's a whole community and even a nation that is denying uh the ability to speak the truth and and the same thing's happening with the opioid crisis about the stigma what they're what what they're saying is that is that um It's not a it's it's a brain disease, not a moral failure. Well, everybody that goes to a conservative biblical church would say that that just about everything that we do has a moral component to it. And a moral obligation and that oftentimes moral failure is a big part of what we do. And so we we're we're not able to say It's not a moral failure, but we would say yes, there's a brain disease part of that that causes it to feel like you're stuck in chains and that the individual no longer has the ability to make a moral decision because he's locked up in the chains of the brain disease and he needs help to be to break free. Well that fits with what we would say that scripture d describes that that when I that I need to be saved, that that that when I when I repent, I cry out for salvation, God comes and saves me, people come around me and they help me to be free. of what it is that has bound me, right? But that I gotta come to terms with the truth first. So my point in saying all this is that is that man, we gotta have compassion, but if we're not Able to acknowledge the truth publicly, it makes it a lot harder for people to hear compassion because we're fighting about the truth. Right. And so the qu the the this issue of truth, like what is true and what is not true, uh and even this gets into the question of identity, like like, you know, why is it that a person has homosexual feelings. You know, were they born that way? Were they not? Is there genetic, you know, cause for it? You know, is it is it something that that comes because they were introduced to sexuality before they really should have been introduced to it you know, like like what what are what are the implications of uh nurture versus nature, right? We don't know all that. Like you had described earlier, we're still trying to figure out the science of all that, but in the middle of that what it means is that when we go to show compassion Those of us that believe the scripture to be word of the Word of God are rebuked for even trying to deal with the truth. And so we feel like we lose the glory. Right? Full of grace and truth at the same time. But if but if but if the truth is denied, we're still trying to show compassion, but we're told that we're being hateful. and mean spirited when what we're trying to do is we're is look, if my son is is coming home and he's sick with something The first thing I want to do is I want to be clear about what it is that's causing that so that I can help him to get the help that he needs, right? And so is it mean-spirited for me to help him to identify the truth? No, that's not mean spirited. That is the best thing that I can do. And so so anyways, that that conflict I'm really surprised that you're saying that you weren't able to talk about it because during that period of time I heard horrific sermons. that were um very accusatory and uh so I'm shocked that you're saying we weren't saying is that I did two And and and so perception is very difficult. In that context, right, if See, this is the thing. Um someone saying the same thing with softer language was getting lumped in with those that were being crass and rude and mean-spirited about it. Well but but this is the thing. I've got I got a close friend that's that's working uh at the point of the spear with opioids and he calls them addicts. And the guys that he works with, they love him and they are grateful for the help that he's bringing. And when he preaches about it, my I I've I've I had people that I brought to hear him speak that wanted to get up and leave because they felt like he was being too harsh. But uh is he being too harsh or is he just hitting the truth right on and then his life is displaying that there's real genuine compassion. And so that that discussion of what's too harsh or not harsh enough versus what's too compassionate not not compassionate enough, my impression is that all of us as humans tend towards truth or tend towards compassion and that it's hard for us to to to do the balance. We do one really well or we do the other really well, but doing both really well is something that really takes work. And And so all I'm saying is that is the church been guilty of being overly harsh? I think so, but the church has been under fire about any issue of right and wrong going back to divorce, going back to sex outside of marriage, going back to um, you know, drinking. I mean whatever you you you name the issue that we've been mocked for having standards, told that we shouldn't talk about the truth, and so as a result, uh have we overreacted? Probably and probably but the environment is very significant. Crossbridges. Uh I'm Troy Skinner. We're joined this week from a Grace Episcopal Church. Director there is Sharon Watts. We're online at WFMD. com keyword faith. Thanks so much for listening. Until next week. God bless.