We affirm that Christ's commissioning of his church to make disciples of all nations, baptizing them and teaching them to obey all that he has commanded includes civil authorities who are to be called to repentance, faith, and obedience to Christ. We affirm that the church is to instruct civil authorities regarding their identity and duties as servants before the throne of Christ. We affirm that this duty is a great commission issue. We deny that there's any sphere of life in which the command teach them to obey all that I have commanded does not apply, including politics and government. That is Article 13 With the subheading of the Great Commission, it's part of the statement on Christian nationalism and the gospel. This is the Faith Debate. We've been working our way through this statement and systematic fashion for a number of shows now. We've had a lot to say. Some of it actually pretty good, I think. And uh some of it, well, mostly by me, not so good. But you know what? Just edit that part out later and I'll in fact I should do that. Should edit the show, make myself sound brilliant. That's a lot of editing though. I don't know about that. Anyway, you can find me online at householdfaithinchrist. com. That's household of faith in Christ dot com. Joined this week again by Uh David Forcy, he is the pastor of uh a church in in the area that meets at a whole bunch of different locations. So if you're you want to connect with him and find out how to where he's meeting and stuff, maybe just reach out to me and I'll try to connect you with David and we'll figure all that out And uh basically the same location week after week 'cause they're kinda boring that way. Daniel Razby and the uh the church that meets at Imran's house. Um and you can find him and information about what they do at at a website for one of the ministries that they launched a number of years ago, Concord by Love Ministries, online at conqueredbylove. org. So I just read Article 13 on the the Great Commission Um initial thoughts. But anyway. the church's role is simply to continue to proclaim to i in in the Christian nationalism sort of idea is simply to proclaim biblical truth to the civil authorities. Speaking truth to power. They probably avoided saying that on purpose. Um so so the one the only thing I had about it is I would have wished they would have included another line saying Um, one of the ways that you do the convert the Great Convention is this, but you also do need to preach the gospel to individuals and families and you know, uh and religious groups and like it's not that you only preach to the President and the Senate, right? You're not only sharing the gospel with Biden, you also share it with Joe Smith down the street. Right. So uh I I I think they're not s saying that, but they they could be a little more clear. Then they would really agree with you on the Joe Smith example. You know, we it doesn't say includes though. The word include is not in there. Uh yeah, teaching to obey all that he has commanded includes civil authorities. Who are to be called to repentance. So so in other words, you know, you don't just we we shouldn't just be speaking we shouldn't just be speaking to you know, individuals on the street, but individuals in all places at all levels, kind of deal. Yeah. And if that as long as long as that's clear, I think I have no problem with the statement. Yeah, the th the thing I just want to make sure that, you know, we're careful as we as we all as as uh Christian, not just people in this room, but anybody who uh might hear this show someday. Um to keep in in in mind the order of things, right? To make disciples, so you start there, and as you and then you have the disciples and you baptize them as believers And then, as baptized believers, you're teaching them to obey all that Christ has commanded. And this then would of course include anybody who's a Christian who's in civil authority. That's the that's the order. And so it makes me wonder though, like so it says teach them to obey all that I have commanded and it and it applies to p politicians in government for sure. But it's a command that's given to believers for believers. We don't we don't call um non believers to obedience, we called nonbelievers to repentance. And once they've repented, we then instruct them and call them to obedience. I think if this were say they were writing a statement on uh on Christian businesses and the gospel. Right? They would say, you know, that this discipling of all nations, baptizing them, teaching them to obey all his commands includes uh employers, right? And making sure employers know how to be good Christian employers. Right. Good Christian employers. But what if they're Hindu? Are we going to ask the g the Hindu owner to be a good Christian employer when he's a Hindu or she's a Hindu? See that's sort of the other thing. Sure. Because a good employer is one who But we're gonna ask them to become a Christian. And but that's that's the duty of the church and the and the individual. And they're very clearly saying this is not the duty of the government to go and disciple nations. It's the duty of the church and the believer, which does not possess a sword, right? So you're saying, Well and what if I don't? Well then you don't. I mean I but my job is to tell you you should become a Christian. Right? Mm-hmm. And the government's job is to punish you for acting in an ungodly manner, whether you're Christian or not. But my job is to tell you to become a Christian. And that's my job as a believer or as a member of my church. Now a as a a reformed guy, it's not up to them, right? You I mean you would agree with that. I can tell them till the cows come home that they need to become a Christian, but i i i if if if we see if we see that doesn't mean you don't say it. Right. Oh but absolutely, but we can't we can't compel them to become a Christian. Yeah, we are. We're gonna we're gonna tell them they need to obey. Yeah. That's they we can't even obey. And we're Christian. We have the Holy Spirit we can't obey. We're gonna ask a non-Christian to obey. They can't They cannot do it. By definition, they cannot do it. We're asking to do something impossible to do. This is w what what is the Great Commission? You go talk to a person down the street, tell them about the gospel. That includes obedience You're gonna repent and then what do you do? What next? And he says, okay then then what? Yeah, but then you're gonna be obedient to Christ. But that you made the point a second ago. I'm not doing that as a representative of the government who does bear the sword. Exactly. They're d and that's what they're saying here. That's the duty of the church to tell people. All it's saying is that the church needs to teach everybody, including senators and congressmen, about God. Right, okay. That's all it's saying. This this this whole article has nothing to do with what the government does. So maybe I'm projecting my concerns in other areas of the statement into this one. Uh a parent who is abusing their children, right? We say stop that. Right? And we say we stay stop that because Jesus is Lord, right? But we We start by saying stop that. Mm-hmm. And so the government's the one that's gonna say to stop that and the Christian is gonna say, Well it's because Jesus is Lord. I think that's the difference that they're making. I I think I'm also saying like we need to look at the government and we need to say stop that because Jesus is Lord or do this because Jesus is Lord. Right. And so uh sort of like the um I mean what comes to mind is like the idea of like repent, right? Like that being if that's the first thing we say, then we're saying there's a law and you're breaking it. And and there is forgiveness for breaking that law, right? There's there's the shed blood of Jesus Christ, but we start with pointing out what is wrong. I I think Yeah, it's hard to point them to the solution if you haven't identified the problem. Right. But this this whole article is only talking about what the church is supposed to be doing. And they made it very clear earlier in the statement that the tr the government does not do the church's job. Yeah, I w uh okay. And I think maybe that's I'm thinking about this now, maybe the reason I projected my concerns elsewhere is now I'm asking the question you asked last week. Okay, so who's not doing this in the church? Are there people in the church who won't tell the truth to somebody because they happen to be the mayor? Yeah. Really? Well, I think that what they're saying is you should have an a special I think I think what they're what they're saying is you should have a special focus of t telling and teaching government authorities about God because they're the ones that are gonna have a i a huge impact. So you should be telling influential people about the gospel Yeah. No, I I I think they're they're pushing back on the idea that a government can be uh Secular. Secular, right. A religious, right? Without religion. And so I think I think this just ties it this is a another shot at those people that would say Well we we don't need to tell the government what to do because they don't have any. They're telling Christians go call that person down and say, No, you're wrong. You need to be obedient to Christ. I think that that's that would be an example. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Anyway. Yeah. Let's go do fourteen's a longer one. I'll break it in in half. I'll read the first half and then we'll pause and then I'll do the second half. So um and the first half is most is all affirmation, and the second half will be part affirmation, part denial. We affirm, this is by the way, the subheading is the uses of the law. We affirm that applying the core moral principle of each of the Ten Commandments to a nation's laws, also known as general equity, One, reflects to citizens both the perfect righteousness of God and our own sinfulness and shortcomings. Two, secures civil order. By restraining evil, though protecting the righteous from the wicked through protecting the righteous uh of the w from the wicked. And three guides Christians into the good works that God has planned for them and thus are an essential aspect of keeping the Great Commission and teaching all nations to obey Everything Christ commanded, and just one little last couple of phrases here. We affirm that God is the creator of all and gives grace to the world. We affirm that God is the savior of many, calling them through the gospel. So, uh I've got a couple of thoughts on that, but you guys go first, if uh unless you want me to go first. But do you have any initial uh responses or reactions to that? Well you're gonna have a problem because of the Ten Commandments thing that we talked about last week. Yeah, because they're saying here, right, each of the Ten Commandments when they split the baby earlier. Right. Right? Be consistent. And I have a problem because saying you should apply the core moral principles of these to the laws, I'm saying those should be the laws themselves, and you don't need other ones. Um but i I I And they the whole the number three I think is the is is the most problematic in this statement. Doing this is gonna guide Christians into the good works that God has planned for them and thus uh applying these laws is an essential aspect of creep keeping the Great Commission No. 'Cause the Great Commission is for individuals and and and churches to preach the gospel how to get saved. The applying the laws that's for the government to do, which has nothing to do with getting saved. So no, I disagree with number three here. And they're saying it guides Christians into good works, so I guess it doesn't provide any guidance for non-Christians. Right. It it guides people into good works, maybe. Would be bet I don't know. But but there might be a reason they went with Christians there. I'm not sure. I also had a problem with number two, by the way, for what it's worth. That word secures I'm not so sure that it like absolutely secures civil order by restraining. There's still gonna be disorder in a fallen, broken world. There's disorder. Right? Yeah. Anytime somebody kills another person in this country, that's proof of that because murder is illegal. It aims to secure or it it makes it better than it would be otherwise, but I don't to say that it secures the order I just don't see any evidence from the Bible or human history to to to to make me feel like that's the right word choice there. I yeah, I think essentially what they're getting at is the idea that if our if our laws reflect God's the the morality that's laid out biblically that we will be pointed to right what is what is good and true and right that we will um Right, that we will be that we will actually be punishing what is actually evil and wicked, uh, that will be encouraged I think pursues would be a better word there than secures. I just feel like that's a little more realistic. It it pursues civil order because you're never going to have perfect civil order as long as there's sin and encourages civil order. And by the way, I d I don't know, maybe it's me, but that last couple of sentences I read, I don't see how it's related to the uses of the law. Which is Or how it's related to much of anything that's in the random we affirm that God's a creator, good. Right? We affirm that God is the savior, good. How is that related to the uses of the law, other than maybe the law points us to our need? Like he the creator is the one who gives the law and and and and the law then demonstrates our need for the savior, but they don't say that So I I I may I that's probably what they're trying to do there, but I think they maybe do flesh that a little bit more. Right, that that the civil government isn't the um isn't ultimately the one that it not even ultimately, isn't the one who gives grace who saves, right? Who who does any of those things that actually God does. But the the that it sort of like to your point, Troy, that the civil government is not going to be the one that actually changes hearts and brings you know Peace and harmony. That's that's Daniel Fort uh uh Daniel Rasby and David Forcy's job. Oh no. What? I'm joking. I'm gonna read the last half of this article which is gonna be part affirmation and then part denial. We affirm that no man will be saved by works done under the law, yet we affirm that the law is a tutor. And when laws are just, they accurately reflect the character of God, and in this way alone, just Christian governments serve the church In its mission of evangelism, we affirm the inescapable reality that civil authorities possess a moral and spiritual foundation and orient citizens toward truth and morality, whether good or evil. I'm not sure I understood what I was reading there. Do you know what I was saying? Okay. Not only Christian governments, but Christian governments who are just So just Christian governments. That's what that means. And they will, because they're just be serving the interests of the church and its mission of evangelism. But only in that way, and they're very very clear, they're not preaching the gospel, they're So anyway, you could go ahead and keep it with a denial and then we'll talk about it. But rather they it represent the enduring righteousness of God that is to be loved and obeyed for the good of man and the glory of God. typos you were mentioning. Yeah, but either but they represent or but it represents but rather it represents. Yeah. Yeah, so there's some some sort of a glitch. They didn't make up their mind. Glitch McConnell might have written that one. So uh anyway, so in in the affirmations talking about spiritual for foundation and orient citizens towards truth and morality, whether good or evil, I guess by Making them recognize what the lies are, right? Um and then it's solely uh that they deny that it's solely for old covenant Israel. Um but to your point earlier, I'm agreeing with something Daniel said I think was last week's show. But definitely first for the Jews, right? Mm-hmm. So not that they need to say that, but um I feel like somebody like you might want to do that. And I think a lot of a lot of Christians don't like like to hear that that that said, but it's uh the Bible says that. You know, gospels first to the Jews, then to the Gentiles. Well, I mean it it did come first to the Jews. But not first in order, but also in priority, I would say. When we do that show, we'll have to that we'll have that particular discussion. So they're inching closer and closer to having the government evangelize and And this is probably what's making you a little bit uncomfortable, Troy. But they are still trying to be very careful to say in this way alone the government will be evangelizing, and that's by just having good laws that promote morality Yeah, it makes me uncomfortable along with me having gained some weight and my pants are binding me a little bit now. W which doesn't uh doesn't evangelize, right? It doesn't bring good news. Right. Only bad news. Right, yeah. Essentially what they're saying here is that uh that the government uh upholding you know, biblically aligned moral laws points to the fact that we need good news, right? So it is it it is uh the they're sort of putting on display the the first half. Right, and the necessary first half of of the gospel, which is that we we need repentance. All right, so this next one is a whopper. Takes up an entire page as I printed it out. This is article number fifteen on the distinction between law and gospel. Um this would have been a really important thing for the social justice folks to have uh thought about. Maybe that's what they're addressing here, I don't know, because that was the big swing and miss for the social justice warriors. making a poor distinction, a faulty distinction between the law and gospel, or not making the distinction actually. Anyway, so the first paragraph here, which is pretty hefty paragraph We affirm that the gospel is the royal announcement to the world about God acting in the person and work of Jesus Christ through the power of the Holy Spirit to abolish sin and death and reconcile sinners. and the world to himself through his sinless life, substitutionary death, resurrection, ascension, reign, and future return, just as God graciously planned from eternity. Well, yeah, full preterists. Uh maybe they should be goodbye. Uh promise throughout scripture and achieves uh within history. So that's the first sentence, I think, is it was written by the Apostle Paul. That's one long sentence, boy. We affirm that salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. Reveal good by Catholics, right? Revealed in Scripture alone and to the glory of God alone. Five solos right there. Bang, bang, bang, bang, bang. We affirm that all sinners are commanded to repent and believe. the gospel and, upon doing so, are justified before God, indwelt by the Holy Spirit, and caused to love God and His law and to walk zealously in good works that God has prepared. We affirm that Christ's kingdom is at hand, and that He will continue to work until all His enemies are defeated, and the knowledge of His glory covers the earth as the waters cover the sea. I'm going to pause there 'cause that was an awful lot of words. Um I actually agree with it. I agree with it. It's a very orthodox statement. I'm not entirely sure what role it plays within the statement. I th I think that's that's gonna be clear. They're trying to define the gospel and then they're gonna define the law in a minute and then they're gonna say Gotcha. The gospel is not just the good news that You know, you your sins are forgiven as an individual. Right? The gospel is also that uh not just that Jesus came to save individual sinners, but to save the world. That groans. Right. Yeah. Alright. So let's keep going. You ready for the next paragraph? Yeah Alrighty then, see if we can make heads or tails of this word salad. We affirm that God gave Adam a law of universal obedience written on his heart. That this same law continued to be the perfect rule of righteousness after the fall, and that God delivered it upon Mount Sinai and Ten Commandments. We affirm that the general equity of this law is the essential moral principle embedded by God in each command, which all men are bound by God to obey, reflects God's holy character, and applies in various circumstances in each sphere of life. We affirm that obedience to this moral law is the delight of all who are born again in Christ, those empowered by the Holy Spirit to love God and their neighbors as themselves by doing the good works that God has planned for them. I don't know if they have a whole lot to say about that because like the last paragraph, it seems pretty orthodox, seems on point. So when that when they're talking about gospel stuff, I think they're pretty good. Well they said gospel and then this is law, so this is not the gospel. The gospel was in the previous periods. Law. Yeah, when they're talking I guess when I'm the gospel. When they're talking about Bible stuff specifically, they're not getting political theory or or or sociological questions or whatever, and they're just talking about Bible truth, uh that they're doing a good job. So all right, so now the last part of the affirmation says we affirm that a Christian nation uh provides cultural conditions conducive to the perpetuation and thriving of the family. They avoided flourishing again, by the way. The preservation and advancement of the Christian Church, the spread of the gospel for salvation by the church, and the abundance of blessings to the non Blessings to the non-believing. I mean the gu that's the gospel is you don't believe you're going to hell. That's not really a blessing. Just by sense, just living in a s society where moral just laws exist. But I agree with you. I think the non-believing ultimately might disagree with this statement. Yeah. Uh as they're burning in hell they might not agree with this statement. Which would which would actually be a uh a blessing to them if they if they Did not uh if they were not engaging in sexual immorality and depravity or killing their babies and all those things, yeah that would that would be a blessing for them, that's for sure. But I think uh also what they're meaning though is there is a blessing You know, just in general. If you have a nation filled with Christians, and that's the cultural context, that's the societal norm, even though that's been this country's history, right? Even those who don't believe are blessed by living within that. Right. And I think that's what they're meaning to say. I I I I think they should say it. I think it's a good thing, but maybe there's a way I don't know what the right way to say it is, but I think they could tweak this a little bit to get rid of of the the gray area that we were pushing back on a little bit. And then the last part? No, the last part's actually going to have to wait until next uh show because We're out of time. I wasn't even paying attention to the clock, but we are completely flat out of time. Not even any closing music. So this is the Faith Debate. Daniel, David, I'm Troy. Check us out next week. Till then, God bless.