Good morning if you're listening to the radio or if you're listening to a podcast and it happens the morning Good good midday, good afternoon, good evening if you're listening to the podcast perhaps another time of the day. This is the Faith Debate uh on the radio and uh available on demand as well On the radio at 9 30 WFMB each and every Sunday morning at 9 o'clock. And uh they'll be a podcast through the WFMD. com website. Well, so uh through my social media platforms primarily the easiest and best way probably is just to follow along on either Sermon Audio, sermonaudio dot com or at odyssey. com. Those are the two main places I try to put everything. And all the other places I put things you can connect to it just going through the website. uh manage and host this my church's website, Household of Faith in Christ. Household of Faith in Christ dot com is the website. So again I'm Froy Skinner and joined again this week by David Forcy, another pastor in the area who uh has a house church that is yet unnamed. And I don't think he's ever going to give a name to his church because I think he just likes making it difficult for me to introduce him every week without having a a name for his free. More publicity. More airtime because I'll explain how the whole thing works. Uh we we started last week looking at the statement on Christian nationalism and the gospel, which um the statement itself hasn't spurred a whole lot of debate. I mean it has, but it it hasn't sparked it. It's in response to a debate that's got sparked over a year ago now And it's really just it was like a wildfire. Why so this this they started or you know, the first draft and even the second draft here they were going through uh May twenty twenty three. Uh what was the what was the precursor do you think that uh gave that gave them reason to do this? I'm sure there's a longer history on this than I'm aware. But it's first started to enter my field of vision, um, at some point in twenty twenty two, maybe the first half of twenty twenty two, I started noticing uh certain people on social media raising questions, making arguments, going back and forth, memeing each other to death, whatever, about questions related to uh the the sovereignty of nations, Christian nations, theonomy, those sorts of things that kind of turned into this Christian nationalist, Christian nationalism kind of discussion. And so it was gaining some momentum and then um I don't think it was written because of it, but boy the timing worked out well. Stephen Wolfe put out a book in the fall of twenty twenty two. called uh called Christian nationalism, right? I I think I think that's it. I think it's just called Christian nationalism. Something like that and um did he define that well? And well see so yeah, so that's how this is I think it's a helpful background I'm not saying that Steven Wolfe is wrong. I'm saying that I can't tell for sure that Steve Stephen Wolf is right. Okay. So he wrote this tome. I mean it's it's a book, boy. It's you know, it's many hundreds of pages long. It's a book. And it's a little academic. Uh and he's making a case using a lot of political theory and a lot of history and he's he he's kind of connecting to the Bible, but he's not really making a he's not exegeting scripture, right? He's not grappling with scripture and applying it uh to the present moment. Uh he he's he's a he's making use of the Bible in in more broad brush strokes than that. To be honest, I think that's been part of the problem because people have used his argument as the uh kind of the pivot point for all discussions since that book came out. And so the book hasn't been as clear as it could be. And uh this doesn't sound mean spirited, I'm just trying to be descriptive. You know, and if it's mean, I'm not mean to be mean. I'm just trying to be accurate in my description. Um his book is a little longer than it could be. I think that Stephen's natural propensity is one that I share. I I think that he can be a little long winded. And this comes out in his book. I think his book uh could have been edited to be a little shorter, a little tighter, and not quite so long winded. I think that would have been helpful. Um but anyway, so it led to some dialogue about what is he really saying, what does he really mean? And he and he used some language that I think was taken out of context and quoted on You know, Twitter and that sort of thing that was unfair to him and his book. Sure. Which is gonna happen I guess unfortunately. And so then people who have podcast platforms and stuff, they invited him on to be a guest to explain himself. And so I've taken in a few of those and I found them to be unhelpful. I found him to again be a little bit less clear than than than than would really be good for the moment. and a little long winded. So he's on a show for like, you know, an hour plus and uh being asked questions and when he could give an answer that might have been concise and helpful in like two or three minutes He rambles for five or six minutes and doesn't really say anything. And that's that that's really sounds mean. I'm not not saying he doesn't say anything, but he's not moving the ball uh at a at a very uh quick clip. And he leaves a lot of room for some people to put their own opinions on top of his and say that's what he meant. And then he goes and say, No, that's not what I meant. Well, why don't you clarify what you mean? And in this clarification he's not clarifying enough And it's just it's created this brew. It's created brew ha ha. You know, uh all these people um the thing that really and I I'm not that passionate uh uh about this issue per se. Uh it's mostly in my opinion it's a political theory issue. Interesting. And I care and I care about pol politics and I'm interested in politics and and it connects to history. I do care about history. But all those things are secondary and tertiary issues. What I care most about is what does God's word say? How do I bet better understand those words on those pages. Like that's my heartbeat. That's what I'm really caring about. So anything that's not doing that in a more direct, overt way is going to be a not uninteresting, but a little less important for me to make time for. Okay? So I'm open to Stephen Wolfe's argument. I think he makes some interesting points if he's saying what I think he's saying. And if he's saying what other people think he's saying. Uh, but I think he maybe makes some dangerous points if he's saying what his detractors say that he's saying, which he might not be saying, but if he is, I'm not so sure. And so anyway, people have decided to set up camp. It's really weird. And what's been frustrating to me, and you and I were talking about this off air, if you go back a few years, and it started more than a few years ago, but it didn't really catch fire until just a few years ago in the you know the COVID era, if you will Exactly, because we're going to be able to do that. Street that summer in twenty twenty and the the government's action or inaction and some of that. It was raising a lot of these kinds of questions. And some people were putting, you know, we're we're were putting a fine line on it, like point point one of those little laser lights, you know And the and the laser light was on the right spot. They're saying, hey, part of what's going on here is w the problem with uh with w defining that hasn't been a lack of clarity of of what we're talking about, but it's been a a a lack of one umbrella term. So sometimes it's called ethnic Gnosticism, sometimes it's called critical race theory, sometimes it's called social justice theology, sometimes it's called uh a manifestation of of neo-Marxism, sometimes it's liberation theology. you know, uh and you throw into the mix intersectionality and all the you know, standpoint epistemology and all the other things, this this this cocktail that this stands for this this leftist theological thing that was another gospel. It's what the Apostle Paul would call another gospel. Salvation through works and works defined as modern day heresy, uh modern-day uh uh uh Pharisees would put it, they make up their own traditions, their own rules. They say you need to live up to this man-made standard in order to find your salvation, if you will. It's a false gospel, it's it's the enemy of the true gospel, and so people identified that were in the minority, uh culturally speaking, and even within the church, sadly, uh what's what the visible church, the institutional church. Um but the became some trusted voices. And some of those guys were at the G three. Some of those guys were, you know, connected to John MacArthur's uh Grace for You Ministry. Some of those guys were Or independent people like John Harris on YouTube, wrote a couple of books, and A. D. Robles on on social media on YouTube and stuff. And if they get a following, they become trusted voices. Some other guys too become trusted voices, uh Edwin Ramirez, uh I'm mentioning people that I know, people in most cases that I'm mentioning, a lot of these names now are are friends of mine at some le or or good acquaintances. Let's put it that way, friend. You're a friend. I know you. I see you a lot. That you're a friend. You're more than a coin. So these are people I've met them, I've talked to them, but that's not exactly what I'm talking about here. So I don't want not trying to name drop. I'm just saying these guys are good guys. And some of the guys um you know uh some of the G three guys, uh uh Josh Bice, uh Owen Stran uh Virgil Walker. Uh those guys were great on the social justice justice question and other issues. I mean really solid. And then guys like AD Robles and, you know, John Harris or Edwin Ramirez or whoever. Great on these questions. Michael O'Fallon with Sovereign Nations and his ministry. Great. James White with uh with Alpha and Omega. Great on social justice issues. Right. And they're all on the same team. Right? They're all identifying the wolves. You know, putting on their sights, pulling the trigger, like we gotta we gotta shoot the wolves, man, we gotta protect the sheep. Good good on them. So they they they they circled the wagons, protected the gospel. And then the Stephen Wolf book came out and it feels like that triggered it might not be the thing, but from my understanding of looking at this from a thirty thousand foot view Feels like that was the the hinge point where things pivoted and all of a sudden all the people who had circled the wagons shooting at the wolves, they maintained their circular position and they turned around. And they started shooting at each other. It's a circular firing squad and the it's it's it's i i i it's enemy fire. I mean it's um friendly fire. We're killing each other with with friendly fire. It's it's been so heartbreaking And I try to talk to some of these guys and they're so firm in their position. Like, well that guy offended me with what he said on social media, so there's just no forgiveness basically becomes the attitude. I'm going to say what I'm going to say and I'm not going to apologize for it. It's like, but he's your brother in Christ Come on, man. And so I'm feeling like if something like the statement on Christian nationalism would bring clarity into the discussion. Then the focus can become more about the words that are on the page of this as opposed to the random statements that are put on Twitter or or whatever. Twitter's the main place where the fighting takes place Sadly, it's true. You know. Um, and I've heard stories where you know, I mean, I have really high regard for some of these guys. Some of them I do know personally and they're on the edge of being people I would call m more than just good acquaintances. They're on the edge of me saying, you know what, that's a friend. Good people, good hearts. They love Jesus. They love j uh the people of God. They they love the people in their country. They love their neighbor. They're good people. Their hearts beating the right way. And yet they disagree about how these terms about Christian nationalism should be defined, understood, whether the term should be used at all, all these sorts of things. And if these good guys would have a dialogue They could then be tone setters for a whole bunch of other people who maybe uh aren't as mature in their walk and working out their their faith and growing in their sanctification, they they would benefit from that. And these guys are unable, unwilling, whatever, to have the conversation. It's just It's mind numbingly stupid that they won't have the conversation and I'm concerned that it's just may s it's basically Guilt by association, like you're a really good guy, David, but you know me. Some people don't like me I'm not gonna talk to David. He's friends with Troy. He's on that faith debate show with him all the time. Why would I want to talk to David? He's with that that knucklehead Troy. Right? There's that guilt association, but no. Don't hold it against David because he knows me If if you feel like David's got a heartbeat for the Lord for biblical truth, have the conversation with him in spite of me. But that's not happening in these uh Twitter wars or uh X wars or whatever you're supposed to call them now. It's it's it's really it's really unfortunate. It's a it's a sad sad state of affairs and I was really hoping that this statement I didn't think this this Christian nationalist statement was going to solve it. I'm not naive. But I was hoping it would be helpful. And I don't think it has. I I don't think I don't think it's necessarily caused any more problems But it's been a missed opportunity. It's been a swing and a miss largely in my opinion. So I'm not opposed to this statement. I'm just a little disappointed and slightly discouraged that it didn't actually move the ball. You know, now it's uh it was first and tense in the twenty, now it's second and tense in the twenty. Like we just lost it down. No damage done really But nothing positive happened. It's just it's been a non starter. It's gone nowhere. Yeah. It seems to me. So uh using the the circling the wagons analogy is um You think that uh that there are are that many different positions around the outside? Uh or and and and maybe just Steve Stephen Moles book sort of brought up a either sort of like a I don't know, uh acted as a lightning rod to say, all right, you're for or against this but then Realizing that there's many iterations. Yeah, there are a variety of views, and this has been one of the things I've been working on with people that I do have more direct personal, you know, touch in the flesh kind of interaction with who are you know hot to trot on these questions is try to get them to understand look, your understanding and view on this is not the only one that exists. And trying to get them off of that position is oftentimes hard. Like n because they're in a bubble. Right, they're listening to the same one, two, three, four, five guys who have podcasts or write articles or have a strong web you know, internet social media presence or something and they're just getting fed from those from that tribe over and over and they're like, Well that's the only way to look at this issue. Now, in fairness, maybe it'll prove that it's the only right way to look at the issue, but that's not the point I'm trying to make. The point is not the only way to look at the issue. Would you just look at all the fighting that's taking place? And it's it's rooted very s very strongly in theotomy And the very stripes of theotomy. There's not just one theonomic position. There's not. There are multitudes of positions even on theotomy. Are you a hardcore theatomist? you know, uh like like a legalist almost theonist. Are you a are you a general equity theonymist? Are you a kind of middle of the road theonymist? Are you theonomy light? There's at least four or five and if you want to See how those threads get pulled together. I would encourage you to listen to the Faith Debate show uh shows. We did a handful of shows that aired, I want to say, in the spring of I don't know the exact dates off the top of my head, but I think they were in the spring or early summer of twenty twenty three. You can find those shows. We did four or five shows. It was with me. Well Fiony is talking about um uh the o god. Right nomine, the root word there is is nomos law So it's about God's law. So it's about how you apply God's law. So that's what so for the listener, I'm not I'm not sure you know what it means, but for the listener, you know, we throw out a word like that, we probably should define it, help them define it. So it's it's rooted in the you can in the Latin I guess and and what those root words mean. So if you have theonomy, it's talking about how to apply God's law. Okay. So there are the the guys on the more uh uh um uh more st more exacting, more stringent uh part of the spectrum that are gonna say, we need to take the law as we find it in the old testament You know, the Torah, the books of Moses, the Pentateuch, right? The first five books of the Bible, we take the law that we find in in Deuteronomy, for example, and basically make that the Constitution of the United States. In fact, every country should make that their constitution. We should apply the law as it was written uh to and for Israel those thousands of years ago and apply it today in a very direct manner. Hardcore. Hardcore. And then and there's an argument for that. I reject it, but I underst I think I understand their argument. I respect it. I think that they're missing a few big pieces of how to understand the Bible. But anyway, but that said, that's one position. Then there's a no no no. We basically agree with that. However, we do understand that there are some cultural differences between then and now So we should not exactly take the Old Testament language and make it a constitution, but we should basically take the old language. Okay. From the Old Testament and and applied as our with with some slight modifications. So that would be a a a half step in a different different direction. Somebody that you and I know, Daniel Razdi fits into that category, by the way, based on the shows that we had uh earlier this year. So Uh if you want to get that position well articulated, the Daniel does a good job advocating for his position on that. Then you've got guys that are more like, well I think there's general pr so go to the other end of things. There's the general principles that we find in the uh just want to make sure my my computer's flashing a message. I want to make sure it's not messing it up the recording. I think we're good. Uh and the u the other end of the spectrum, well and the far, far end, it's off the spectrum really would be none of that applies at all. Anarchy should reign. But nobody who's a theonymist is in support of anarchy, okay? So that would be like probably a a farm a theonymist is gonna say that we we need to take What what are the biblical principles of morality that we need to apply that to society? So you have the umbrella. That's the theonomy light folks. They're gonna say there are general principles that we find in scripture. And those general principles should inform how we write our laws today. So it's not as exacting. It it's very very j general, generic. Um and maybe not as helpful as it could be, although I say that w I I probably fit closer to that category. than any other one. So I'm not sure that my position on this is all that helpful necessarily in the moment that we're in now anyway. And then there's the one that I'm beginning to gravitate towards is somewhere in the middle. Uh somebody like a Vern Poithrus, I would recommend reading stuff that Vern has written. Uh is pretty helpful in this regard, in my view. He's begun to help me shape my thinking a little bit, my biblical understanding. He would argue, and people like him would argue that the hardcore theonomists aren't wrong other than the fact that ancient Israel doesn't exist anymore. So we need we need to take that into account and then take the laws and see how they apply now given that we in America for instance are not ancient Israel. So we want to be like Ancient Israel insofar as it's appropriate for us to be like Ancient Israel, but in the ways in which we're not like ancient Israel, we need to make some changes because that was a once in Uh that was a unique situation in history. That was a one time only thing. There's w there's one ancient Israel. Right. Right, that never to be repeated. That's it. And so we got we I think that there's value in thinking about so that's at least what I just mentioned, three, four, five different ways of thinking about theonomy. So now the question is, those theonomy principles, how do we apply how do they apply to the Christian nationalism question Well, some people hear Christian nationalism and they hear middle twentieth century Central Europe language. They're hearing the kinds of language that that Hitler used with Nazi Germany. Okay. And so they don't like the language. It's loaded language. It's pejorative language. It's unhelpful language. It's sending exactly the wrong message. We don't want to use this kind of language And other than saying, well, we should be allowed to use language. It's not our fault that some knucklehead in central Germany seventy years ago, you know, kind of screwed up with that what those words are supposed to mean. Uh, I'm sensitive to that. I think that we need to win the language wars and I think we need to fight to defend the words that are uh the that uh need to be defended. But I don't think we need to be wasting our time and energy on words that don't need to be defended. We need to defend biblical understandings, biblical words and labels. I I don't think we need to get get hung up on on labeling when it's m uh merely semantics. I'm I'm willing to sacrifice semantics unless it's a biblical concept that's at at root. So Some some people think uh when they hear Christian nationalism they think uh the the the Pope is a higher authority than all presidents and prime ministers. Right. And that's some of the language in the Twitter wars, right? Or the X Wars, if you want to call people, oh, you're just asking for a Protestant Pope. And they're saying, no, that's not what we're saying at all. But without me even bringing it up, you went there. So it's the kind of thing people think of. And so people get mad at them for thinking of it. Well why? It's the kind of thing people think of. So you need to clarify your language, clarify your definitions. It's not their fault that you haven't been clear enough to keep them from making that leap. Right. So again, you know, and then there are people that aren't religious at all, they're not biblical at all, and you've got the you know, the literal skinheads, like actual white supremacists. And if you want to know what that they exist and you want proof that they exist, just open a gab account. Gab is a good social media platform as far as freedom of speech and there's some good stuff there on occasion, but I gotta say it's a free-for-all. And you get the best and the worst on Gab and those idiots are there. They exist. And so they'll call themselves Christian nationalists. When they when they mean Or they might call themselves nationalists, not necess not necessarily Christian, although some of them will call themselves Christian nationalists too because anybody can call themselves a Christian Right? Who's to say if they're a Christian or not? Well the Bible says. But if we're not gonna use the Bible as our standard, then anybody can call themselves a Christian, a lot of them do. So you got a bunch of you know, white supremacist skinheads out there calling themselves Christian nationalists and so people who are like concerned about that say, Well Christian nationalism, that's what it is, I don't like it and then you got people on the Stephen Wolfe side that well that's not what we're saying But you're using some of the same language. Okay, but that's guilt by association. Yeah, but still using some of the same language. It's not clarifying. It's a real problem. And so that's why, with all that background now, when this statement comes out, I'm like, okay This isn't going to solve the problem. But at least it'll center the discussion. Like we all point to this. Let's argue about the articles. Let's spend the next month arguing about Article I of the Christian Nationalist State. Let's do that on Twitter. But it didn't happen. And I think it didn't happen because these guys one, maybe they're not as clear in their own thinking as they think they are. That's possible. Yeah. I think also perhaps they're a little bit more concerned about the environment than they would even care to admit. So I think they hedged a little bit. I think there were times when they pulled their punches. Okay. You know, they they checked their swing, you know, but sadly they checked their swing and made contact anyway, and so they ended up hitting a dribbler back to the mound. to use a sports analogy. You know, they you know, they didn't swing for the fences. They they tried to hold up and they still made contact, but not really in a helpful way. I think that happens recurringly. That's not to say it's a total garbage. There's some good stuff here. I mean we said last show, how many times you agree? Oh, that's Amen. Hallelujah. I agree with that. That's good. That's good. That's good. But it's not quite clear enough in this part. And the point that they get to where it's not clear enough is the point where it needs to be clear. All the things that are so good that we're saying amen, Hallelujah to, everybody who's a Christian, a tr actual Christian, agrees with that. Yeah. But there's points of discontent. There's areas of disagreement. That's where we need clarity and that's where the statement just doesn't quite land its punches. Do you do you think some of it's to give uh give wiggle room to to time and place application of Christian nationalism? Maybe we'll maybe maybe that'll become more clear as we go through the statement. Yeah, that that could be what they're talking about. Um and it might be them trying to uh address the issue that this has become a significantly American debate in a lot of ways. They're trying to say it's not only an American debate and so I kinda want to give them that that out. Except you'll see when we get later into the the uh statement, they they kind of rob themselves of that out. Okay. Probably by accident, right? So I don't know. I think with that old cliche, if you try to be all things to all people, you end up being uh nothing to anyone, or something like that. I I think that's kind of what's happened here. I think they're trying so hard to be inclusive to everybody who's involved in this debate that they that they ended up not really moving the needle. Okay. Sadly. Tent too big. Yeah, tent yeah, tent too big. So anyway, well that's the whole show. Good. But that's that's that's been good I think to provide the context. So now next week we'll actually get into article Three. And uh we'll we'll and that'll give you the listeners some context if you've heard this. And a lot of people who listen to the podcast, listen to them in sequence. So it'll be really helpful for you to listen to them all in a row. This will be a nice little Thanks. Anyway, David Forcey, I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for listening. Follow us online at Household of FaithInCrist. com and WFMD. com. Till next week. God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com.