This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. Faith debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner. Weighing in with a master of divinity from Reformed Theological. Seminary, the faith debate master of ceremonies. Troy Skinner. Today marks the end of an Odyssey. Seriously If you've been tracking along with this show over the many months, um, not going way, way back like fourteen years ago, but just going back to, well, I don't know, some point early to mid last year, I think it was. Tom Weil was a guest on this show, longtime friend of the show, longtime friend of mine, and we discussed the book and movie The Shack And we decided to kind of role play and so Tom took the position of pro Shaq and I took the position of anti Shaq and we kinda went back and forth. Um at the time I was also uh preparing and delivering messages related to uh Sunday school lessons and sermons on the shack and I had all that audio stored up and I was expecting to get to it sooner than I did But I just got to it kind of recently. And so you heard those sermon messages, the first of them back in March, but then we were interrupted by a four-part series, a w a wonderful interruption. John Schweitzer and Morgan Fokkenhauer joined the show to talk about um soul sleep and issues related to that. And then uh we got back into our Shack series um um in the middle part of April. going into the latter part of April. But then I got into this weird timing thing where these messages that I had, they weren't uh they didn't time out where they fit easily into one or even two shows. And I was stopping in the middle of a show or rejoining a sermon in the middle uh a next show. Anyway, finally everything's gonna s time out and and and match up where it needs to be this week. Everything finally comes to a final head, uh if you will. Uh is that the right way to say this? I don't know if that's the right way to say it but anyway, I said it and there it is. So Here we are the last half of a message and the last part of this Odyssey of Messages. This message is called The Good, the Bad and the Beautiful Truth. It focuses on the third epistle of John verses one You heard the first half last week. Here's the second half this week. And by the way, let me be the first, perhaps the only person to wish you a very happy Sunday after Mother's Day. When my daughter would get good grades in school, that felt good to me as her father. But when I would get a testimony, when I would be told at those parent-teacher conferences, Danny is an absolute treat to have in class. She is well-mannered and high-spirited. She is a leader among her peers. Well, that gave me great joy. When she would score points for her team in a track meet, or she would be named to the County All-Star Basketball Team, that felt good to me as her father. But when her coach pulled me aside to give me a testimony, to tell me that Danny's a competitor, she sets the tone for the whole team during practice. She is a captain of this team in part because she outworks everyone. That sort of report brings great joy. Because it's a sort of report that is a testimony of character. In moments like that, that she is most Christ-like. And she wrestles with sin as we all do. But hearing a testimony like this about her Tells me that she's on a path of truth and walking in it. I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in the truth. And believe it or not, this is how your pastors feel about you. And it's how God feels about his children. And it's how John feels about Gaius. In verses 2 through 4, We see that testimonies of walking in the truth bring joy. I wonder what the next verses, verses 5 through 10, will tell us. Let's refresh our memory. Let's read verses 5 through 10. Beloved, you are faithful in what you are doing for the brothers and sisters, even though they are strangers to you. They have told or testified to the church about your love. You will do well to send them on their way in a manner that honors God. It was for the sake of the name that they went out, receiving no help from the pagans. We ought therefore to show hospitality to such people so that we may work together for the truth. I wrote to the church, but Doctor fees who loves me first will not welcome this. So when I come, I will call attention what he is doing, spreading malicious nonsense about us. Not satisfied with that, he even refuses to welcome other believers. He also stops those who want to do so and puts them out of the church. These six verses offer us a compare and a contrast, good versus bad, truth versus error, love versus hatred, Gaius versus diatrophies. Now I told you that Gaius means rejoicing, and he lives up to his name. Diatrophies means God nurtured. With a name like this, we should expect more of Diatrophys. But the testimony about him is not good. He fails to live up to his name. Now let's look again at Gaius. He is good to other believers, even those he doesn't know well. He loves them, showing these strangers hospitality. Now John in verse 6 he says, You will do well to send them on their way in a manner that honors God. This is John's way, the ancient way, of saying, please send them on their way in a manner that honors God. And John makes this request, knowing full well that Gaius will. He is simply encouraging him to do what he knows he will do, to continue to walk in the truth as he has been. Now look at diatrophies. He is not good to other believers. He ignores John, the elder, except to badmouth him. He doesn't welcome other believers in hospitality. He gossips about them, kicks them out the door. In other words, his testimony is of a man who spreads false testimony about others and who hinders the testimony of the gospel. You know, for more than 30 years, Tom Baudette has been keeping the light on for folks at Motel 6. Perhaps you're familiar with the radio campaign. We'll keep the light on for you. That campaign's been around since 1986. It's a mighty long time. Even so, there was no Motel 6 1900 years earlier. There were small ins in larger towns, but accommodations could be tough to come by On a long journey. And itinerant preachers of the gospel, these fellow travelers on the path of the truth, they wouldn't always have money bulging out of their pockets to pay for any ends. It might have been along their way. And so hospitality was hugely important. This is true even today, but arguably even more true in that context. Now again, with this is the context, with this being the environment, Diatrophes not only won't take in fellow Christians himself, he won't let anyone else do so either. You take in a traveling missionary, fine. Just get your butt out of here. Won't have any of that where I'm in charge, says Diatrophys. This sounds pretty bad. It's even worse than it sounds. Look again at verses seven and eight. It was for the sake of the name that they went out, receiving no help from pagans. We ought, therefore, to show hospitality to such people so that we may work together for the truth. These traveling gospel workers were out there traveling in order to glorify Christ for the sake of the name. They were in need of hospitality from Christian brothers and sisters in order to avoid becoming unnecessarily stumbling blocks for unbelievers by appearing to be money-grubbing false prophets to the pagans. And they ought to be helped, it says, because all believers in Christ are fellow workers, working together for the truth, for Christ, by demonstrating love. When loving other believers, we participate in the work that they do. For the sake of the name. The testimony about Gaius? Because he gets it right. He is welcoming, filled with loving kindness, and supportive of other Christian workers. The testimony about diatrophies. So he gets it wrong. He is rejecting, full of jealousy, maliciously tears down Christian workers. One has a testimony of hospitality and love for others. One has a testimony of inhospitability, of being inhospitable, put it that way, and having love only for himself. Which one are you? This is pretty much the question I take from verses eleven and twelve. Beloved, do not imitate what is evil but what is good. Anyone who does what is good is from God. Anyone who does what is evil has not seen God. Demetrius is well spoken of by, gets a good testimony from everyone, and even by the truth itself. We also speak, testify well of him, and you know that our testimony is true. Don't imitate what is evil. Don't imitate diatrophies. He speaks evil words. He's inhospitable. He hinders others wishing to be hospitable. He expels from his congregation his adversaries. Those who are walking in the truth, sadly, are his adversaries. Diotrephes fails to live up to his name. Gaius does live up to his name. Are you living up to yours? Always remember, all that you do as a Christian is for the sake of the name. The name. The name of Christ. The name you now bear as a co-heir. If you say you are a Christian, then you say that you bear the name of Christ. What is the testimony of others regarding what you are doing? For the sake of the name. And which one is Demetrius? Is he imitating evil like Diatrophys, or is he imitating good like guys? If he is doing evil, then Demetrius has not seen God. And it's fair to assume that maybe there was a time when Demetrius had not seen God. His name means belonging to Demeter. Demeter was the Greek goddess of fruits and crops. So Demetrius was a good pagan name, perhaps indicating that Demetrius grew up in a pagan home. But good for Demetrius, by the time this letter is written, he has seen God. And John provides the testimony of three witnesses to make the point. And we know of the biblical importance of three witnesses from Deuteronomy 19, verse 15, and 1 John 1915. 5 verse 8. And these three witnesses for Demetrius are all the people who know him. They say that he is a good ambassador for Christ. The facts themselves say this too. And John personally vouches for him as a representative of the leadership of Christ's church. That's pretty good. Well, believe it or not, we can't identify with Demetrius. He is a member of the early church more than 1900 years ago, and yet. He's in exactly the same place as you and me. He stands there as an example, next to two examples. Is he walking in the truth like Gaius? Or rejecting the truth, even fighting against the truth like Diatrophys? We stand next to these same two examples. Now for Demetrius, the testimony is good. There is a good report from the three witnesses. What is the testimony of these three witnesses about you? The people who know you as you live out your daily life, they say, what about you? The facts themselves, the cold, hard, hard, brute facts of your life. They say, what about you? The leaders of your church, who should know your life rather intimately, if you'll let them, they say what about you? Now I titled this message The Good, The Bad, and the Beautiful Truth, because it shines a spotlight on the good. It shines a spotlight on the bad. And it shines a spotlight on the beautiful truth. I almost titled this message, Beloved. Testify the truth. Because that's what I sincerely want you to take with you as you exit the sanctuary today. I want us to understand the truth. And testify to it. And here it is. Let me tell you plainly, beloved. Testify the truth. The truth. Testify a beloved. I call you beloved because that's who you are. It's the truth. Jesus Christ surrendered his glory in heaven and his life on a cross because he loves you. You are beloved. The life of Gaius stood in testimony to this truth. Does your life stand in similar testimony Be encouraged. Gaius was not beloved because of his testimony. He had his testimony because he was beloved. And he walked in it. Are you trusting in the blood of Jesus Christ for your salvation? You are beloved. Walk in it. Concerned that your testimony might be more like that of Diotrophes, not too late to repent. Jesus paid the penalty that's due to you for your sin. Because he loves you. You are beloved. Now go and sin no more. Begin to have a new testimony if you need one. And don't forget for the true Christian The one who is beloved of God. This is your testimony. Imagine you're saying these words to yourself. This is your testimony. I was a sinner. I still struggle with sin. There are times when the testimony of my life brings great joy to others. There are times when I must admit this is not so. But God calls me his beloved. He looks at me. And he sees the life of Jesus. Because Christ is standing before the Father. Giving testimony about me. Like John gives about Demetrius in verse 12 of his third letter. And this is what Jesus says about me. His chosen and beloved disciple. Jesus, the Son of God, says to the Father, I speak well of him. I speak well of him, Father. I speak well Of him, and you know that my testimony is true. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that your Holy Spirit moves us to embrace your truth, helps us to recognize a sin in our life, and points us to the solution for that sin. We know that you have made everything that exists in this universe, including us, that you have a plan. And a purpose in all that you do. Help us not to be buffed down. by the things that have played this in the past, that look forward with hope for the eternal glory that awaits Christ. It's in his name that we pray. Amen. And that brings us to the conclusion of the Grand Odyssey. And you know what? It's a second I mentioned in the beginning of today's show that this was kind of the wrap-up of a relatively recent Odyssey. If you've been following and tracking along with this show over the years, it goes back even deeper than that. Uh way back when, when I first started to to share uh some sermon messages that uh that I had opportunity to preach in the area uh over the the the many months uh over the past number of years. Uh the very first message I ever shared on this program was from First John. And and and now looking back I realize that if you were to have listened to all of those shows if you Find all the old podcasts. They're out there somewhere, I know. I don't know if they're all still on our website, but they're out there somewhere. Uh you would find sermon messages for all of 1 John. All of second John, all of third John. Altogether, I'm not sure how many messages it might be. It might be a dozen, uh something like that, I'm I'm I'm guessing. Uh and since I typically have to break it up into two shows per, it might be a two dozen shows. Twenty five, thirty shows maybe even, 'cause a couple of times I had to go into a third show, um, because some of the churches that invite me to preach, they expect the sermon to be you know, forty-five minutes to an hour. Other places I go, they expect the sermon even for twenty five to thirty minutes, so you you adjust accordingly. So anyway Um, here's what's coming up on the show in in coming months. This is what we're working on and it's what I expect to have happen. I'm not sure of the order in which it'll happen, but something along this line. Uh I think we're gonna have a series of shows where we talk about Aquinas and his theological outlook, what how it's impacted the way we view things now, how it's impacted the church over history, what we should make of it in our own lives. It's uh We're going to do a SWOT analysis. If you're in the business world, you kinda know what that means. SWOT Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats. We're going to Look at the strengths of the American Church. Actually we're gonna be more specific than than that. We're gonna look at the strengths of the church in Frederick, the weaknesses of the church in Frederick, opportunities facing the church in Frederick, and the threats facing uh the church in Frederick. We're also working on a a series of shows uh on the role of women in ministry. Um John Sweitzer is helping to line that up, I believe. We think we're going to do a a series of shows on the power of prayer and prayer ministry, so you can be looking forward to that. And I don't think I've ever done it on this show. Uh I've done it in other contexts and it's been a long time since it's happened and so I feel like I can finally get through it. I was in New York, I was on Manhattan Island when uh nine eleven happened back in two thousand one. And I have never been able to get through telling that story without kind of getting emotional and having a hard time finishing it. But like I said, enough time. So as we approach the anniversary this year I think I might uh spend some time doing a recollection, remembrance of that, and try to weave in some thoughts about what that's meant for faith, my faith I guess, the faith in general, the ecumenical movement, uh for better or for worse. So these are some of the things. That's about I don't know, what is that, four, five, six different ideas that are in the hopper are being worked on, and some of them are closer to to coming to fruition than others. So uh we we'll have those coming up. I think the Aquinas shows actually might be what you hear next starting next week. We'll see if if I'm prescient on that. If you would like to make sure what's gonna be on next week, in a few days you're gonna see Maybe even later today you're going to see a posting on the Faith Debate page about what's coming up on the Faith Debate. So go to WFMD. com Keyword faith or hit the drop down menu of shows on the website. Hit the the Faith Debate button. It'll take you to our page. There you'll find links to the podcast like what you're listening to right now will be up there within forty-eight hours usually, sometimes within twenty-four hours. Well twenty-four is pushing it. Uh at the at the earliest usually. Uh and also we have uh a rundown of shows that have been on featured on the Faith Debate in recent weeks and also kinda looking ahead the next week or two. So hopefully by the uh the end of today or sometime tomorrow we'll we'll have a better sense of what's gonna be on next week and it'll be posted for you. Alright? So anyway, thanks so much for your for listening all these many years and all this time today. Take care of yourself. Be good. 167 and a half hours from now, we'll do it all again. Until then, God bless.