Good morning, welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930, WFMD. I'm Froy Skinner, your longtime host of the Faith Debate Can find me online at WFMD. com and at Household of Faith in Christ dot com because Household of Faith in Christ is the church study pastor. Join this week as has become A pattern by the Razvis, Imran, known to his friend as Raz Razvi and his son Daniel Razvi. They co-pastor a church in the Thermon area. It's called the Church that meets the Imrans. They also have a ministry that is called Conquered by Love Ministries online at ConcordBy Love dot org. And we are joined this week by the publisher of a book that is called The Last Day's Pride Parade. Author is uh said to be a Tom Maccabeas. I'm not sure if I know Tom Maccabeas personally or not, but we have the publisher here uh to talk about uh this book. So um it's interesting because this show we're recording it in advance and it's gonna air long past the month of June, but we're actually recording it during um uh what I like to call goeth before a fall month. So we're in the we're in the middle of goeth before a fall month and uh we've got this book about the last day's pride parade and the return of the Lord And um I'm gonna just th throw an open-ended question to um uh to our our our publisher here. And it's interesting. I want to talk about that in a minute, maybe, but uh Greg Windsor is the is the publisher, and the opening question is why would you want to publish Such a book? Well, I think it's really critical because if if there is if there is something related to scripture, prophecy, that many Christians are not aware of uh it's very important to get that word out. You know, now what what people do with it, you know, that's a secondary question, but you know There's there's things in here that I believe uh are not are are rarely talked about. Actually there's some things that I don't believe uh have really been focused on for like centuries and um I think it's important to get the message out be because it relates to eschatology and also relates to what's going on in In our time which I believe is unprecedented. There's something going on now that is pretty much unprecedented. And and all these people in this room, we all agree that the LGBT agenda is evil and anti Christ and and all of that That's not really exactly a groundbreaking Christian doctrine. Right. I think what's different about this this book, maybe more of how it ties into some historical events as well we've seen before, right? Right. See see p yes, most Christians are pr if they haven't realized by now, you know, there must be in a woke stupor, if they haven't realized what's going on now. But so it's it's one thing to say, okay, the Bible speaks generally, as in the days of Lot, so be the coming of the Son of Man. And this is definitely anti-biblical, anti-Christ. But there are unique things which I do believe relate to s more specific eschatology beyond just the general uh environment of antichrist or persecution, which has been throughout you know throughout history. But there's something very unique in this um with this whole movement, this whole rainbow movement. Now the uh it's a new ish book, but it's not a brand new book. If you look at the copyright it it it came out in uh Go With Before a Fall Month last year. Last year, yes. Um so was that timing just a coincidence or you were aiming to have a timeout so that, you know, to to get the attention that I think people need to be aware of, you know, this message that hey let's there are things in Scripture that we need to look at and there's things in history that we need to know about in order to um you know in in order to know you know the times that we're living in. So like you know the sons of Issachar to be able to discern the times that we're living in. Now a centerpiece um in the uh in the book is about the re reference repeated references and and allusions drawn from the uh the book the the period surrounding the book of Maccabees. Right Um and so you're making a historical connection. You're talking about the book of Daniel, the time of the Maccabean Revolt, uh, the time of Christ, and now the time that we're in, and so That's kind of I guess what your to Daniel's point before, that's what you're laying claim to is this is your contribution to the to the conversation. This is the s that's the thing you think that maybe Christians, people in the church are missing. They're not making those historical connections. Is that accurate? Okay. Just about everybody who studies prophecy, Matthew twenty-four, uh, Daniel Regardless of whatever persuasion you have, if you study any commentary, Daniel chapter 8, Daniel chapter 11, there's one person in the Old Testament who typifies this Antichrist figure, and that was the Emperor Antiochus IV, Antiochus Epiphanes. He proclaims himself God. Now most people are are are aware of study prophecy. You know, he goes into the temple, he desecrates the temple, he kills the Jews, he persecutes the Jews, he says, I am God. But what what many Christians do not realize, there's lots of historical evidence that he also had a sexualized agenda. He was forcing it upon God's people. Uh, you know, th th there was there was nudity. He he built they built a uh a state qu uh a quote statum, sort of the YMCA, if you know what I'm talking about. There's nudity. There's homosexuality right on the temple grounds. It was in your face. And and and um the biggest thing about it is that th the the um the the Jews were grieved because the young people They were they were they were influencing the young people in the in uh in the in the Book of Maccabees he talks about you know, the young people were drawn into this. There was um an L and all this happened at the time of the abomination of desolation. So you have two two events, this major cataclysmic event that we all agree upon. You know, most most Bible commentators agree this was this was cataclysmic regardless of whatever persuasion you have. Then then you have at the same time a uh a forced sexual agenda upon the Jews. With parades and everything, right? Yeah, oh yeah. Now now that's not the worst but the worst part was The Jews were forced to march in parades. Imagine that. A parade where men are dressing like women. A parade where there's uh lewd acts going on. Think about that. A parade Where um they had to celebrate. That's the word. You must celebrate this this God of sexual lawlessness. He's the God of transgression, lawlessness. So th there's this shocking historical information that prior to our time really wouldn't have mattered, you know, if you're studying If you're a Puritan studying in you know the sixteen eleven Bible and you read about this, it's like, yeah, you know, but but it's going on on a scale throughout the whole entire world. So it's shocking, yeah, this the information. Yeah, that that's the voice of uh Greg Windsor, publisher of the book The Last Days Pride Parade and the Return of the Lord, which came out uh last year. Uh I hadn't heard about it until this year and and I have uh read it. And it and if you're not a reader and you're interested, you know, um It it's not uh an imposing thing to have to read. It's more of a booklet than a book. I mean you can sit down and read it in one sitting, which is what I did. So it's it's it's very doable to do that. Very informative Yeah, I just want to make a comment for those of you listeners who may not be familiar, um uh we several people have mentioned the Book of Maccabees on the show today. That is not part of the Bible. It is actually published and bound into some Bibles as like an extra book in there. It's part of the Apocrypha Um and it's not historically being considered canon by by Christians. Right. But that does not mean that it has no historical use and many uh historians would agree that it that it it's very accurate in in the historical depictions of what happens And there certainly are many biblical truths that you can garner from it, but it is not the word of God such that the book of Daniel is. So just just so you're you're aware of listening. And this and this oh do you have more to say? No, I just we have we have reason to believe that it's that it's an accurate historical uh record, but it's just not scriptura, I thought. And it was highly uh valued by the Jews, it was actually part of the Septuagint You know, from Alexandria, you know, when they they so the Jews actually held Similar to it being part of the Roman Catholic Bible today though, right? It wasn't considered Scripture, but it was important religious canon. Right. So just because it was in the Septuagint doesn't mean it was canon. Right. It wasn't one of the books stored up in the temple, for example, right? So it wasn't you know when we talk about the the Bible of the of the early church, the Jesus' Bible was the Greek Septuagint, but they understood which books were considered God's word and which books were Other important things. Right. So just to clarify to clarify. Now I know uh anybody who hears us talking about this who happens to be Roman Catholic is is a little bit peeved at us, but Uh we don't have time to get into the all of the inner workings of all that, but historically, uh I I would say it's uh pretty persuasively the truth is on what we're saying here right now on this show. We could have a separate space debate talking about that if we And it was in the original 1611 KJV. So just for the record, that that might sway some people. Yeah, it it's in some well it depends on which which version of the KJV. It's in some and not in some others, right? So we're not going to get into whole KJV only in as only as some uh conversations here either. uh right now. So this is the faith debate and in the spirit of that there were three things that struck me uh about this that I'll throw out there. We can tackle them uh you know one at a time but I'll put them out there now so you kinda know what's coming. That was one of my things I noted that a lot of the argumentation in this book, uh The Last Day's Pride Parade, it's drawing as it's kind of its authoritative source, if you will, from Maccabees as opposed to necessarily drawing from what actually is the word of God. And so, you know, that I took note of that and I'm not sure that I I loved that as a reader of it. Now the other thing is it seems clear to me that the the perspective that's put forward on this eschatological framework is a dispensational, premillennial dispensational point of view. So those who aren't dispensational point of view, they might have some qualms uh with the argumentation and and the way that the the the flow of the logic of the argument is laid out uh in the book. Let's start with those two. Uh w is that fair? It's a dis it's pretty much a dispensational point of view, this organization here. I I intentionally avoided getting into models of eschatology, which is a huge subject. Actually the information in the book you could fit it into different eschatologies. But it's it was really about just getting the information out. So I I intentionally avoided but it is a futurist, yes, it it's a futurist Right. Yeah, I didn't mean to say that you were making a dispensational argument and drawing attention to that, right? But As you and so i I didn't even notice it right away. Right. But I was about twenty, thirty percent into the book and I was like, okay, I think he's coming at this from a dispensation framework. And then as I continued to read, I realized okay So there's there's some inferences, some implications. So that so that was an accurate read at least. What about the uh the dependence on arguing from Maccabees and that historical Point of events. Okay. Actually it's not really dependent on that because when Jesus quoted when you see the abomination of desolation, his his readers, everybody understood that that that event happened from the book of Daniel as recorded in the Book of Maccabees. So there there there really was no um uh this is not really a historical fact it's been in dispute Yeah there was no dispute and y Jesus Jesus attended uh the rededication of the temple, the festival of rededication, which kind of morphed into Hanukkah. You know, it kind of got morphed into that. But there was the rededication of the temple. So None of this was really in dispute. The only reason why I highlight the Book of Maccabees is because the those this historic information uh has to be put out there as like the data. Now, you know, the early church the first Bible commentary ever written outside of the Apostles was Hippolytus. This is the Yeah, this is this is like in in very, very early on. And he mentions this. He mentions Antiochus Epiphanes. He mentions Uh it actually he mentions the pride parade of 168. I mean he didn't he doesn't put it like that of course. But but it but he connects it with Revelation thirteen, the mark of the beast, because it had to wear a symbol. It was about symbolism. They they had to wear a symbol upon their head. So the early church there's good evidence that they recognized that uh this event that wasn't really in dispute and they connected it to to, you know, the Antichrist and they used that term, the Antichrist. I know some people uh take issue with that. But the early church throughout the literature uses the p the singular the Antichrist as opposed to you know many Antichrists. Also um other uh churches stories I I think it was like a Jerome mentions this again uh of uh Antiochus Epiphanes. So everybody understood that he was like he was a model or an archetype of of that. So um I understand your point. The only reason why why I why uh uh the author felt the necessit the necessity is because n so many people are unaware of it. And it has so many um connections uh to the abomination of desolation because really how do we get our definition of that term? What does that term mean? In other words, the disciples knew exactly what that meant. It's like if I say 9-11, we don't have to explain what that meant. And it's the same kind of thing. So um Yeah, I the the author felt the necessity to give that historic in information, but but it doesn't really rely upon it doesn't hinge on the Book of Maccabees. be b because actually uh there's a subsequent book coming out, uh The Rainbow Antichrist, which ties in many other uh parts of the New Testament where it uh connects. That's the voice of Greg Windsor. I'm Troy Skinner. You've also heard so far from Daniel Rasley. Haven't heard from Imron, so let's see if we can pull Imron into the conversation here. Well for me This uh book was really more of a of historical value. I didn't realize that the pride, praise, and things that are going on today happened back then and like a lot of things in scripture where we have a a little fulfillment and then a big fulfillment. That's what I feel like it's happened back then. It was a little fulfillment of the pride praise of what's happening around that area and now the pride praise are all over the world in Europe and in America and and uh you know it's it's funny that Russia's fighting fighting against these ripe raids where Russia's uh deemed the the villain in in in today's media. But again, I think there this is more of a Uh it was an eye-opening for me that it was a a small fulfillment of of prophecy to a large fulfillment of prophecy now that we're living, I think, in the end times Yeah to the to the futurism type of thing, I mean as as you know, we've talked about this before. I'm I'm more of a futurist, not a sensational necessarily, but I I believe in a future tribulation period uh uh uh that's that's that's coming or upon us. And I I don't think uh 'cause I've I've heard the um I've I've been in conversations with this the publisher before on this topic. I think there is a lot of value to be gained from somebody who has uh a a a not not a futurist view, but more of a preterist view. i if if nothing else than to not let history repeat itself because you can see things happen in history and you can see it happening again today, n only the more so And you know, we didn't open our eyes to say this is a pattern that the devil has been using in the past and it's continuing to use and he's even more successful at it now than he was two or three thousand years ago. Um I think I think there's definitely a value to be gained regardless of your eschat eschatological view Um and I in fact I've heard him answer questions from Predr uh preterist saying, Well why why does this apply to me? 'Cause I don't think the tribulation is coming next year and in fifty years or whatever. Yeah, and we're throwing a lot of terms out there and we're I'm not gonna take time to t to uh define them all other than to uh frame this conversation. Uh we talked about the futurist view, which is basically the uh the lion's share of things that are talking about in the Bible are still to come in a future right before the s coming of second coming of Christ and how that plays out with the timing of a of a tribulation or a great apostasy or uh if there's a rapture, or things like that. There's some disagreement on all those sorts of things. And those f all fall within the historic the uh dispensational premillennial. Uh Daniel seems to have, from shows I've we've and conversations we've had in the past, seems to be more in the historic pre-mill camp with some dispensational flavors. uh mixed in. Um and uh I'm I'm kinda guessing that Imran maybe is in that same milieu, although I haven't had the same f depth of conversations with him, but you guys are at the same church and believing the same thing. Yeah. And I would be more in the uh the all millennial uh probably with a with more of an idealist If you know if people know these terms, you kind of know the players now a little bit. More of an idealist uh view. And as far as preterism, preterism has to do with whether or not everything has already happened or not. I would fall into the partial preterist camp Um meaning that a lot of it has, and and I would uh I would argue, again, this isn't the point of this show, but just the because we're talking about eschatology in in the context of this this uh this book that we're talking about. Uh everything that has to have happened for Christ's return has, but it but obviously it hasn't in all the ways that it will because he hasn't returned yet. But he could but before I finish my next breath, he could return because everything that needed to happen for him that happened so that would be where where I am. And that's not where this book is, and so that's where some of these these questions and these thought threads are coming from And I've noticed, and that's why uh that was one of my the the detells, if you will, I've noticed that those are are more dispensational, more futurist in the orientation. uh have more of a willingness, it seems to me, and it could be just my personal experiences in reading and conversations, more of a willingness to turn to things like the Didache, the book of Enoch, the book books of Maccabees Um you know, um even and I'm not s suggesting this in this room, but even Gnostic sources, uh the the lost gospels, you know, those sorts of things Um they tend to draw from some of the or even the early church fathers for that matter, and draw their arguments from those sorts of sources and and and ha make those more the centerpiece of the argument as opposed to citing chapter and verse and making a distinctly biblical argument. I've noticed that. And so um I uh that might sound like an accusation. If you take it as one, defend yourself. If not, just interact with it. Okay. The author, since since you raised this point, uh in retrospect, yes, the author probably should have amplified Second Thessalonians because um the the the the passage on Second Thessalonians because If you read that, actually the book of Daniel is only quoted, I think, four times in the whole New Testament. Three in the you know Luke 21, Matthew 24, Mark 13. And one at a time, Second Thessalonians And lo loads of illusions in the book of Revelation. Revelation doesn't actually quote any part of the Old Testament but alludes to it throughout lots of illusions, right. So Second Thessalonians, this is where which directly connects to the things in the last days pride parade. So it says, that day will not come, speaking of the return of the Lord, until the the the re the rebellion comes first or the falling away. And the man of lawlessness is is revealed, who opposes and exalts himself against every so-called God, so that he takes his seat in the temple of God, proclaiming himself to be God. Okay. So there's a quote from Daniel chapter 11. Daniel chapter eleven is is is supposedly w it it's one of the most detailed prophecies in in the whole entire Bible. I think it was like twenty prophecies that Antiochus fulfilled. And once again, partially, he fulfilled all these different things except right up to this final to a few final points. So that's like uncanny that he fulfilled all these things and then there's this last final fulfillment of the final Antichrist. So to me that's that's strong um that's strong evidence. that we do need to go to Daniel and get this sort of triangulation theologically from the Book of Maccabees and of course from other sources. Um also uh another evidence is uh in the New Testament like 2 Peter, the book of Jude, when it talks about false teachers in the last days. It mentions about surprise, surprise, about sensuality, sexuality. There's three passages in the New Testament that speak of the, I think it's 2 Peter, Jude. And you'll notice that they talk about false teachers bring in a sensuality, which is exactly what we see going on. You know, wholesale churches, wholesale rejection of, you know, God's plan. Uh there's a bunch of other New Testament times, but but I'll just give a moment if you guys want to uh Digest that or ask questions. Uh and and y it's None of us would would dispute that you can use the Oxford English Dictionary to make a point or the Britannica to make a point or Google to make a point. Uh there there are more and less authoritative sources and on the highest end of that scale will be the inerrant word of God. Right And as long as everyone's super clear that well this other book, Maccabees or or Enoch like you say, or or the writings of E uh Evie White uh uh or Ellen White um these are not scripture. I don't think there's uh I don't have a problem with somebody making a doctrinal point based on the writings Calvin or somebody else. I wouldn't even put Ellen White's writings in the same category as Maccabees or Enoch for that matter. Sure and and and You y yeah I I think it I think it's it's short sighted to say that that these other sources have no value at all. But yes, your arguments should be grounded in the scripture from the beginning and I think that's That's a fair critique, but I but I I I think we it I I don't think we've established that there's a disagreement from the author of this book on on that subject. Now we're basically out of time for this episode. In in next week's uh episode, I think we're going to kick off with some of the historical context and and and and the the the the historical line. you know, connecting the dots in history that take us through Old Testament times, the book of Maccabees, uh the the first century, uh today. Like we'll we'll talk about that uh next time, but we have uh like a a minute or two uh and we haven't had a chance to promote. If somebody is interested in interacting with what has been written here in the uh the last days pride parade and the return of the Lord It's a mouthful of a title, by the way. If a tendency you just call it the Last Days Pride Parade for short. Yes. But the and the Return of the Lord is actually in the title. Anyway, if somebody wants to get a copy, what do they do? Uh you can go to Barnes and Noble's. Uh they're one of the publishers who did not shut it down. I you know, th thank you, Barnes and Nobles. I didn't shut it down. Um you can go to Barnes and Nobles. Uh if you want to interact in the in the debates about these kind or you know, as far as the forum, uh you can go to Worthy News and look up the subject, Rainbow Antichrist. There's a forum going on. And I have uh if you have uh uh about ten seconds, I got one other thing. Uh those of you who listeners, this is Daniel Rasby. Um there's a unique event coming up in the next couple of weeks on September 7th and 8th of twenty twenty four. I will be conducting the world premiere of a ballet that I've written on the story of Esther from the Bible and that'll be in in Rockville. You can go to Estherballet. com and get tickets. There's a discount code Hadassah if you know, you know. Um and you can put that code in and you'll get uh a good discount on the tickets there. But it should be a a wonderful time I'll be conducting and we'll have a ballet company there as well. So Estherballet. com uh discount code Hadassah September 7th and 8th And one takeaway is don't be a Heyman. So they're sneaking some uh shivilefs into the discount code there, so only those who know can get the discount. Anyway, and um Barnes and Noble I guess online. You can go to Barnes and Noble dot com. If you go to the local Barnes and Noble store, will you find it at the store on the shelf or it's online? But it's coming out in print. So the book again is called The Last Days Pride Parade and The Return of the Lord, uh published by Greg Windsor, uh but the author name is Tom Maccabees, so that's what you're looking for. This is the Faith Debate. You heard the voices of Imran Razvy, Daniel Razvi, I'm Troy Skinner. Again, we thank you for listening. Encourage you to find us online. Wfmd. com and Household of FaithInChrist. com are the best places to go for that. And again, next week we're going to continue this conversation. We we alluded to some of the history, but we didn't really get a chance to drill down on that. So we're going to do that one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours from right about now. Until then, you be good to yourself and God bless.