Welcome to the Frederick Face Debate on Frederick's News Radio. 930 WFMD. Protest of Putman, Flumbing, and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner. I want to encourage you to visit us online. WFMB. com keywordfaith brings you to the Faith Debate blog page. My blog is your blog. So you email me. By the way, I've I've been told that The the email that has been used for a long time now, for these seven or eight years of us doing this show, that email is not working the way it's supposed to. So don't email me at Troy at WFMD. com anymore, you have to email me at Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. So I apologize, you have to type a lot more letters, but Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com will get the job done. You send me something even loosely related to what we talk about on this show and I will post it up there. Part of that is because it gives us a chance to be interactive. If we don't take calls, we have to record this show in advance because guys like Jonathan are busy working on Sundays Uh so we wouldn't be able to do the show otherwise. They claim that that's working, but you know, I don't know if it's actual work. Right. So so it gives us a chance to be interactive at some level, but it also it's a chance for me to put a lot of fresh content up on the website with practically no work whatsoever on my part. I just take what you email me and I post it on the website. Makes my life real easy. Anyway, what have I been reading lately? I know Jonathan cares. What have I been reading? Actually, fans of this show would probably be a fan of this book Christian Spirituality, Five Views of Sanctification. Five Views of Sanctification. Edited by Donald Alexander Uh it's got uh a Wesleyan view, a um a Lutheran view, a reformed view, a Pentecostal view, and a contemplative view. And you you're you're either Wesleyan or Reformed? Somewhere in between those? Based on the what I read in this book, I would fit uh pretty squarely in the reformed camp of Oh would you? Yeah. Yeah. Even though some of those guys would uh would not accept you, but that's okay. That's all right. I accept you. Thank you very much. Yes. Alright, on our show that's the voice of Jonathan Sweise, a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And uh you gonna describe what I'm wearing today or do we get a pass? Indeed, you have a uh a very classic maroon with paisley tie with a uh with a dirty green shirt, right? So it's kind of a very classic kind of upper you know, to uh upper echelon kind of a look to it. It's it's kinda it it looks like your wife dress you at this time. If you can't have cloud. Yeah, well you did well this time around. All right, so now we got all the niceties out of the way, and thank you for being patient. Our guest is we are uh thrilled to have with us an esteemed author We usually don't have authors like the third or fourth author in our seven years career show. That's correct. We don't have authors on the show. It's it's rare that they're uh willing to come into the the line of honor. That's right. Uh author of Fatal Embrace, Mark Braberman Um Mark is um uh was raised Jewish. Do you still describe yourself as as a Jew? Yeah, I'm when I get up and preach in churches these days So I have learned that I have to sort of start with a a clarification which is I have not converted to Christianity, whatever whatever that means. I am a faithful Jew. Completely connected to my heritage and to my people and probably even more so now than I ever have been before in my life. Interesting Well here's uh here's a little blurb that I unfolded to give uh you know Jonathan because I know you don't know who he is, so I'm gonna help you understand who I think. This is good. No, I'm wanting to know. It's interesting because I read his book and so I I feel like I've been able to get inside of like how he thinks, at least in the book. But I I haven't taken a lot of time with his biography, so I'm I'd like to learn more. Oh his uh I guess it's the Jewish quest, for safety and empowerment and the Christian endeavor to atone for centuries of anti Semitism have combined to suppress the conversations needed to bring about a just and lasting peace. in the Holy Land. Uh Phalan Brace charts his journey as an American Jew struggling with the difficult realities of modern Israel. The book vividly describes the spiritual and psychological forces driving the discourse and is a call to action to Americans of all faiths. He is the executive director of the Holy Land Peace Project, a grassroots organization that promotes interlog uh interfaith dialogue, peace building, and conflict resolution in the Middle East. And he's relatively local, lives in Bethesda, Maryland, with what I'm sure is his beautiful wife. Susan. Now have you spent some time with the guys at Bethlehem Bible College? I imagine you have. I know those guys. Your wife family, you know them? Um I have uh by a trick of uh ministry relationships connected with a gentleman who works closely with s with a number of churches in the Galilee region uh that are among um those that lost land when the Israelis came in, uh, but they have kind of rediscovered their faith and had a revival, as it were, of their faith, a Pentecostal revival of their faith. And so there's about uh fifteen of those guys in the Galilee region, a couple of them down into the Jerusalem area, and uh uh the gentleman that is the current vice president of Bethlehem Bible College Jack Sarah. That's my sense. And he's he's got significant vision, very talented individual, very thoughtful. Um and uh the gentleman Johannanatha brilliant theologian. He uh seems to be very uh similar Well he he seems to be the kind of progressive Christian that that you uh find great affinity with, at least in your book. And uh and I can see the connection there being very strong, very significant. Have you been to the website for the crisis at the checkpoint conference? Oh yeah, yeah. I was there. Yeah? So so then you know Dan Juster I met Dan Juster. I wish I had time to talk to the guy. He is one of my dad's best friends from growing up. I graduated from a messianic Jewish seminary here down in uh Rockville that he led along with my dad. And uh it was said of Dan Juster that nobody could stick with him theologically except for my dad. And the two would sit there and go back and forth. Uh Dan, yeah, they're they're uh I have great respect for Dan and his wife. If we go down that road uh tonight we'll get totally confused Well, no, I agree. I mean I I don't know how we can talk about anything we're gonna talk about tonight without getting confused, and so I'm I'm hoping that we'll be patient. And work it through 'cause there there's such well, is there any tangle that is so tangled as the as the uh issues of justice in the world. Yeah, but Jonathan, we're we're gonna untangle it. Right here tonight. We're gonna untangle it. The gospels are the roadmap. This is why everybody thinks that you're a Christian when you're really not 'Cause you keep uh looking to Christ as a major um leader and mentor is the word, uh, guide for how to break out the universalist Embracing of everybody, embracing of the other. He was the best rabbi. He was taking Judaism where it was supposed to go. Isn't this amazing? Even though you would argue that his attempt to redefine, or maybe Paul's attempt to redefine um Judaism as uh naturally birthing Christianity was um was not really accurate. Well Paul I mean Paul had a problem, didn't he? Paul had a problem. He thought it was a slam dunk. He thought, well, you know, Jesus has come. It's all been foretold. We're all Jews. This is where we're going. This is where we're supposed to go. Yeah. So then and then the w you know what was the well, the problem was That now here's where here's where I start to sound not only Christian but anti Semitic, okay? Right. Totally. Here's the problem. The problem was that the Jewish establishment installed by the Romans in Jerusalem Yeah. We're saying, hey man, we're gonna stay stick with the deal we've got. This guy's making trouble for us. This is not what you know Judaism is about. Judaism is about working for Rome. Building a temple. Alright, so let me bring our listeners and Troy up to speed. What what uh Mark is describing is a perspective on the Gospels that reads the Gospels from the perspective that that the Jews had this this political problem with Rome, that Christ was leading, Jesus was leading a a political movement to help the Jews to break away from the Empire of Rome and go back to living uh according to justice instead of all of their crony relationships, crony capitalism, crony Romanism that they were dealing with of the uh of the day. And so therefore Uh uh everything that Christ is doing, his new community that he was developing was a brilliant strategy. for undermining the power of of the Roman Empire and the way that it was um crushing and uh uh oppressing all the peoples And which is very interesting. I I I've I've literally I read the Gospels after reading your book, trying to see it from that perspective, and and I'm not sure that I can quite get there, but Uh apparently this is it Brugeman that that grappled with that, Walter Brugeman. Yeah. I mean uh Walter Brugeman's in general. You're doing a great job. I mean the thing hard. Here's the deal. What Rome is trying in order to make good uh Roman subjects of the indigenous Palestinian population of the day, the Judeans, which we now call the Jews. Yeah. Um Rome had to undermine the Torah. It was the Torah. It was the Mosaic Code, which was all about Justice, social justice, equalizing the economics, you know, living in an agrarian society where the basis was the community, Jubilee means nobody gets too rich, right? It's like Making sure that you don't have the one percent oppressing the ninety-nine percent ripping them off, right? Because I'm not sure that I'm in the same place with you on that, but if we spend all our time there, we might not get to some of the issues that that your book directly addresses because your book builds off of that mentality. So he's the guest. Okay. Mark, tell your story What happened? What brought you to write write this book? Okay, so here's the all right, here here's how here's the deal. I was born in nineteen forty eight, as I was telling you before, in Philadelphia into a very, very big year. That's it Nineteen forty eight was the the year that the State of Israel was established. Okay. So three years after the end of World War Two. Yeah, you were raised on the mother's milk of Zion Zionism. I was raised in rabbinic Judaism, which is like I mean you were talking, you know Yeah, I mean it was like you know it's like really like it's like reformed Christianity. It was like the mainstream that basically, you know, everybody's supposed to to believe. And it's good stuff. Yeah. You know, it's the profits, you know, it's the it's the basic underpinning of Uh in some sense Western w Western faith and western civilization is based on the Bible. Okay. And they threw at the temple a long time ago. And uh basically if you're pharisaical in that sense? Yeah, in that sense, parishes. Yeah, yeah. It's pharisaic. The community is holy, not just the temple. Exactly. I mean it's interesting. I mean we get into the Christology of that. It's very, very similar, Christian. That's a very profound statement. It's also a political statement, by the way. I would agree with you on that. I'm not sure that I agree with all the implications and that's where I'd love to just talk about that. I know. So I was raised in a very potent combination of rabbinic Judaism and political Zionism. Political Zionism. I mean it's in our liturgy, you know, we pray to God once a day using a prayer that was developed by the chief rabbi of Israel. Yes. May God preserve and protect the state of Israel. The state of Israel, not Jerusalem, not Zion, the State of Israel. And was that prayer developed before Israel was developed? No, no, it was developed before the South. flowering of our redemption. So it is a religious prayer that pledges allegiance to a political entity. And a political ideology. Zionism. Totally. It's whole the two are merged. They have to be. Yeah. It's practically Islamic Well in the totality of the um you know Some ver some versions of of Islam certainly will put the state and the religion together. Now I think all of us in this room together will agree that that's a bad idea. I think I would agree with that. Okay, well I mean we But I'm not completely convinced. Okay. I gotta tell you, I I'm not sure where I stand on all this. I generally agree with with your book that there are injustices. significant injustices perpetrated by the Israelis on the Palestinians. And we'll we'll probably get into that later on. So I'm totally in agreement with that, but but there's so much about that that uh it's so complex to me from an out as you know an outsider's perspective. So anyways, I don't want to disrupt your story. Okay, so you're raised on this thing. So I was raised I had been blessed To have been born at a time when my people had been redeemed from two thousand years of suffering and persecution by you guys, basically. Okay, but God had redeemed us from Persecution from suffering from marginalization. Given and that's that's what the state of Israel is. I want to ask you a question about that. Okay. Okay. All right. Now that is basically the Jewish narrative. Okay, we are not big on dogma. We don't talk about we don't have a big theology, you know. Okay, but is is your narrative that you that you lost the land because of judgment? No, not so much. I mean it's in the liturgy, yes. But it's in Jeremiah, it's in Isaiah, it's in all the prophets. It was taken away as a punishment. It's a punishment. Okay. Okay. But it's never off the table. I will bring you back. I will restore you. I'm with you. This is where I'm with you. It's never off the table. This is where the Messianic Jews are in agreement with you. Funny thing. Yeah, and I'm not in agreement with a Messianic. Because I'm not a Zionist, man. Oh That's right. They're in agreement with the rabbinical guys on that. Yes, with the mainstream of Judaism that said we let go of the idea that the land is an is is an essential part of our identity and our faith. Yeah, and see I want to fight for that. So maybe I'd like to keep you why you would like to fight for that. You know? I mean why would you like to fight for that? Why is that a good thing? Oh man, the reason to fight for that is because When Adam and Eve sinned, and sin entered the world, the very ground itself was corrupted. You know the the the the the Noaic judgment uh brought uh curse that affected the whole planet. And if God is redeeming one part of the earth by winning it back to uh to being under his blessing, then his intention isn't just to do that with Israel, but to do it with the whole earth And so the meek will inherit, Jesus said, the land. Clearly the Israelites that heard that heard that Israel is going to inherit the land. But it's not just the meek there, but the meek I mean, this is where my Christianity comes into play, around the earth are going to inherit the earth and help to usher in a restoration of all things. And so the land promises to Israel are a vital part of God's promise to restore the whole world. If he can restore it there, then he can and his promises are true there, then they will also be true around the whole world. But if they're not true there, then how can we trust him to follow through with the rest of the whole world? Anyways. Yeah. As the voice of Jonathan Sweiser, senior pastor of Cross O'Zelly Chapel, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. Our guest this week is the author of Fatal Embrace, Mark Braverman. It's interesting because uh I'm trying to figure out how to triangulate this. Jonathan is speaking for a relatively large segment of the Christian view, the kind of a pro-Zionist Christian view. I am, but I'm not, because I'm I'm not Zionist. But I'm cl but I'm a variation of it. Okay. You're a variation of Christian Zionism, absolutely. There's a Christian Zionism here. But most Zionists are most Zionists are completely unwilling to call Israel to account in a prophetic way, and I am very much of the opinion that we need to call them to account in a significant way. Right? And so I think I in that key s sense I split from the majority of Zionists. Yeah, but the thing yeah, but the problem is that if and we need to talk about this, if you really do adhere to the kind of theology that you were just talking about. Then that's going to present you with a problem in terms of really being prophetic with respect to the Palestinians, because at some point you're going to come back and say, Oh yes, that's all true, but God wants the Jews to have that land and it's going to compromise the rights of the Palestinians. I'm sorry. Always there are people living in the land alongside the Jewish people. Right? When the Jewish people lost the land, God said that He's going to restore them to the land, but He didn't say, I'm going to restore it to the land. And you'll be the only ones living in the land. And so in a Christian mindset, what's going to happen is the Jews are going to be restored to the land or we're going to be restored to the Father. and their Messiah. Sorry, that's you know my my Christian orientation. They'll be restored to the Messiah along with all the others that will be restored to the Messiah. And in that day every knee will bow to Christ, and then the whole land and all the meek that are in the land, both the Jews and the other believers, will inherit the land. Yeah, and in the meantime, Jonathan, the Jews are supposed to have hegemony over the land and basically create an apartheid structure where they're not they'll say, You can stay here, but we're in charge. And that's where I say in the meantime, the Jewish people will be held to account the same way that they always were through history. And this is what scares me about the Jewish people is that their specialness always meant that God was going to uh was going to interact with them as as he does with a son, that he would discipline them according to his uh his purposes and If they're about to be disciplined by God because they are like the prophets prophesied, not following the the the purposes of God but stepping away from the purposes of God, then that concerns me greatly. Because I've seen the judgment of God both in the old testament and uh but uh Jonathan are you just ha I'm j I'm giving you an opening here. Yeah. Are you just hanging around for the end times are you concerned about what happens now between now and then. Well yeah so this is the big question. What happens between now and again What we do now is what we've always done through history is we raise a voice for those that are not uh hearing the voice, that we stand up now and we make a difference. Uh I'm heading over to Israel in in the fall with uh with a trip that is basically um organized by Bethlehem Bible College, you know, and I'll I'll be in some of the churches, but the people going with us will be We're we're finding ways to help to uh encourage and lift up the Palestinians to help their view of what's going on to be to be uh extended. I've uh led some Issacar forms is what we call them here in Frederick. where I've brought together pastors with Jack Sarah and um uh Hannah I forget his uh his uh his last name that was ministering in Gaza as an evangelical Christian to talk together about that perspective. And so we need to we need to work for that perspective, but ultimately the the the point is that the land would be shared by the meek. The de the question is what is the definition of the meek? And this is where where I'm in such a different place because I'm I'm not afraid of exceptionalism. And in your book that that's really the the one main thing that you're arguing is the problem Yeah, because I've lived it. In the land. I've lived it. I think exceptionalism brings about brings about um oppression. It also be better than the other thing. But certainly not all. And I would speak we just did a series of shows on this. He's very different. So I'm not going to re-argue it, but You know, I d I don't have a Zionist orientation. I don't think there's anything particularly special about the nation state modern nation uh modern day nation state of Israel whatsoever. And I think they should absolutely be held for account for what I think are atrocities that that are committed and that are over I agree with you that they get overlooked by Zionist Jews. And by Zionist Jews. I'm I find it surprising Um as as a Jew that you would agree with me on that point that you know the nation state of Israel doesn't need to be treated as something exceptional. And that the and that the world shouldn't feel guilty for all the the anti Semitism over the it's a surprising perspective coming from the world. I mean, g people want to feel guilty about it, that's fine, but don't give us a guilt offering and enable us to do to others what we're doing to us. Right. You know? I mean, look, I think Zionism that that that ethnic nationalism has no place in Judaism. We jettisoned that two thousand years ago. You know, when we got basically when we lost our uh kingdom, right? And that was a good thing, and Judaism adapted Now now you you say you lost your ethnic or you jettisoned it, but my sense my sense is that You know, the whole question of like you still identify yourself strongly as a Jew. You know, like that that's probably your primary identification. I'm not uncomfortable with that. I personally celebrate that, but How can you say that that you have jettisoned as a people group two thousand years ago your your ethn your national ethnic ethnic national ethnic nationalism. Your ethnic nationalism when when the Jewish people are perhaps the most distinct or one of the most distinct in the history of the world and even over the last two thousand years. You can't say that's just because of the way that They've been treated by the Christian world rather than the other. No, it's because it's because of the tradition. Yeah. But it has nothing to do with being connected to a piece of real estate. That became just like Jesus said. Except for every year at the Passover. Next year in Jerusalem. Yes, and you can look at the liturgy. All kinds of Zionist stuff in the liturgy. But until the middle of the twentieth century, well the end of the t nineteenth century, nobody thought of turning that into a political program. And I understand why we did that. Sure. And it's a forgivable mistake, but I think it was a tragic mistake. Yeah I think it was a tragic mistake. And and take a look at the result, Jonathan. You know, what's happening over there? The atrocities, the atrocities that Troy is saw. They are not an accident. They are not an unfortunate political misstep by the government of Israel The state of Israel is doing exactly what a Jewish state has to do, an ethnic nationalist state has to do. It has to get rid of everybody who doesn't belong to that group, and if it can't get them to leave, it has to find some way to control them and to keep them Under their foot under their you know, Colin Chapman has a list of quotes from from early Israelis about these issues that expose that they knew that there was going to be this kind of injustice and they didn't do anything about it. A lot of them did. A lot of them do it. A lot of them were just pawns. Collins are wonderful. Collins awesome. Yeah. I met him in Bethlehem. So did I I met him actually. I met him up in um um Haifa at a uh where he was doing a seminar on uh on Islam. Mm-hmm. And then I met him again down at uh Bethel and Babakov. I mean how can you not if you've been to Israel? Yeah It's really not that big an area. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Part of what complicates this are political considerations, right? With Israel being a a a democratic state in the Middle East, which is a compute that Label, no constitution, Jewish state, how can what if somebody said, This is a Christian country? We will tolerate and be good to our non-Christians, but this is a Christian country. You know? Would you call that a democracy? My point was we've got this this political idea of political exceptionalism and religious exceptionalism. And you know, Mark is arguing that exceptionalism perhaps is a problem. Jonathan's not comfortable with that. Maybe we'll kinda pick up on that point in next week's show. I'll tell you that you will be great greatly uh greatly appreciated. Four hundred pages of brilliance. That's right. By Mark Raverman. Uh Jonathan Sweiser, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, I'm Troy Skinner. The Frederick Faith Debate is brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Again, please visit visit us online, WFMD. com keyword faith and email me troiskinner at clearchannel. com. My blog is your blog. Till next week. Thanks for listening. God bless. Putman Plumbing and Goulds Pumps have teamed for over 23 years to bring Frederick County homes clean, fresh, reliable water. Putman Plumbing and Goulds Pumps share the same values, pride, ethics, and extra-mile service. School's Pumps and the Putmin Plumbing Way because you deserve it. It's a great day of Putmin Plumbings, how can we make you smile