This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. Uh, the faith debate is on the World Wide Web at WFMD. com keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with a master of dimension. From Reform Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Oh Troy Skinner. Thank you so much for spending part of your Sunday morning with us once again here on the Faith Debate. I am Troy Skinner and We're picking up this is the the last part of a message began last week, uh where I was sharing thoughts about the Great Reset and what an article in the Gospel Coalition of all places had to say about it that really was uh discouraging from a biblical Christian perspective anyway. And so I was kind of sounding the warning, putting out a clarion call, if you will. So this is the the last part of those thoughts. If you're not sure what the great reset really is at this stage, well, you probably will begin to understand it better by hearing this. And if you're wondering what um you know, biblically oriented Christians should be thinking about this. This might help you figure that out as well. I encourage you to follow us online, WFMD. com, also the WFMB Facebook page, and you can follow me personally at Household of Faith in Christ. That's the name of the church that I pastor and all of my social media links and everything pretty much can be found there. So household of faith in Christ dot com. Anyway, picking up with part two of last week's message here on the Faith Debate. Christians will disagree on the details of a biblical vision for society. Of course we will, and that is not a bad thing. Nor are we alone in our disagreement. Secular commentators are also at loggerheads about how principles such as justice or equality should be embodied in social policies and institutions. Do you notice the the uh the critical theory language in that sentence, talking about now the Bible talks about it too, but in today's context, whenever somebody's talking about equality and equity or justice and social policies, particularly as it relates to institutions institutional racism, for example, y you know, y your antenna should go up. Getting back to what Watkin writes. But Unless we work hard to articulate and commend our best understanding of a Christian vision for a flourishing, just sustainable society, two things will happen. I wonder what they are. First, we will find it hard to analyze initiatives such as the Great Reset because we will have no biblical pattern against which to judge them. What is he talking about? Scriptural teaching is exactly why we must judge the great reset as a great Evil. Continuing with the sentence. And this will lead us to cherry pick one aspect of their agenda, such as commitment to woke social justice or endorsement by political and global elites, and take that for the whole ball game. In other words, don't judge them. The people that are advocating for great reset. Don't judge them for their faulty foundation because, well, they mean well. They mean well. They're going to put us on the highway to hell, but hey, they mean well. They're dangerous, but you know, let's let's let's not let's not be too harsh in our criticism or too or too stark in our warnings. Anyway, second We will be forever on the back foot, Christians he's talking about, responding to the latest trends and initiatives, perhaps occasionally sprinkling them with a little Bible dust rather than engaging with them on the front foot, equipped with a compelling and fresh biblical vision for society that can, in the words of John and Milbank outnarrate its secular alternatives. It's interesting here. He squats at what he calls sprinkling it with with uh mere Bible dust when He hasn't even yet once in this article, and we're almost done, he hasn't even once quoted or even pointed to biblical scripture one time And spoiler alert, he won't. I'm gonna finish this and he won't cite one verse He won't allude to one passage. He won't articulate any biblical concept from the pages of our Bibles. Not one time. So he's going to criticize others for sprinting. What the Bible does, he doesn't even do that much. Then his final point. So how should Christians respond? Enough caveats and grand principles. Let's get down to it. How do I think Christians should respond to the Great Reset? Here we go. Separate the message from the messenger. No. No. Knowing the messenger helps one to understand the message. He is flat wrong. The World Economic Forum has some strange, naive, and alarming ideas. Yeah. That doesn't of itself mean this particular proposal or the aims it contains is worthless. Yeah, you know what it means? It's worse than worthless. That's what it means. It's anti-God I gotta get calmed down here. Take the issues one by one and pass them through a biblical lens. There are three prominent pillars of the Great Reset. Justice, sustainability, and digitalization. Let me offer just one thought in relation to each, okay? So there's like three more paragraphs, something like that, so we'll be done shortly. What uh distinguishes a biblical concern for justice? One major element is a concern for the poor. I'm sorry, I did I'm sounding mean spirited, right? I'm sounding being spirited. That's not what biblical justice is Biblical justice is not concern for the poor. That is wrong. He's wrong again. He's repeatedly wrong. Justice in the Bible is about equality before the law. having even scales. Treating people with justice means treating them properly and appropriately before the law. Talking about the poor and you know and he goes on and forth, for the widows and orphans who are disenfranchised and have no power, no status, no voice. Oh, the oppressed-oppressor dynamic that social justice brings into it. That's not the biblical view. That's not justice. We are to care about widows and orphans and the disenfranchised, those who have no power and status and no voice. We are to care and you know what that's called? Not called biblical justice. It's called mercy It's called generosity. It's called compassion. It is not called justice. And the Gospel Coalition should know better. They do know better. So why are they posing this crap? The corporate and capitalist focus of the Great Reset, along with its privileging of certain minorities at the expense of others, the first time. And then parenthetically he says, I can find no mention of religious minorities of any creed, for example, relatively under-emphasizes these unglamorous populations The Christians should be vigorous in advocating for their inclusion and flourishing. He says that we should be vigorous in advocating for the inclusion and flourishing of these unglamorous populations, meaning these oppressed groups because that's what this is all about the social justice, right? You've got intersectionality. We talked about that here in our discussions. You know, we got the the lesbian group, you got the female group, you got the uh gender-confused group, you got the the undereducated group. And if somebody has all four of those things going for them, they're a a a a poor, gender-confused female lesbian, well then they got four intersections and they're really uh uh an unglamorous population to use his words. And so we should we should advocate for representing and and and talking about those specific groups and I'm saying that's not what the Bible teaches. That's what we've been talking about for months now. here on our on our video cast. We don't want to add more divisions. We don't want to to to prop up the per the heretical idea of this intersectionality. That we're trapped in it, that we're trapped in these oppressed groups. We do not want to prop that up Sustainability. The desire to preserve the world in order that we may continue to live on it does not uh preserve the world in order that we may continue to live on it, does not challenge the shareholder capitalist paradigm of maximizing benefit that the Great Reset claims to oppose It just pushes out its borders a little. A deeper transformation is needed. One that de-centers human beings. I'm not making this up. and makes us accountable to a tribunal not of our own devising. This sort of radical transformation is achieved by the shift from the paradigm of sustainability to the Christian idea of stewardship, taking care of the world because it is God. It's not primarily just so we can continue to live on it for a long time. Yeah, we should take care of it because it is God, but that doesn't even capture the fullness of what the Bible teaches. We already take care of it, yes, because it's God, but what else do we know? God has given it to us to have dominion over. So we have responsibility there. We take care of it because it's God, we should steward it for God, but we should steward it over it as As rulers who have dominion over it. We do not want to decenter human beings. The human beings are the ones that have dominion over it. They're at the center. Everything up until Adam and Eve are created, the creation is good. And once Adam and Eve are created, the creation is very good. We do not want to decenter human beings Technology. Without seeing the Antichrist around every corner. He just made fun of you, by the way. You see Antichrist behind every corner, and well, around every corner, then there's something wrong with that. He just made fun of you. But you're in good company because he just made fun of the Apostle John, too. A biblical anthropology strikes a note of caution and amid the utopian technological dreams of the Great Reset. Human beings are gloriously made in the image of a loving and wise creator. Oh, hey, see, they know better. But you and I are also fallen and capable of great evil and self-deception. Yes, this is true. This is why the separation of powers is by and large a good principle. Agreed It prevents too much control being concentrated in any one person or body. Any increased digitization of dispersing power into its DNA and resist control by a small number of multinational corporations, governments, or individuals. Is this the same author? Did somebody else write that paragraph? Because that's a radical downshift. Like he just stripped his gears on that one. Last thoughts. In a few years' time, the Great Reset brand will most likely become a curiosity for the history books. Boy, I hope so. But the questions of how to build a just, sustainable, and digitally fair society, what does that even mean? What is a digitally fair society? Um in order to do that for all people uh see oh so the the curiosity of the great reset will go away. But the uh the questions about these sorts of things, doing this for people, that those questions will not go away. So let's play the long game and engage with those issues, nudging the public debate. Nudging. You'll notice increasingly the authors in the Gospel Coalition and others that are big evangelical leaders, they use words like this, nudging. It's always so limp-wristed, you know? How about we boldly enter the battle of the of the spiritual warfare and we tell the so-called elites that they're not God And we know for a fact they're not God because Yahweh is God. How about that? How about boldly speaking the truth instead of gently nudging things all the time Anyway, uh nudging the public debate where possible towards a biblical understanding of what's at stake in rewriting the social contract. We are not called to nudge the discussion, we are called to proclaim. And placard and pronounce and defend the truth of the gospel of the kingdom of Jesus Christ. So he wraps up here with a few thoughts that almost sound like he was beginning to argue against that great reset when everything before that was giving them All in the world they could possibly want. So what is that? I mean, they argue for or against it. You know, you might say, oops, they lose his volume like a joke. Did somebody else write the last paragraph and a half? Well I I I I wonder doing something like this does allow him and others who do this sort of uh word-sallad trickery that allows them to continue to lay claim to their conservative bona fides. Oh no no, you misunderstood me. Didn't you read the last paragraph where I kind of spoke against it? Yeah, I I I I put out there a fifteen hundred word uh article and the last two hundred words were s were against it. The first fifteen hundred were giving it a wide berth and saying it's okay and you shouldn't be critical. But at the end I I said a few things. So I'm still conservative. You can still trust me. I'm telling you we should be nervous about this and what it's doing in our church. We gotta wake up. We've got to wake up. We've got to push back. And I'm not saying you can't go to the Gospel Coalition and read their articles because a lot of their stuff is good, particularly the stuff that's been up there for a long time. You know, before they have drifted so far into the woke world. They've been woke, increasingly woke for a while, um, but not all of it is. And not all the authors are So just a word of caution. I know that that that's a lot to be said and I've uh maybe I rambled on a little longer than I should I don't know, but we gotta wake up I think what's going on here is to give the people who are writing like this for the Gospel Coalition, to give them some benefit of the doubt I think they truly are meaning well, but I think they've lost their way. And the reason I say that is I think their motivation, based on conversations I've had outside of this context and things I've read and an online interaction that has I think what's going on is they want they want to help Christians. They want to help you if you're a Christian. If you're a follower of Christ, they want to help me, they want to help Angela and Dina. They want to help us to present our biblical views in a way that is respectable before the world. Because people are afraid of being dismissed as as robes, as the great unwashed, you know, the the great deplorables who you know are clinging to God guns in their Bible, right? And so we don't want to come across that way. So we want to be respectable. And but what's respectable these days is academia. And these guys are smart guys, they have multiple degrees and they They cut their teeth in academic circles and so they want to be respectable themselves and they want to help others be respectable. So they want to find this way to navigate But there are people who are not Christians that are somewhat traditional in their views, which is one way, and you've got people who are not believers and followers of Christ who are therefore progressive and liberal and Marxist in their way, and they say, well there's a third way No no no. There's God's way and there's no other way that's right. And so Christians are called to proclaim the truth. There's like seven billion people on this planet. That means there's seven billion ways. But there's only one way that matters. It's God's way. We need to dive in to figure out what that is, and then proudly, boldly accurately put that out there. People want to say, well, you're just a rube, they're not criticizing you, they're criticizing Christ. And we've got to be okay with that and try to help them well okay, you want to be critical of Christ, but let me tell you why I think this. I I I think they're meaning well, but I think syncretism They're wanting to be liked by the world and they will have syncretism to infect the way that they're teaching other believers and of seminaries. We only have and need seminaries because the church has done such a horrible job of discipling believers over the years. And so now here we are, we have a vacuum of leadership. We don't have enough people who are equipped for leadership because they haven't been properly disciples growing up and coming up through the church. And so they have to go to the they have to go to seminary to learn the Bible. So but study of the s of the scriptures and and and standing on the shoulders of the giants of the faith who came before us and learning from them, that's all important stuff But you but you're absolutely right. You don't need that to recognize the truth from the lie. But I'll use an uh an analogy. I'm in the radio business. My wife is too We're radio professionals. What separates us from Angela, who's not a radio professional, she's a professional in other regards, but she's not a radio professional. She's a radio listener. You might be a radio listener You listen to a good radio station, you're like, yeah, I like that radio station, this is a good radio station. You listen to a bad radio station, you're like, ooh, I don't like that radio station. That's not a very good radio station So you as a radio listener with some familiarity to radio, you recognize good and bad, just like the radio professionals recognize good and bad. But we're well, my wife and I are well studied in the radio business. And so we not only recognize what's good and bad, but we can tell you why Say that's a really good radio station and they're gonna say, you know, I think so too, but why do you say so? And I could give them a list of reasons Or that's a battery radio station. I don't like that station either, but why do you say so? I give them a list of reasons. They won't really be able to give me a list of reasons other than, well, I just don't like it or They might stumble upon the truth a little bit and like, well, I don't like the way they do that. Actually, that's a pretty perceptive idea. You're right. That's something bad radio stations do. Well, same with the scripture. When you're studying the scripture, you're spending time in the word, you're spending time reading, again, those giants in the faith before us who you know brilliant and faithful men who bravely stood for the truth that often at great cost to their to their fortunes and their lives to advocate for the truth. There's so much there. So it pro it it equips us to do more than just like this article by uh by Chris Watkin There's something wrong about it. That's not the Bible. My spirit's unsettled. That's just not true. I don't trust it. The Holy Spirit will do that, but could you then explain what exactly is wrong? What's missing? What's being said that's not not biblically accurate? Studying scripture will help you do that. Or you're talking to your friends and you and you say, I'm a believer in Christ because you can tell me anecdotal stories about how you know uh being a follower of Christ has changed your life But they start pressing you for answers to defend the faith. Um you're more prepared, better able to give a defense of the faith and to maybe be used by God to lead others to Christ. Because you're familiar with the arguments. That's a big part of what seminaries focus on. It's not I was unaware of that. When I entered seminary, I didn't realize how true this would be. Probably a third of the classes I took were studying the scriptures Another third were were practical matters about the church, how to lead a church, how to minister to people, how to be a pastor, how to you know how to how to be a good communicator, whatever, those sorts of things And the I'm I mean these third, third, third is I'm guessing the percentages. And the remaining third is studying all the lies out there and the various forms they take so that you recognize them when you see them and you know how to address them. So There were classes we learned about. This is what Islam teaches. This is what you know the Latter-day Saints teach. This is what Buddhism is all about. This is So that you this is what New Ageism is, so that you're not being caught completely flat footed every single time you run into that, you're like a different ethnic background. So I agree with that. And I want fairness and I want equality in those sorts of things. So there's a lot there, but you gotta understand how important it is to define the terms. So when somebody talks You talk to somebody who is part of a Christian cult, and they'll talk about Jesus Christ. I believe in Jesus Christ. And you've got to ask them Okay, so who is your Jesus Christ? When you say Jesus Christ, who do you mean? Can define those terms. You talk to a Muslim, they believe in God. They'll say Jesus is perfect. Let's define those terms. Okay, when you say God, what do you mean? Who do you mean? You've got to define those terms. When you say justice, how are you defining that? You talk about equality. How are you defining that? You've got to define terms. And you've got to know what these biblical definitions are So you're equipped to deal with the ones that aren't biblical. And if you get involved in a discussion with somebody and they're maybe they're sharper in their game than they are because we're immersed in this. It's easier for them to be sharp You gotta work to dive into the scriptures and figure it out. You can accidentally pick up locism. It's all around you. You can start talking the language and know what they're talking about pretty easily if you're paying any attention at all to the world around you You've got to work at diving into the scriptures to to to to defend your point of view articulately. So if you get involved in these discussions and you're a little flat-footed, it's okay to say, you know I'm not sure I can agree with you, but I'm going to have to think about that and get back to you. And then go read the Bible. Go talk to your pastor. Message me if you want, whatever. And and we can get you know because we're the body of Christ. We can work together. We can be the hands and the feet collectively together. You don't have to do it all yourself But you gotta engage in the battle. It is a battle. So I got a little bit animated today. I'm not sure if that was good or bad. If it was bad, I apologize If it was good, you're welcome. I don't know. Be critical of me calling him out publicly. I gotta say if it's a private offense, you deal with it privately. If we go to the same church I can talk to him, but this is published on a huge platform for all the world to see. It's a public problem that needs to be addressed publicly. So I'm not meaning to call him out in a in a bad way. I'm trying to call out the ideas in a bad way, because ideas are bad. So there's no personal attack meant on the author. uh of the article. At least not necessarily. It wasn't intended that way. And that's going to be the wrap up of this week's show. Thanks so much for listening to the Faith Debate here on 930 WFMD. You can follow us online Wfmd. com. You also can listen to us not just on AM930, but on the FM2 99. 9 HD2. And you can follow us, of course, on social media, WFMV's Facebook page. And if you want to follow me more directly personally You can do that most easily probably by going to household of faith in Christ dot com. There you can find links to all my various social media that I'm involved with and and uh and links to messages and things I'm involved with and and and whatever. That's the name of the church that I passed there and so All my stuff is there. Household of faith in Christ dot com. Um we'll be back again next week and we're gonna be talking it's gonna be a bit of a potpourri next week, but most of our time will be spent talking about I know it's the middle of summer. Advent season. Some of the things in our traditions. Are they good traditions, bad traditions, biblical traditions? Where'd they come from? Why do we do what we do during the Advent season? A lot of stores and stuff will do like Christmas sales in the summer We're doing our own version of that on the face to base. So I hope you'll join us next week for that 167 and a half hours from right about now. Till then, God bless.