The Danver Statement on Biblical Manhood and Womanhood Says, we have been moved in our purpose by the following contemporary developments, which we observe with deep concern The widespread uncertainty and confusion in our culture regarding the complementary differences between masculinity and femininity, the tragic effects of this confusion and unraveling the fabric of marriage, the increasing promotion given to feminist egalitarianism The widespread ambivalence regarding the values of motherhood, the growing claims of legitimacy for sexual relationships which have biblically and historically been considered illicit or perverse the increase of pornographic portrayal of human sexuality, the upsurge of physical and emotional abuse in the family, the emergence of roles for men and women in church leadership that do not conform to biblical teaching. The increasing prevalence and acceptance of hermeneutical oddities, the consequent threats to biblical authority, and the apparent accommodation of some within the church To the spirit of the age. That's all from the opening part of the statements that they label the rationale. This is the faith debate on News Radio 930 WFMD on the FM at 9929-HD2. On the internet, of course, at WFMD. com And if you'd like to track along with us offline, the easiest way to connect is to go to householdfaith in Christ. com. That's my church's website. I'm Troy Skinner, the pastor of that church at Household of FaithInChrist. com. If you go there, you can connect to the faith debate through that, you can connect to all the social media through that, you can connect to everything that we do with the church, the the sermons and those sorts of things. And we've also vetted a bunch of resources. In fact, if you go to household of faith in Christ dot com, you can find a link to the Danvers statement that I just read a portion of. Um not that everything that we link to on the website is perfect, um, but it's certainly better than most of what you'll find out there. And so if you want to get a a a fighting shot Finding something decent at the beginning, that's a good place to start. On the panel this week to talk about the things that are in the Danver Statement David Forcey, pastor of a uh multi-location house church. Um I like to joke that it's like the Wackamo church in town. You never quite know where he's gonna uh meet. And um So if you're interested in checking his church out, you definitely want to maybe get in touch with me. I'll get you in touch with David and he can tell you where he's gonna be. But generally for the most part It I think more often than not it's in the uh like the s southern sections of like Washington and Frederick County area or in pretty close to that part. Uh but on rare occasion it's it's it's not down that in them their parts. So it never can be sure. And uh and also on the panel this week is Steven Jurger. He is one of the leaders of the Shabbat gathering that meets the Gettysburg area, uh Adams County north of uh of Frederick. Uh I'm not sure exactly w Gettysburg has like a sprawling sort of uh zip code area, so I'm not sure how close to Frederick you are, but If you're in northern Frederick County or southern, you know, Pennsylvania in the Adams County area, maybe that's something you'd be want to check into. And if you want to get in touch with Steve and Jurger, again reach out to me and I'll hook you up Alright, so I opened up with the uh the you know the to set the stage of what the Danver Statement is all about. So this statement's pretty short. I think it was written in nineteen eighty-seven and uh released in nineteen eighty eight if my uh uh if my understanding of the history of that is correct We have recently spending some time on the show going through the Chicago statements. We did the Chicago statement on inerrancy, on hermeneutics, and began to look at application. We're taking a small break from the application. We have A few articles left to do. We didn't quite finish that up in our uh last recording session with uh uh Imran and Daniel Razvi. And uh I think it would make sense maybe to uh pull them back into the discussion to finish that up so that they can finish what they started. So we're taking a break from that. for now to do this, but it's all kind of related. The last of the Chicago statements that was written uh came out in the nineteen eighties, and here we are still in the nineteen eighties, just a little bit later into the Reagan years. uh for this Danver statement. And so I'm what we're gonna do is I'm gonna read the uh the affirmations and we're gonna discuss. And I think I might do a couple at a time. I'll read a couple because they're pretty short. So I'll read a couple at a time and we'll go from there. So these are affirmations. Based on our understanding of biblical teachings, we affirm the following Both Adam and Eve were created in God's image, equal before God as persons, and distinct in their manhood and womanhood Distinctions in masculine and feminine roles are ordained by God as part of the created order and should find an echo in every human heart. Now this sounds like pretty boilerplate basic standard historic Christian kind of stuff. So why did they have to put this in a in a statement in the nineteen eighties, do you think? I think probably they started seeing things on the horizon that they needed to saw the storm clouds come and Maybe it was a way off, but they said, hey, we gotta make some definition here and we've got to put it out there so there's no confusion Yeah. By the way, that was the voice of Stephen Jurger. The next voice you're going to hear is that of David Forsey, just so you can keep the voices clear. Yep. So yeah, I mean I think I I think they were actually maybe a little bit uh a little bit late to the game uh in getting something like this out. And and I say I say they, I mean Um maybe maybe be helpful. I'm I'm not exactly sure. Uh but Troy, maybe this would be helpful. You you know sort of who was a part of the the the panel or whatever and putting the Denver statement together? Um yeah, it's a it's uh a Pr some pretty big names were involved and it's the same group uh j basically the same group that came together uh about three decades later to do the Nashville statement. Um and the people that were involved in the Nashville statement, um again some of the names would be the would be the same, I'm I'm pretty sure. And some of them are big names. Let me see if I can find my my list real quick. I have uh Where's the list that I was looking for? Uh leaders. Yeah, like if you're familiar with Lingonair ministries, a lot of Ling and Air guys like Burke Parsons uh would have been involved, RC S But but also some surprising names uh are in this group, like uh the Nashville statement, David French. Oh Yeah. Surprising, right? Russell Moore, I think, was involved. Maybe. It depends on what's in there. Yeah, you know what I mean? So there uh there's some people that they go, oh yeah, they they're solidly biblical, and the others like Holy schmoly, how they so my my thinking is that the heat wasn't real hot back then and I think a lot of guys In in a postmodern world where it's about reader response theory, we've talked about this before where you can kind of make the words mean what you want them to mean. Right? Everything's a living, breathing document and I, as the reader, get to determine what the intention of the words are It's not about authorial intent. What the author thought doesn't matter. It's what I as the reader think. Well, in that kind of a world, I could sign off on any statement. I can make the words mean whatever I want. Define them however I please. And I think that's a big part of how some of these guys were able to sign this. So it it was it was supposed to be a conservative group, but we know better now that not all the guys who signed off on this were conservative. Yeah. So and there's a name of the organization, darn it, and I'm I'm I I m um it it'll come up at some point. I'll find it. Um I I was saying I think they're they're they're a little bit late to the game in in some respects because I think uh Um I mean I think a lot of this a lot of the issues that we have today as far as um You know, as far as this this topic goes, uh, you know, are rooted well well back into the the feminist movements, you know, from a hundred to a hundred and fifty years ago. Uh and Yeah, I think they're mostly t this is probably more than anything a response against third wave me feminism. Right. Third third wave. Right. Not first wave. Third third wave. Yes. That's pretty far along. Yeah, and we're and we're in fourth wave now. So but th so I think they were dealing with third wave r feminism, which To be honest, first wave feminism, not all bad. Might have been a an important contextual con uh you know, th that's uh was was something of uh of a saying, hey, you know, men men do abuse, you know, their their strength and position sometimes. Right. Which is true. And women are people too. You know, I think that there was some aspect of of that with the first wave. And I I've uh so uh uh everything's a mixed mixed bag historically. Second wave It's like, okay, maybe we're pushing the envelope here, what's going on? Third wave, you know, women are men too almost. Like you know, it was this think about this. Seventies and eighties. The Equal Rights Amendment is is big in the seventies, they're trying to get the get it ratified. And so now here we are a decade later after that big push and all the women are career minded and you know, I can have one of the great lies the enemy has perpetrated on women, families in general, but particularly on women, we can have it all. We can we can have the career, we can have the house, we can have the kids, we can have the perfect family, we c we can have the church involvement, we we can have the we can have everything. No, you can't. There's only 168 hours in the week. You can't have everything. So you've got to make choices. You have to have discernment to decide where your priorities are going to lie. And so people bought into this lie and we're paying the price of that as a culture. We're getting probably ahead of ourselves on some of these things in the state. And and also, you know, in the very basic sense like we have here, right? Like you Uh God has created us man and woman and you know, men can't have everything that women have and vice versa. Oh right, yeah. Yeah. Right. Right. The other big lie by the way that that we've all heard growing up, particularly in the American, you know, positive affirmation kind of context is You can be anything you want to be. No, you can't. I'm sorry if if I'm the first person if you're hearing my voice right now, I'm the first person to ever tell you You can't be anything you want to be. You know what? You're going to be precisely what God says you're going to be. And if he says you're not going to be the President of the United States, you can't be President of the United States. So and if you're you know five foot three, weigh a buck twenty five, you are not going to be a nose tackle for the you know what's a popular team? The uh what do they call them now? The commanders or the uh the ravens or what you're just not. You can't if you're five foot three and you weigh hundred and twenty five pounds, you can't be anything you want to be So anyway. Just to inject here, you know, vacuums are created and nature hates a vacuum. And when there is prop uh there is not proper understanding and proper implementation of the role of the man or the husband or the father, then you run into a real problem because then things are forced on the woman, the wife the mother that she might not be necessarily equipped and an overburden that will be placed that will create um real issues and then you have the knee-jerk response. So All these movements, all these waves, probably came into play because there was a vacuum of proper male leadership. And by the way, in the context of talking about women's roles, I was for the record, I wasn't one was not the one that brought up the word vacuum. Just for the record All right, well let's uh let's look at the next two. Adam's headship in marriage was established by God before the fall and was not a result of sin. The fall introduced distortions into the relationship between men and women. This is an important thing to clarify, which is why they put it in here. You guys are pastors. Why is this an important thing to clarify? That Adam is is is has a headship role and that this headship role is pre fall. So the the fall is when syn sin enters the world and Distorts everything. And so uh st yeah, some people do make the argument that that the Uh you know, that the man being stronger, more dominant, whatever, is something that happened as a result of sin distorting the world. And so then they would make the argument, well, we need to then shoot for uh you know, trying to make things in the image of what it was like before the fall when you know, when there was perfect uh Equity, equality, sameness, whatever um you want to put in there. So So yeah, it's important to I go with equality, by the way. Equity often brings a lot of baggage. I'm I I I'm just saying i it's gonna depend on who you talk to as to what word they're gonna use. So it's not it the the man is not the head in the family because the woman's being punished The the the the man is being i i i is being placed into a head shaped role because that's God's design and that's what's best for a f well oiled machine as the family. It's not a punishment. And the results of the fall, the distortion is how many men do you know that are all too willing to abdicate that responsibility of leadership? And how many women, uh, because of the distortion, and sometimes because their husbands refuse to step into leadership uh are all too quick to want to take on that responsibility and be the ones who quote unquote wear the pants and the fancy. That's the context of the vacuum. Yeah, so um I don't know if we have I have a whole lot more to say on that. And if we do, uh it there's some common themes throughout this. I'm gonna read the next two. So this is uh Five and six. In the home, the husband's loving, humble headship tends to be replaced by domination. or passivity. The wife's intelligent, willing submission tends to be replaced by usurpation or servility, so we were just kind of talking about it a little bit. Uh in the church, sin inclines men toward a worldly love of power or an abdication of spiritual responsibility and inclines women to resist limitations on their roles or to neglect the use of their gifts in appropriate ministries. I kind of already got ahead of us and talked a little bit about how the s the fall, the sin sinful nature that we have messes things up in the home. But this starts to talk also about what this needs inside the church. So you wanna you wanna comment on on that? I know that you have to be ch I'm gonna be a little more specific. David spoke for most of the last time, so do you have anything you want to add first, Stephen? If not, I'm gonna then go to uh Davy. Anything you want to say about uh men abdicating their leadership roles inside the church? And women maybe uh not living the life the way that they should inside the church. Well let's talk about some of the abdication of not testing and allowing the members within a congregation to be able to win a pastor or elder or a significant the leader is maybe coming out with some progressive ideas It's the role of the congregation to kind of check that and so in ways as a leader of your home or your household, also the participation in God's household. And maybe spiritually, as in this nation and a lot of churches across the country, they've advocated that ability to test and in a loving, sharing, humble, mutual submission way, go and and say, you know, what you're talking about is not quite biblical. Can you help me to understand where you're coming from and why the pressures of the world is encroaching within the congregation. That's one abdication you might be able to see. And for ease of being understood, I know that um Steve Jurger used the word progressive, but I I know him well enough to know that what he meant by that was regressive. Right. Regressive tendencies in the church. There's nothing progressive about it. We're not making progress. I appreciate your definition. I'm just clarifying, in in case anybody ever would be confused, what when you hear progressive in common parlance, what you should hear is regressive. So Well t today that's what it is, right? Right, yeah. The the the the conservative and progressives have Right. This point. This isn't new. And even in nineteen eighty seven when these guys got together to write this, this was not a new problem. Think about in our it our entire lifetime. The three of us in the room and if you're a little bit more well seasoned than the three of us in this room, your lifetime too. When you were a little kid It was very common to to think in term uh to hear stories about how mom and grandma are really praying for you. They're really praying for your salvation. They're going to church and they're praying for you. It wasn't grandpa, it wasn't dad. It was it it was like a mate it was a spiritual matriarchy that has been pervasive in the church my entire life. And if you walk into most churches today, if you walk into most churches ten years ago, if you walk into most churches forty years ago, a majority of those in attendance are women. Women and children. The women bring their kids and the dad is feels like, Well, I checked that box, my wife is taking care of that I don't have to go. I can watch football. I can play golf. I can do whatever. I was just going to comment that some external pressures upon our society Look at World War One, the demand of pulling the young men, uh, the draft. I'm not saying these things are bad. I'm not saying it's just a circumstance, and you get into World War II And you have men pulled out of the w uh out of the workforce. They're going overseas, they're doing what they have to do. You have women now that are being pulled from the family. And they're going to work because of the war effort, because this was huge. This was, you know, we were thinking at the time, you know, these people are going to take us over. We have to pull out all those stops. But it created an atmosphere where the home now is either watched by babysitters or grandparents or whatever and there's an interruption in the family unit And then after the war they want to come back together and everything, but now you have all these things set in place and now you have an independence that probably wasn't there before because of the economic things, the financial things, and so there's things there that could ride on that, but it definitely had effect Spiritually. Yeah, I definitely think that's part of it. I think it you could go back even further. It's probably way more complex and complicated than what we're gonna offer on the show today. But if we go back further, I would say that the shift the economic the the macro shift from an agrarian society to more of an industrial society where dad wasn't home anymore. He left the home to go work in the factory. I think yeah, I think we began to see uh uh at least then, maybe even before that, but certainly I think that was a shift And so then the women are back on the homestead taking care of the kids, raising the kids in charge of the spiritual formation of their kids because dad wasn't home. I think that was part of it. Those are the grandmothers that were praying for the kids. Yes. And then that gets exacerbated when you've got the uh you know the war, World War One, World War Two and all that dynamic going on. And then on top of that you've got um theological liberalism to be distinct from political liberalism that really uh was beginning to emerge in the late eighteen hundreds in the church in a big way and had basically won the fight for the church, being macro speaking by the early nineteen hundreds. And so then w it became more about uh emotional exuberance, about the church experience. And women are wired to really value and appreciate those kinds of experiences. Men are a little more binary, a little more uh intellectually focused. Not that women are stupid, what I'm saying things that are interesting to men are what can I learn what's good, what's bad, tell me the truth, and I can make decisions with that truth. Like, you know, where I have problems in my life, give me some information that'll help me solve those problems, generally speaking. And then women are more about the touchy-feely relationship. uh the the mental gymnastics micro uh multitasking that they do, that sort of thing. And so with that mindset taking root in the church, the church has started to feel more feminine. And so the men didn't feel like they belonged as much. And like, well, this is all sissy stuff that's going on in church. And the women felt really so I think that that exacerbated it even more. So I think it's a whole combination of things. But at the root of it is men are all too willing to give up their headship role. And women are all too willing to take it on So I I think it's sin is at the r at the root as well. And we're gonna make like no time on this at all if we don't pick up the face. I think what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna read the next two, but we might not really have time to talk about them a whole lot in this episode. The Old Testament, as well as the New Testament, manifests the equality, the equally, sorry, the equally high value and dignity which God attached to the roles of both men and women. Both Old and New Testaments also affirm the principle of male headship in the family and in the covenant community. Redemption in Christ aims at removing the distortions introduced by the curse. Uh we have like maybe a minute, minute and a half. So if you have a quick take on that and if we and if that's enough we'll start with new ones next week. If not we'll pick up this discussion in next week's episode. Any uh Quick re comments on that one? No, nothing? You know I'm known for my quick comments. Quick comments, yes. Piffy, Piffy David. Nope. All right, well I can be the fifty one, but then I end up dominating the show and I you know I I listen back to the show I'm like, man, I did like eighty percent of the talking in that episode. That's not good. So we'll leave the clip on it. Okay. The role was advocated By Adam in the very beginning. If he was watching over things, which the bit the a the uh the forbidden fruit I mean it's speculation on our part at this point. What's done is done, but it makes you wonder if that was the first abdication. In a sense, it makes you wonder if that's kind of the first sin. Adam abdicates his leadership role. He's standing by idly, letting Eve take charge, make decisions for the both of them. I I wonder if there's I hadn't really thought about these terms before, but I wonder if like that's the kernel that from which all other sin kind of springs because he's given leadership, right? He's supposed to uh have dominion. He's supposed to to subdue the earth and to to fill it, to multiply. He's supposed to say, take that leadership, bro. Take the world by the horns kind of thing. And he lays back and look at what the world that's left with us now all these thousands of years later. So that's that's interesting. All right, so we'll we'll uh continue We'll see if I'm a if I'm a prophet or not, if I if my prediction comes true. If not, stone me now Uh anyway, this is the this is the uh Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. Please don't stone me now. Uh I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. You can find us online at Household of Faith in Christ uh dot com I want to uh thank the two gentlemen who participated in this week's panel, Steve and Jurger, with uh the Shabbat Gathering in Adams County, just north of Frederick County And um uh David Forcey, uh I gotta come up with a f better name than the uh multi-location church, but for now that's what I got. Pastor of the Multi-Location House Church uh i in the area, the Frederick area. Uh we'll be back next week to finish up the Danver Statement. Uh we're gonna be getting into the Nashville statement shortly after that and we will eventually swing back and finish up our talk on the Chicago Statement on Biblical Application. But that'll be off in the distance of a few weeks at least. Anyway, thanks so much for sending part of your Sunday morning with us uh today. Or if you're listening on podcast, whenever you're listening, thank you for that as well. Till next time, about 167. 5 hours from right now. God bless.