Good morning, sweetheart. How are you today? Thank you for joining us this morning on News Radio 930 WFMD. And if you're not a sweetheart, but you're a hunk of hunk of man, well good morning to you too, my friend. We are uh recording these shows in advance, you know, we don't get up right and early on Sunday mornings to do these. So as we're recording this, we're heading down the home stretch towards Father's Day, so Happy Father's Day to you. And just to elongate this a little further, and there's gonna be a reason, I'll explain why in just a second. A couple of things I want to um uh clarify right off the bat that I don't forget I've been uploading a whole bunch of old shows. The Faith Abate's been on the air for just shy of twenty years now, and uh I've been finding the old audio and putting it on sermon audio and odyssey. com as quickly as I can do so well, one a day. I don't want to over I want to give people a chance if they want to actually listen. They can listen to one a day, it seems to me that might be reasonable. And so one a day I'm loading. Anyway, I've listened to some older shows now that are like eighteen, nineteen, twenty years. I was an idiot. Oh my goodness. A lot of times I was anyway. I said a lot of things that today I would argue with myself about oh my gosh. So I've I've either devolved over the last twenty years and I was right then and a m and I'm a moron now, or I like to think I've grown and matured quite a bit in my understanding of the faith and become quite a bit more biblical. It's like wow So I want to apologize for all that bad theology you got twenty years ago. And one of the things uh we're gonna talk about it actually as a topic uh in the shows we're recording in this arc of programs, but uh I was referring to uh females who were quote unquote ordained within their faith tradition in the quote unquote Christian church, uh as pastors, and I would just unambiguously refer to them as pastor of such and such church, uh, I would never do that today I might say that they th their church recognizes them as a pastor, or they've been installed as a pastor in their faith, but I wouldn't myself call them a pastor, and so I apologize for having done so in the past. That's a real hot button issue of late and I don't need to be adding to the confusion by posting those old shows in today's climate. Uh another point of clarification. Uh Daniel caught me, but then he didn't double down on me, which I totally get why. But I promoted Got Questions, their website, uh a few recording sessions ago. And I referred to it as gotquestions. com. And Daniel said, You sure it's not dot org? And I said, No, dot com. Well, as it turns out, if you go to gotquestions. com, it works. But it redirects to gotquestions. org, which is the official website. So Daniel was right. I was wrong. Um well, you admit it. Yeah, well, you know, I'm wrong like once a week and that was my one time wrong for that week. Um th th the And the other thing is I got some feedback from a listener uh just within the as we're recording, just within the last week or so. And he was frustrated that uh when we do the live stream, like we're right now we are doing a live stream of this recording session, and that will be uploaded as a podcast later as well. And if you've ever seen that live stream, you know that I opened it the first like 30 seconds, 45 seconds, just saying, hey, streamers, blah, blah, blah, like I did to on today's stream. Those in the rooms tell me do that. It's not long, right? And it's just kind of letting the streaming audience know what's going on and those who are going to tune in live, giving a chance to start to get some live streamers populating the stream a little bit. It's you know, it's not really a delay tactic, but whatever delay there is it helps to accomplish that. And then of course I have to turn around and introduce the show, like I'm doing right now, the actual radio show So the particular podcast, which was like a two and a half hour podcast, that he was complaining about Uh I actually put a stopwatch on it because I was cute. Well, I didn't have to look at the timer, but I I looked at the actual number of seconds that he lapsed that he was complaining about. It was less than sixty seconds before the show started. And then it was a maybe a hair over sixty seconds for me to introduce the panel and the topics and that sort of thing before we got into the, you know, the grist for the mill. So it was like two minutes out of a two and a half minute podcast. Two and a half hour. Two and half hour. Two minutes yes, thank you. See that was my one mistake for this week, getting it out of the way early. So everything else will be Yeah, exactly. Well, night as a recording day good morning, Sunday morning audience. Um so two minutes out of Two and a half hours. And he was complaining that I was just rambling on, wasting time. Nobody cares about any of that nonsense. All they care about is your opinion. And I just want to say, I get it, right? I mean there's something about pace and having a quick clip and getting to the point and all that sort of stuff. But I also want to say, when we're doing a radio show, and I would say this d uh even if it was just a podcast. But particularly radio, I don't know if that's particularly true of podcasts too. It's a very personal medium It's very often a one-on-one medium. People have their headphones on, they're alone in their car, community of work, and it's just them and the podcast or them and the radio station. It's a one-on-one kind of a medium. Unlike television, which is the idea is people gather around the family room TV and watch it as a group. Radio was much less that was like that back in the 30s and 40s, but it now it's much more intimate. And so it's about relationship and rapport and uh dialogue, not just those of us in the room, which I'll introduce in just a second, audience, hang in there. Um but anybody who's listening uh should fe should be made to feel like they kind of know us and what we're doing, what we're about, and that sort of thing. If we just jump in right off the bat and say, all right, hot take number one Now imagine the theme music plays and the first thing you then hear is hot take number one is this person's a jerk Okay, that's kind of a hard start, right? There's just be some sort of an entree into what's going on. So I want to explain that you have started some shows in the past with that. You know, it went before you even introduce yourself, you're saying abortion is murder and then you just go under the but then I will take for like the first fifteen, thirty seconds or maybe even a minute, but then I will swing back to doing the introductory things, right? Yeah, so there's been times for effect or just to change things up because I get bored rather easily. Uh you know, I I change that sort of stuff up. But I wanted to explain it and I wanted to give a full throated explanation so that it would take, you know, six or seven minutes for the guy who doesn't like these long intros to satisfy and scratch that ish for him. So I so you know we usually dragging it out we are here to serve So you have any more complaints, send them my way and I will I will dispense with them in a similar fashion. So anyway, the one laughing is uh David Forcy. Oh, that's another thing by the way. I caught myself on a more recent show I introduced David Forcey as David Rasby at one point on one of the shows. We all missed that. Included everybody in the room and me, and only upon listening to it back I was like Daniel Rasby? David Raspby? I do have a brother named David. And I was like, wait a minute, what? So anyway, my apologies for way back then, but it's David Forcey. He pastors a house church. It's it's a uh church that meets in a bunch of locations. It's hard to say where he meets, but basically in and around Washington and Frederick County. One location at a time. One location at a time. Every name of all tech church. It's a rotisserie league. It's the Wackamole Church as I like to call it. Uh and then the the other voice you've heard so far this yeah this show is Daniel Razvi, not to be confused with Daniel Forcy. I don't think there is a Daniel Forcy. Is there one anywhere in the world that we know of? Not in relation not that I know. There could be one, but nobody knows anyway. And you can find him and uh their ministry online at Concord by Love. It's Congress by Love Ministries and of course there's a house church that they call the church that meets at Imran's house. And Imron is not here this week because he gave up his seat. Because he knew they were going to have a very special guest, uh, Josiah, and I'm gonna get this right, Bon Juwani. So close. Bonjawani, actually. Darn it, I gotta put an E on the end of that. Well thanks for introducing me anyways. There we go. Bon Jiwani. Bone Jawani, and he's written a book called The Head Covering. And you can get that book and I'll explain to you all about how to do that, but we've got to get into the topic here at some point. So I'll before this show is over, I'll give you the information about how you can connect with the book and all that. But Anyway, before we get into the topic about the head coverings and stuff, real quick intro. People who have listened to the show for a long time have come to know who I am. Which is why most of them don't like me that much anymore. Uh and they're and they've come to to know Daniel and David as well, which has comes to explain why they like them more and more every week. Um but uh they don't know you at all. So like 90 seconds kind of thing, 60, 90 seconds. What's important for us to know about you in the context of what we're talking about here? Well, I have a calling from God to preach the gospel and I felt that calling very clear and strong throughout the years. Um At the moment, um I've dedicated my time to writing some books. Previously I've done like a lot of customer service jobs. I just enjoy being around people. Um on the side, I love to study, especially theology. So I guess that would be especially pertinent for tonight. Now what what are some of the other books you've written? Um so I'm writing um a children's book at the moment, but I also have published another children's book entitled The Library Lesson. So it's basically meant to teach kids responsibility through Storyform. Um it's it's basically a story about a child who had a very terrifying dream. Where he ends up owing millions of dollars to a library because of some books he borrowed years before and goes bankrupt and he quickly learns his lesson. Hm. I had that dream, only it wasn't a dream. So wasn't millions of dollars, but there was a time when I had a book that I had I've forgotten I had and had it for years and years and years and years and it it's ridiculous what happens to me. Yeah. Well, to be honest, it was like such an obscene amount I said, you know what, give us like twenty bucks, we'll call it even. So that's hilarious. That's what we ended up doing. So anyway, so you so but the this book that you now have out is called the how and is this new the head covering? It's recent, yeah, it's very recent. I published it this year. I've been working on it for a number of years. However I Dedicated some specific time to to fix it all up and add sections I didn't have previously. Okay. And you are uh you say you have a call to preach the gospel, so are you a pastor somewhere or you're an evangelist? Do you you go itinerary? Neither at the moment. I have gone on two missions trips. One was for six months over in southeastern Europe and the other one was another five to six month trip. Um it was across the southern part of the US. However, I I do help out at my church uh North Eastern Europe. Is that like Ukraine? Um actually Moldova and Romania and we went down to like Macedonia and stuff. So Okay, I'm sorry, I was distracted by that. What was the other place you said you went? Uh the other place it was based in California, but we went through The whole southern part of the US basically. So Gotcha, California. So you two foreign mission trips trips. You went to Europe and California, two foreign countries. So um so what led you to Be so serious in your study and dedicate the amount of time it takes to write a book to the topic of head covering. If I could only run into somebody who could tell me something about head coverings, I would be eternally grateful. Like it's a it's a top everybody thinks at the top of mind issues. It's a hot topic. Everybody's arguing over it all the time. So let me what uh obviously a little tongue in cheek there. It can be contentious though. So what led you to focus on this issue? Well, the very simple answer is it's in the Bible, which I think everything in the Bible is of supreme importance. But the longer answer I guess is I've gone to a Mennonite church ever since I've been young, so I've It's kind of right in the middle of Maryland where there are very few Mennonites. And for those who don't really know much about Mennonites, um one of the um there's a lot of like uh I hate to call them pet doctrines, but like specific doctrines that set Mennonites apart from others. And s some of them are like non resistance or opposition to warfare. And that's one of the big ones. And another one is actually y uh wearing head coverings in in agreement with Um, 1 Corinthians eleven, two through sixteen. So I have I kind of live in an area where basically nobody does it except the people in my church. And okay, you know, up in Pennsylvania and stuff there's a lot more that do. But Hence I have met a lot of people who have had questions. I've had friends who are like, I'm gonna disprove the need to wear head coverings and I'm like, well I'm gonna prove it. And so we've gotten, you know, some fun discussions and that's that's why I wrote this book eventually, because I had a bunch of notes sitting around and people were like, You need to turn it into a book. You know, you don't see all that many Mennonites around here, and because of the head coverings, that might explain why we don't see that many womenites around here either. But um, huh? All right. Be sure to tip your waitress. Order the rubber chicken. I'll be back tomorrow. At eight o'clock. Um so you said people are f are trying to prove to you that it's not what we should do. It's not the biblical requirement anymore. By the way, you're still you're still in a Mennonite church. Yes, okay. Um Daniel. Sure. Without getting, you know, into the arguments at this point, um are you on the side of head coverings should be required of women? n uh not required at all or somewhere in the middle? Um maybe somewhere in the middle, but my my reading of uh uh of the first Corinthians passage would s uh leads me to be of the opinion that women should definitely be wearing head coverings in corporate worship settings. Okay. Uh and w we'll get into the the details of that one. But not necessarily twenty-four-seven or or kinds of men or whatever. Alright, and uh David Forcy. You uh you think that it should be a requirement, that it shouldn't be a requirement, or there's some maybe moderator view somewhere in the middle? Uh I I think that it is uh a requirement, but probably not in the way that Josiah would say that it's a requirement. Hmm. Okay. And five you know what Josiah would say is a requirement. I said probably. It's cultural. And Joy, I'm going to guess that you say it's not a requirement. Yeah I am uh I am rather undecided. So this will be an interesting uh topic for me. And so I leave it up to the conscience of the interest. Yeah, yeah, y it's hard to tell because the things I am decided on I'm very vociferous. One of the things that comes comes to mind as far as you were making a a a little bit of a facetious statement that oh this is a huge topic. But it actually is not necessarily within Christianity, but in general Western culture right now, the idea of women covering their heads Because Muslims generally require it and different Muslim societies will have m more or less strict rules regarding that, but there are many cultures around the world that women are supposed to wear head coverings in public. Uh whether or not they're even Muslim background, but that's where you hear it a lot. You'll see a lot of um uh activists, Muslim activists that are you know, saying, Oh, we need to be able to do such and such activity while we're in head covering and that's a really big deal. Where that's more recent. Previously it's been like a lot of in America you see Mennonites doing it or whatever, but now you're seeing a lot of uh people of of the Muslim faith. So I think that's where it's a hot topic right now. And there's many conservative Christians that are saying, you should never do that 'cause forcing women to wear a head covering that's oppressive and this this and that. But there actually is some commandment in the Bible about it, so it's very interesting that that's the tac the take that a lot of Christians have in in the US So I I don't know how that's not really in his book necessarily. Having read it, I I know you don't really bring that up much, but it just came to mind as it Yeah. I'm uh I I'm I'm not understanding because it's unimportant. Um but there have been other things that for whatever reason have uh risen in prominence uh uh within my field of vision where I've spent more time drilling down and trying to to wrestle it down to the ground. And this feels like one of those issues where, okay, w when at some point I have to try to wrestle this and pin it to the ground and have it the position. And for now, you know, the people that I have a lot of respect for, whether they're n national or international names or just local names or whatever, men, women, you know, biblically faithful people seem to have, you know, differing views on this. Most of them would fall in the camp of it's not Um having some sort of physical head covering on the head isn't a requirement in today's context, is where most people land, but there are other people who would disagree. And since there's a gr disagreement among good biblical people, it's like, well, I don't know who's right, and I haven't had time to really figure that out just yet, so I'm gonna leave it up to the conscience of the individual. I haven't made a A position taking a position or m or said this is what you I expect in my church. as we as we proceed in in talking about this topic. So Daniel was talking about like in a Muslim context, um, or in other cultural contexts where the women should be wearing a head covering all the time. Is that your position or just in the context of worship? Josiah? Well, my personal pos uh position is that it should be worn whenever uh women pray or prophesy. And men should also remove their hats or other head headwear in those situations. Um my church's position is a little bit different. It's it should be worn all the time, at least in public. Um but I feel like I have a free mind so I can, you know, choose to think what I believe the Bible actually says. Um but I also I d I'm not opposed to them practicing it in that manner. Okay. So let me uh now that you've given your generalizer know which where the pieces fit on the board, uh let's start to go into some of the uh minutia and op uh opportunities for maybe some debate or some give and take at least. Uh David Forcy, you mentioned that uh you you say yes to my generic question at the beginning. Right. However, probably not in the way that Josiah would mean. So what is the way in which you mean, and then we'll give Josiah a chance to say that, yep, he nailed it. I don't agree with that Uh so uh I I'd say my my position is probably summed up um just by by saying that I I think that the Uh God gives very different roles um to men and women. Um that those uh those roles come with um uh various positions primarily relating to like authority. David Forcey stepping onto the third rail cultural discourse these days. And absolutely. This is all related, I guess, to the bigger questions. And and so uh well uh the head covering, you know, in however you look at it I I don't think you can get away from I don't think anyone talking about it scripturally would get away from saying that it's it's a symbol of authority. Uh and so uh the I think what's of of primary importance is the um is that the the men and women, their their roles down to their their appearance is very should be very distinct. uh and clearly visible and to i in public and should be clearly um understood by by each individual according to But one of those distinctives wouldn't necessarily be having some sort of like cloth fabric on the head for the female. Correct. Okay. Yeah. I I think that is a way that you can express that, and I think that's fine. Uh but I I would say that expressing it in that particular way is is not necessary to have a a particular to have a a particular type of cloth or a particular amount of cloth Or particular placement of that cloth, right? Okay. I think you nailed it, yeah. Um I would say I have a very different approach to this um position and um it's just it could be the way we researched it, but um my approach is when you when you read through the scriptures, if we're given a command As Christians, then we're expected to obey that command. And it we can't just change it to fit our culture. We can't say our culture takes precedence over Scripture. Rather, if scripture says that a woman is to cover her head with a cloth veiling during prayer and prophecy, that is to be obeyed literally, and we can't say, Well, we're going to replace it with a ring Same thing with like baptism or any other subject. We can't say we're gonna throw out the biblical command and replace it with a man-made, cult more culturally acceptable alternative. So stick s so my view is stick straight with the Bible and obey it. And I mean if it wasn't a command then I wouldn't say that, if it was just like a cultural precept from the past. But as a command to Christians, I would say we've got we have to obey it. Now you mentioned earlier, Josiah, uh particular scripture passage, 1 Corinthians chapter 11, uh verses uh you said 2 through 16. So I guess to f help to properly frame this, let me uh Let me read that. And I'm gonna be reading from the Not Intended for Veracity edition of the Bible, uh otherwise known as the NIV. Um Uh by the way, I don't have any uh any real problems with the NIV. You have to understand what the uh what the different translators are trying to accomplish with their translations and this would be what's called a dynamic equivalency. So this is not gonna be word for word, so it's not necessarily the best Bible to use for a uh a deep dive study. But I think for these purposes we're talking at least for now. Uh we're trying to talk about the broader issue and what's presented here. I think it'll be fine and if we need to go to a different like an NASB or a King James or in something like that, we can can do that. But here's what the NIV has to say Starting with verse 2 of chapter 11 of 1 Corinthians. I praise you for remembering me in everything and for holding to the teachings just as I passed them on to you. Now I want you to realize that the head of every man is Christ, and the head of the woman is man, and the head of Christ is God. head covered dishonors his head, and every woman who prays or prophesies with her head uncovered dishonors her head. It is just as though her head were shaved. If a woman does not cover her head, she should have her h hair cut off, and if it and it is a disgrace for woman to have her hair cut off or sh uh shaved off, she should cover her head. A man ought not to cover his head since he is the image and glory of God, but the woman is the glory of man, for man did not come from woman but woman from man, neither was man created for woman, but woman for man. For this reason, and because of the angels, the woman ought to have a sign of authority on her head. In the Lord, however, woman is not independent of man, nor is man independent of woman. For a woman came from man, so also man is born of woman, but everything comes from God. Judge for yourselves, is it proper for a woman to pray to God with her head uncovered? Does not the very nature of things teach you that if a man has long hair Is it a disgrace to him, but that if a woman has long hair, it is her glory? For long hair is given to her as a covering. If anyone wants to Be contentious about this. We have no other practice, nor do the churches of God. And that's gonna whoops, knock down my water bottle there. Uh that's going to end up being the final word. We ended with God's word as the final word for today's show because we are plum out of time. I got to uh get the theme music here going 'cause I was reading and not getting the music going. So um we'll be back uh on the radio at this time, 167 and hour sixty-seven and a half hours from right now to continue this conversation. If you're w watching or listening to the long form stream, well it's going to continue here in mere moments Daniel Razby, David Forcey, thank you for being on the panel as per usual. And Josiah Bongielani. Did they get it closer that time? Yes. Perfect. All right. uh author of the head covering. You can find it and I'm on Amazon, the head covering by Josiah Bunjawani, and his website is Josiah Bunj uh Bonjuani. com. Good luck spelling that. I'll spell it for you next week. How about that? We'll make you work for it this week and spell it for you next week. And I'm Troy Skinner. Find us online at WFMD. com and Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Till next week, God bless