This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The faith debate is on the World Wide Web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with a master of divinity. From Reform Theological Seminary, the faith debate master of ceremonies. Troy Skinner. Back for another go round. Take it easy, Ami. Don't hit me too hard. It's all virtual reality boxing. Please. Don't pull your punches if you would. Pull your punches, please. This is the Faith Made on 930 WFMD. We are online at WFMD. com keyword faith, or you can go to the menu of programs on the radio. We heard the uh they kind of in three pieces a message called Shack Attack focusing on the epistles of John. Um and we actually I've I've got an uh conundrum here as far as timing to make this work. And so we did not listen to the very, very last words of the message that we heard last week because we ended with a prayer. So I'm going to actually you uh make use of that prayer now And um you you you don't have a problem with that, do you? You have no problem with us making use of prayer, right? Of putting prayers on the radio. Uh free speech and all that. So we're gonna do that. That'll uh you know, buy us another minute, minute and a half, something like that, which will help me then on timing on the back end of all this, see? So it's uh it's uh a practical necessity in a sense as well. Otherwise I can just blather on about inane things. I'd rather listen to the prayer. So here's the prayer that ended last week's message you heard here on the Faith Debate. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the truth of your word that reveals to us the truth of who you are. We thank you that we can see in the creation around us that you exist, that you love us, you provide for us. But sometimes we can run afoul of your word. We can run astray what you would have us believe by giving too much credence to our own imaginations. I ask that your Holy Spirit would consistently prompt us To lean upon your written word, to turn to the Bible, to see if what we think is true about you is merely our thoughts or is your revelation. Help us to be fair-minded to those who would have a different understanding on some things, to hear them out, to ask them to point us to Scripture. to defend their point of view so that our view can be changed if we're wrong. Help us to use this tool that's been given to us, whether by accident or on purpose, this book of the shack. To minister to people, to open doors to conversation so that the true Savior Jesus Christ, the true nature of who you are, can be discussed and revealed to them by the power of your Holy Spirit. We thank you, Lord, for saving those who are yours, for giving us an insight to know what we know with certainty from your word. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. And amen. And by the way, happy Mother's Day to you if you're a mother and or a grandmother or uh You know, hope to be one day. And uh if you haven't given a happy mother's day wish to somebody who fits that description in your life, I just reminded you, go do that. So now we're going to hear the first half of a message that's um looking at the third epistle of John, three John uh verses one through twelve. Basically all of three Johns uh essentially looking at uh in a in a message called the good, the bad and the beautiful truth. And so we're going to uh do that now. Let's see if I can do this on the fly. Not the easiest thing to do. Here we go. My beloved friends whom I love in the truth. Good morning. What is the shortest book in the Bible? Obadiah would be a good guess. That is the shortest book in the Old Testament. 2 John would be a good guess, and if we're counting verses, then that is the shortest book in the Bible, just 13 verses. However, second John contains two hundred and forty-five words, and third John contains just two hundred and nineteen words. That's counting the Greek words, not the words we find in our English translation. So If Alex Trebek were to walk up to you and say, I am the shortest book found in the Bible, you would answer, what is 3 John? This morning we're going to take a look at the first twelve verses of third John, or the first one hundred and eighty-five words, since we covered the final thirty-four words last month. We're going to read these first twelve verses together. Now it might take up two or three pages in your Bible if you've got one of those big fat commentary study Bibles. But more than likely it just shows up on one page in your Bible. And uh certainly the original letter would have fit on a single page of papyrus So beginning with verse one, the elder, to my dear friend Gaius, whom I love in the truth, dear friend, I pray that you may enjoy good health and that all may go well with you, even as your soul is getting along well. Gave me great joy when some believers came and testified about your faithfulness to the truth, telling how you continue to walk in it. I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in the truth. Dear friend, you are faithful in what you are doing for the brothers and sisters, even though they are strangers to you They have told the church about your love. You will do well to send them on their way in a manner that honors God. It was for the sake of the name that they went out, receiving no help from the pagans. We ought therefore to show hospitality to such people, so that we may work together for the truth. I wrote to the church, but Diatrophes, who loves to be first, will not welcome us. So when I come I will call attention to what he is doing, spreading malicious nonsense about us. Not satisfied with that, he even refuses to welcome other believers. He also stops those who want to do so and puts them out of the church Dear friend, do not imitate what is evil but what is good. Anyone who does what is good is from God. Anyone who does what is evil Has not seen God. Demetrius is well spoken of by everyone, and even by the truth itself. We also speak well of him, and you know that our testimony is true. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for revealing your word to us, your written word that is inspired by you, and your word in the person of Jesus Christ. Who provides the way, the example, and is the truth. We ask you to settle our hearts and minds right now. There are so many concerns among us this morning. financial pressures, physical issues, illnesses of loved ones, concerns about the world, the culture, society around us. concerned about the direction that your bride is taking. Help us to recognize that you are in control. That you are a God who is not merely above it all, but intimately involved in it all. That you have a plan and a purpose. And that everything ultimately will be used for the good of your people. Help us to love one another. As we love you. It's in Christ's name that we pray. Amen. You ever wish you could be the proverbial fly on the wall somewhere? Or that you could Travel through time and experience what things were really like in a given situation. I'm tempted to say, of course, we all have. It's one of the reasons why all these espionage stories are of so much interest in the news these days. What did Hillary really say in those emails? What did Donald's people really say to the Russians? Our curiosity about such things is also why I think that O. J. Simpson docudrum on FX Network last year. The American crime story was so popular last year. It's part of why people in our society are so wrapped up in conspiracy theories like the assassination of JFK or those who question the moon landing And it's why many of us enjoy reality writing. Now, as far as I know, I've made up that term, reality writing. Reality writing is what we had before the advent of reality television. Reality writing would include the Anne Frank Diary Which was discovered after World War II. The correspondence between John Adams and Thomas Jefferson has spanned half a century. It would include the love letters now preserved in a presidential library that Ronnie Reagan penned to his beloved Nancy. And another letter of love that's now preserved in our New Testament that John had penned to his beloved Gaius. Anne's words in her diary provide for us a glimpse into what life was like as a Jew living in Nazi Germany in the twentieth century. John's letter, the words in his letter provide a glimpse into what life was like as a Christian living in Asia Minor in the first century. The letters of Adams and Jefferson, they provide insight into their minds so that we can better understand what it is that these men believed. And this letter that we have from John provides insight into his mind and what was most important about what he believed. Ronnie's letters to Nancy, they, while he was governor and president, he wrote these letters and they revealed a loving heart of this leader. And John's letter. Well, he was the elder in Christ's church when he wrote it, and it reveals a loving heart of this leader. What a treasure we have in 3 John. It's really a shame that it's one of the most neglected books of the Bible. In it, we read a testimony of joy in the truth. We read a testimony of contrast between love of truth and love of self. We read a testimony that we'd like to be true of us. It is written from the beloved. To the beloved. It addresses truth in love. It celebrates the good. It exposes the bad and it accentuates the beautiful. Yes, indeed, what a treasure we have in 3 John. Let's look again at the start of the letter, beginning with verse 1. The elder. To my dear friend Gaius, my love and the truth. Now just as with 2 John, our writer opens with a simple statement of his identity, the elder. He doesn't say John, although I think it is more than safe to assume that this author is the Apostle John, the one whom Jesus tells to look after his mother while Christ is hanging on the cross. The disciple whom Jesus loved. The beloved disciple. And this beloved disciple is writing to one of his beloved disciples, Gaius. To my beloved Gaius, he writes. I know the NIV says to my dear friend Gaius. But some other English translations, in my opinion, do a little bit better here with the translation. They say beloved. Now the Greek allows for either. But beloved, to me, it seems stronger for reasons that might become apparent as we progress this morning Now, John uses this word beloved when addressing Gaius, the beloved whom he says, I love in the truth. Now, by this, John doesn't say, I love you, truly I do. I love you, yes, this is true. I mean, he does have a true love for Gaius, as we can see from his use of the word beloved at the start of the sentence. But here what John is saying is that he loves Gaius in the truth. Who is the truth? Well Jesus is quoted in John 14, 6 as saying that I am the way, the truth, and the life. Christ is the truth. John loves Gaius in the truth. John loves Gaius in Christ. Now I spent some time drawing attention to this because right here we can see the theme of the letter. This is a love letter. In truth, of truth, and in defense of walking in the truth, contrast it with the ways of error that fail to walk in the truth, and then therefore result in an environment of hatred, a testimony of hatred. John put the spotlight on two testimonies. A testimony of love and truth, a testimony of hatred and error. And he points us to an example that invites us to ask, which testimony is mine? The one of love and truth, the one of hatred and error. We begin with the testimony of love and truth. Let's read verses 2, 3, and 4. But before we do, let me say again that Our pew Bibles, in my opinion, maybe aren't as helpful here as they could be in this situation. John opens the body of his letter with beloved. The NIV says, dear friend. This is a fine translation. It's not wrong. First of all, Gaius is a dear friend. So it's actually correct. But also Greek words, they have a a range of English glosses as we work to translate them. And so these range any of the choices in this range would be acceptable And so, dear friend, is acceptable. There's nothing wrong with it. But I wish the NIV translators had opted for beloved, as many of our other English translations do. Because it helps us to see the love theme in this letter all that much more clearly. So for the rest of the morning, as I'm reading through these passages, I'm going to substitute beloved for the Greek word that is translated in the NIV in our Pew Bibles as dear friend. So in verses 2 through 4, John writes, Beloved, I pray that you may enjoy good health and that all may go well with you, even as your soul is getting along well. It gave me great joy when some believers came and testified about your faithfulness to the truth, telling me how you continue to walk in it. I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in the truth. Now notice in verse 2 that John he prays for Gaius to have both spiritual and physical health. I pray that you may enjoy good health And that all may go well with you even as your soul is getting along well. Any scholars here this morning? Okay, yes, you're right. It's true. This is likely some sort of a standard greeting, familiar to letter readers in the first century Roman Empire. But I would add that letter writers need not be slaves to convention. For example, when writing a letter yourself, you might sign off with sincerely. Or cordially or much love. You ever run through those options? You're about to sign off on your letter, on closing out that letter, or signing off on a greeting card of some sort? Sincerely. Seems so average. Cordially, it's a bit more unique, but Uh kind of formal sounding. Much love. Better be careful who gets that card or letter. Sometimes I'll sign off God bless or In Christ, comma Troy, or only by the blood of Christ, or merely thanks, comma Troy. I'll give a moment of thought to this normally. Do you I mean I don't agonize over it, but I think about what I'm writing. Make a purposeful choice. Sometimes I can't make a quick, easy decision, and in the rush I just simply sign my name. No sincerely, no cordially, no God bless, nothing else, just Troy. So even if it's a letter writing convention, we have choices to make within those conventions. And here John chooses to express concern for the spiritual and physical well-being of his beloved Gaius. Some even speculate this could mean that Gaius had some sort of a malady, that perhaps he was of a weak constitution, or he was recovering from some sort of a lengthy illness. It's hard to say. But regardless, from this we can see that it is okay, even commendable for us to pray for the spiritual and physical needs of our friends. So as a practical application, how often does the church have to wrestle with, do we share the gospel or do we share a sandwich? Well, when you're faced with that question, do we give them a sandwich or do we give them the gospel? Your answer should be yes. Now comes that testimony of love and truth I mentioned earlier. Verses three and four. It gave me great joy when some believers came and testified about your faithfulness to the truth, telling or testifying, how you continue to walk in it. I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in the truth. I love this. The elder is a proud papa in these verses. Gaius has brought joy to John. Interestingly, the name Gaius can mean rejoicing. Isn't that great? Rejoicing is bringing much rejoicing to John. How? What has Gaius done for John? Nothing specifically for John John has great joy because of the testimony of others about the beloved faithfulness. Faithfulness to what? To the truth. Gaius is faithful to the truth. Faithful to Christ, who is the truth. How does John know? Because others testify about Gaius that he is walking in the truth. He continues to walk in it. This report of faithfulness is so very exciting to John It brings him great joy. There is no greater joy for John than a report like this. I'm emphasizing this because the text emphasizes this. Biblical commentators will will mention that the this truth really pops up at you in the Greek, but you can even see it in the English pretty well. Basically, John writes here, I really, really have a huge amount of joy in my heart over you because of what everyone is telling me about you. Can you relate? I can. And I'm going to explain how I can relate. Next week on the Faith Debate. That was the first half of a message called The Good, the Bad, and the Beautiful Truth, focusing on the third epistle of John, the first twelve verses there. And what we're going to do now is transition into the end of today's program and uh get ready for next week's program one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from now. You can visit us online, wfmd. com, keyword faith takes you right to the faith debate page. There you'll find links to podcasts. Podcasts of this show, uh like the show you're listening to right now. If you give us about twenty-four, forty-eight hours, a podcast edition of this will be available online. You'll also if you go to the Faith Debate page see what's been on the show recently, what's gonna be coming up next week, maybe even a couple of weeks out, depending on how far out in advance we know our plan. So I'll be looking for that as well. Thank you so much for your longstanding support of this show. Coming up on fourteen years if you can believe it. I can barely believe it. I must have started the show when I was like three. Till next week. God bless.