This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the Master of Ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Where fake community leaders wrestle over the truth. In less than 30 minutes, learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Ooh, how convenient Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble! Let's get ready to rumble out Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Fate Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Get a more And in this corner, Weighing Inn is a pastor, teacher, and founder of Bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder John Swaither. No, I'm just getting longed up. On the panel today is a man who uh some might describe as A one-year radical believer in Christ, who, as it turns out, attends Bethesda United Methodist Church with his Jewish wife. I believe you'll find him uh to be very thoughtful He has proven to be very thoughtful these last three shows. This is our fourth show together with him. He brings really great questions and you know what I have to say? He has a very engaging style. More Christians should be as wiz winsome as he is. Jonathan Sweitzer came to know Craig Lancour. Jonathan could be could learn a lesson or two about winsomeness from uh Craig Lancourt. Yeah, because I haven't learned it from you. You look at me and you get a mirror reflection on the Winfanist question, I'm sure Anyway, they met uh the past September, right, with the uh uh Go Purple campaign of Frederick working shoulder to shoulder. Um so today we're gonna pick up where we left off last week where you're talking about why does Craig's wife, a a Jewish woman, need to worry about accepting Jesus to be saved. And we're going to get there in a second. But before we do that, I want to talk just a little bit about the opioid crisis crisis that's killing thousands upon thousands of Americans It's a central focus of Crossbridges uh right now and has been for the last uh couple of years, uh uh uh with Jonathan and his organization. And it's a it's a crisis that has dramatic impact on Craig and his story Uh he knows what it's like to be one of the many countless individuals around the world uh who are struggling in in this way. So I had a chance to hear part of uh Craig's story uh off the air and uh and he shared maybe I don't know twenty minutes and he probably could have gone on for three hours. And so I've given him a tough task here, but I've asked him if he would be willing to share in five minutes or less kind of the core parts of his story because it's pretty dramatic. So um I went to uh Roman Catholic elementary school um and I um uh remember two sides to my life, uh uh side of love of Christ and then this uh this darkness that I call it. And um I um found a Christ that I didn't understand at some point when the church told me that, you know, I was going to hell and I felt this love in my heart and so that conflict um led me turning my back on the church. And um it was through um of being molested as a young man. I turned to drugs and alcohol And then um found Christ again in my twenties and um sobered up and got it into law enforcement and then turned to drugs and alcohol again after a tragedy on the job where young man hung himself um and I couldn't save him and Started drinking after that and um then doctor gave me a little oxycontin um back in the late 2000s and uh before before I knew it I was hooked on that and disabled retired from my career as a corrections officer in twenty fourteen and turned to um heroin Um and me and my brother would get high together almost daily and then I found sobriety in twenty um fourteen in November of twenty fourteen and I fought for two years trying to get my brother sober and he just lost his battle with uh his addiction june seventeenth of twenty seventeen and uh It's been a frustrating um loss, but um God has given me the gift of Jonathan and cross bridges and Frederick County goes purple to try and help others. Um that, you know, I couldn't save with my own brother, so hell will you. There's so much brokenness in a story like that, you know, from the um being given some really odd theological instruction as a youth. to uh you know molestation as a young man, to, you know, uh witnessing a suicide and being helpless to help. to revive him and you know, losing a brother to an addiction and really through no fault of your own initially, getting hooked on prescription medication Yeah, being prescribed medication that was just bad. My doctor re assured me when he prescribed it that it was the best non-addictive drug on the market today. So you know. That angers me. Yeah. God bless Yeah. So I don't I I'm g I'm gonna assume that the doctor just didn't know better. Oh yeah. But yeah Well that lie was told for a good uh twenty years by the pharmaceutical companies that it was non-addictive and they pointed to this uh to the Porter Jick study that uh that was a misunderstanding of of opioids used to help women uh when they were in the end stages of pregnancy delivery or end stages of cancer like extreme pain. And in those cases less than point four percent of the people that that were given opioids as as a pain medicine had any problem with addiction. But that's extreme pain in the the pharmaceutical companies took the extreme word out and said when it's used for any pain it's non addictive. It's such a manipulative lie and uh it had to be a knowing lie because it's synthetic heroin. Right. How would the pharmaceutical companies not know the synthetic synthetic hero heroin would be devilishly addictive. Like they had to know. What I love though is that now they've got the drug that'll help you get off the same drug they help you get hooked on. Oh yeah. It's like planned obsolescence, you know, with your with your uh refrigerator, you know. They've they figured out a way to keep making money on this lie that they started years ago. And it's interesting, it puts different things in context. Rush Limbaugh lost his hearing Right. Because of damage done to his ear because of his addiction to opioids. And oh, a lot of Christians, you know, who kind of have their head in the sand on some of these kinds of cultural social issues sometimes, we should. Right. Um a lot of them are big fans of Toby Mack and his music Right. And Toby Mac lost his son last year to an accidental over overdose of fentanyl, which is an opioid. Right. And uh really dangerous stuff there because it's so powerful and the strength of it is so so like And so you have to have such a microscopic amount to be safe, and if you have just a hair more than that microscopic amount, you're dead. And the ra rowdy's the addict Uh the those that struggle with addiction uh oftentimes when they know that there's fentanyl out there, they'll go looking for it uh because it It's the good stuff. Well you get this And that's that's why the uh so many have died is is it just got out of your own. You get this mentality that If they killed someone, it's gotta be good, but it won't kill me. Seriously. I'm I'm that is the mentality on the screen. I'm I'm you know, got the tolerance to handle it. And that's the nature of addiction, right? Right. That I want the good stuff that that is so strong that it almost kills me, but it it doesn't. And really looking back at it all, I was telling Jonathan that It all it really wasn't to get high. It was more to escape the person that I hated when I looked in the mirror. You know, I still saw the molested kid, I still saw the failure, I still saw all of the shame and guilt and um everything uh about the failure of that the enemy wanted to to point out, you know, all of how I was never gonna be good enough, smart enough. Um and I believed it wholeheartedly. And it wasn't until My wife said something to me that I'm like, Oh, all these people think I'm an idiot and or all these people think I'm this or that and she looked at me one day and she said, You're the only one who thinks that And I said, What are you talking about? And she said, You're the only one who thinks that And I said, what do you mean? And she said, no one thinks you're an idiot. No one thinks you're stupid. No one thinks you're this or that. You believe it. No one else does. You know, and this drives to the heart of uh right the message of the Bible that the devil comes to steal and to kill and to destroy, right? His goal is to is to not just get us caught in sin, but then to shame us so that we would never even consider turning back to the Lord who came that we might have life and have it more abundantly. And so so all of the the you know we're talking uh about the uh the the Old Testament and how either it points to God or you know and Jesus Christ or points in a different direction. And that was the problem so often with the people of Israel in the Old Testament that they kept turning to these other gods that were so vile. Right, even going so far, you know, in Elijah's time frame and Jezebel's time frame of sacrificing their babies and a fire, you know, in and all kinds of uh, you know, erotic activity around the false gods. you know, as if somehow, you know, that was okay. And this is what God said from the beginning is that none of those things are okay. There's only one okay, and that is to follow the one true God. and to not follow the false gods. And that's, you know, in a nutshell, that's the that's the heart of the Old Testament. If you're following the false gods, then you get into lying and and killing and the breakdown of families and uh violence and you know all these other things uh including you know in in the word pharmacia pharmacy you know in the old testament is that those false religions would use drugs in their, you know, um uh spiritual exercises as part of what they did, right? It was a part of the the wickedness of those as opposed to turning back to living an abundant life that is healthy, the way that God intended for us in relationship with one another. respecting one another, not crossing all these boundaries, you know, that that are, you know, the Me Too movement, all these boundaries that that were violated, you know, in these power relationships. uh all through Hollywood, you know, all through the nation for that matter, that that women have to sleep with somebody in order to get ahead. Right? The ugliness of that, these boundaries that are crossed, and that's the point, is that Is that God doesn't want us crossing the God God wants to protect us so that people aren't Taking advantage of us in ways that we shouldn't be taking advantage of. Well it's so funny because my wife always used to criticize me with regards to um my drug use and would call it my disease and I would always call it my cure because she saw it as the problem or I saw it as the solution. It was the escape from the pain and the torment and the self hatred and the the self disgust that I felt every day. It gave me that escape. hatch. You know, I pulled the ejector switch and I could forget about hating myself for a while. And it was that that really Um once I was addicted, it was the inability to see any hope of ever Not hating myself because I already hated myself that much. And then the deeper in my addiction I got the worse I hated myself. So the more drugs I needed, so the worse I hated myself. So the more drugs I needed, so the worse I hated myself. And then I would do things, you know, uh I'll never forget one of the most horrible things I ever did was pawn my wife's engagement ring, uh wedding ring, when um she was being wheeled back for knee surgery Um they took her jewelry off and I gave her a kiss and the doctor handed me all of my wife's jewelry and I turned around and hopped in the car the second the door closed and was off to the pawn shop on the way to Baltimore and back in the waiting room before they wheeled her out. And those are the types of things that you have to continue to get high, otherwise you can't stand to look at yourself in the mirror anymore. You know, somebody asked me the question recently, um somebody that uh uh has very strong homosexual attractions. Uh they they asked asked me, you know, um so what I'm uh I'm not allowed to um uh have those desires fulfilled and um as somebody that is also coming off of uh um addic uh an addictive background. And uh and I said to him, I said, um, so, you know, in your story when you describe it to me, you were introduced to to sexuality, to sex, uh as a young child. uh in an abusive way. And I said, I I think that's the most important issue to address. I mean the pain that is in your heart. uh is is a pain that that comes from the fact that that a line was crossed and I I'm a lot more interested in helping you to address that issue. and to work through the healing of that issue. Um and does that mean that that the same sex feelings will go away someday? Said I have no idea. Probably not. I know. Because all I know is that that the pains in my life, right, and we all have 'em at different levels that go back to when I was a child. Um sometimes it feels like those are never gonna go away. Right. The healing that comes for me is a healing that comes that helps me to make choices that are not controlled by the pain of the past. Right? And so I I I transcend the pain. The pain doesn't necessarily go away, but I transcend it and I have hope for better, you know, relationships since then. And that's the point, like when I hear your story and and the pain that you're dealing with I think there's a similar thing for for many that struggle with same-sex feelings that there's a lot of abuse and pain for them. I had to question my sexuality as a young man because I my first sexual experience was with another man and did that make me gay because I had my first sexual contact with a guy, so I must be gay, right? because that's the definition of gay. If you had sex with a guy, then you must be gay. And so it really started to make me question my own identity and who I am. And it wasn't until I realized those things were done to me. Right. And it wasn't And done to you before before y your brain is anywhere close to knowing how to process it. Right. Right. And and so this is the thing. Let's say that you were abused as a twenty year old in those same ways. Right, where your brain is far enough along that that that you have a better sense of, you know, your identity already established, you know, and all those other kinds of things. it would still deeply mess with who you were, right? For the rest of your life. Right. Right? If you were like in a POW camp or something, they decided to, you know, do those kinds of things to you. Right. But it didn't happen when you were older. It happened before you even knew how to process those things. And this is where the truth versus grace thing. I mean, I feel like as a society we gotta deal with the fact that that our society introduces people to sexuality in ways and in ages that entirely inappropriate and very dangerous. Oh wait. You know, and so how do we you know, how do we have a healthier approach to those kinds of things? Well I I I So I was telling this to a friend and one of the things that my therapist helps me work through is when I get into those feelings of um needing drugs and alcohol is, you know, stand up. And take a look at your feet. Like, look at how big you are. You aren't that five-year-old kid anymore. Look at you are a grown man. You are capable. Right. And you can make a decision today. You can change today. And that's where it really has helped free me from that fear of, you know, um of being pulled back in. You know, I've got this is even at the drugs. I think this is even at the heart of the the definition of truth. Right? The truth is That I desire certain things that are not good for me. Right? And so if I'm living by the truth and I'm doing what I want to do, right, the truth is that's what I want to do. It's also the truth that it's not good for me. Right. Right. And so the question is which which ones of those truths, you know, like like there's layers of truth. And so the truth is I want to do certain things. that aren't good for me. And so then then I have to I have to ask the question, so why does everybody say it's not good for me? Maybe it is good for me and everybody else is wrong. And so I'm grappling with, you know, this internal feeling You know, and and you're describing some of the wounds that that you got early on. I've got w my own wounds that I got from early on that that incline me to feel The truth is I feel certain ways inside. And so uh the question is how do I take the truth of how I feel inside? and and weighed against the truth of what's what's healthy for me at the end of the day. And so what you're describing is this journey of grappling with the truth of what was inside and then coming to terms with, you know, the truth of what's good for you or not good for you in the long term in relationships that you're trying to build. And the more I found redemption in Christ and forgiveness in Christ And the more I learned about who I was in Christ, um I was able to see myself as a changed person, as a changed man. You know, my me and my wife have been married twenty-four years And she's been only married once and she talks about her ex-husband now. And that really is you want to talk about a major blessing. You know. Yeah. Yeah. Hallelujah. Because that the old man in is dead. And Hallelujah. And that's a profound way of putting it. Yeah, uh did I hear oh hear you say earlier that you relate it to a Lego? Oh yeah, so What what I mean by that is if if my f one of my fiancings is Lego is Lego. So but if you take your Lego directions and you mess up steps one through ten If you do the next two hundred steps correctly, it's not gonna be right. Mm, you gotta go back. You have to go back And address the issues. This is what I tell my kids about math all the time. Look, you're gonna develop holes and it's gonna fall apart. You gotta make sure that you know those early lessons or you can't build on it. I'm always telling them this before you later on. You know, I had to be broken down to nothing left, nothing I mean, I was at my weakest point when I finally surrendered to Christ and I had to be 'cause I was standing on a cliff with my toes around the edge for the last thirty years going, I believe, kinda, I trust, kinda. And I just refused to jump. And it wasn't until I was completely vulnerable that I jumped and he caught me A couple of other things you said that stuck out to me. You'd used the word uh about you were in darkness, or you were in the dark, entering the darkness, or coming out of darkness, something about darkness. And it just struck me, you know, that's the language of of uh Saint John, you know, in his writings of the New Testament. He talks about the contrast between the light and the dark. And everybody who's not in the light is in the darkness. Right. Yeah. And um it seems to me that the context of addiction and why desiring something that's bad for us That's kind of true for all of our sin. Yeah. Right? We're addicted to sinful behavior, all the various kinds of sins that they are. And um A lot of times the sin might feel like we're doing it to have a good time, but a lot of time the sin is to avoid pain Mm-hmm. Right. I'm gonna lie to protect myself from punishment. So many times. For me, this is totally the case. Right? I'm always trying to avoid pain. I'm gonna be arrogant and bombastic towards someone for fear of feeling inadequate before somebody. So I'm gonna put on a mask. And so it's interesting that the lessons we can learn from what goes on in addiction can can be applied in a broader sense if we understand that all of our sins are addictive behavior. Well it's all about perspective. It really is all about perspective. And one of God's greatest gifts in my recovery is he gave me the perspective of not only being the addict who was um trapped in that misery and pain, but also being the family member of an addict who was trapped in that misery and pain and going through what my wife went through to save me and realizing the absolute helplessness that I put her through. And that was my brother. I mean, I loved him to pieces. He was the best man at my wedding, but we didn't live together. Like me and my wife, you know, what I put her through on a daily basis, um This is an issue about sin that that is part of what's so hard to get get our heads around, is that it's never just me that is impacted by it Right. That it always means that other people around me, family members, coworkers, neighbors, are are are also impacted in ways that that I deny, that I that I don't want to admit. And Uh and uh how do we calculate the cost of what we've done to one another? And that's that's why scripture talks about, you know, the wages of sin, the cost. of sin, right, is death not just for me, but, you know, it's affected people around us. And my ability to rationalize and to claim that that my bad behavior doesn't affect other people is is limitless. I could rationalize and rationalize and I don't know that there's anybody out there that that's not true about. It's Jonathan Schweitzer. We've been joined this week by uh Craig Lancour. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. Thanks so much for listening. Just remember, if you're if you're one of those who's prone to self-loathing, you are fearfully and wonderfully made. You might be a sinner, but there's a savior to rescue you from that sin and to restore you to all you were meant to be. So there is hope, whether you're a Jew like Craig's wife or a Gentile or a Buddhist or a whatever, the truth reigns supreme no matter your situation. Christ is King and Lord. All you have to do is accept the truth of that. Anyway, till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless.