This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Tremble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Hua, where faith community leaders Wrestle over the truth. Yaba do in less than thirty minutes to learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to run ball Let's get ready to rumble. Out. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Fate Debate, Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. And in this corner, weighing in the middle of the day. Weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. Ooh, mama. The notorious big bridge builder, John Sweiser. No, I'm just getting warmed up. Dr. Jerry Siegel from the University of Maryland is saying. much of his life involved at the highest levels in the Middle East pro peace process, including being the head of the Washington, D. C. based Jewish peace lobby. And now he is candidacy for the United States Senate in Maryland. He was recently given the front page treatment by L Hudd's the oldest Palestinian newspaper in circulation. He is here on the panel today to help us make sense of what's going on in the Middle East, a toxic peace soup if there ever was one. And also on the show this week again, of course, back for more abuse, Jonathan Schweitzer, founder of Bridget. which we'll talk more about in the coming weeks on the Faith Debate and of course co-founder of the Faith Debate Show. So you can find us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. We've done two shows together. This is round three. If you miss the first two, they're going to kind of stack on top of each other. So you might want to go to the website at some point and listen to the podcast, maybe you could listen to them in the sequence at some point. Uh the first one aired on uh what was it? May twenty seventh. Last week was uh June third and now this week is June tenth. And so we're gonna pick up where we left off last week. Where we left off last week was On a note of controversy, apparently God is wrong about how good or bad I am. So that stopped the presses. So therefore vote for Jerry. That's right. Vote yeah, if if uh i if you're better than God thinks you are, or y if you want that to be true, then vote for Jerry. Yeah. Ben and Jerry. Apparently it's the it's kind of the central point or one of the main points in his book, Joseph's Bones. Yeah. And so we were talking about that last week and we didn't have time to elaborate and and you should have I wish I had my video camera out It was exciting one. Right? John's face lit up. He's like, Wait, what? Yeah. What is going on? What did you just say? So anyway, you want I'm sure you probably want to pick up on last week's show and maybe talk about what a a uh a a biblical Christian pastor's perspective on that sort of thing might be. Well so I would argue that that this balance, uh from a Christian perspective is a difficult one in that there's many times where where where the view of mankind that comes from pulpits or writers that are Christian uh in their uh orientation that the perspective is that that mankind is like this this uh totally depraved sinful group and uh I feel like there's been some really good pushback on that recently that argues that we were created good. Right, that that if we go if we start with Genesis one, that mankind was created good and that that if there's a fall that uh that there's an echo in all of us that is the image of God that we were created with from the beginning, uh, and that it's important for us to not overemphasize uh how depraved we are, but to recognize that if there's something redeemable in us, it's because we were created originally good in So we don't need to overly um beat down our impression of how sinful man is in order to appreciate the value of Jesus Christ, you know, that would die for us since let me Let me go to a meta level and tell you sort of the difference b between us. Yeah. The difference between us is that um You are actually to some extent doing um in a certain sense doing religion. In other words, you're using you're using scripture, you're using history, and so on in order to give a certain kind of interpretation of fundamentals, sort of who are we really, what is the human condition, what is the moral condition of hum of humanity and so I actually don't do that at all. Yeah. Okay? I actually focus on the Bible itself, right? And I'm I am fanatically mesmerized literally about what does the Bible say, not because I actually believe that the Bible is the roadmap to reality. Yeah. It's just that I find it the most miraculous, wonderful story ever written and I'm totally knocked out by it, right? And the passage in the Bible that that I relate to, there are two that I relate to The most, right? The w one of them has to do with the plagues. Yeah. And the other one, which is more important, has to do with Abraham. Okay. And it's a key moment in Abe in the story of Abraham in Genesis, when God is about to destroy Sodom and Gomorrah. Yes. And what Abraham says to God Before we get into everyone knows that they oh well if you find fifty just we do it what about forty and the whole bargaining thing. Before we get to that, you see I think that's a that's the collapse of something much more powerful. What Abraham says to God is Shall not the judge of all the earth act justly? Yeah. Far be it from you to punish the innocent along with the guilty. Well what does that mean? That's Abraham, Abraham calling on God Yeah. To be just. Well the implication of that, first of all, is that morality doesn't come from God Morality is something independent and God can be immoral. Well if Abraham is your interpretation of it But the interpretation I interpret it as literature. Now everybody you see if you're doing religion. Right, right, but but if you're inter if you're coming to it as literature, then that means that that you w you almost are not able to consider that that particular passage is is God uh having an impact on humanity 'cause cause you don't You're you're you you've already come to the passage with a presumption that this is literature, not an inspired book. Right? I mean that's that's a question conclusion that that you came to before you read the passage. However you view it in terms of in terms of whether what its causation is. Was it inspired, who inspired it, and so on. All of that could be true or it could be false. Okay. But what you've got to ask your questi the question is What happens in this story? Who are the characters and and you know what's the plot? Let me just say one thing. Let me just say one thing, okay. If if you imagine yourself Back in college and you've got a novel and you're sitting around and you're talking about, you know, well, what happens in this novel? Yeah. What is the character like, okay? The point is that it's not the case that every interpretation and every opinion is as good as any other. Sure. In other words, the point is just that mine's better than yours. I you're a jerk, I'm okay. Okay. The point is that you make your case when talking about a novel by weaving together everything that's in it. Of course. Right. And the best interpretation is the case is the interpretation that makes the most compelling sense out of the widest number of things in the story. Okay. Okay? So what I'm saying. You know who Yeah, but it's not in who's reading it the best and who's tying it together and seeing the whole best. And it's one of the things that amazes me about people who who supposedly read the bu the Bible literally. Okay. This is this sort of it's the weirdest thing, actually. They got no in fact they don't read the Bible at all. What they mean by reading the Bible is sort of picking out little factoids and believing these factoids. I mean, but they don't comprehend it as a story. Christians out on that like all the time. So anyway, yeah. And in fairness to we need to be c clear about how we would define literally. And you're talking about woodenly. You know, uh taking it atomistically, taking a little atom small features. Yes, but missing but missing missing the largest story. So that happens a lot. You know what you were saying is my interpretation. Yeah. Abraham's perspective is that God can be immoral and that there's a standard of justice to which God can be called to account. And what I see Abraham doing, actually when he says, far be it What Abraham is doing is he's positing for God a certain self-identity. He's saying, God, Yahweh, okay. You know, you relate to power and you relate to commandments and people have to do what you want and so on. But think of yourself this way. You are the judge of all the earth, and far be it from you to act unjustly. So he's proposing to God a certain self-identity, which is that I'm a just guard. Okay. Okay. Now the thing like I'm getting your point. No, here's here's the point. But I want to show you that Abraham fails in that and chicken's out, right? When he goes Meaning he stops at ten and he should have kept going. The whole business of of of the fifty is a different kind of conversation than than your I than the question about your identity. A project that if he had been successful, all of human history thereafter would have been radically different. That is, God would have seen himself as a just God, a God who creates the world in such a way. If that was just if it was just to do that, but he went to destroy the innocent along with the guilty. Right? So he would have made sure So you think he did destroy some innocent along with the guilty? I'm I'm I'm sure I'm sure, but the point is he destroys innocent along with the guilty all the time. All the time. God's major thing. Let me just ask this. I feel like I'm hearing what you're saying. Yeah. Alright, so let me say it back just because 'cause I don't want to share my perspective without you know you being confident that I'm hearing what you say. What what I hear you saying is that is that at that moment uh in the d the the story of God and humanity that it's humanity that sets the standard for justice for God and that that it's that it's Abraham that is calling God to a higher standard and that as Abraham is doing that that he kinda chickens out and he should have stuck with it and if he had that that what we would ha have found is that that there's many wars even in history or moments where the people claim to be doing things on on behalf of God. And you couldn't have the Israeli-Palestinian example. So you feel like I'm hearing it. Yes. Okay, so can I give a an alternate perspective Yeah, please. Which uh you probably have heard already, but for the sake of our listeners and for me feeling like I got equal time, I'll go ahead and say it. Right? So the point is is that When I read that passage, I think to myself of those moments when I'm with a good mentor and and the mentor is helping me to take ownership. of something that up until that time in my immaturity or my lack of confidence I haven't been taking ownership for. And the good mom uh the the good mentor in those moments is waiting for the moment when I will Call him out, where I will ask him the hard questions, where I won't be afraid to ask the hard questions, because it's not until I'm confident or courageous enough to ask the hard questions that I'm even gonna be able to really see what's really going on. So my point is is that the way that I view that story is that Abraham Uh and Job maybe lived about the same time, who knows, you know, in in terms of what what the story is, that Job as well, that God was looking for some men. that would be courageous enough to ask the hard questions and as a result finally see what God sees. And and I think the same thing ha is happening when I see Moses calling God out. That here it is again that that that God is is saying, okay, I'm just going to destroy him. And what God is looking for is for somebody, anybody, that will say to God, look, God, I know that you're Not really that way. And so I'm calling I I I'm saying it to you not because God's about to fail in his own justice, but because God knows that we fail in our pursuit of justice and if we are going to rise to the level that he wants us to, it requires us having the courage to ask the hard questions. So he does it with Job and he does it with Moses. He does it with Abraham. He even does it with Daniel, you know, in these key moments where where Where the saints that he's called out are finally stepping into his mentoring that they could lead us into rights. I don't accept everything you said, but But the I do and he and here's the here's the stuff that I say about Moses, which really fits with that. After after the flood, after the flood, God basically repents. And he says, I'll never do this again. And I'm gonna put a rainbow in the sky to remind me never to do this again. Which itself is fascinating because What? It's that God is gonna forget? He needs to put a rainbow to remind them? Okay. But in but then we never hear anything about the rainbow again. Sure. Right But it's interesting the literalness with which you take some of the things that God says that I don't take it literally as you. Okay, go ahead. Let me just finish, okay? In the story as it progresses, however, there's a person, and it's Moses, right, who time and again prevents God or or talks God into right? Yeah Not killing all the Israelites again, right? Moses is actually God's rainbow. He's chosen for that. And the name Moses, guess what what it means. Taken from the water. The literal meaning of Moses. So god my theory is that God selects Moses. I love that. God selects Moses, not Anybody could go to Pharaoh and throw this on the ground, then a snake would do that, and so on. But what God selects Moses for is actually Moses' commitment to the Israelites, because Moses is actually going to help God get control of his own emotions. What God knows in the Because of the thing, you know. Moses is gonna help God get control of his mouth. That's why he chooses him. That's his role. Is it Aronofsky that did the uh story of uh Moses in the movie theater recently? Did you see that? No where God is the little child and Moses is uh is kind of called him out. It's a very similar perspective. Uh huh. Totally irritates me because I don't think it's true. play this role. Aronofsky must have read your book. It's your fault. Now I figured it out. I'm going to go talk to Aronofsky and give him a better book. So Moses plays this role and then Moses then Moses is going to die. Right. And the question is, who's going to play this role when Moses is gone? And of course nobody ever plays this role again But what what I was saying before is that Moses realizes David didn't do that? Moses realizes that God can play this role himself if the Jews or if the Israelites in fact follow the love commandment, that that will protect them. Now what happens in Joshua is amazing because in Joshua they reach a modus vivendi. I I wouldn't say that the Israelites and the loving God. But what they do and God helps them learn how to do this, is that they police themselves. So when they have these infractions when they have these infractions, God helps them God helps them basically sort out who's innocent and who's guilty and helps them punish just the guilty ones. So it gets very specific. And then you have this whole thing. You have this whole thing where there's a temple that's made on the other side of the Jordan. Yeah. And you've got actually Phineas Right? Who alter rather, yeah, yeah. Who leads them in this police raid over there to make sure that they're doing it. And then and then they give they give a story as to what they're doing, it was just to remind them they're not doing it and so on. But the main thing is that they learn this sort of self-policing. Okay. And that becomes the critical thing because as long as they're self-policing, God will hold off his wrath And if that if that breaks down if that breaks down, then you know, then it then it all pours forward. Yeah. So it's I agree with that part, but again And you saying that, that as long as they police themselves, then God will hold off his wrath. And saying that, that kind of puts God back in the role of being the just judge. Yeah, and and you're okay with that. Why, because you think that Moses put him in his place so he's able to be the just judge? No, no, he doesn't he never becomes the just judge. No, no, he doesn't. In fact, in fact, he's so diabolical. Yes, look at Babylon, right? Babylon, right? So if you happen to be wrong, you realize that that you put yourself like like precisely in the place that that uh that uh the prophets would say is the wrong place. In a big way. It's not a small thing. Final chapter of the book that's an appendix that has to do with Jesus story. Uh-huh. And it says basically because my book is about Genesis through Joshua. Yeah. But the last part of it is All right, so that's the beginning of a story that ends with the story of Jesus, right? And I raised this question, if you if you believe if you believe that Genesis through Joshua, if you understand or interpret Genesis through Joshua the way I do How does that affect the way you'll read the Jesus story? Right? And part of what I argue actually is that you see, God has never read the Torah. God doesn't know the Bible. God knows certain pieces of the Bible. God only comes to know the Bible. In so far as God is Jesus. Jesus is the Bible scholar through which God comes to self-understanding. You see Jesus. So Moses helped God to to become a just judge. In the direction of being a judge. But God doesn't do it right. But Jesus is the one that finally gets it right. That well, sort of. But straightens God out. Sort of. And and that's why you get the reversal of the curse of death. It's a very pro-Christian reading, this this last part of it. Pro-Christian. Because it basically says That the story that I think is that the first thing is that the first thing is that the first thing is that the first thing is that the first thing is that the first thing is that the first thing is that the thing is. that that's like an Antichrist way to describe the Christian. Well yes and no, but the point is i if you pay attention it's I mean I so so I don't mean that like just the negative You know the word chuzvah right? So there's no limit to my chutzvah, right? Okay. And it's about the Israeli Palestinian thing as well. Is it like pride or is it uh is it overly humble? Okay, that's right. That's right. So all right, so my claim My claim is that basically Judaism and Christianity have fundamentally misunderstood the Bible sure completely. And it's no surprise since the Bible predates Rabbinic Judaism and Christianity, which come at about the same time. Sure. It predates them by anywhere from five hundred to a thousand years. Right So why would you know like like how well would we understand something that was written, you know, in the fifteen hundred. In fact that's Jesus' whole comment is that if you believed Moses you would believe me, because you don't believe Moses, you don't believe me. I mean our the the the uh gospel record of Jesus has him saying that on several different occasions. But what I'm saying is something different, which is which is that which is that organized religion impose for its own institutional purposes a certain kind of storyline on the Bible. It's like it's like having a shoe that that you're absolutely determined to try to fit a s a foot that it that doesn't fit in there. Sure. You know. And so for for two thousand years, right, they've been trying to squeeze, you know, a foot that won't fit in there. But I think actually The kind of reading of the Bible which which I have, which I think is much more faithful than any of the religious traditions, sure actually can work beautifully for the religious traditions. Sure. Right? And it works I think this I think it works very well for Christianity, the idea that that through Jesus, right, through God's becoming incarnate, right, God comes to self understanding. Yeah. And having understood what he himself did, he reverses the fundamental curse of death. And No, no, no, we're going to have to pause the debate on 930 WFMD. Thank you, Dr. Jerry Siegel, U. S. uh Senate candidate. John Sweitzer, thank you. I'm Troy Skinner. Find us online at WFMD. com keyword faith. Until next week, 166. Seven and a half hours from now, and God bless