The Western culture has become increasingly post-Christian. It has embarked upon a massive revision of what it means to be a human being. The pathway to full and lasting joy through God's good design for his creatures is replaced by the path of short-sighted alternatives that sooner or later ruin human life and dishonor God. The people with the Naskill statement say that we did not make ourselves. That's true. None of us did. We are not our own. That's true. None of us are Our true identity as male and female persons is given by God. We believe that God's design for his creation and his way of salvation serve to bring him the greatest glory and bring us the greatest good Therefore, we with the Nashville Statement offer the following affirmations and denials. So those are words from the preamble of the 2017 document called the Nashville Statement put out by a Coalition for Biblical Sexuality. A rather conservative oriented kind of group one would think, but listen to some of these names that signed off on it, and you might be surprised at names you hear. John Piper, okay James Dobson, okay, I expect that. Russell Moore, well that's a question mark and a half right there. J. I. Packer, Wayne Grudham, okay. Al Moeller, a little squishy, but okay, I get it Tony Perkins, D. A. Carson, yeah, uh whatever. John MacArthur makes a total lot of sense. R. C. Spiroli was still alive back then, so he signed it. Rosaria Butter Field, uh an important voice on these kinds of issues. Okay. Francis Chan, a little surprising. Ligan Duncan, a little surprising. Uh Alastair Begg, that makes sense. Kevin DeYoung, that makes sense Karen Swallow Pryor, are you kidding me? J. D. Greer, really? Anyway, if you don't know all these names, the ones I expressed some surprise at have proven themselves to be rather on the left spectrum of things theologically in recent years, and I don't know that if they had to do over again they would really sign a statement like this. I just wonder. I'm not sure. And those that are you know, they've got their conservative bona fides, well okay, I'm not surprised by them. Anyway, enough about me carrying on. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. You can follow along online through my church's website. That's a really good one-stop shop, Household of FaithInChrist. com. Household of Faith in Christ dot com The Faith Debate panel this week is comprised by yours truly, as well as Stephen Jurger, who is one of the elders with the Shabbat Gathering that uh meets in southern Adams County, uh the um uh Gettysburg area. And David Forcey, uh he's the pastor of uh of a church kind of in the southern parts, most of the time they meet in the southern parts of Frederick City, like Southern Frederick County, Southern Washington County, ev occasionally West Virginia. Yes. Um Mountain Mama. Take me home country roads. Yeah. But we're we're the Potomac House Church, maybe. There you go. Ooh, there you go. That could be like the name of the Potomac House Church. Or the collection of Potomac House churches. Right, right. Something like that So the Nashville statement was put out w if you listened last week or the week before to the Faith Debate Show, or if you're listening to a podcast, the previous two episodes uh of the podcast, we were talking about the Danver statement, basically the same group of folks, generally speaking kind of got together. Now it's thirty years different, so it's not exactly the same group of folks. But the in the spirit of it is supposed to be kind of the same group of folks. And they put out this statement on biblical sexuality. Now the Denver statement's talking about um biblical uh roles for the for the for the biological sexes. The the role for the men, the role for the women, that kind of thing. Now we're getting a little more uh granular And we're not just talking about the roles for men and women, but we're starting to get into like so what exactly is a man, what exactly is a woman? And they were beginning to start uh start to uh a and what does this mean regarding sexual behaviors, you know, that sort of thing? And so what What what do we want to say to the culture as a church about these sorts of things? As we put out a series of articles and uh what are they fourteen of them maybe? Is that the number? I don't know how many. Yeah, it looks like fourteen. So we'll start with Article I. I'll do the aff affirmation denial and then uh we on the panel uh we'll discuss. We affirm that God has designed marriage to be a covenantal, sexual, procreative, lifelong union of one man and one woman as husband and wife, and is meant to signify the covenant love between Christ and his bride, the church. We deny that God has designed marriage to be a homosexual, uh polygamous, or polyamorous relationship. We also deny that marriage is a mere human contract rather than a covenant made before God. Them spighting words these days, so who wants to enter the fray first? Um well yeah, I mean I guess it uh I guess it depends on who is who is defining what what marriage is, right? And uh we would we would say that God well, he doesn't just define marriage, he defines everything. So, unless uh unless we're working on god by God's definition of something, it's not it's not an accurate definition Yeah, I mean a simple answer to the question, because in the postmodern world, like nothing feels real anymore, nothing's stable, everything's all over the place, you know, we have no meaning or purpose or anything. Like like like what's real anymore? What's real, not just anymore, but always is whatever God says it is. You want to know what's real? See what God has to say about it. That's what's real. And so this is what this is talking about. What's real is that marriage is one man and one woman by definition. Now there are other kinds of if we want to call them relationships that might exist, call them whatever you want, but if you call it marriage, you are out of line with reality. One of the things that we were talking about uh it was probably probably a couple of weeks ago now with the Danvers statement was you know, what w what's prefall and what's postfall, right? And what's what's prefall is one man and one woman and God brings them together and says, This is very good. So before sin enters the world. And so any uh I think it's fair to say that any distortion of that is you know i is is a post fall effect. And that's an important thing too, because it's not uh not only post fall but it it's it um or pre fall rather of marriage. The idea of marriage is pre fall. It's also pre-church, it's pre-Israel, it's pre it it's from the very, very beginnings of the very first human relationship was a marital relationship. And and it's it's it's it's it's primordial, if you will, to use uh a word that the uh uh the the uh evolutionists like to use for in a different context. But it's and and Christ has one bride. Yeah. We have there's one savior and there's one bride. Right. One church. Right. He doesn't have brides. Right. Yes. Oh, that's another conversation I'd love to have, but it's in the constraints that we have Uh, I would just like to read Genesis 1. 1. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. Okay? God created the heavens and the earth. God created everything. I mean th that it it starts from there. If if you redefine marriage then you gotta redefine Was God involved or not? And then you get into all the different attributes that people say they want to do because they want to you know, when you get back to the Romans one context. Knowing the judgment of God and they still, I'm paraphrasing, uh go into the depraved. Let my lifestyle in there, mind is given over. So it's it's God's authority, it's God's definition It's God's plan. And it's speaking in a denial specifically about homosexuality, and I'll I'm I think that might probably, I'm gonna guess, recurringly come up a little bit. We'll have opportunity to talk about some more, so I'm I'm I'm not gonna jump into that right now because I think like I said it's just going to naturally flow, I'm assuming. But the thing I do want to highlight before we move on to Article Two is the the last part where it says that marriage uh is not a mere human contract, it is a covenant made before God. That's important because you think about it, if it's not just a contract, but it's a covenant before God, it doesn't matter what the government, the legal systems, the contractual language that we might want to create as humans. That doesn't matter. All of that is uh is subsumed under God's uh uh authority on the matter. It's a covenant before him, so marriage is what he says So if the government says something else and they're saying what's a uh opposed to God, uh as Bible believing Christians, we need to uh reject and and aim to try to correct what the the government is doing. Anyway, Article 2. We affirm that God's revealed will for all people is chastity outside of marriage and fidelity within marriage. We deny that any affections, desires, or commitments ever justify sexual intercourse before or outside marriage, n nor do they justify any form of sexual immorality. So basically this is talking about the seventh commandment, no adultery allowed. In a this nutshell preamble or this article is becoming way more specific and targeting actual issues versus the one, the Danner statement was more general, more um, you know, just kind of the roles within a congregation or in within a church type of setting, uh, because the language here is much more specific. Yeah, you can tell it's thirty years later. Right. Right? If those are written thirty years after the other one, you can tell. Right. Yeah, and they didn't have to uh deal with the roles again because they said what they had to say and I don't think they would change a whole lot of that if they had written it thirty years later, but now And these kinds of statements come out when they feel a crisis moment. And this came up a couple of weeks ago I think. I think uh Stephen mentioned how or no, it was actually David that said they were late. Mm-hmm. Well, these kind of statements are always late. Because if people are trying to reactive Yeah, if they're trying to tamp down the fire, trying to deal with it and when it becomes clear, you know what? We better put together a statement and clarify these things because things have gotten out of hand. We can't just control this anymore. The fire is consuming the whole house. Right. Yeah, exactly. The Bible wasn't sufficient. Yeah. No, they're just trying to clarify that that the the uh uh the leadership of the church has proven to be insufficient uh in in human terms and and they're trying to call the leadership of the church back together and say, look This is what we as leaders in the church should be teaching and preaching and and and putting out there and our people need to understand this is what we teach and what we believe and this is a clarifying kind of a thing. But yeah, it's i if it's not in agreement with scripture, then it's wrong So insofar as these statements agree with Scripture, they're good. And for the most part, I think these statements have been doing a good job of that so far. Article three, we affirm that God created Adam and Eve. The first human beings in his own image, equal before God as persons and distinct as male and female. We deny that the divinely ordained differences between male and female render them unequal in dignity or worth. So basically both are image bearers, but they are different. And this is maybe the one wink and a nod to capture in one little article what the Danver State knows all about, right? That's true. So we don't probably don't have a whole lot more we need to say about that because we spent two shows talking about the damage statement. So Article 4. We affirm that divinely ordained differences between male and female reflect God's original creation design and are meant for human good and human flourishing. We deny that such differences are results of the fall or are a tragedy to be overcome. So these distinctions are good. And it's interesting this is Talking about something that David Forcey has gone out of his way to clarify a couple of different times how this isn't because of the fall. Right. And uh I I know that word human f or th that phrase human flourishing rubs some people wrong. Uh I think it's a phrase that can be redeemed. Uh a lot of people who are left theologically love that word. Uh human flourishing is a gospel issue. No, it's not. It's an important issue, but it's not a gospel issue. Human flourishing is what the church is all about. No, that's not what the church is all about. It's an aspect of what the church should be involved in, but it's not what we're all about. And so it gets misused and abused by people on uh a different theological spectrum than myself and people in this room right now. So people hate that phrase. But human flourishing is just talking about shalom. That's all. Well yeah, and and human flourishing is the that's a that's a fruit. And you don't just go out and buy the fruit, right? You have to cultivate the the plant, right? in order that the plant might bear fruit. You know something about that. A little bit, a little bit. David David makes a living dealing with that sort of stuff. Seeing an arborist, yes. Uh So so right, and so the the gospel, right, is the is the thing that if we hold true to it, right, the to God's word and to the the the saving knowledge of Christ, right? That will bear the fruit of human flourishing. So if we don't see human flourishing, it's not because we need to pursue human flourishing. Correct. Yeah, we we we can't uh we we can't ignore uh the means to getting to the end and and and go straight to the end because then we we might as well just be a another secular civic organization. So uh it's an example of uh that I mean that's it's idolatry, right? To worship the to create to worship yeah, to worship the the gift. Right, which is the fruit that God gives as a result of just us being obedient and faithful. Yeah. So I think also the fact is that human flourishing uh the progressive or should I say the regressive uh religious folks, they see that as a negative, you know, where we're to deny ourself in some aspects as the flesh, you know, and to be able to um walk in a way that we submit to Christ And you d he Paul says we die daily. Okay. Well, that's anathema to the movement that says you should be flourishing. It's living your best life now. Right. Right. To the fullest. And drink for tomorrow we die. So maybe you want to give a little more clarity, but yeah, I think you know what I'm trying to say. Yeah. No. I thought it was well said. I don't know if it needs any more clarity. If somebody's confused, it's not because of you. Although that sounded mean. It's because of my distracting uh tendencies to get people off track and they couldn't track with you as well as uh as you deserved. It's so it's my fault if they didn't track with you. Article five. We affirm that the differences between male and female uh reproductive structures are integral to God's design for self-conception as male or female. We deny that physical anomalies or psychological conditions nullify the God appointed link between biological sex and self-conception as male or female. So we men and women were designed to fit together, uh anomalies in the in the fallen world. Um They they exist, but this doesn't change um the initial design or the purposes uh put in place by God. I think that's uh in a nutshell what's being said there. Yeah. Uh that's an important one because that gets brought up in in uh you know, debates with people. What about, you know, uh the hermaphrodite? You know, they exist. It's like, you know, like zero point one percent of the population or whatever it is. It's such a rare thing. But they do exist. So what does that mean? That's a sign of the fallen, broken. world that we live in, that's not ideal. There's something not right. I mean people get Alzheimer's and die. That's not right. That's not good. That's not the best. So these bad things happen. Yeah, I think we're where we sort of started to creep in the wrong direction is when we, you know, um when we said, okay, like everybody is, you know, everybody is you know, made the way that God in intended them to be. Um right, so uh you know, someone who's born with some sort of uh deformity or disability, right? We know you know, we say, no, God God made you and you know, he made you perfect the way you are. And and So there's a that's that's not quite right and and that that goes down the wrong path. So what's the right way to say it? Uh I I think the right way to understand it is that uh one we um you know post post fall, none of us are ideal. humans anymore. We we don't meet the standard of perfection that there was that existed before sin entered the world. Uh and so um, you know, we we all bear the brokenness of sin to different degrees and in different ways. But we need to recognize that as the brokenness of sin. But I I I think what we do need to also recognize is to say, all right, well, uh God God has a use Got God can use this brokenness for good. Right? God can use what is you know has been upset by sin and he can redeem it and use it for good purposes. And let's take They focus off of God for a moment and put the focus on the one who steals, kills, and destroys. Satan himself, who has come as God of this world. and creates I'm sorry, craze. He doesn't create, but he he is involved in ways that can rob humanity of their um how God is created in various ways and yet we have the Redeemer Jesus who comes and says, I want to give you life. I want to heal you. I want to correct. I want to restore. I want to uh set aright. So um you know some people want to blame God for what Satan has done or indirectly through in our fallen world. So uh he gets the credit for being the one that's the killer and the stealer and the destroyer. Yeah and uh picking up and echoing and adding a little bit more even to um what you both have just now said Um all of us like we might not be you know, to the best of my knowledge, the three of us having this conversation aren't hermaphrodites. But we have other problems. Like we're not pristinely healthy. We're not pristinely sin free. And I talk I I you know those who know me well or have been listening to the show for any length of time know that I have a, you know somewhat profoundly impacted uh adult son. He's got uh what the world today calls um uh special needs. Uh he's got some profound impacts from the the fallen world in his life. But you know what? He's just in microcosm an example of all of us. It's just the the challenges that he deals uh with in his life because of the brokenness in the world are a little more obvious to most people than maybe the brokenness is in my life. But you know what? Some of the brokenness in my life might be actually more profound than his brokenness. It's just not as visible because I'm better at masking it or compensating it for some somehow or hiding it. He's not able to hide his difficulties. We all have that problem. So but that doesn't change the fact that me, my son, the hermaphrodite, they have incredible value as human beings. Yes, our the image is marred to a certain degree, but we're still image bearers. We are ambassadors and representatives or should be anyway for God. We should be a positive God like influence in this world and there's something really special about human beings and that's why we shouldn't murder them. You know? So um we should have compassion on the hermaphrodite, the ones that exist. But that doesn't change the paradigm for everything we think about sexuality and biological sex and those sorts of things because of these sorts of things in the world. Anyway, we spent a lot of time on that one, but that's good. We can probably do article six before we have to wrap up, I think. We affirm that those this is the one I just did or this is no no, this is the new one, right? We affirm that those born with a physical disorder of sex development Are created in the image of God and have dignity and worth equal to all other image bearers. Actually, I was just kind of talking about that. They are acknowledged by our Lord Jesus in his words about eunuchs who were born that way from their mother's womb. With all others they are welcome as faithful followers of Jesus Christ and should embrace their biological sex insofar as it may be known We deny that ambiguities related to a person's biological sex render one incapable of living a fruitful life in joyful obedience to Christ. So again, these these rare instances doesn't diminish the values with just there. I mean I kind of stole the thunder on that one. But you guys have anything else that you wanted to add on that topic? Uh, no, I mean I it just makes me think of when um uh when you know the disciples ask Jesus why the why the guy was born blind, was a blind. Right, was it his father was it his parents' sin or his sin or whatever? Like with the rule since God would be glorified. Right. all see our weaknesses, right? And and Paul says, you know, and m you know, it is in my weakness he is made strong. Right, yeah. You know, God displays his strength through our weaknesses. And so it doesn't mean that our weaknesses are are good things. But it means that God brings glory to himself through those things. Yeah. Yeah. He's such a big God he can use even the bad things for the for the good. Yes. Is that what you're talking about? Yes, that's what I was trying to say. Yeah. Um, she as a as a I think late teens, like a high school student or something, uh had a diving accident, broke her neck and uh was paralyzed from the neck down for the rest of her life. And uh she was crushed uh spiritually, emotionally by that and uh through some really good ministering from friends that were Christians, uh she came out of that Deep dark depression uh came to embrace Jesus Christ as her Lord and Savior and has become one of the great proclaimers of the gospel uh using her her injury. Life altering forever injury, uh and she's had a really fruitful life and God has used that in powerful ways. And I think if you were to ask her, she wouldn't take it back. She probably would would would say I do it all over again seeing how God has used it. I would guess. I don't want to speak for it, but I would imagine. I don't know if we're gonna have time to talk about it, but I'll read Article 7. We'll see if we have time to talk about it. We affirm that self-conception as male or female should be defined by God's holy purposes in creation and redemption as revealed in Scripture. We deny that adopting a homosexual or transgender self-conception is consistent with God's holy purposes in creation. and redemption. So God has decided to make people male or female and people have no legitimate say in the matter. That's the gist of what he's saying there. Right. This is a hot button. What is it? And this is like totally opposed to the culture today. So we don't have time really to talk about it right now, which is almost unfair because this is a big one. Right. We've got like mm less than a minute. So you have do you have a pithy little something? Captain Pithy over here, David Force? Right, right. Uh I I mean the the gist of it is that um the we We submit to God. Right? God God is our creator. Uh, you know, He is the one in charge and uh and that's You know, th our sin is is you know, our desire is to rebel against that and that is what that's what we see and Seeking to be something other than what God has made us to be. And we'll let that be the final word. Remember Charles is not in charge. God is in charge. Remember that TV show, Charles is in charge or Charles is in charge. Anyway. Uh David Forcey, thank you. Uh Stephen Rucker, thank you. Shabbat Gathering in Adams County, uh the Forcey Church in Southern, whatever. I'm Froy Skinner at the Household of Faith in Christ online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Until next week. God bless