This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. than one half hour learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The Faith Debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in mid corner, weighing in with a master of divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the faith debate master of ceremonies. Troy Skinner. Good morning. Thank you for For this is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. I've got uh no panel with me. We're practicing social distancing times a thousand. I don't even know where my panel might be. They're probably in a different country at this point. That's how much distance Yeah, why are we calling it social distancing? It feels like the anti social distanc distancing to me. Yeah, yeah. I mean social means getting together. So what I'm doing, if you listen last week, you know what I'm doing this week. I've shared some thoughts in social media. I've shared some thoughts with friends in private conversations. I've shared some thoughts with uh the congregation. uh that I lead and we've and now I'm sharing some thoughts with you here on the show related to coronavirus, COVID nineteen, the economic impact of everything that's going on and and trying to look at it from a faith perspective which To me, uh I'm a Christian, I'm Bible-believing, you know, theologically conservative Christian, so I believe that God is in control. He never loses control. There's great confidence that comes from that and there's hope in that. We know that God as a Christian anyway, we we believe that God uh works all things together for the good of those that are his and so we don't have to give in. cave in to fear. And so that's a position that I'm advocating. So I'm gonna pick up where I left off last week. I'm just sharing some some random thoughts that hopefully something here will trigger something that's uh beneficial to you. So here's something from Martin Luther. I teased this last week. Martin Luther, back when he was dealing with the Black Death Plague, uh he wrote some very wise words that all these years later, like five hundred years later. can help to inform us and and the way that we approach things that are happening in our world right now. So here's Martin Luther's words. I shall ask God merciful to protect us. And then I shall fumigate, help purify the air, administer medicine and take it. I shall avoid places and persons where my presence is not needed, in order not to become contaminated and thus perchance inflict and pollute others, and so cause their death as a result of my negligence. If God should wish to take me, he will surely find me, and I have done what he has expected of me, and so I am not responsible for either my own death or the death of others If my neighbor needs me, however, I shall not avoid place or person, but I will go freely as stated above. See, this is such a God-fearing faith because it is neither brash nor foolhardy and does not tempt God. The source for this quote, by the way, Luther's Works, Volume 43. Uh page 132 if you want to look it up. It's uh from a letter that uh he wrote to the Reverend Dr. John Hess. The letter has been called. whether one may flee from a deadly plague. And let's not misunderstand the historical context here. The Black Death Plague, far worse than the coronavirus, COVID nineteen. I mean it's not even in the same forget the same ballpark. It's not even the same Major League City. It it might not even be on the same continent. It's like Totally different scenarios, for sure. Uh so I'm not trying to make light of what they went through five hundred years ago by comparing it to what we're going through now, not in the least. Um let's see. So here are s uh here are some uh Additional thoughts and quotes. I'm trying to see I've got quotation marks around this. Oh. Um I think I'm quoting myself. Kid you not. So here's here's me quoting me. Fears of dying underscore reality for all people. Everyone dies. And let's not bury our heads in the sand. There are people really dying from coronavirus. And this is intensely sad. People are also really impacted by all of the various economic shutdowns, lost jobs, fixed income challenges. This is scary and anxiety-inducing stuff, also life-threatening for some. Emotional angst is affecting people. People you know. And they need hope. They need to know. If you're a Christian, they need to know that there's a sovereign God who is in control. may benefit from seeing Christ's people maintain hope in all circumstances. I'm reminded, James chapter 1, verse 2, count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds. We're not to ignore or deny suffering, grief, pain. Bad stuff doesn't feel joyful. But troubles are avenues to deepening our relationship with Christ. This is the Christian teaching. Troubles teach us how to walk more intimately with Him. Now, trouble, it isn't good in and of itself. So we don't pretend to be joyful. Rather, we are to count it. as joy when we face troubles in this life. It's an accounting term. You've got a ledger and you're going to, hmm, where do I want to place this? I know, I'm going to place it in the joy column. We're going to count it as joy. God uses these troubles that we experience to call his people to himself, this is what the biblical teaching is, to make his people more mature, to build up the believer's ability to endure by faith. And our Lord uses it all to refine his children in their sanctification, in their walk towards increasing holiness, is what that word means. Our father works everything together for good in the lives of his children, even in tragedy. And hence we may courageously look for opportunities to grow as we suffer. Counting our suffering as joy. And it's certainly easier said than done. But it is made easier when we maintain focus on where our true hope lies. Keep in mind for the believer, pain is not forever There is a new heaven and earth coming. And this is good news. So to be transparent, as transparent as I can. Here's why my core principles have led me to share the information that I have shared last week and now this week on the show. I am advocating for human flourishing, which includes remaining alive and also continuing to live. Fear and panic are not helpful to either of these. And so I've cited data. Last week I went through a whole bunch of data. That aim to offer a broader perspective, which will hopefully help people to relax a bit and therefore be better able to make reasoned decisions. So put simply, I am opposed to panic. Hysteria, uncritical thinking. And I am in favor of believing God and acting on that belief in obedience. So, um if I'm gonna everything I post on Facebook is public. I don't have anything private. So if you can find me on Facebook, you can find a whole bunch of stuff, a bunch of links to things. Sometimes I put stuff up there and poke the bear Sometimes I put things up there just to stir a conversation or stimulate some thinking. Not everything that I'm going to post as far as links and that sort of stuff necessarily means I'm endorsing it. It's just something I think is an interesting perspective and maybe we should think about it. Maybe we shouldn't be so quick to judge those that have a different perspective on things than we do. So rather than me try to share a whole bunch of links with you here uh on this show that would be impossible for for me to to to do. Just try to find me on Facebook. And if you can find my Facebook live uh videos where I was um uh doing like an hour-ish uh video thing. You have to watch the video. I mean you can, but uh underneath those videos in the comment section is where I've also plugged in a lot of helpful links. So if you want to try to find it, find the links that way. That's that's a way to try to do it. Uh see. I move on to another thought here. So this is something that uh I got a whole bunch of stuff uh quotes out of a book that my daughter I can't remember if she got it for me for Christmas or for my birthday because my my birthday and Christmas aren't that far apart and so I can't remember what it was, but it was a book of a whole bunch of quotes. And I happen to stumble into an area of the book that seems so appropriate for where we've been lately. So completely coincidental timing, but I'm sharing nonetheless. So here's a quote from William Shakespeare. Cowards die many times before their deaths. Here's one from Francis Bacon. Nothing is terrible except fear itself. Here's one. The only thing I'm afraid of is fear. Arthur Wellesley. Nothing is to be so much feared as fear. Henry David Thoreau. The only thing we have to fear is fear itself. Franklin Delano Roosevelt. And how about Eleanor Roosevelt? Life was meant to be lived. And here's one more from Eleanor. You gain strength, courage, and confidence by every experience in which you really stop to look fear in the face. Hmm. That's the kind of attitude I'm talking about. That kind of attitude you can really stand in service to the king if you're a Christian, you know what I'm saying? Uh this is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. You can find us online at WFMD. com. Keyword faith gets you there. The drop-down menu of shows will get you you can find the Faith Debate show that way. You might be able to just Google Frederick Faith Debate WFMD and then take you straight to the page too, I would imagine. I haven't done that lately, but I'm sure it works that way. I would hope. I would think. As I mentioned last week we've been trying to have, you know, uh something that approximates a worship service, more of a family meal, uh family meeting rather kind of a of a gathering, if you will, with a handful of people in my house and everybody else watching online. Uh and so some of the stuff I'm sharing on the show are the kinds of things that I've shared uh there. Um And I I had mentioned at some point that uh 120 million people uh will die worldwide this year. 120 million people will die. And just to clarify uh w that number, uh I'm including abortion. There are uh It's it's it's interesting to me. There are about sixty million or so deaths a year worldwide and about sixty million or so abortions year wide uh worldwide every year. So half of the deaths around the world every year Are induced abortions, and that's that is something. So really something Anyway, so um so we'll talk about statistics. Here's something that I had shared on social media. This is going back, goodness gracious, the earliest part of March, I think. So the data, of course, is going to be dated, but I'm hoping it can still be an encouragement to you, give you some perspective. So this is the social media post from way back then. Um and it's referencing a a uh a link to a story where scientists find that 86 percent of coronavirus infections go unreported because the symptoms are so light that a lot of people don't know they have it, they don't go to the doctor. So only 14% of the cases might even might even be known. Anyway, so if this is true, and who really knows for sure about any of the data on this day these days? Then if it's true though, th this would be very encouraging news about the COVID nineteen mortality rate. Because as of right now, when this was written, the Johns Hopkins tracker Reports 197,496 confirmed coronavirus cases with 7,940 deaths And that calculates to a four percent mortality rate among confirmed cases. However, if the total confirmed cases are in fact only 14% of the actual number, then that means there have been more than 1. 4 million people actually infected at the time of this writing. And so doing the math, that would make the mortality rate between 0. 5% and 0. 6%. And this is far less scary than the 4% number or the 3. 4% mortality rate that was dominating news reports for weeks. And something else to consider, if 86% of the cases are unconfirmed, then the mortality rate for people under the age of 60 years old would be in the ballpark of 0. 1% I mean that's, you know, seasonal flu, or even maybe a little bit better than seasonal flu, depending on the on the year of seasonal flu. You know, fear, it's a powerful force crippling those infected. And uh often it's more contagious. The fear is the medical conditions, if you think about it. You know, standing on a ladder to change a light bulb, it's not statistically life-threatening. And yet someone with a fear of heights Can literally become paralyzed by this fear when standing atop the ladder. And ironically, this paralyzing fear then places the person at far greater risk. Irrational fear is more dangerous than the height. And as I know you agree, feelings and emotions, they are important. And science and facts, they're valuable too. And so are reason and intuition. But truth, wisdom, and discernment shouldn't be allowed. to be sacrificed on any of these altars. In doing so, we permit chicken littles to convince us to surrender hope for what the Hebrew language calls shlom. Peace, flourishing, fulfillment. Let's not surrender. Let's stand on the battle lines together and fight fear with hope. You know, if you watch news or participate on social media, um you'll likely have noticed that there are some. who feel the response to the COVID-19 uh situation has been inadequately too little too late. Others feel the response by society and government has been dangerously over the top. Some might feel like Goldilocks that the response has been just right. But no matter who's right, we now have a new current reality needing a response, and our community needs to prepare that response now, right now, if we haven't already. This is especially true for the body of Christ, in my opinion, as a member of that body. The number of people battling psychological depression has already increased and is likely to spike Neighbors, we know, they're likely about to wrestle with their emotions and start, God forbid, having suicidal thoughts. Families around us are likely, unfortunately, to experience increased instances of domestic violence. I wonder if law enforcement officials are likely to see quite an increase in the frequency of times that they're placed in harm's way as they deal with anticipated increases in crime. Through people that have become increasingly desperate. You know, 911 operators, EMTs, they're likely to respond to more overdose calls. With everything that's all the fear and hopelessness that's in so many people's lives now. Substance abuse centers likely about to be pushed to their capacity, perhaps. Not-for-profits are likely to be pressed to help even more people while having less resources. Homelessness, it seems, could be likely to become more prevalent. Fixed income retirees likely about to have a much harder time finding the money needed to pay their utilities or even remain in their houses. And there are people we love who are likely about to experience a crisis of faith. You know, the coronavirus and the coronaviris is real And our reaction to it has either made it better or worse, and that is a debate for another time in another context than what I'm doing here right now You know, we can learn though from our shared experience in these recent weeks and months. We we can right now in our own lives work out appropriate and impactful strategies for dealing with the cultural crisis, not just the corona crisis, but the cultural crisis descending upon us. As with the virus, this cultural crisis is very real. It's all too real. And it won't be over in a matter of weeks, or maybe even months. And it won't necessarily in all circumstances be solved by staying home, waiting for somebody else to do something. Yeah, I really feel like I'm beginning to see the emerging problems more clearly in recent weeks. Uh but the solutions, they are fuzzy, and so I am open to suggestions. Uh there are some good ones out there and I've found them and maybe you can too. And so whatever suggestions you find that resonate with you, let's put those sort of things into action. Here's something I'm going to read that's from a friend of the program and a friend of many who listened to this show, I believe, Paul Munday. He's been a guest on this show I don't know exactly how many times. Uh he's probably appeared on ten or twelve, maybe a dozen possibly shows of the Faith Debate over the years since we started doing it. And he wrote something for the local paper. Uh and and I I'm not sure if they asked him to or if he sent it to them and they published it. I'm not sure how that worked, but uh I found it in the paper. And uh he he wrote some pretty good stuff. So here it is. He writes, What is happening? Suddenly the coronavirus has descended upon us, canceling our lives. Some believe the virus is a sign of the end times, as the four horsemen of the apocalypse gather ever closer. However you frame it, COVID-19 is a reminder, we are not in control. We are susceptible to a world fundamentally fractured, fallen, and diseased, and in need of a great physician. And so cling to the great physician, cling to Jesus, for where shall I flee from your presence? If I make my bed in Sheol, you are there If I dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there your hand shall lead me. If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me, and the light about me be night, even the darkness is not dark to you. O God, the night is bright as the day, for darkness is as light with you. It's quoting from Psalm 139 there. And so, yes, it is dark. But there's also light, for the darkness is as light to God. And so as we open up to light in the darkness, how might we how do we navigate this bleak time, this this pandemic? Well, navigation prompt number one, confess it's alarming. Persons of faith tend to sweeten the jolting reality of life, but God loves honesty. And so just say it. This pandemic is upsetting, disrupting life in a scary way. The Bible character Job models bluntness. What's the point of life when it doesn't make sense? Instead of bread, I get groans for my supper, then leave the table and vomit my anguish. The worst of my fears has come true, my peace destroyed, no rest for me ever. Death has invaded life That's from Job chapter three. The message translation, by the way. Navigational prompt number two. Look for manna. Remember manna? It was the nourishment God gave the Israelites in the wilderness for their uh of their suffering and abandonment. But it didn't arrive in one delivery. Instead, God provided just enough manna for each day. Then the Lord said to Moses, I will rain down bread from heaven for you. The people are about to go out each day and gather enough for that day. I have heard the grumbling of the Israelites. Tell them, at twilight you will eat meat, and in the morning you will be filled with bread. Then you will know that I am the Lord your God. That's Exodus chapter 16. Did you catch both God's attentiveness and God's timing? God hears our grumbling and God is responsive. But according to God's preferred provision and schedule, is how he does it. So be patient, but affirm. God will provide. Expect manna. Look for neighbors running errands for neighbors. Look for grocery stores restocking shelves and extending hours. Look for physicians adding services and sharpening attentiveness for In myriad of ways, even in the wilderness, God will deliver. Navigational prompt number three. Expect new creation. Scripture is filled with hopelessness, wasteland, and desert, but consistently Scripture ascents God's promise to make a way where there appears to be no way. A road in the wilderness and paths in the wastelands. New creation Over Christmas, Paul writes, my w wife Robin and I visited the 9-1 not 9-1-1, the 9-11 Memorial in New York City One of the remarkable uh aspects of the memorial is the Calory Pear Tree known as the Survivor Tree. Buried under the rubble of 9-11, the Survivor Tree had little hope for survival A tragic jumble of snapped roots and scorched branches, but New York City parks and wrecks workers were relentless taking the tree and nursing it back to health over time, a long time. But now the survivor tree stands proud and secure as new smooth limbs extend from old gnarled charred stumps, an unmistakable symbol of resilience, survival, and rebirth. But there's more. Each year the 9-11 Memorial identifies three communities in the United States that have also suffered a tragedy and provides those communities with seedlings from the Survivor Tree as a living reminder that over time Blessings can emerge from brokenness. Hope can emerge from horror. Promise can emerge from pain. Through God and Christ, blessing can emerge from brokenness. Hope can emerge from horror. Promise can emerge from pain. For Christ is the ultimate survivor demonstrating through the cross that even the greatest tragedy, abandonment, suffering, can result in redemption, reconciliation, and new creation. Look to Jesus and know new creation. Wherever you feel gnarled, charred, and hopeless, receive a seedling from Christ, the Christ tree, and be renewed. For surely the darkness shall cover me, and the light about me be night Even the darkness is not dark to you, O God. The night is bright as the day, for darkness is as light with you. Over time let that truth register, but boy, it is a process. But be expectant. For God does make a road in the wilderness and a path in the wasteland, giving light to navigate alarming darkness even in pandemic. Paul has a gift with words, doesn't he? This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Thanks for listening. Find us online at WFMD. com. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for listening. Until next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless.