Good morning. Thank you for spending part of your Sunday with us here on News Radio 930 WFMD. This is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner, the pastor of a church called Households of Faith in Christ, online at Household of Faithinchrist. com. Of course you can follow the Faith Debate on the Radio Station website at WFMD. We pick up this week with a conversation that started last week on a book called The Last Days Pride Parade and The Return of the Lord, written by Tom Maccabees, published by Greg Windsor. And uh we we entered that conversation talking about some of the uh the uh biblical and non-biblical sources to support the arguments in the book And we alluded to some of the history, uh church history and otherwise uh in that, and we didn't really do a deep dive. So we're going to do that this week. And here to do that, again, Imran Raz Razvi from Um well, two places. Online at conquered by love. org. And from those same places, Daniel Razby, he's on again this week along with Uh Greg Windsor, who is the publisher of the book, The Last Days Pride Parade and The Return of the Lord. And The Last Day's Pride Parade and The Return of the Lord is available for purchase at BarnesandNoble. com. And uh it was interesting. I want to pick up on this before we get into the history stuff, but uh you you mentioned where people could get the book last week, uh, and you mentioned that Barnes and Noble was one of the places that didn't kibosh it. So did you have some issue with people uh uh at other, you know, uh booksellers that said, Yeah, we're not touching that topic? So the shocking thing is Okay, so this author writes a book and he's quoting history. That's all it is. It's it's here's the history, here's what the Bible says, not in any way attacking anybody. Yes, yes. Um going after the ideology, but not one single evidence of any kind of hate speech. So two publishers, um Very, very large. I'm not going to mention their names, but they said, Take this take this down immediately. So they they shut it down. You know, um they they refused to run it, thus proving the initial point of the book, because the book starts out that we live in a time where Christians are losing their businesses. Christians are being sued for hundreds of thousands of dollars People are being put in jail, some people are being killed, some people are losing their livelihood. Why? Because they they just want to hold the marriages between a man and a woman. Or, you know, they send out a Bible verse and a text message The the author has has documented like fifty cases like in the last couple years of just blatant persecution. uh because of this agenda. So s so the publishers basically proved the premise of the first chapter of the book. The ones who shut it down. Anyway It's interesting. Now how what's been the reception of uh I mean we've given you feedback. On last week's show we did. Yeah, that's a good thing. Uh what other kind of feedback have you received? Have you had some you know, hate mail, have you had some people loving you? Well some people have have been very Oh, that's just homophobic. I mean, even some Christians, they said, look, this is homophob sounds homophobic. Now that's interesting. Well anybody who heard last week's episode knows that you know I was the one who was asking Some questions for clarification. Some of them could have even been uh accidentally uh characterized as like pointed pushback, which wasn't the intention. It was seeking to just clarify the the mode of communication in the book and that sort of thing But despite all any pushback I would have, maybe I'm just like oblivious. I read the book. I don't think anything hobophobic about it. uh redemptive and even mention look the whole pride parade thing started because the he because the heterosexuals through throughout the Bible. You know, the sexual revolution, that that that was mainly heterosexual, so it's not targeting Yeah, this is really important. The book is not targeting say, look how bad the LGBTQ is. No, it's it's about a a whole entire worldwide sexual lawlessness, but it's being headed by the president. Any sex outside of a marriage between one man and one woman for life. is ungodly and unbiblical and and sinful. So there there's there's a whole lot more that goes into that than just homosexuality Yeah, and and the reason I say I mean, first of all, we we've come to change our terms anyway, so b uh so if we want to go all the way back to what defining our terms and what it really means, homophobia means a fear of those that are homosexual or engaging in uh in homosexual behaviors. There's no fear of that in this book. Now, I know that it's come to mean something other than the fear, it has to d has to do with some sort of a hatred for those who engage in this sort of thing. But there's no hatred in this book Either. Now there is a d a de a a d uh a definite and direct sin that makes it. Yeah, there's a d yeah, it's definitely directly categorized as a sin. But those are just statements of biblical truth and fact from a Christian worldview perspective. That's not the same as somebody You're clearly Christophobic and you hate Christ and you hate Christians and you're afraid of Christ and you're afraid of Christians, which actually probably has some truth to it when you think about it. But uh But I mean it works both ways. If we can't have an honest dialogue about where we're coming from on things and it's not just mere opinion. Now again I asked some clarifying questions last week and so there are some differences between me and the author of this book, for instance. But the the the premise of the arguments that we all would make, at least those in this room and represent by this book are the same. The premise of our arguments is what does God's word say? Right. And sometimes we don't always a hundred percent fully agree on on w what God's word is saying because we're emphasizing different things uh and we have to have a meeting in the mind which is what a show like this is designed to do to help us. figure that out so that at the end of it all we can hopefully get more closely aligned and be on the same page, like literally, I guess Uh but there's no homophobia. That's a little bit other than generically anything that's biblical being homophobic. If if that's what you were hearing, well then good for you, I guess. And you know the ironic thing, just for the record, the early Christians were called haters. That's what the Romans called them, haters. And cannibals. And atheists. Right. Right. The atheists, yeah. So so uh also, you know, the the r the responses have been kind of shocking, like what How come I never heard about this, you know? Um or um or or else or else and and and this is kind of hard to critique, but some Christians have a Well, you know, the world's always been evil. Yeah, yeah, it's just another evil. Almost like a blase attitude towards it, like But what they don't I think what they're not getting is that if you know, God declares the end from the beginning and so Jesus God gives us hundreds of prophecies in order to prepare his people, to encourage his people, so so we won't be surprised. And so if something is happening that's a specific prophecy, if we write it off as, yeah, that's just the world. The problem is it's not just the world. It's one denomination after another. Every single denomination, I think, is pretty much at uh has either uh capitulated to that god of sensuality or lovers of self, lovers of pleasure. At least the big name denominations a lot of them have. Right. Or or else they're compromising. Yeah, I will yeah. Uh uh I I'm uh I think um I'm agreeing with what both of you just said. I think that uh what what Greg uh uh Greg Windsor is is saying is that at some level All the denominations are wrestling with and there are certain elements within certain denominations that are beginning to go astray. And I think what Daniel is trying to clarify is but they haven't been completely given over and some of them are fighting uh within their ranks and they're holding the line. Right. It's been a challenge maybe But they've been holding the line. So they're not completely so there are some good denominations and some good groups of churches that do exist, but I think that the point that Greg was making is that this this this infection uh is impacting the immune systems of all denominations and all of the immune systems are being called to bear right now. You know what I mean? Those with weak immune systems are are falling apart. And no uh no sarcasm meant it's like a spiritual AIDS virus. It goes after the immune system. And so Ye and and and l let me just clarify, I've I wasn't trying to broad brush all the denominations up, but that's my job. But you have denominations before we said Something to the effect of less than one percent of the people that that call themselves churches are actually biblical churches that are worth attending. So today's that's So just today you have a major theological seminary. Very conservative who see they'll say, oh yes, we believe marriage is between a man and a woman. They'll say that, but then they'll say, but we need to accept These these these gay unions or we need to accept it. Like the people saying you can bless the union. You can't you can't approve of it, but you can bless it. But so the danger is the subtle apostasy. I mean there's the obvious there's the obvious I I believe obvious, you know, from the liberal Christianity that's They abandoned scripture decades, if not centuries ago. But then there's the subtle thing of Christians holding to saying that they believe in in marriage between a man and a woman. We believe in the traditional view, biblical view really. But but they're compromising subtly and that's the real danger. Well I w I would liken it to the the abor abortion movement. You know, for the last few decades there's been a number of so called conservatives, so called Christians. Well well, I would never kill my baby. But you know, what you do with your butt that's up to you. What no. It's not up to you. Sin is not up to you. It's you know. You can say on the one hand, look, I'm it's not my place to specifically judge you because God's already gonna do that, but you need to be able to be vocal and say, Well, what sin is this is actually sin And the same people that were compromising on that, well, you know, personally I'm pro life, but you know, what you do same those the same people that said, Well, I believe marriage is but you know, but what you do in the in the privacy of your home with consenting adults, that's that you know, that's your business. Or you should attend a lesbian wedding, that that's okay, et cetera, et cetera. So the thing is even give them a gift. Right. According to Alistair Bed. Right. Oh man. And and it's sad. So the fundamental issue The spirit of Antichrist wants Christians to compromise. That's what he's after. And that that's what Emperor Antiochus wanted them to fall away, to to commit sin, to, to ruin their conscience. And that's what the spirit of this age is after. Yeah, I I think the biggest thing is there is a a real big spirit of fear. Most Christians today will not stand up. standing in the gap as God has called men to do. They're not standing up for the biblical worldview. They're afraid. They're afraid of casual culture, they're afraid of personal attacks and they have a right to I mean look at the attack the Supreme Court justices at their houses, you know So the the evil in this world is really going after anybody that stands up. And so mo most people don't want to stand up. They want to say, Well, I may believe this, but you know what, you can believe whatever you want. And that's not the gospel. In fact we're supposed to pre preach to people said this is what God says. Right. It's not what I say. You don't have to there's already mad at me. Okay? This is what God says. And what I found funny what you guys said earlier is, you know, the f the homophobia, it's really Atheists are Christophia. You know, they they are so afraid of God because they know they're wrong and that's why they fight against it. If they don't believe there's a God, why would they fight against it, right? Right, so they have an unhealthy fear of God, not the right kind of fear of God that we're called. Right. I mean clearly, yeah. But really the the and the the Christians are are afraid and that's That's something that I mean we understand where the fear comes from, but we still need to be strong against that because it's it's uh we're not homophobic. We're homophobiophobic. Like we're afraid of being called homophobes, right? That's and we should not be Yeah, and we need to get to the point. I think we've begun to get there on other issues. For example, uh I don't like using uh this word in in in a typical context, but here you'll know exactly what I'm talking about because it's the word that's thrown out. It's the label that's attached to somebody like those sitting in this room. You racist you and it's gotten to the point where that's been so commonly thrown out there that it means nothing anymore. I mean there are people like, all right, that's all you got, call me y twenty years ago you call something a racist. Oh I'm not a racist, I've got many black friends. Like they've got all those but now it's like, okay, whatever. You got something else because that doesn't even that's meaningless You've you've used it for everything, right? My you know, my shoes are dirty, I'm a racist. You know, I didn't I didn't wash my dishes after dinner, I'm a racist. Like it it's it's the labels attached to everything, whether it's a sinful behavior or not, so it doesn't mean anything anymore. So if that's all you got I'm not offended, I'm not afraid of it. I think we need to get to that place with this this homophobia uh and all the other garbage labels. Yeah, trans anything that's like i i it's ridiculous on the face It's not gonna impact me anymore. Whatever. I'm I'm rubber your glue. You know, like we have to have that kind of an attitude. Whatever you throw at me bounces on me and sticks to you It because a lot of times that's what it is that's going on by the way. It's projection anyway. Right. So we just need to let them own the projection that they're trying to fire at you. Right. And the important thing I think that you're touching on is yeah, if you're rooted in what God said, if you know this is what God said, it doesn't matter what people say. But a lot of people th there's a spirit of intimidation uh that's designed to suppress, and that's part of the the rainbow agenda, and that's why so many Christians, I believe, are falling away, or so many church members. Um And and also, you know, church members falling away rather than Christians falling away. Well, yeah. But um but throughout history, you know, it's it's like Rome. By the way, the uh here here this is another evidence. Let me just give you a the little little piece. Okay. Throughout history there was anti there was anti Christ figures And if you there's common there there's a common thread. Many of the Antichrist figures throughout history either promoted what we would call a rainbow agenda or lived out a decadent Rainbow Jenna. For instance, Nero. Nero Nero, the early church thought, wow, this this guy could could be the Antichrist. Nero is like the archetype of Antichrist. He lived he did unspeakable things you can't y you know. And by the way, Nero had a parade too, where he married somebody and he he went around Rome and tried to convince them. But even the decadent Romans didn't go along and said, No, no, no, let's let's keep marriage between man and woman. But the point is it's it's the intimidation. Yeah, okay. So the early church, just a pinch of salt. Come on, just just Just do a little pinch of salt. You know, they they finally came up with this litmus test to get them to fall away. So that's the spirit that we that we're dealing with. I mean even the Romans, there there are some distinctions. Uh when I w I was in the camp of oh wow, I never thought of this before 'cause I'd studied history a lot. I knew about the Maccabean Revolt. I knew about the history of what now called Hanukkah, but really a piece of dedication. and those types of things. And even the nudity of the the the and the gymnasium stuff I had read that before but uh n nobody until I had read read this book Nobody had connected the dots about look, they were actually doing what we would call a pride parade. And they were actually do uh marching to transgender gods and and they were actually forcing the believers to to participate. That had never happened before. Um, in that way until today. And except in some ways it's even worse today, and that's why you would you say even the Romans, it reminded me I mean there there is There's one distinction 'cause all throughout history there have been deviant sexual behaviors and even in Sodom we we see that. But Even in those situations, they'd never called it marriage or a replacement for marriage. This said this is something even the Romans would have this uh peterasty and and homosexuality was rampant in the Roman Empire but it was hey you do this thing when you're young and growing up and you you take a male lover and and this thing and that's part of the culture And then okay, now you're grown up, find a wife, propagate the species. Like they didn't call it marriage because they weren't stupid enough to think that this could be a replacement for the family. This was something else they did which was fun or culturally appropriate or whatever that was separate from the family. And what's happened in the last a couple of decades and especially last few years is an intentional destroying of the family. Not only do we do these behaviors, we are calling it marriage, we are calling it a family And to the extent that a family is not even necessary and it's it's so stupid just just logically you can't propagate the species that way. But but that's the first time in history that that's been the case. But it does come from the closest peril, even though it's this is worse than it's ever been. The closest peril we've ever had has been in that time of the the Maccabean Revolt And that's that's I think the the nice tie that this book makes. Right. That's the voice of uh Daniel Rasby, the one who just said right is uh Greg Windsor, publisher of The Last Day's Pride Parade and The Return of the Lord. And uh Imran Razvi has also uh been on today's show, and I'm sure he'll have more to say as we continue today's program. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930. WFMD. So we very nicely dovetailed into the history kinds of points that uh I was hoping to focus on in this week's show. And I it's inter I'm I'm gonna be the contrarian a little bit, but I it's in a spirit of agreement. It's just it's it it's it's almost pulling out little fine hairs here and there. Um I felt like maybe the case was was overstated or overplayed a little bit in the spirit of uh you know, there's nothing new under the sun as we see uh in the Old Testament book of Ecclesiastes I I do agree though that there seems to be a pervasiveness and a scale that strikes us as as new. It's uh it's it's across the globe, particularly the western uh portion of the globe, western civilization, and it's so pervasive and it has infected uh uh the the visible church anyway in ways that uh that feel unprecedented Uh and and you do allude to uh this book you've published alludes to the idea of the historical connections. We have the the sexual deviancy of Sodom and Gomorrah. We have the stories in the Old Testament of of rape and incest and all sorts of bad sexual behaviors and and uh those who want to say well homosexuality doesn't exist in the Old Testament. Well you need to read it again because it does uh over and over again actually Um and then in the uh and then and then the time of the Maccabean Revolt. And then even in the New New Test this is where my non-dispensational point of view uh uh uh has some effect on how I understand some of this Uh I don't disagree that what happened during uh the time of the Maccabees uh and the abomination of desolation there is a precursor pointing to something future. But I would say that p an aspect of what that's pointing to is the abomination of desolation that would have happened in A. D. seventy with the d destruction of the temple. uh and all the things leading up to and incorporated in that. And even that is then leading to the ultimate very end of time with the return of Christ. So I do think that there are these these um these representations of of prophetic things. It was described to me once by a seminary professor You know, from our point of view, we look off into the horizon and and it looks as though there's just one mountain peak. Right. But as you continue your march forward and you're and you navigate through the woods and get closer and closer, you realize that, oh It's not a mountain peak, it's a mountain range. From a distance it looks like one mountain. But as you get a different perspective you realize it's multiple mountains and all of those multiple mountains are aligned in such a way that they appear as one presentation of the future truth And so is it true that the uh what was going on with uh uh during the time of the Maccabean Revolt is pointing to things that are playing out still today. Yes, but it was also pointing to things that would play out in the first century. Well absolutely and I don't know that that was amplified it in in in the book all that much, which is why I I my attention was drawn to it. Um so yeah you want to r respond to that. I think that because so much has been written about um the desolation of Jerusalem in seventy AD, I think the author tried to cover territory that has not been covered. Like You study any any kind of eschatology and you know s there was a lot happening in seventy AD, partial fulfillments. But one interesting thing is that um I do believe uh there is some historic record that Titus did defile the temple with a prostitution, a sexual defilement. in the Holy of Holies. And that that's the reason why wanna what you know, some of the praetors think that that was the fulfillment of of Daniel. But but but again I I agree uh with y that position that that that was only another foreshadowing for the final event of the final Antichrist. And it's and you brought it up and I'm glad you did. Uh so I'm just gonna uh Just make sure we don't do a a a quick drive-by reference to it. I don't want us to run the risk of underselling the unbelievable uh animalistic, not merely pagan, but demonic behavior of Nero. I think Nero as an individual and Nero and what hit those closest to him were involved with is really close to what we see on a grander scale. Nero had a quote unquote marriage ceremony to his his uh gay young lover. Uh so he was even trying to treat that as a marriage. So that was a more of a microcosm for what is playing itself out in a more macrocosm kind of a way. But um yeah things were really, really bad once upon a time and things are really, really bad now and I think we've allowed ourselves to enter into some sort of weird cocoon where we lived in this false version of Christianity, the the Christian Dome or the Churchanity as I sometimes call it, where we think that, you know, oh if we can go back to the nineteen fifties You know, life would be so much better. Well, you know, the the church and the the loss of commitment to uh biblical sufficiency by the nineteen fifties. Right is what led to the nineteen sixties and everything that has followed. So it's not like the nineteen fifties were the good old days. Right? So we don't want to merely history there was evil. Yeah, we don't want to merely get back to that. We want to get some back to something better than that. So we've got uh just a couple of minutes and I want to leave us time again to promote some things. So I know that you want to promote how you can get the book and Daniel's got an event coming up, so let's talk about that. Yes, um Okay, you can go to barnesandobles. com, look up last day's Pride Parade. And um yes, and there's a couple other outlets. Actually there's a lot of other outlets or you can go to uh uh draft the digital Uh and there's many other outlets that that have it, but just do a Google search last day's Pride Parade. And uh I also wanted to t talk about an event that's happening in uh just this this coming weekend, uh September seventh and eighth. Um it's a ballet that I have written. Daniel Razi, I I'm c the composer. I'm conducting. I'll be conducting a full live orchestra in the pit in Rockville. Um and we'll have dancers on stage. And please tell me Imran dances in the U. S. Uh I won't say any more, but I if you're interested to see what's what is uh going on then it's estherballet. com. Again that's EstherBallet. com and the discount code is Hadassah. And there's two performances. There are two performances. Saturday is the seventh and Sunday the 8th. You have all the details on the website estherballet. com And I want to mention, you know, this is not just entertainment. Okay, this this actually will be the reading of Esther. Um it is biblical. the whole idea behind this is this is historically true and biblical so it's not just entertainment. Just happens to be sent to music and dancing and and all that But uh we do read through the book of Esther and and we'll talk about that. So it's a performance for such a time as this. Exactly. And it's a wonderful link of God's deliverance in the face of an of of an antichrist spirit. Yes. Yeah, well good, good stuff. And uh I'll promote their ministry. Uh the Razzies have a ministry called Conquered by Love Ministries online at conquered by love. org. And um and and of course they pastor a church called the Church that meets at Imran's house. And uh he's not here, but I'll promote him real quick, Daniel uh Daniel, I did uh I've done that a couple of times. David Forcy, uh he's typically on this panel. He's not here this time, but he's a pastor in the area. If you want to get in touch with him or connect with what he's all about, you have to do that through me because he doesn't really do a whole lot of online stuff. And you can connect with me. You can go to WFMD. com, but I think it's a little easier to connect with me directly through email or even my phone number, that sort of stuff, and learn about everything that's involved with this show and our various ministries at household of faith in Christ. com. It's a one-stop shop. where you can connect with podcasts of this show, uh which are always posted on the station's website and also eventually onto sermonaudio. com and odyssey. com and all my social media and that sort of stuff. You can connect with all of that again through the the hub that is the website, Household of FaithInChrist. com. So we're going to continue our conversation about the last days bride parade and the return of the Lord and issues maybe related to it as we begin to pivot perhaps into some other areas and hot topics. We'll do that next week. 167 and a half hours from oh right about now till then God bless