This is the Fate Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Fate Debate is a free-for-all form. Hooah! Where Fate Community Leaders Wrestle over the truth. Yaba do in less than 30 minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. How convenient. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to run ball. Let's get ready to rumble. Ah! Yeah! In this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Fate Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. We got a moron here, is that it? And in this corner, weighing in In as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges connecting needs and resources in the local community. Ooh, mama. The notorious big bridge builder John Sweiser. No, I'm just getting warmed up. Now it wasn't too long ago, the United States. States, United Kingdom, and the French military responded with force after haunting images of poisoned and dying children surfaced in the aftermath of a chemical weapons attack in Syria. President Donald Trump promised a swift response and followed through with bombings of strategic targets. In Syria. Thought we might be talking about that over the last few weeks in the Faith Debate Show. We did not. Not by a long shot. There's a political pea soup in the Middle East that contains Russians, Iranians, Syrians, Israelis, Turks, Kurds. You name them. Thought we might talk a little bit more about that than we have last few weeks. We have not. Why do I think we'd be talking more about that stuff? Well, Dr. Jerome M. Siegel, Jerry Siegel, is running for United States Senate in the June 26th Democratic primary. That's just around the corner, against a slate of candidates, including, of course, the sitting U. S. Senator Ben Cardin. Ben and Jerry uh is uh what you're asked to choose between, I guess, at this point. Dr. Siegel is a senior research scholar at the Center for International and Strategic Studies. Studies, research scholar at the Institute for Philosophy and Public Policy at the University of Maryland, and is president uh and founder of the Jewish Peace Lobby. So I thought we talked a lot of a lot of political stuff, but He's also written a book called Joseph's Bones, and I found out that he might think he wants to be a U. S. Senator, but he wants to be a faith debater. He's found his true calling. The last two weeks have been astounded. We gotta get this guy his own radio show so he can talk about these uh very interesting and to my Way th novel ways of approaching and interpreting scripture in some specific ways. Broadly speaking, I would say that and it's not a ho uh a horrible surprise to me that broadly speaking your approach to the scripture fits within the milieu of the the uh the theologically liberal mindset, whether to be Christian or Jew. You're a Reconstructionist, or at least you're part of a Reconstructionist uh congregation. So I don't know if you would label yourself a reconstructionist or not, but you know, m not not uh not on the conservative or orthodox side of things. And so a lot of Christians who are in the w who would be labeled as liberal theologians, you know, they have some novel approaches too, and there's some similarity there. But I don't know I've heard anybody recently go so far as to say that God is immoral and is and is not a righteous judge. Like that's like See see I think I have. Really? Yeah, I mean Who are you hanging out with? Um uh Christians uh or Catholic or Protestant that are from a more liberal tradition Um and they and I hear how they describe uh uh Joshua's uh battles in the book of Joshua, Judges, David's uh you know, fighting the Philistines Um uh even many of David's Psalms, their impression is that the God of the Old Testament was um was impetuous and mean spirited and um and that Jesus came like I hear uh Jerry describing here to um to kind of redeem our perspective of God and to to to move kinda uh the evolution forward of our understanding of who God is and that that it's even taken uh eighteen centuries as a as it were uh or more for uh both Christians and Jewish people for that matter to move into a a more evolved view of God which which would be anti-war and uh and would have a higher view of of the perfectibility. I don't think that's the right word. A higher view of the goodness. of mankind in general. And so I feel like I see a lot of that in uh what I would argue is the liber the liberal Protestant world. Let me link this up with the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. One of the things that the that that you know is part of the Israeli narrative um is the Balfour Declaration. Right. They just recently celebrated it and it's this letter from Lord Balfour to uh heimweisman and so on saying w we look with favor on the establishment of a Jewish uh home in in uh in Palestine. Um, Palestinian perspective on this is sort of um that, well, what right did the Brits have to uh to give it away. These are people who, you know, fair point by the way. I mean who are they? Who are they to be giving away our land? Okay. So now if you go back in the in the Bible, um there's a passage there that is really quite amazing, in which God says to the Israelites about about the land, right? He says You didn't build those stone walls, you didn't pay those olive trees. And it and it it's it's a he says to them he says to them just the kind of thing that the Palestinians might be saying to them. But God says essentially he takes the perspective that I gave it to you. And the perspective that he takes is, of course, that I have the right to give it to you, not just the power. Right? That my giving it to you. And and that's very convenient. Yeah. See, it's very convenient But you know, perspective. Yeah, because bec a and and of course for you know plays very well with the Christians, the promised land. But it pause it postulates, right that God has the moral authority to promise a land that other people are living on to a different people. And from a Palestinian point of view, though I never heard them raise this theologically, I would think that Certainly if you were talking to left-wing Palestinians who are maybe atheists, like you know, they're they're Marxists. Well, there's a bunch of Palestinians, that postulate what you're saying right now. Well what they would say, what they would say straight out is you know that The promised land thing, even if it happened, right, no more gave the Jews title over this land than the Brits promising it to the Zionists. Sure. In other words, that that God does not have, as it were, um even if he created the world, he's still subject to morality. And morality requires that you pay some attention to the claims of everyone. And you can't treat the Canaanites as dirt. You can't just simply say that they don't have to do it. demands that you that you what that you pay attention to the case. Pay attention to the claims of everyone. Yeah. That that that there's no one whose claims don't count for anything. And my perspective assuming then that uh that God has not done that in the way that the scriptures. What's his name? For not for not killing all the all the cononites is Saul. That's correct. Saul actually shows a little bit of uh of uh I don't know if it's mercy or at any rate a little bit less of the of the killer. And Samuel and he gets abused in trouble for this. And he loses his kingship as a result. It's very it's very bloody. But the point is the point is that Today, modern people trying to figure out how to resolve the conflict and so on, even without getting into the fundamental questions that we haven't been talking about here, sure. What happened to the Palestinians in 48 How unjust was it, and so on. At the very least, what you can say is there certainly is some degree of moral claim. Even if you believe that the claims of the Jewish people Take precedence. Let's say you say it's often said, for instance, well, the Ara the Palestinians were part of the larger Arab world, they could have moved over to another they thought of themselves as part of Greater Syria. It wouldn't have been the worst thing in the world that would have happened to them, you know, if they if they had given us a little bit of space here, whereas our experience over 2,000 years or 1800 years is that what it meant for us not to have control over something, right, was essentially death. Right. So our lesson is you know, is that if you don't control one piece of the earth, right, Jews just get slaughtered. So they argue for the precedence, right, of Jewish claims over Palestinian claims. Okay. And maybe that maybe a sway, but let me just finish the point here. Okay. Okay, but let me say this as you do, that I feel like there's a strong moral case to be made for why the Canaanites should have been destroyed, men, women, and children. And I I don't see I don't see many people willing to try to make that claim. But I feel like there is a claim to be made there. And I realize you don't want to get distracted there, but it goes to the heart of the issue. that uh that what is true justice and uh and uh at what point uh does a person forfeit Their right to live. Yeah. And you said you said children. You said men, women and children. Okay, all right. So we'll get we we'll get off into something else if we pursue that one. But let me let me just say that. We will get off into something else, but that's the point is that that if somebody believes that there's a moral case to be made, and I don't know that we have to go there today, I'm willing to. Palestinian men, women and children deserve to be killed also? No. has been significantly more ugly than anything that we've seen even in the last couple hundred years Well that's just a good idea. Right. And uh there's there's significant archaeological uh support for there being whole groups of people that worshipped their gods with a sexual, erotic orientation men, women, and children, meaning that that there was a pervasive uh uh commitment to what you and I would wouldn't would refuse to countenance at any level today. And so my point is is that it's hard for us to imagine that Because Hitler himself was so ugly, but Hitler was nowhere close to what the Bible itself seems to describe about how these guys uh we're interacting with each other. So anyways, but my point is that that's a whole different level of fundamental disagreement, but I'm gonna pass on it because I want to I want to get back to the Israeli-Palestinian thing. Okay So but what I'm saying is that the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing Okay, so let me say this. I don't believe there's anybody today in Palestine or anywhere in the world that is that is engaging in that level of of ugliness. So I would not argue that that any nation on the earth is worthy of that kind of judgment from God. Okay. Okay? Alright. So what what I'm saying is this that the arguments about You know, Jewish claims to the land versus Palestinian claims to the the land are not simple. They're complex and I would say Um I think you can make a case that horrible things happened to the Palestinians, which is a different issue. in the course of the war that they didn't deserve and also when the war was over, for instance, that you killed them if they tried to come back. So I agree with you here. So okay? But that's a different moral question than the claim to the land. Right. And you could you could argue you could argue that at least the sum of the land that the Jewish people had a legitimate claim and I I I I don't think it's unreasonable for you know for someone to say that that well look you can make a case that even if no people would have been particularly generous more generous than the Palestinians were, um that nonetheless, um if they had thought harder, deeper, whatever about the Jewish experience, they'd have tried more to work out something where a little piece of it, whatever we go to the Jews. Okay. But the point is that today, right, Israel is this giant success, right? There's this there's this mythology, this mythology, and I went to the APAC con the APAC conference. It's fantastic These guys live in a completely nut world, right? They imagine that we're still fighting the nineteen forty-eight war. Their their conference begins. No, I'm talking about the APEC. I'm talking about the the the mainstream American Jewish community. holds itself together by constantly imagining that Jews in Israel are in danger the way they were in nineteen forty-eight Well again, the history of Judaism for the last 2,000 years makes it hard to not think that something tragic's gonna happen. Yeah, I gotcha. That's the whole point But listen, I mean why have the Palestinians have good reason to feel like something bad? Here's the basic thing about the conflicts that happens every time most people miss, okay? The Palestinians have lost. The Palestinians were defeated. They were defeated in 48. Then all the Arab states were defeated in 67, so badly that they couldn't even imagine that the Israelis did it. They reported first that it was the Americans who did it. Right? And but like Confederates in the South, they still won't admit it. In nineteen eighty-eight, the Palestinians formally threw in the towel They recognized Israel's right to exist. The whole conflict had been about whether or not Israel has a right to exist. Okay. In nineteen eighty-eight To the satisfaction of the Reagan administration, without getting anything from the Israelis in exchange, without it being the outcome of negotiations, the Palestinians agreed that Israel has a right to exist. And uh that was in eighty-eight. Five years later. Did you count that as a good thing? Yeah, of course. The point is And you'd be inclined to a two-state solution at the end of the day? Yes. But that's what the Palestinians accepted. In fact, the Palestinians issued a Declaration of Independence in 1988. And the my I was telling you before about my fifteen minutes of Andy Warhol fame was in eighty eight I was the person who put that idea on the table that the Palestinians should uh Should issue it a declaration of independence. The the intifada, the first intifada was four months old. I went into a Palestinian newspaper and I said I want to write something. I don't think you've got a strategy. And I said to them, Look The Israelis didn't ask you for permission to declare their state. You claim a right to self-determination. Don't ask them for permission. If you got a right to self-determination, declare yours. That's a good spot. But what I said What I said is if you just do that if you just do that, it'll be interpreted as you're trying to establish a hostile state on their borders that and you'll never get them to withdraw with that. What you've got to do is what I now call unilateral peacemaking. So you unilaterally declare the state of is of Palestine But at the same time, that's the last act of the PLO. The PLO goes out of existence. The PLO covenant goes out of existence. The state of Palestine declares itself unilaterally, declares itself at peace with Israel And it appoints an ambassador which it sends to Israel to negotiate the withdrawal of Israel from a peace loving state on its border. Okay? Now the thing is, in eighty eight, this got no attention until Just two years ago, a year and a half ago, Secretary of State Kerry's final speech, okay? But if you go back and you and you look at the least read document in the whole conflict is the Palestinian Declaration of Independence. If you go back and look at it, One of the things it talks about is the Partition Resolution of 1947. Okay. The Partition Resolution was something enacted by the General Assembly of the UN. Right. It called for two states, one Arab and one Jewish, right? And it's cited in the Israeli Declaration of Independence. And the Palestinians from nineteen forty seven on dedicated Palestinian nationalism to reversing partition. They said, no, there won't be a Jewish state. We will destroy it. We'll prevent it from coming into existence. Once it came into existence, the PLO covenant was we will drive it out of existence. In eighty-eighty eight in eighty-eight, in their declaration of independence, they acknowledge that Israel was created under the pal under the petition resolution which was is legitimate and they now invoke the petition resolution as the basis for the Palestinian state. Okay and they say of this of this of this partition resolution It called for two states, one Arab and one Jewish. So you've got inside the Palestinian Declaration of Independence, you've got a statement that says The creation of a Jewish state in Palestine was done under international legitimacy. Okay. Now this is not known to almost anyone, but in December twenty sixteen, John Kerry, in his very last speech on the conflict, lays out what he called his parameters, meaning, you know, if you ever get back to negotiations, how you should think about these different issues. And he gets to the issue The pyramid it has to do a Jewish state. And in what he says? He says, well, we should make the goal of the of the Negotiations the fulfillment of the promise of the petition resolution that there be two states, one Arab and one Jewish And then he says this, which no nobody had ever said before. He said, which resolution about the petition resolution is cited in both the Israeli Declaration of Independence and the Palestinian Declaration of Independence. This is the first time that any American diplomat since nineteen eighty eight has acknowledged The significance of the Palestinian Declaration of Independence. Who helped them to see that? I did. I was thinking about it. I had been banging on their doors for years telling them about this. And finally Somebody picked up on it. Finally Secretary of State Kerry. And you know what? The fact that he did this has been ignored. Not only is the petition, nobody understands even the significance of that speech because nobody even paid any attention to that speech And so but it's there. It's there. It's a milestone. It's a milestone. And by the way, by the way, I have a I have a proposal that I put to I I have contact with the Trump administration. Unlike a lot of people, there's an organization in town that's bigger uh forty times bigger than than us, came along nineteen years after it's called J Street, right? Big, big organization. S very similar perspective on two state solution. Okay. But one of the differences is that they are so partisan in terms of focusing on the Democratic Party that they actually h have allowed themselves to not have any relationship with this Republican president. And that's a big mistake. In fact these Republican presidents sometimes have been quite remarkable. Like it was Ronald Reagan who opened the USP L dialogue and it was George Bush, the senior George Bush right who actually had a showdown with Shamir over the settlement activity. So you cannot you cannot extrapolate from domestic policy, which you might as I do, view as abhorrent of the Trump administration to where they are on this on this conflict. Okay. So I maintain actually a working relationship and with this administration and there still are, even though they hollowed out the State Department, there still are some decent, knowledgeable civil servants both in the State Department and in the National Security Council. Yeah. Okay. So I spent a couple of weeks ago I spent three hours down at the at the NSC talking about what the Trump administration could do to help end the conflict. And They don't meet with me because I represent any power. I don't have any power. Right. They meet with me because over the years I I'm actually, you know, very creative Yeah. And know a lot about the conflict. Yeah that I have more background on it than most people. Okay. So but one of the things that I propose to them actually is To be following all this? Yeah. And I don't know if you're gonna be able to kind of tie it up, but we only have like thirty or forty seconds if we're gonna come to a point. The issue of the PLO's application to membership in the UN is going to come up. And what I propose that the Trump administration do is offer the Palestinians a deal If the Palestinian state will affirm the legitimacy of Israel's creation as a Jewish state, then the United States should positively recommend to the General Assembly admission of the State of Palestine And it's already in their Declaration of Independence. So this is a doable thing. So it's a win-win-win thing that the Trump administration could actually do that would get Palestinian articulation. Pardon? You think they're hearing it Could you imagine if Donald Trump gives brings peace to Korea and the Middle East? Holy smokes, people's heads will explode. Holy Nobel Peace Prize. Anyway, thank you, Dr. Jerry Siegel, for being on the show. Four weeks in a row. Jonathan Sweitzer, thank you My friend, we're online at WFMD. com. Keyword Faith. I'm Troy Skinner. You can find this show in podcast form. This particular show, give it about uh I don't know, thirty-six, forty eight hours will be up there. All the other shows are already up there. Until next week, one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours from now. Cat West