Good morning, welcome to the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner, your longtime host. I started the show when I was three, okay? I'm not that old. Um you can find me online. Is that a thin what I just did right there? I think if it if it's obvious Everybody listening knows that you're in jest, then I think it's done a lot. Oh, okay. So I got a loophole there. Thank you. So I I got my get out. Well the general public s doesn't under understand satire these days sometimes so Yeah, so I just got my Get Outta Hell for free card from uh from Daniel Razby there. I appreciate that. The other voice we heard momentarily was uh David Force, who will be joined here in a second by the author of the head covering, Josiah Bonjawani. You can find his book. the head covering on Amazon. You can go to his website as well, which is Josiah Bonjuani. com. Good luck spelling that. So just put in just put in um the head covering Josiah and you might get a good uh search re engine result hit on that we've been informed by by Daniel. So we're gonna and I just want to say, you know, uh Make sure you understand the terms and conditions of your get out of hell free card because there are specific terms. Yeah, the fine print is believe on the name of the Lord Jesus Christ who died for your sins and rose again the third day He is the only way to heaven. Those are the terms and conditions if you get out of free uh get out of hell free card. And repent, of course. Well repent that's that's the believe in repent, right, that's right. I'm gonna go meditate on such things and you guys will carry on for the next uh twenty five minutes or so on the faith debate. So legalism, right? Yeah we we we've been covering the last three this is now four shows. This is the fourth show I believe on the head covering question and and Issues tangentially related, pretty tightly tangentially uh related. We talked a little bit about women speaking in church and preaching in church or prophesying in church, that sort of thing. um as it relates about the the role of women and what it means to have your head covered and that sort of a thing. Um Josiah's written a book where he's advocating in the book that women should wear a head covering um when uh praying or prophesying and I guess mostly like in the context of a worship service is mostly what I think he has in view there. Uh Daniel is mostly but also other times. Just like I would say other times when they're praying even privately They should also be wearing a head covering. I would not necessarily add that. And and Daniel is mostly agreeing, although I don't know that he's quite a strident. I would say only in worship service is when it's required. Yeah, Daniel Daniel is thinks it's referring more to uh a public display in in corporate worship. Right. Yeah. Okay. And uh David's kind of been a the uh the his role has been the fly in the ointment the last few episodes. Asking for clarification and trying to figure out now he's Th the generic or generic the more generalized uh uh sense of things he's in agreement But when it comes down to application and and what exactly precisely it means uh in particular cultural contexts He's very squirrely on that. He's he's asking questions saying, Well If we're going to be consistent, then wouldn't it mean that? And I appreciate where he's coming from on those kinds of questions. And I'm I'm kind of a free agent on this one. I'm up in the air. And uh you know, dangling by a spider's thread on these questions. So we'll see if I can uh get firmer and get get a backbone on one side or the other. As though there's only two sides, or are multiple sides. And that's Part of what we were getting to towards the end of last week's show, we were talking about the charge of legalism, those that would require a head covering uh being accused of being legalists. And then Josiah w uh was right to uh clarify what we mean by that term because it's a it's a word that gets thrown around all the time and that people don't understand what it means. Technically speaking, to be a legalist is to say that you need to legally meet certain requirements yourself by your deeds, your works, in order to make it into heaven. You're not resting upon the full sufficiency of Christ. You're resting resting upon what you do, and you have to be strong legal adherence to things or you're screwed. Uh pardon the uh the common vernacular on that. Um but and and he is right. And I began to try to push back on a little bit. We ran out of time and so here we are this week kind of picking up where we left off last week. I'd add a little bit to that in my thinking about legalism, I think I think that's the that's the hardest version of legalism and then I think there's softer versions of legalism which say uh that I need to do certain things in a certain way. I can I can still be a Christian if I don't do them, but I need to do those certain things in that certain way in order to gain favor or to be Right a uh So the people will like me. Well accept me. Yeah or or so or or I can fit into the group. Is that what I mean? Well that uh no I'm thinking about in in terms of like relationship with God, right? So like I can uh you know, a form of legalism would be, okay, I there's nothing I can do to be saved, but there are things that I can do to have more favor with God. And I think what you're saying is the term can be variously interpreted. Like there's broader senses and there's the more narrow sense that I showed or talked about last time. But it I think in the broadest sense I read a definition is just the abuse of the law. Legalism is the abuse of the law. But in its most specific sense, which is the most common way it's used. It's um w you know, working your way to heaven by obeying certain commands and things like that. Right, yeah, that's that's that's that's legalism pure. Yeah. So I see what you're saying. In a broader sense it could include a lot more. Now, I think that um one of my hesitancies on taking a strong stance on this has been related to this question because uh um kind of a core tenant uh for my theological framework is you know union with Christ. You know, it's the most probably the most common phrase. that the Apostle Paul uses in his New Testament writings, in Christ. Uh in Christ Jesus, in Jesus Christ. I guess he uses the idea of in Christ and phrases very much like that over and over and over again. Uh a hundred, a couple hundred times maybe. And so it's really important to Paul and so it's become very important to me. And if we are in Christ then we have the fullness of God's blessing because Christ has the fullness of God's blessing and he shares all that is his with others. And so there's there's a uh there's a loveliness about that. There's a freedom in that. There's a um An assurance that comes with that, that I'm in union with Christ. And so all that has to be done has been done. You know, everything that's required is finished uh at the cross of Christ and will be fully consummated at his at his return. And those are like foundational truths for me. So anything, this is one of the reasons why I was so uh agitated by the requirements that some churches placed on their members a few years ago when they say, Well you can come back to to church but you gotta wear a face covering And I was like, how dare you place a requirement on somebody to come and corporately gather as they've been commanded by God to not neglect the gathering. You're gonna put a requirement on them? Only the women should wear masks in there, right? Yeah. And so anyway, so I'm sensitive to that. So something that would say, You female, in order to be acceptable here and to come worship God with the rest of us, must put a head covering on. If it were clear to me in the scriptures, well then, you know what, it's just one of these clear things. It's not as clear to me as it is to you, Josiah, or even to you, Daniel, apparently. And then I think David's agreeing that it's not as clear as those who are strong advocates for the head covering issue uh think that it might be. It's certainly not clear for me whether or not And I'm not saying that God's word is unclear. I'm saying that our muddled minds have had a hard time making it un understood in a way that is clear. So so what do you say though? There are people and you would not consider them to be Christians, but there are people who say that, oh, it is not very clear that uh the versus condemning homosexuality refer to all homosexuality. It may just refer to non consensual, non monogamous homosexuality There are people that call themselves Christians that say that and they give a whole bunch of biblical arguments of as to why they think that. You and I think those arguments are garbage. But what I would say in t in those situations, what I've said on this show, and I've said you know out on the street when I've had opportunity to evangelize these questions come up, that's that's a popular question to get pushed back on, right, in in today's culture. You open the Bible and you look at the context. Every single word only has meaning in context. And so if you look at the broader context, which is why uh was it last week or two weeks ago, I can't remember now. Uh we were looking at First Corinthians chapter eleven and I was trying to look at the surrounding context and the argument that Paul's making there, it begins very clearly with a spiritual reality. And then immediately and I I would want to check the the Greek and the sentence structure there. I'm not positive it's a different sentence. in the Greek. Uh you know, sometimes what what is twelve sentences and three paragraphs in an English Bible is one long run on sentence for Paul. So I'd I'd be curious to see if it's even a different sentence for Paul. And I I don't have time to figure that out right now. But the point is Three times in a row he uses the word head, head, head, head, and it's spiritual every time. And then he hasn't even taken a new breath yet. He's still speaking from the same lung capacity, it seems to me, and he says that two more times And it's at that point that those that would advocate your position strongly that there should be a head covering are saying, now we're talking about something not spiritual. I'm like Are we sure? And I'm personally not sure. And I think there are others who would join me and say, Well, I'm not sure either. And whatever it means It it doesn't mean that it can't be a physical thing, but what's prominent of preeminence is the spiritual truth. And so that's why those who want to make an argument and say that it's uh well it's about a spiritual reality. You know, God is the head of Christ, Christ is the head of man, man is the head of the woman. Uh that's uh positional. It's uh it's a it's a spiritual covering, a spiritual headship. I use that language in my home all the time. My wife does too Probably David does in his home. It's a it's an important thing. You know, my wife will come to me and say, I need you to step up here. You're the spiritual leader of the home. I I need you to be the covering. I need you to be the man. Like might might sound weird to the uninitiated, but those are actual words that happen in our house. And she as she calls me, holds me to account, says, okay, because what does a man want more than anything? To be let off the hook from his leadership responsibilities. And too often what does a woman want more than anything? To take up the slack for the man who doesn't want to do what he's supposed to do. And so uh good Christian wives are on guard against that and good Christian husbands are on guard against that. So if it is a spiritual reality, whatever that's supposed to mean, what does that look like? And I think I've haven't made up my mind strongly theologically, but practically how I've lived this out as a pastor in my home is the spiritual reality is that as the man, as the husband, I am the the head of the family. the head of the relationship. So I need to conduct myself in such a manner in all areas of life, whatever that might look like in our house, in today's culture, you know, those sorts of things. And my wife needs to uh uh encourage not only abide by it, but needs to encourage that in whatever way that should look like. And it might mean wearing dresses of be uh or it might mean having long hair or it might mean carrying herself in a way that is distinctly feminine, that any onlookers who might, you know, be peeping toms looking into our house would recognize immediately, oh, he's clearly the man in this relationship and she's clearly the woman in this relationship because he's behaving in a masculine way and she's behaving in a feminine way. And so practically that's how I've kind of understood what this is supposed to mean as it plays out and not to make it specific to putting a piece of cloth on the head. So that's kind of where I've been, but again I'm not we're going to be able to do that. I agree with you on that, but that has nothing to do with this passage. There's all throughout scripture there's a lot of commands to men and women are different, they have different roles. And they do different things, they appear different. It's obvious which one's a man, which one's a woman. That's all throughout scripture, but this passage is specifically speaking about heads and head coverings. It says not necessarily the dictionary. Well at least in the NIV, which is what I'm looking at at the moment, which again not intended for veracity, I get that. But the the word fabric, cloth, hat I don't see it The closest thing I see is hair. And you specifically said it wasn't talking about hair, but that's the only thing that's specifically mentioned in the passage. So why why do we jump to it needs to be cloth? Well if you read through the passage there's multiple reasons why it sh it should be a cloth covering, not just like some spiritual thing that's difficult to understand. Um and one of those is um we said it's not hair. However hair is the analogy that's given to it. So this whatever this head covering is is compared to hair. So in the same way women generally have long hair and men have short hair, he's got to be. I mean a metal helmet could do the do the part of a head covering, yeah. It's it's one of the many op many stylistic options. Covering is the uh is the uh is the apperive Function. But there are actually several Greek words in here and if you do a little research on it, you'll find out that um these words mean something that hangs down. Like hair. So covering means something that hangs down so it's compared to hair, so it's like hair in some ways, but it's not hair itself. So what what could be like hair? But not be hair and be on top of your head. And that would be some sort of boss. So for instance, it says in verse um 14. Does not even nature itself teach you that a man uh if a man has long hair, does it dishonored him, and if a woman has long hair, does it glory to her, for hair is given to her as a covering? That word covering there is actually a little different than the previous ones. Um So there it's it's an analogy that's given. Why do you say so? And it's also given in verse six, which is one of the first times this um I believe it's verse six, uh for if a woman is not covered, let her also be shorn. If she's not covered, let her also be shorn. If I were to be persuaded that some sort of physical head covering is required by this passage. Yes. I could possibly see myself aligning with the idea that women should have long hair. That men should have w short hair. Because hair is specifically mentioned. I don't see it used analogously. by necessity. It might indeed be an analogy, but the text doesn't require an analogous reading. So that means she was uncovered before she was shaved, so you should also shave her 'cause it's just as bad. So shaving the head, uh cutting the hair, is different than uncovered, being uncovered. Yeah, it's kind well I would say that that sounds an awful lot like Paul's saying, You want to be circumcised? Take off all the junk. Do it all the way. So if the woman wants to have her hair short Shave it completely off. Why should she have any hair at all? Like why wouldn't the same kind of logic apply there? So I totally get what Daniel was about saying, and I was just about to say the same thing myself. Um This this word shorn here actually means either bald or having short hair. So it's one or the other. It could I mean it could refer to either one. So if her hair is already cut sh short or bald, how is he saying that um a good punishment for her is to have her hair cut off? That doesn't really make sense. So it must be s He must be saying that we don't wear a head covering. I would suggest that in this context we have to decide does it mean short hair or bald? In this context, it would clearly mean short hair because it's being compared to bald. It would be it would be nonsensical to say, if she's bald, make her be bald. So in this case we have to make a decision. Does the Greek mean short hair? Just like we have to make a decision sometimes, does the Greek word uh gyne mean Woman? Does it mean wife? Does it mean bride? It can mean different things in different contexts. We've got to make a decision on the context. So back up for a minute. It says If she is uncovered, she might as well be shorn. Okay? And then and what Josai is saying is shorn can mean either bald or short hair. Either one still works for my argument because either one is still different than being uncovered. What but the only way you can read it is if i i if you're saying, well it has to be shaving completely off because short hair is the is the uncovering in the first place. But that doesn't make a whole lot of sense for the passage because it talks about He's saying doesn't even nature itself teach you that you should have long hair and short hair in men and women as if see this is obvious to you guys. But and and I'm making this comparison. Because of that, you need to be having uh having your hair covered or not or not covered if you're praying or or prophesying. So uh if you're comparing it to the to the hair, it can't be the hair. Yeah, and just to to piggyback on that, um you mentioned you you have two possible beliefs that you could go for at the moment Which are, you know, it could be a spiritual covering or it could be a covering of long hair. But since it does re it does say specifically that this is only to be worn uh specifically the requirement is when praying or prophesying. You can't take off long hair or put it on. You can't take off spiritual head cover uh spiritual coverings and put them on during prayer and prophecy. So this is something that must be physical that can be taken on and put off But every woman who prays or prophesies with her head uncovered dishonors her head, for that is one and the same as if her head were shaved. Any and all women who are those who pray and prophesy, which would be Christian women, which is David's point from like two shows ago. This is talking about because I and my point from two shows ago, we're to pray without ceasing. But does every every Christian who prophesy any woman who prays and prophesies would by definition be a Christian. That's what you right? Isn't isn't isn't this just a a flowery way of saying all female followers of Christ? Or is that left that is that at least a possible uh understanding of that verse. Well that I I think that would probably be the understanding of uh of some of the elders at Josiah's church who would say that women women are taught by this passage to always be uh uh covered. Um but yeah, I mean y what you're saying i i i is yeah. I'll just throw in one thing. It does say in verse five, you know, you you could make the argument in verse five, but It's this this concept also deals with men, so if you look at the context in verse four it says every man praying or prophesying, having his head covered. So this is an now an action that he's performing and in that state He's to to keep his head uncovered. Is that a way to understand what's being said there? Saying basically any Christian male who doesn't have headship that all that allows himself to be underneath the the w the husband, for example, to be positionally underneath the woman. Um is dishonoring his head and his head is Christ in this context, because we just heard in the verse right before that that the head of every man is Christ. So isn't it possible and I'm not saying that that must mean that. What I'm saying is is it possible that it means that? And if it is possible then those who would disagree with the requirement for women to have to wear a head covering every time they pray or prophesy or attend a worship service or what have you would be able to say, no, that's not what's being said here. I understand it this way. And they could be wrong, but they could be right, it seems to me. And that's why I was saying before, this isn't as clear, crystal clear, as some of us might hope it to be. And some of the other things like the man laying with a man, for example, if we were to pull out those passages right now, we could go through the same exercise and I could prove unambiguously that in context it means what everybody in this room would say it means. Right, that gay sex is an abomination, right? Ho ho homosexuality is uh is is is is uh is against uh the created order. We we could prove that in context I think we struggle to make that same ironclad kind of an argument on this head covering question in this passage And and I mean we're centering only on this passage. Are there other key texts you would have us turn to? Well let me just let me just ask you a quick question. Then from your perspective, um how would you in uh interpret verse four? How is it a dishonor for a man? Um having his head covered, how is that how is that a dishonor? Because it says it's a dishonor there. In what way, according to your interpretation? Every man praying or prophesying having his head covered dishonors his head. If it's spiritual, if it's long hair, how is he dishonoring? Well I I w I would I I I would uh actually expound on what you said just a minute ago and and and I th I I believe and Troy can correct me if I'm in misunderstanding his point, but I think the point he just made is If you are a man that prays or prophesies means you are a Christian, and you have your head not uh you have your head covered Mm and he was he would say, maybe this means spiritually. So that means you are covered spiritually by the woman, right? Not by y y y you don't have your head uncovered. So you are putting yourself under women, therefore you are dishonoring your head, which is Christ. You are dishonoring Christ. You are taking God's name in vain. You're taking his name in vain. Saying I'm a Christian, but you're putting stuff under women's authority. So that is uh w the way Troy said it might be able to be read, not that he believes it necessarily, but he s wants to know, are you open for that interpretation that somebody could read the passage and it It seems kind of logical to say that. And not only that you captured what I said, he said it better than I did. Well thanks for their once-a-week compliment. in along that those lines of thinking than uh a a woman who is seeking to uh go go around the authority of her husband in her prayer or her teaching to subvert her husband in prayer or teaching, right, would be Yeah. We'll be dishonoring her head. She'd be dishonoring her husband and also by essentiing Christ. But Uh again, I don't I don't think that that we have to say it can't mean that, right? There is a spiritual significance to the head covering. without the spiritual significance the head covering is meaningless. It's only a symbol. But what the point I'm making, I think Josiah's trying to make, is the symbol is also important because it shows us what the spiritual real reality is Right. So and that gets back to what I was asking a few minutes ago and we're running out of time by the way, just because it's up, we have like a minute or so left. We might be done. So we you know we we we can we we can do another show, but for this show Uh you know, we uh we we're running out of time. But it comes down to okay, I I think that and I think David agrees with me. So uh maybe all of us agree. The prominent thing here is the spiritual reality. Right? That that God is the head of all, that the God man Christ, his head is God, that uh man is his head is Christ and that um in the order of things the way God has made them that the the wife is uh her head is her husband Like that's kind of the the pecking order and there's a spiritual reality of that. Doesn't mean that that like you made the point, was it a week ago or two weeks ago, Josiah, that doesn't mean that like The son is inferior to the father in heaven, there's just positional differences. So that doesn't mean that the the woman is inferior to the man. It's just they have different roles. Uh there's different um structure in there's a structure in place that gives them a different responsibility, uh that kind of thing. That's all that's being said here, but that that's all that's being said here. That's a lot that's being said here. And then we get into what's the physical practical symbol of that that Paul is talking about here. And Daniel and Josiah have been holding the position that it's a some sort of a Typically could be it could be a metal helmet, I suppose, but typically could be like a fabric uh uh covering, uh a habit perhaps, or something like that on the head. Uh a bonnet at least. And uh and David and I uh at least are not persuaded at the moment that uh it's quite uh as specific as that. So we've got to wrap up because we've got now like thirty seconds. So I'm going to uh say our bid our adieu's to the uh wonderful listener right now. Uh David David Forcey, thank you. Daniel Razby, thank you. Josiah Bone Giovanni Did I get it right? Without even looking at my phonetic spelling that I gave myself a little cheat sheet. His book is called The Head Covering. I encourage you to find it and get the fullness of his arguments uh there. You can find it on Amazon. Just well go to a search engine and look up the head covering Josiah and you'll find a hit for his book. Um till next week, 167. 5 hours from right about now. God bless