This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a learning. Week. The faith debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner. With a Master of Divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Troy Skinner. For several weeks now, we've been running through things that I shared. um in private conversations with people, with people in my congregation, on social media, and not sharing them with you on this show. Things related to the coronavirus and COVID-19 and how to look at them from faith perspectives and some of the issues that are are Um unfortunately becoming a little bit divisive even in the church. Last week I was talking at the end of the show, talking about the the issue of the kind of the battle between churches. Some deciding that they should not meet right now when the when when you know infections are bad. And others saying no, he to continue to meet no matter what I was making the argument that both sides could be right. Depends on their context. And you know, they they've got to wrestle through it prayerfully seeking wisdom. They've got to seek what the scriptures have to say. They have to look at it as it applies in their particular situation. and make the best call for them and their community and their people and what would be most honoring to God and uh biblically informed people can They can disagree about this and can still love one another or should be able to anyway. And I don't know that we're doing that very well. And it seems like most of the incoming uh is directed at those who have decided to continue to meet. And so uh I was trying to help explain their point of view so that we can have maybe a more gracious and generous attitude. towards one another as Christians because I if you listen to the show for any length of time you know that I am a Christian. So that's my perspective on these sorts of things. So I asked, you know, the kind of a question of how far do we want to take it and uh do we we should Christians not even go to the grocery store for fear of infecting somebody? Uh so picking up with that thread If you think about it, hundreds of thousands, they die each year after being infected by the seasonal flu. Now, should local churches cancel their services during that time of the year? Now, it would be tempting in the current climate to dismiss this as a ridiculous question. How dare you compare it to seasonal flu? Okay, so maybe it is. But regardless of its ridiculousness, what is our answer? And why is it our answer? Isn't the, you know, somebody's mom's life, who might get sick by uh having somebody having gone to a worship service, isn't the mom's earthly life and that of a cashier uh at a grocery store. Aren't they just as valuable during flu season as they are right now? If mothers around the world, and grocery store clerks too for that matter, if they were to live to be even 117 years old. What use is that ultimately if they don't spend all of eternity in the loving presence of God? Isn't this what Christians believe and feel? We can't expect individuals to quickly and easily alter their view on how things should be handled in their local and personal context, but we can be hopeful that perhaps, maybe There can be a little more patience, kindness, gentleness with regards to this issue, so that we can experience more love, joy, and peace among the brothers and sisters of Christ. When you think about it, this is an opportunity for iron to sharpen iron. The answers to this question, particularly at this moment in time, they're not as clear-cut and easy as some might tend to pretend. Despite what the majority thinks or says, whatever our own position, let's be humble and generous enough. To consider the possibility that someone else might be more correct than we are I know that, you know, if you're if you're a true Christian, then I know that this is your heart. And so, you know, I have great confidence and in the attitudes of those who belong to Christ. But you know, I I challenge you, if you've been one of those who's critical, to to think about it's a tough call and we can Be more generous. And we are we are called to recognize that we stand as one with our brothers and sisters. There's a unity in Christ. And if we're not reflecting that unity, then we have to check ourselves because we're doing something wrong. All right. So Let me shift gears just slightly. Um I've determined it might be helpful uh to go through a string of thoughts here, uh kind of almost a study kind of on the faith debate, if you will. on questions surrounding the decisions that churches are making either to remain open or uh to close their doors. So staying topic but shifting gears in the sense that um I'm gonna be making attempts to be incisive and clear Uh and in doing so, what I say it might come across as a little bit more academic in in tone uh than what I might normally try to capture. I'll try not to get too academic, but I'm gonna try to be clean and crisp and and and and didactic and just go for it. And so I'm not going to couch it maybe in in quite as fluffy terms as I might try to on occasion as well. So let's begin by considering a recent news story. Uh well recent a couple months ago I guess. Uh there's this news story of these choir members in Washington State who were working together um practicing in preparation to share the gospel through songs. to be sung during a gathering that would be dedicated to the worship of our Creator who has sovereignly appointed the day that each of us will breathe our last. Okay, so that's a context. Think about that. God knows the day that we'll rear less. Now, as Christians, these choir members, dare I say, were prepared to die. All Christians should be prepared to die. And how much more readily would they be willing to die than as a result of being busy doing the work that God had called them to do and using the gifts that God gave them to use for his glory? Yeah, so whether they die this month, next month, in twenty years, they know they're gonna die. And knowing the risks of getting sick and possibly dying from the illness, they chose to do what their biblically informed conscience informed them to do. And we look at the story this way, do we see a cautionary tale or rather an inspirational one? Because several of the women they ended up dying from the coronavirus. And many commentators they've proclaimed rash judgments against these women and and their church. What were they thinking? They believed so be uh behaved so foolishly. Oh, perhaps so. Yet consider further that this was not a suicide pact that they all made together. The women likely plan to share the gospel through song with others many months from now. So they weren't planning their death, they just weren't afraid of it. But in addition to those far-off plans they might have had, they were also, so yeah, they they could have tried to conserve themselves, save their lives for another day. But they were also preparing to share the gospel through song with many who might not be around many months from now because people are dying every day. Indeed, they themselves might not be around many nuts for now that might have thought to share the gospel. And as it turned out, of course, that that ended up being the case for a number of them. Now it can be healthy for us to be reminded that tomorrow is guaranteed to no one. That's a healthy reminder. And when we are thus reminded, Maybe we can get busy doing the Lord's work today. To say there's a risk of physical death when people go out, it is true in one sense. But in another sense, there is no risk of death at all. There's not merely a chance we will die. It is an absolute certainty. No one gets out of this life alive. A Christian, they shouldn't advocate recklessness. To do so would be to test God. However, there are ways to serve the kingdom of God by serving others without being reckless. Now the situation, it is sad. It is devastating anytime anyone dies. Yet it can be important to keep in mind that these choir singers in Washington State They knew the risks. If they want to risk their lives, bungee jumping or diving out of airplanes or driving in the rain during rush hour traffic or singing in the choir. Shouldn't they have the right to take that risk without hearing a chorus of condemnations from fellow believers? Is there ever a season when going out that does not risk our own lives andor the lives of others? There are a number of brothers and sisters that are still gathering corporately out of a conviction to be obedient to loving others as they see the Bible telling them to do so. Some are very loudly calling this selfish behavior. It seems that the word selfish, it doesn't fit their situation. If it is a fair word to use, it could also be used in the reverse by those who think differently, couldn't it? I mean that goes both ways, doesn't it? All the extra things the church can do, the extra things that we can do to connect, they're great. They should have already been done, and they should have continued to be done. But as good as they are, they are lesser than in-person interaction. Those who advocate for lesser right now as the path of wisdom have good reasons for choosing this path. However, those who advocate for more than lesser as the path of wisdom also have good reasons. For choosing their path. Some, not all, who push war with corporate gatherings, they could be guilty of testing God. On the other hand, some, not all, who have canceled corporate gatherings could be guilty of not trusting God Both are bad and sinful. So each group likely has a mix of those who are honoring God and those who are not. So I have a little more to say in just a second, but let me reset the show for you. Listen to the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Don't have a panel to debate with, so I'm trying to stir and stimulate your mind to kind of debate with me as uh you hear my voice on the radio. You don't have to necessarily agree with me. Uh I mean if you want to be right you will. I'm playing. I'm playing. Hey, you think that way too, right? Huh? Let's be honest If you think I'm wrong about something, then you would feel like, okay, well if I thought like you, I'd be right. So we all think that way. We've all got our own perspective. Let's be honest about that. So um Let's see, where am I on my notes? Lost my train of thought. Did I reset? This is the I don't know if I did. Let me do it just in case. This is WFMD 930 WFMD. uh wfmd. com online. Uh it's the faith bait. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks so much for listening to the show. Um Yeah, so I'm uh carving out some time here to uh to try to tie a bow at some level on some of the things I've talked about in recent weeks. This is our fourth week. in a row doing a show formatted similar to this, talking about things related to coronavirus and COVID-19 and the and the economic stuff and and how it impacts the church and how Christians uh are debating it and thinking about it and arguing with each other about it unfortunately. Um and that sort of thing. So that's that's what we're doing here. So I want to pick up now with uh What we're talking about because it this is an issue that is historically huge. I mean historically it is huge for the institutional church. You know, there are Christians all around the world who are possibly more motivated in this moment of their lives than they have ever been before because of the pandemic. The reality of everyone's mortality has struck these Christians with a strength and profundity. And so they want to get the gospel message out. Now. Months from now too, but right now. And they want to do this over the phone and via video meetings and things like that and also in person. There is a mission field surrounding us all. That is a Christian perspective anyway. And when a group of believers goes off to a far-off land, exposing themselves and those to whom they minister, by the way, to countless deadly diseases The church tends to celebrate their boldness. But in recent weeks and months, there's been a tendency by some to shame this same boldness. Well comparing a virus to auto crashes isn't a perfect com uh comparison. And I did that a couple of weeks ago. Uh I'm going to do it again here. There there are many ways in which traffic accidents are a fair comparison to infectious disease. Millions have died due to infectious disease. Millions have died due to auto accidents. A person infected with a virus has a very real chance of dying. A person behind the wheel of a car has a very real chance of dying. Even if a person carrying a virus does not die, they still can cause the death of another person. Even if a person traveling in a vehicle does not die, they can still cause the death of another person. Simply by going to church, someone could die or kill someone else due to the virus. And simply going to church, someone could die or kill someone else due to a crash. So should we not drive to church anymore? Death is a real thing, and it is a grievous thing And as I've I've mentioned before, approximately 120 million people will die this year, half of them due to abortion. During the first quarter of this year, 30,000 people, using very round numbers, died a death attributed to coronavirus. During this same quarter of the year, 30 million people, again using very round numbers, died of death attributed to something other than coronavirus Death is an ever-present danger. In fact, everyone alive right now will die. Unless Christ returns first. No one escapes the first death. It's what makes the proclamation of the gospel so urgent. And of utmost importance to all followers of the way. In particular, we were reminded of the victory that Christians believe anyway. And I and as a Christian, I wouldn't say it's just that the Christians believe, I would say it's it's historical fact and truth. Can we remind of the victory that our Lord won over death, and we need not be afraid. Praise God. You know, a very nervous watching world is ripe for hearing why believers maintain so much hope. And we've been thinking about that. And I hope you're feeding your soul. If your church isn't able to meet or has chosen not to meet right now, I I hope that you know you're feeding your soul and and growing in your uh in your spiritual walk and your biblical understanding that you're reading your Bible, you're pressing into prayer, that you're finding online resources that are helpful. There's some good ones out there. You know, and and then pay attention to the hot topics that are currently facing the church and how the church is interacting with some of those issues. Get yourself educated. If you read something you disagree with, try to be a generous reader and say, hmm, well how could I what parts of what that person wrote or said can I agree with? So now continuing our uh in-depth look at an issue that Chris uh church historians are likely going to be studying until the return of Christ. Um there's also been a lot of talk in addition to whether churches should meet, you know, uh just in general, there's been a lot of talk uh about Romans 13, a lot of Romans 13 talk batted around Christian circles lately. And maybe you've noticed. My daughter brought it up to me. She wanted to know my thoughts on it. Well, what's the biblical way to understand respect for government authority? That's what I mean by the Romans 13 talk. There are other passages too, but Romans 13 is uh is is like a go-to. It's a very commonly cited verse when they talk about Christians need to have respect for government authority. So let's examine that question. You know Romans 13 it's been a recurring theme in a lot of social media posts. That's for sure. I don't know if you're on social media, but if you are, boy, it's it's been there. And there's growing concern that Romans 13 is is too readily used by many as bumper-sticker theology There are important nuances that can get lost when simply relying on standalone proof texts in social media. It seems apparent in much of what's posted on social media that the passage is not always understood in the context of the full Bible. So having said that, people should understand the Romans 13 argument that many are making, and uh uh uh you should understand what that argument is, and uh people should take the argument seriously. Because there can be no biblical argument against the fact that all people are to be in subjection to governing authorities. This is 100% biblically true. However, in Daniel chapter 3, the reader finds the story of three men. Who refused to bow down before an image of gold, and this was in violation of the governmental authority. But they were bound by conscience to disobey. Is there a contradiction here with Romans 13? No. Their lack of obedience came with an attitude of submission. They demonstrated this submission by saying that they would willingly accept the government's punishment for their actions. Christians can do the same thing right now, today. If they feel that their biblically informed conscience informs them to disobey an order from the governmental authorities. Again in Daniel, this time in chapter 6, reader finds a story about Daniel refusing to give up his practice of regular prayer, even though the government told them that he must not do so for a period of 30 days. And yet the submissive spirit that rules his attitude demonstrates a subjection on his part to governing authorities. Daniel is willing to accept the government's punishment for his actions, and so like his three friends, Daniel disobeys the government while still being in subjection to the government. You know something to note about Daniel, he prayed in a public way, and he was told to stop. He was not told to start doing something sinful, and still he rightly disobeyed the government. This principle continues to stand for believers today. It's a principle that allows the Christian to disobey the government while still being subject to governing authorities. These guiding principles allowed Martin Luther to do what he did during the Reformation. Christian Patriots to do what they did during the American Revolution. Faithful Christians to do what they did in Nazi Germany. MLK to do what he did during the civil rights movement. And it goes on. And in Acts chapter 5, in the New Testament, it's more of the same. The governing authorities, they demanded that the apostles, Peter and John, stop preaching in the name of Jesus, and their Holy Spirit-led conscience required them to disobey. They didn't challenge the authority of those in charge, however. In their answer, they give evidence of their submissive spirit. They said, Whether it is right in the sight of God to give heed to you rather than to God, you be the judge. For we cannot stop speaking what we have seen and heard. These apostles were willing to pay the price that the authorities deemed appropriate. You be the judge, they said. And thus they were subject to the authority, even as they disobeyed the authority. Submission to the authority of of a legitimate government and its agents, it is required by God. This is true at all times and in all cases. And normatively this means simple obedience. However, there are circumstances when an individual or a group of individuals might be compelled by the Spirit to disobey, and yet when this is the case They must do so in a submissive spirit and manner. Submission always gives honor to whom honor is due. And honor is given when someone says, respectfully, sir, I must disobey. I am prepared to face the consequences that you deem fit. So let's hope that this has been helpful. to you as we're about to draw a close to today's show. Uh I've got some more thoughts on these sorts of things. So I think we're gonna do a fifth show for next week uh on this sort of thing. So You can find us online. This is the Faith Debate. I'm Froy Skinner. You can find us online at WFMD. com. We air every Sunday morning from 9 to 9. 30. And if you miss the show, you caught us in progress, or you hear an arc of shows, like, oh, that was kind of an interesting series of conversations that sounds like they were having, but I missed some of them. You can listen on uh via podcast. You just go to WFMD. com, you go to the Faith Debate page. There's various ways to find it. It's easy enough to navigate the website of the radio station. And once you get there, you're going to see a list of uh a description of shows that aired recently. You're going to find the the podcast for the most recent shows. You're also going to find a link to the uh the audio vault section of the of the uh website where you can find all of the the uh faith debate. Well not all. Uh we've been doing the show for like fifteen years, and so not all of the shows are on the faith are on the uh website, but a lot of them Several years worth. Hundreds of hours. Have at it. Enjoy. Hopefully all this craziness ends and we actually have a panel discussion and I can have some social interaction here in the studio and you'll hear some of that banter and You know here me and John picking on each other. I'm sure you always appreciate that. I know he and I do. Anyway, till next week, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from right now. God bless