You got the right station. Don't freak out. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. That's new music. You're not losing your mind. We've changed the music on the show. And I'm gonna explain why here in just a second. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks so much for following along all these years on the Faith Debate. You can find us online at WFMD. com. Keyword Faith will get you there or find the drop-down menu for the online lineup and find the faith debate that way. Uh there you'll find um easy links to previous shows, the podcast, and you'll find a rundown of the uh the shows that are coming up Uh in in the next week or two you can kind of get a TV guide version of the radio guide and see what what's going to be talked about what the topics are. So what are we doing now? Why are we changing the music? We started it's almost exactly seventeen years ago we uh uh with the Faith Debate show and I'm gonna take a few minutes here to explain to you the history of the show and where we've gotten to now and explain why we're making a change that we are um in the process right now of unveiling to you. So it was it was the early part of 2004. And I was working at WFMD and sister station WFRE, part of the sales team. And um there were a couple of people on the sales team that were very open and vocal about their their Christian faith and so it led to a lot of conversations. We actually would get together when things were difficult in somebody's, you know, life or their job happening. We would pray, that sort of thing. And this led to, you know, we should get together and do like, you know, a Bible study. So we started a workplace Bible study. But we wanted it to be, you know, open and comfortable for everybody to come to the Bible study, not just Christians. And so we thought if we call it a Bible study, some people might not be comfortable coming to that. So we called it a book study. And we got a Christian book to be the content and we and and it and the fodder for discussion. And it actually was pretty popular, surprisingly popular. At one point we had about twelve people that were involved and they were of various stripes and flavors. There was a um well somebody would would have identified as Jewish, but they weren't religious. There was somebody who was kind of a antagonistic uh atheist agnostic type person who wanted to just be there to poke holes, I guess. Uh had uh had a Pentecostal, a Baptist, uh a Presbyterian. Uh I'm trying to think of all sorts of different kinds of people in the mix. It was really cool. And we were meeting at the radio station and one of the managers who was at the station at the time isn't at the station's now. uh had some concern about this taking place on company property. Didn't have a problem at first, but I guess when it became popular, all of a sudden it became a problem. 'Cause I don't know if people know how many people work at the radio station, but at the time I don't know. There might have been thirty full time people at the radio station and like twelve of them were participating in this. I mean it's a pretty high percentage. And they're like, hey, wait a minute. Uh should we really be encouraging this? 'Cause the obviously the person either wasn't a believer at the time or I don't know, was concerned about a lawsuit. Who knows what they were concerned about? So we could continue to do it, of course, obviously, but not at the station. So we had to find some other place to do the show, or do the uh the the conversation, the the the weekly group gathering. And immediately we started to feel the attrition. You know, first week actually attendance was very good, might have been about the same as normal. Within a couple of weeks we were down to like nine or ten. A few weeks after that we were down to, you know, six or seven. After a couple more months, we were down to like three or four. It got to the point where we had one last meeting where we all had to be honest with ourselves, we were down to three of us. I was like, okay, this is not really doing what we wanted to do. We could continue to do it for the three of us, but maybe we should just figure out a strategy for ending this. So we did that. We we figured out how to navigate to an endpoint and wrapped it up like three weeks later. Well, as a courtesy, I went to the then general manager. We've been through a few since then. And said to him as a courtesy, like, hey, you know, you know, we've been doing this thing, we've taken it off site, we do it in the morning. Uh it was Wednesdays, if I remember correctly, Wednesdays at six thirty uh uh at a local diner. But you know, this coming week's gonna be our last week. We're gonna be all done with with doing that. And then you know it's too bad it it didn't last uh longer, but it was fun while it lasted kind of thing. And he said, Oh yeah, that is too bad. So I don't even know why exactly I said this, but the words that came in my mouth was, yeah, it's it's it's too bad because what was cool about it was the wide variety of views You know, it wasn't any one thing being pounded, it was a really interesting dialogue back and forth. That'd be a fun thing to do on the radio someday. And he said, Yeah, it would be. Now, he probably was yesing me to death to be honest. So but me being who I am I saw an opportunity. So I said, do you mean it? And I swear my memory of it is that is like he awoke from a stupor at that point. Yeah, he's like, Yeah yeah, I'll be thinking that's a good idea. Really you mean it? And he's like What? What do I mean? Doing the show on the radio, you think I could do it? And he said, well yeah, I mean I I think that'd be fine as long as it's like what you're talking about your discussion group, all different viewpoints are represented and you're all being honest with each other. That sounds sounds interesting to me. So great, so can I do it And he wanted to punt to the program director, and he said, well, if the program director says it's okay, that's okay. That's fine. It's up to him. And I felt in my gut that what was going to happen that as soon as I left his office, that he was going to make a phone call to the program director And say, Troy's coming to find ya and when he comes, tell him no. Tell him you gotta think about it. Whatever. Buy time. I but I felt like that co ha could happen. But I knew the habits of this program director. I knew where I could find him. So as soon as I left the GM's office, I went straight to where I was positive I would find the program director, and sure enough he was there. So I said, hey, just got done talking to the GM. He says I can do a show if you're okay with it. So you position it like that. He's like, oh the GM already said yes. Well I don't want to be the jerk and say no. So he's like Uh, yeah, I guess that's fine. And um I said, so can I start this week? 'Cause I'm thinking this door could slam shut if I don't get it going. So I'm I'm striking now. This is like a I don't know, it was like a Tuesday or a Thursday, it was like mid midweek kind of a thing. It's like can I be on there this week? Like this coming Sunday? Well, I g I uh I mean I th theoretically, but where would we put uh where would we place the show? Like what time slot? Well, before I came to work here once upon a time, I was the program director myself of a radio station, a couple of radio stations up in Syracuse, New York And one of them on Sunday mornings, when I uh took over those responsibilities, I inherited this program. It was on Sunday mornings, just like it was here at WFMD, and it was a C D of the Mormon Tabernacle Choir. And the uh Church of Latter-day Saints would mail this to radio stations, knowing that a lot of stations might just have filler they needed to fill on the weekends and they might want to have some religious programming on Sunday morning and they would just run it as like a PSA, a public service announcement kind of a thing. A half hour long public service announcement They weren't paying for it. The station was making no money selling sponsors for it. It was just there was no contract for it. They send you the CD, you run it. You don't want to run it, you don't you you throw the C D in the garbage. Whatever. No harm, no foul. So I so I knew that to be true about that show that we were running at the time at six o'clock in the morning on Sundays on WFMD. So I said, What about the Mormon Tabernacle Choir Show? So that's not local content. We'll be doing local content. You know, and it's it's not really sponsorable. What we're doing could be sponsored. You know, there's a lot of benefits to doing what we're doing and and uh he said, uh I guess. Great, I'm gonna put together a show and we'll start this Sunday. And I kind of did the assumptive close to use some sales lingo And uh so at the time uh I was had become pretty good friends with Jonathan Schweitzer, who back then was the pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, it was called at the time he changed it to Crossroads Valley Church. Years later. And uh I was participating in a men's group that met at his home uh on weeknights uh once a week. And we used to joke about how the conversations we would have, they would go on. Uh the the the official men's meeting, you know, would be like an hour and a half and then it would end and then John and I would just continue arguing about the allergy for hours And my wife would be calling his house at like two o'clock in the morning. Is he ever coming home? Would you send him home, please? And I would joke and he would joke with him, this would be fun to do on the radio someday. So he was the first person I thought of. So I pick up the phone, I called John, said John, guess what? You know that joke we've had for like the longest time? He said, Yeah, we're doing it. We need to put together a panel like immediately. And I wasn't a pastor at the time, so I didn't have the kind of connections that he had. He was part of the Evangelical Ministerial Association and all that. He went on to be the president of the association a few years later. So he was pretty connected, knew a lot of people. So he made some phone calls and he was able to throw together a panel in less than a day. And we recorded like that Thursday night and went air like you know what three days later, two and a half days later we were on the air with that first recording session. And I'll never forget that very first recording session that John pulled together. It was Um it was the president of the Islamic Society, Frederick, and uh one of the Jewish rabbis in town. And we talked about issues that are going that at the time were in the news in the Middle East. And boy, we learned some lessons there. So one of the things I learned is um The I was so naive. The kinds of things that we talk about on this show, or have talked about over the years on this show, are so ripe for controversy and for disagreement that if you're not careful to manage the relationships going into the recording session, you can really be set up for some some real problems. Uh and sure enough, uh they were very angry with one another during the shows. I remember that. And when it was all when the evening was and we we recorded uh we only recorded the one show. And that's something that I learned too is it takes a lot of work to put together the panel and prepare for the topics and stuff and the show's only less than a half hour long and boom it's over. You're moving on to something else. And there's so much more to s be said, so one of the things we learned is that from that point forward we were going to do more than one show and our habit became to record two shows at the same time. And then then that evolved to the point where now we record four or five shows in one sitting. Um and so you listener on the radio, um whatever you hear next week was recorded immediately after what you're hearing this week Yeah, in the immediate moments after. It plays out over a a month on the radio, but it took place in one one evening at the radio station. So I learned to do more shows. And I also learned how to manage those situations because he said, There's so much more to be said. Would you guys be willing to come back on? And neither one would come back on. Well, I'm not coming back on. I don't want to ever talk to this guy again. I they were like, wow. So my in naivte went away. So um When the show first started, probably the first I don't know, half a dozen years, the way I handled the show was I was the I tried to be the neutral moderator I was the interviewer asking questions. I was trying to stir the pot, trying to make sure everybody had a an equal, balanced opportunity to share their perspective, um, and didn't voice an opinion myself. Tried to play it like a newsman kind of a thing. And over time, and I wanna say it was probably five or six years in, it started to feel inauthentic to me. Because at the time I was a seminary student and I was learning a heck of a lot more about stuff than I knew before, and I was having some pretty well formulated thoughts. And I was having to swallow them and not put them on the air and I was like, I I just I don't feel like I I can do that anymore. I can't pretend that I don't have an opinion when I do. So it shifted at that point and I started to become still the moderator and interviewer, but an interviewer with an opinion. Kind of like what we're used to now in the cable news shows. The news talking head shows are really opinion shows. So the our show kind of evolved into that direction. And then what was interesting, early on in the show, probably the first eight years, we had a way easier time getting uh liberal guests. Theologically liberal is what I'm talking about. Although politically liberal and theologically liberal oftentimes go together. But not necessarily. We struck them as uh John and I, John was always on the show with me, we struck them as non-threatening. Oh, those guys are harmless. Yeah, I'll come on and talk stuff with them, no problem. And we couldn't get conservative guests to come on very readily. We got some, obviously, but we couldn't get them on to come on very regularly because they didn't trust where we were coming from. They didn't trust who we were I think they might have assumed that we were liberal and we were gonna set them up or something and and try to make them look bad and a or something or that you know we were gonna be throwing chairs like the Jerry Springer show or something. I'm not sure, but we had a hard time getting uh those Well, as we got better at doing the show, as I started to then voice my opinion, not just ask questions, as Jonathan Schweitzer started to feel his oaths a little bit more and be a little more forthright in some of his interactions with the guests uh those liberal guests didn't want to come on anymore. Well by that point though we had proven ourselves to a certain segment of the conservative uh guests out there And we had a pretty long run of a lot of conservative guests with some liberal guests mixed in, but overwhelmingly conservative guests. And that lasted for quite a number of years. Then Jonathan uh things changed with him and his church and that and so he stopped doing the show and I had somebody else partner with me on the show, a pastor from down in Montgomery County. That lasted less than a year. It was a bad fit. Um we were at odds with the direction the show should take. Um he was more focused on the show being relevant. And uh and he was pushing and advocating for a like a a progressive agenda, theologically progress a progressive agenda. and that's not who I am, where I am, and what the sh the show wasn't gonna have an agenda like that. And so we just couldn't see eye to eye and so that that failed. So then I did the show for mys by myself for a while and I would put together panels uh as one off since it was me plus two guests that I had to schedule every time or sometimes three guests in the room at the same time. Um and That got to be pretty hard because again, like I mentioned before, John Sweitzer had all these connections that I didn't have. So I'm having to work really, really hard to schedule the guests. And I just couldn't sustain it. So then actually fortunately Jonathan Schweitzer agreed to get back involved and he started doing the show again with me for a little while. Uh and then John couldn't do it a again. Uh so then I started incorporating some telephone guests, um, which got away from what the spirit of the show was supposed to be was supposed to be talking about you know, faith issues as they're happening in the Frederick area. You start talking to somebody in Seattle, Washington, they they couldn't be more removed from from Frederick, Maryland, kind of thing. And so that wasn't exactly what I wanted to be doing. Then COVID happened and then uh rules were such that we really weren't allowed to have guests come to the radio station. So it's like how do I do a panel discussion show without panelists? So I have a lot of I've kind of an audio file. I save a lot of my audio and stuff that I do with church or with radio or with life. And so I was actually able to take a whole bunch of audio that uh had never been part of the airwaves on WFMD, never part of the Faith Debate Show, but had been used in other venues and as able to piece together and edit different things and and put together shows that had fresh content that weren't really debate oriented, weren't panel discussion oriented, but they were talking about issues and topics and things that were relevant, but it was very kind of different. And that's what we've done for Goodness gracious. Many months now. I I'm not sure exactly when that started. Six months, nine months ago? Something like five, nine months ago? And so during that time I've had a chance to really take stock of what's going on in the culture, what's happening within the church. It's my opinion, and I know we have recency bias, all of us do, in a lot of areas of our life, and so I want to be on guard against that. However I feel like I've accounted for that. And even after having accounted for that, I feel like we uh have the challenge and the privilege. of living through one of the most significant crisis periods in church history. Assuming that Christ doesn't return uh before then. 500 years from now, they will be talking about what's happening now in church history as one of the big moments in church history. This is if they had church councils anymore, they'd be having one right now. I think this is a I think we're in one of those moments. And I'm finding that the sand has slipped from under my feet in a lot of ways. There's a lot of people that I've had great respect for for a lot of years, a lot of people that I actually still do have respect for. uh just not in the same ways or in the same areas that I used to. And I can't trust them anymore. And I'm gonna let we have we have panelists here by the way. I'm gonna welcome them onto the show in a second, but you're gonna be hearing a lot of them talking uh the next few weeks. And so I'm trying to set the stage here. I'm not trusting um Tim Keller anymore. I'm not trusting the articles I read from the Gospel Coalition anymore. I'm not saying that everything that Tim Keller does or the Gospel Coalition has out there, I'm just using them as two examples, uh is necessarily bad But I don't automatically give them the benefit of the doubt. They have lost the right to have that trust from me anymore. There's too much stuff that's out there from these uh formerly trusted sources. And so part of m it makes me wonder, wow, okay, have they changed or have I changed? Like have I noti ha ha have these weaknesses in their game been there the whole time and I didn't notice it and I was naive? Or have they shifted because of cultural and political and societal and even inside the church pressures? uh where they're not really squared with scripture on s on some important issues anymore. And so uh I'm a voracious consumer of media. Have been my whole life. It's why I got into the radio business. I was one of those geeky kids growing up. I was eight years old listening to talk radio. You know, when I was a teenager and all my friends were listening to Top 40 radio, I was listening to Talk Radio. Um and so I've always been an information junkie and consuming a lot of stuff and And I and I I have always kind of been a sampler platter kind of guy. Like I don't watch any of the cable news channels anymore. I don't I haven't watched a single cable like MSNBC, CNN, Fox You know, Newsmax. I haven't watched a single show from any of those networks since March of twenty twenty. And I can remember the moment I decided I was done, and I won't bore you with that right now, but it's been that long, it's been over a year. But when I did watch those channels I would sample them all, I'd be bouncing. I'd see, okay, what's you know, what's Tucker Carlson got going on? What's he leading his his show with today? Okay, I see what he's what he's gonna do. I know what the tenor of his show's gonna be today. Boom, let's go to Rachel Maddow. What's Rachel doing? Okay, now I see what what Rachel uh and and her uh sycophants are uh are are all about today. Now let me jump to CNN and uh I don't know who it would have been uh Anderson Cooper or Don Lemon or whoever what are they doing And then I'd bounce back to Tucker and then I'd and then later on I'd be listening to some Sean Handy and I and I'd be bouncing. I was a sampler planner, trying to get a full view of what everybody um and throwing into that mix ABC and C B S and those sorts of things. Um Now they're all one and the same, almost. And so I don't need to waste my time uh sampler flat anywhere like that. And then a lot of the podcasts that I listen to, a lot of the radio shows I enjoy, um I don't know that I can trust where they're coming from. I don't know that their core principles are in alignment with mine, and not that they need to be in alignment with mine, but I hope that mine, as a Christian pastor, are in alignment with the Bible And so I want somebody whose core principles are in alignment with the Bible. And I need to feel like I can trust that. And so I'm I've I spent time over this past year. COVID gave me a great opportunity to do that. I spent a lot of time um Searching for trusted resources, finding YouTube channels, finding uh blog uh sites uh finding radio shows or TV shows that maybe I hadn't spent a lot of time with in the past and actually investing a significant amount of time paying attention to what they were doing consistently for a number of weeks on end to see where they are coming from. And then feel like, okay, I like where this person's coming from. I can trust this person. And so I'm curating things differently. And so I'm not sampling as much, I'm spending just as much time, if not more, in media, but I'm not sampling as many options, but I'm going way deeper with the resources that I'm finding that I can trust. And I'm feeling like, well, if that's true for me, maybe that's true for other people too. And so that's why we're making the change on the faith debate show that we're making, we are putting together or have put together A panel where it's going to be four of us and sometimes maybe only three of us will be able to make our schedules work and it you know it'll only be three of us or hopefully on the rarest of occasions two of us, hopefully it will at least always be at least three of us. But uh on a on a good week is gonna be four of us and we're going to be somebody that over time you're gonna know where we're coming from, why we're coming from there, that you can see how we honestly interact with each other and with the scriptures Uh so that you're gonna understand uh what an alternative view to the overwhelmingly mainstream narrative is, even from the so-called conservative outlets. uh what they call the Overton window has shifted so dramatically that what passes for conservative now would have been counted as a progressive idea twenty years ago. And so we I just want to give the audience, a resource that's doing something different. And if you're a progressive-minded person, at least you're going to know what those who disagree with you think and why. So this can be a good research um venue for you. Not that we're going to persuade you, although I would hope to, but uh at le because I do that. I I For every uh for every three or four books I read that I anticipate I'm going to agree with, I read a book that I anticipate I won't agree with. I want to know what the other side, what other people are thinking. I want it sharpens my own arguments. It helps me anticipate arguments when I get into dialogue with somebody. I'm not hearing something for the very first time. Oh, I've heard that argument before. And I've had time to think about it because I read a book about that last year. Um and so this can be a show like that for you if you're, you know, one of the Kai Hagans of the world, for example. You know, you're this show is not gonna be your ideological touchstone. I get that. Uh and if you're confused, you're not sure what to believe, what the church teaches and and and stands for anymore, um, you know, this show can be um can be a an encouragement and an aid to you for that as well. So this was one long monologue from me. Next week, uh I'm not sure who's going to go first. You're going to hear from either Imran Raz Razvi. I'm not sure if you want to go by Imran or Raz these days. But uh you're gonna hear from one of the you're gonna hear from him. You can say hello if you want to know you're here. But I go by Raz, it's easy to remember and I'll be speaking probably later. And uh and Daniel and uh his his son and uh and uh David Forcy, you guys are gonna be uh talking, sharing your story, getting us sense. We'll be doing that starting next week here on the Faith Debate. So thanks for listening to me drone on this week. We're gonna have some fun Stories uh uh and when you