The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. Headphones are cutting out. Under spiritual attack. Help Anyway, this is the face of bait. On WFMD, nine thirty AM, also ninety nine point nine H T two on the FM and worldwide on the web at WFMD. com. Thank you so much for spending part of your Sunday morning, the final Sunday morning in June 2022. And by now we probably know what that ultimate decision principle is. We won't talk about that. We talked about that issue a few weeks ago that takes place when we didn't know what the final outcome was. So we're gonna pick up where we've left off uh talking these last couple of weeks and talking about end time, eschatology, the second coming of Christ, the End of time as we know it. And how to understand all these things. We spent some time last week defining terms and all that sort of stuff, and so I would encourage you to check that out. Uh if you'd like to kind of get uh a a a heads up on some of the things we might be talking about this week. I'll do my best. Things that haven't come up recently on the show that might be big buzzwords theologically, I'll try to to find those or Daniel Rasley will or David Forcey will. One of us will remember to do that this week. But three of us Daniel, David, and me, Troy, our pastors of house churches here in Frederick County, and we are talking about these end times. And uh we talked a little bit about the rapture already. And we talked about uh some dispensationalism and all millennialism and you know all those little buzzwords and little fun little party words that you can use to impress all your friends and family. Uh but we started to go down the path last week and we kinda ran out of time talking about well how do we approach interpreting this thing, these things, particularly the book of Revelation. Do we want to be What was the word you used? The the phrase superliteral, uh as opposed to just literal and uh and I use the word wouldn't because I feel like that's just easier to say than super literal. I think it's it's best to start the answer to that question with how do you interpret the Bible in general. And I would uh yeah and so you should apply the same principle to Revelation. Absolutely. And so let me let me tell you how I answer that and then uh you know did it since you were already I kinda cut you off last week, David to I probably didn't have anything else that's a lot of You respond first to what I have to say, unless you you end up deferring to the second half and you can let uh uh Daniel go first. So I would argue strongly that all of Scripture should be interpreted literally. Big deal, right? Everybody says that. But here's what I mean. I mean literally. And getting into the root meaning of the words. So we should we should approach all literature and interpret it literally because it is literature. And so one of the first things we should do as Bible readers is identify what kind of writing am I reading? What's the genre? Because we don't interpret poetry the same way we interpret legal code. We don't interpret history the same way we interpret prophecy. And when we're talking about the Revelation, the book of Revelation particularly, we don't interpret apocalyptic literature the same way we would interpret The gospel. Gospel accounts. Right. So there's there's different we so we come now we should also, by the way, good practice, we should try to get come to understanding of uh as best as we can what the historical original historical setting was, who the original audience was, who the original author was, as best as we can know. We don't know all of the answers to all of these questions, but as best as we can know, we want to know that. And we also want to read it uh as a canon, meaning we want to read it as literature. So somebody that writes something on page one and that same someone writes something on page two hundred, it's the same author. We should keep in mind that okay that author is the same person He's not going to be contradicting himself, particularly if he's God. So uh we w so the entire canon of scripture should be in view as well. So when I say we should interpret everything literally, I mean it literally. as literature. So that but that ends up meaning that I do not interpret Second Chronicles the same way I interpret Daniel. You know, or at least it's not a happening. Right. Yeah. Exactly. In this context on what end times people would hopefully know what I mean. Different parts of Daniel are different. Di different parts of different books are yeah, are employing different communication techniques is maybe what the way I would you know sum up what does it mean to you know right you know h what what's a historical requ The Gospels are like that too. And then it says, Jesus said this and he said this is a parable. Well that's a different thing. It's not literally true all this that when he says this happened and that's a parable, he's not actually recounting a historical event. Now the book of Revelation specifically, because we're talking about the end times and that's the fun third rail of theology that you know a lot of people are afraid to even talk about. So let's let's focus there because that's where the fun can happen. And I think it's really instructive. That's why I think it's we could just not just because it's fun, because I think it'll be instructive. Revelation is a combination of genre. Mm-hmm. In one sense it's a letter. In another sense, it's letters within a letter In another sense it's it's uh it's prophecy. In another sense it's apocalyptic vision and the uh the apocalyptic uh language, the the highly charged symbolism and stuff, uh we We don't appreciate this well enough, in my opinion, because of the times that we live in. Uh I use this as an example uh quite often with with people when we're talking about this. If your wife you know, forces you to sit down and watch a romantic comedy. Yeah, you're five minutes in and you're like, oh, that guy's gonna end up with that girl at the end of the movie. You just because you just know it's the it's the formula, it's the genre. You know what to expect. Right. Right? Or think about this, you're you're in a movie It's the exact same scene as another movie. All right. The same setup, the exact same everything seems exactly the same. Uh it's The husband and wife in their car having a conversation and this it's the close-ups of them having their little conversation. It's a sweet little thing and they're talking back and forth. Exact same scene, one movie, movie A, movie B Movie A, you know going in it's a romantic comedy. Movie B is a horror movie. You're watching that same scene. The romantic comedy, it's like, oh they're getting to know each other isn't this cute. Very different expectations. They're probably gonna die. Yeah, they're gonna die. When's the monster gonna jump out and eat them? Like this is bad. So it's the exact same scene, but different genre, so it's interpreted differently. That's what we have to keep in mind, in my opinion, when we're reading a book like Revelation is understand that this is not a list of genealogies. This is not a letter in in the didactic sense of like something that the Apostle Paul would have written. This is something different that again we forget this, but my understanding of of looking into these sorts of things Go back two thousand years, twenty-five hundred years even, apocal apocalyptic literature was like pulp fiction. It was like very popular, apparently. So the original audience, they knew this genre. Like they knew it inside and out. They knew what to expect. They knew that that symbol means something or it's going to connect to something later on in the story or like they were they're expect we have very little familiarity with it and so we struggle to understand revelation properly. So there's There's my sense. I've given you plenty of time now, David, to gather your thoughts. What would what would what would what is there anything you would push back on with that or something I've left out that's important to add to? Uh no. I meant um So when you say when you say apocalyptic, uh y are are you meaning you're not meaning a separate genre even from prophecy is Do you mean th this is a a per particular subject matter that's being No, I'm talk well, it it oftentimes it it lends itself to talking about uh a particular subject matter. Right. But apocalyptic way I'm using it is actually as its own genre where it's it's a revelatory uh writing that's revealing through Encoded symbolism, highly exotic, uh imaginative uh symbols that are hyper parabolic, if you will. Parables, but they're hyperparables. See that that sounds And that's a whole genre of of literature outside of the Bible. There's a po that's what I'm saying. It was hugely popular in the day, even outside of that I mean that description sounds a lot like Poetry to me, um, you know, whether things are are very often very symbolic, right, representative Um you know in order to I would say that the the difference though with poetry though is one, poetry is usually it has a particular structure and a form. It helps you define it as poetry. Yeah, who who the poet is and or what time period the poetry was written in and there's there's there's there's either there's symmetry or there's couplets or there's rhyming or there's rhythm or there's You know, there's different things that you say this this is something that could be sung, generally speaking. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Now there are portions of revelation out that are poetry, actually, I would say. Yeah. Yeah. Right. It's a it's a it's it's in my opinion, put my cards on the table. The book of Revelation, the most amazing, beautiful, sophisticated, intelligent, spectacular thing ever written. Ever, by anybody. The more you study it, the more impressed you are by it. It is stunning How wondrous and beautiful and and just special it is. And that's why it's sad to me that so many Christians are afraid to read it So many pastors are afraid to preach it. Right? So many Bible teachers are afraid to address it in a Sunday school class because they're afraid of it. Oh, it's a third rail of theology. We're not gonna go we're not talking about revelation. That's that's divisive. That'll confuse people It's so wondrous. Well that that that's it's like saying, I'm never gonna watch the best movie ever made because that's probably why so many people are are all also intrigued and fascinated by it as well Yeah, it it it draws it draws people in. Yeah. So it because it's so s highly symbolic And everybody has their way of interpreting the symbols. And we don't have if we don't have good hermeneutic principles, hermeneutica is a fancy word for interpretive principles. If we don't have good interpretive principles, we can go all over the place. Um and sometimes we have these these hermeneutic principles that are are our system for understanding and we lock into our system. So But I was d I was go ahead. So I was gonna say people with different systems will come to different conclusions. And um I'll let you say what you're saying. So my my um To payback off that, my system is always to err on the side of like what that it's not a symbol. that it's not figurative. That it's actually what it says. Uh and and and reserve the right to say, okay, well that doesn't actually fit now with the rest of it, so maybe it is symbolic. But If you're not sure, then it's probably what it actually says. I think that would be horribly frustrating for the author, who intended it to be taken symbolic for a reader to insist on not taking it symbolic. And I say that because I'm firmly convinced that John, as he's writing down his vision revealed to him from Jesus, he's intending it to be taken symbolically And I would think it would be horribly frustrating to him, like, come on man, how many more clues I gotta give you to take this symbolically? That's my playful way of pushing back on that. What parts what what parts of Revelation do you think lend them other than the like the letters of the six churches? So I I would just offer another uh maybe another slightly different idea which would be that I I I think there might be times in scripture when we can say, okay, this is Uh this is literally or versus symbolically, so uh but this is this is you know this is actually what is happening uh or going to happen, but it it depends on whose eyes you're looking through. So Right and and a lot of people s have have made the made the argument that when John is seen and writing down X, Y, and Z Let's just imagine that John forget any particular passage in Revelation, but take John and put him in the middle of the Gulf War and he sees helicopters flying overhead and he sees missiles g doing the things and maybe somebody just sets off a nuclear bomb or whatever. How is he gonna describe that in terms that a first century person is gonna understand? It's gonna start to sound fantastical to the point of being ludicrous. because there really is no way to describe it. They have no frame of reference to understand such a thing. And then just to think what heaven looks like, which is so much more vast and and amazing than we could possibly understand. And he's there in heaven seeing it Then you've gotta put it into not English but Greek. You've gotta put it into Greek and s and uh and explain it for a human. So it's it's gonna sound really weird and maybe very figurative or symbolic, but maybe he's what he's describing is actually what he's seeing and and until you actually see it yourself in heaven then you won't get it quite That's why I always try to err on, okay, well maybe this is really what's happening. You know, maybe there are physical locusts coming out of the ground and deva you know, uh uh torturing people And maybe they really do have hair like women and and they sound like horses and stuff. Maybe he's seeing a helicopter and it looks like that. Maybe it's just a spirit and there's no physical uh anything with it. Maybe it's a l locus. I don't really know But what's the point of the passage? The point of the passage is their demonic activity that is torturing people and causing pain and suffering for people who are not saved. That's the point of the passage. I don't know what it's gonna look like. I think I'll know it when I see it And I think when John saw it, he wrote down what is what he's what he saw in terms that, you know, will you be able to understand? And of course it's from the divine inspiration. It's not John reading, it's God reading. But Yeah, well it's both. Yeah, both. Um but I I th you said what passes of revelation would you say, okay, you gotta err on the side of uh of literal. I would say anything to do with numbers, you want to try to be as as literal as possible because otherwise you really get into a lot of numbers he has. Now sometimes numbers are supposed to be symbolic. D uh Daniel talks about weeks of years, meaning he has seventy weeks, and then he says, Well actually each day is like a year and so you gotta count this so it's actually four hundred and ninety years and it's really cool 'cause that Lines up perfectly with the birth of Christ and all of that. But then you can take it really far like the uh uh a Seventh day of Venice do and say, Oh well it says twenty three hundred days And so now that's years. So twenty three hundred years later is eighteen forty four or something, so Christ comes back then. Well, which didn't really happen, so now they had to invent other doctrines. But i if you look at the passage, just to use that as an example We di uh Daniel just got done saying seventy weeks of years or whatever and then he says twenty three hundred days. He doesn't actually say the same word. He said twenty three hundred evenings and mornings. Just so you can be really clear, this is days now he's talking about, not years. Right? So it is that's good the in the in the uh Greek or Hebrew, if it's Greek uh Septuagint or if it's Hebrew Masoretic text you you can see this is the evenings and mornings it's being talked about that gives you an idea, okay, he's now being very literal. So y is so y you I don't know really exactly what I'm saying other than you you have to give I I I think you have to give them the benefit of the doubt that it really could be actually happening. And be proven wrong. Do you still have the thought in your head? Uh no, I mean uh I I I I I I think I think I think Daniel made a really good point uh just as we're considering all of this that you know, that there is a uh there's a there's a a purpose behind, you know, whatever the genre of literature is like in scripture, right? It's it's seeking to instruct you know, in in principles, you know, to impart uh knowledge and to You know, there there's a there's a reason why it it's not just there to be fascinating and inter interesting and clever and and all of that. You mentioned uh a couple of things I want to do. Uh uh I don't know how I I'm trying to figure out a way to blend them into one question I or thought and I can't. So It was interesting, I don't know if you were really intending to do this, but you were giving the example of, you know, John seeing his vision, he might have seen helicopters and he describes them as locusts. Uh and that's seems to me that that that's not an argument that would support the trying to take things as literal as possible. If what he saw was helicopters and he describes them as locusts, well then If I'm gonna read it woodenly and say, Well what he saw is locusts when what he actually saw were helicopters, then I'm missing his point if that's the case. Right. So I didn't feel uh I don't Was I missing something? No, I I I said that that argument has been made that what he's seen is helicopters and right and the point out of the hyper-literalists, by the way. Which is undercutting that's why I was asking you this question. Well, right, so so the quest the the thing is, is it is it is it literal or is it is this just the best explanation that we can get of what's actually happening But it is as y it it should be as close to what literal as possible. That's what I'm I all I'm saying is that we wanna stay as close to literal as possible. And again we may define literal differently, but I think in the context of what we're talking about, w what the words say that's and and the p first picture that comes to mind Maybe that's it is correct. Maybe the wrong picture is coming to your head, but it's it's hopefully as close to that as possible. And that's how I like to be, because I feel like that's the more cautious approach 'Cause if you can start to make things symbolic, then you can make things mean whatever you want to mean. And that's where you get some really crazy doctrines because people apply that same principle to other sections. And I know Troy you would not apply that to Leviticus and say, oh well it when it says homosexuality, well that really just depends on your f your per perspective and and then you can go off uh into that and I know that's not what you're s saying because you want a distinct And I would disagree that if you take it symbolically, that gives you license to make it mean whatever you want. Uh uh the idea is you try to make it mean whatever the author wants it to mean. It's about a authorial intent. That's what we're trying to get to. What did the author intend it to mean? And and we need to keep in mind, what did he intend it to mean to the first readers? Revelation, I believe, was written in the first century. Some people would argue that point, but I think it's clear it was written somewhere between the late 60s and the early 90s. So somewhere in that window of time, what would those people have understood it to mean? And he's writing with them in mind. He's writing this letter to them It's for us too, because God's also the author and he's got us in mind. But it's got to mean something to them. How would they understand it? So I think that's an important thing for us to keep in mind. You mentioned the numbers, you know, how we gotta be literal with the numbers. What are the most famous numbers uh in the book of Revelation is one hundred and forty four thousand. And I I would argue strongly that we should not take that as a literal one hundred and forty four thousand people. Now the dispensationalists are freaking out hearing me say that because they they would hold to the view that there's going to be literally one hundred and forty four thousand exactly Jews who are converted to become evangelists uh after the uh rapture. Like that's a big part of the Jews they're frame. Virgin male Jews. So from each tribe. I would agree with that too. But when we read Revelation for what it is and you got the idea there's all this imagery is talking about the old covenant and then and the tribes and then and the new covenant uh with the with the apostles. And twelve by times twelve equals one hundred and forty-four. That helps explain what's going on. So it's it's talking about the fullness of God's people and that God's people in regimens In military array, it's the church militant. And to me that clearly such a gigantic leap to to get there that it's it's it it You can't come up with that in in my opinion by just reading the text and saying, Oh, well, it says 144,000. I think it's pretty obvious. To me, I wouldn't take it very literally there. Well, see I would if if if I were John, I'd be very frustrated by that Well you're assuming John believes what you believe. And and not read it like it's uh a precursor history. He's not writing history in advance. He's writing apocalypse. But this is apocalyptic i it's it's not just here's what's gonna happen. This is highly charged symbolism. To me it's helpful to look back at other Other passages of scripture that we would say, okay, this is essentially apocalyptic in nature, right? Like some of Daniel's stuff. And uh you know, and say, okay, like how has this fulfilled itself? How's this come about in history? Mm-hmm. You know, like with uh I mean you know, the particular example that comes to mind is the uh you know, the the the ram and the horns and and that sort of deal and the way that we see that uh you know fulfilling coming about with Alexander the Great and his you know his kingdom being divided into into four parts and and that sort of deal. And so Uh so so yeah, but but I I guess you know, and I think this has been said already, I'm also content to say, okay, some of these things we won't recognize until they happen. And somebody won't recognize until after they happen. Thinking about the road to Emmaus, those disciples, who Jesus had just said, I'm gonna die and be raised again, and I'm like, I'm gonna be the fine anointment, because I would argue it's happening. And people aren't seeing it. Interesting. It's talking about the church military it's talking about us now. Now. That's a passage for us today. It was a passage for John's original readers then. It's about us. And those of us who refuse to see that are not getting the intent of John. And I would be I'm I'm frustrated on his behalf. When he lists the hundred and forty four thousand, he lists them in the twelve tribes and he names the twelve tribes. Have you has anybody ever noticed That those lists of of the twelve don't match any lists of twelve in the Old Testament? Why? Well says Joseph. Why? Why doesn't it match? You gotta ask that question. And the re the answer to that question is because John's making it painfully obvious that look, this isn't literal tribes, this is symbolic. And I'm bringing in I'm I'm pulling the people that were the outsider tribes to the top of the list to show that this is this is the fullness of God's people here where the outsiders are welcome in. It's to me it's so clear And I know that people disagree with me, I get it, but the the the the the the point is I guess I'm trying to make is if we try to get two atomistically wouldn't and take each verse and each phrase and each passage as all by itself and lose the full thing We lose the beauty. I I feel like Revelation is nowhere near as beautiful if I'm gonna take that as oh, it's 144,000, that's all there is to it. There's so much going on there. Anyway, there's my little soapbox. We gotta wrap up this show. We're gonna talk about Israel next time. Well 144,000 plays into that, so I guess that's a good segue. Alright, anyway, oh I hope it was funny. It was fun for me. I won't talk so much next week. Uh Daniel Razby, David Forrest, the Antroy Skinners, The Faith Debate. Follow me online at householdthefaith in Christ dot com and the station online at WFM