We're broadcasting for the west side of Brig Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick's Bait Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD brought to us by Futman, Fleming and Heating. How could we make you smile? Well I said that makes it sound like they are bringing the whole radio station to you I don't think you're paying enough for that. But Plumman Plumbing is bringing this show to you on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Free talk. Uh visit us online, WFMD. com. Keyword Faith. There you'll find the Faith Debate blog. Our blog is your blog, so email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. I post what you send me eighteen times a day, Monday through Friday. That's ninety ninety nine zero blog postings Updated every week. I I challenge you to find another website that's doing that. That's true. Nobody else is that crazy. Are you kidding me? Anyway, the guy who agrees with me so readily, that's rare. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, and Dr. Neela Chempong's with us again this week. He's from Covenant Family Chapel, and you can hear him in about an hour on this very same radio station from 930 to 10. uh with his program. Uh I wanted to talk about uh kingdom issues because uh last week towards the end of the show um Uh, Neil mentioned how there are certain things that you don't get to hear on the air in his program because it's just for his local church to hear. Uh well that happens on our show too. There are things that we end up talking about that never make the air. Right. But every once in a while we're like, ooh, you know what? We should probably bring an element of this onto the air. So we're gonna do that in a second. But before we do that Jonathan Steele has it stuck in his craw from last week. I brought up Brother John MacArthur and he just won't let it go So anyway, you want to talk about attitude of the other thing. Uh uh for those teachers of of the Bible that are on the air that have a bigger audience? And if so, like how you know, what how do you hold them accountable? And you know, it seems to me like the same responsibility uh applies to them as applies in any other situation and that is that their attitude is important. You know, are they representing the love of God or are they showing an attitude that uh that confuses the message and then second of all is the content of what they're preaching accurate to uh to the truth of the scriptures and so attitude and you know content and the reality is that Everybody that is preaching the word of God should be under some kind of accountability structure where they're not just uh, you know Judging themselves alone, but there's other voices that are speaking into what they're saying and how they're saying it, challenging them. you know, in a you know, helping them to see different perspectives. And if that's not the case, then eventually they're going to end up uh being less effective and leading people astray. It's just likely that that would be the case. And so, um, you know, Paul confronted Peter, you know, B Paul and Barnabas had, you know, uh interactions about various decisions and choices that were being made. You know, y you perceive in Scripture regular interaction amongst amongst the believers holding each other to account for what they're preaching and how they're preaching it. And so attitude, content, and accountability, I think all those are important. Okay. I'm going to do my reset on the program really early. Yeah. Usually about the halfway point, but as a transition onto a new topic. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930. WFMD, that's Jonathan Schweitzer's voice there, who was just talking a second ago. He's senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church and Dr. Neela Champong from Covenant Family Chapel. is here on the show as well. What have I been reading, by the way? I didn't mention it last week because we ran out of time. Uh Introduction to Christian Worship by James F. White. Um it's Helpful in this context because when we come together in worship, primarily we're coming together for the ministry of the word and for the ministry of the sacraments. That's primarily kind of what's happening. in worship. Uh and part of that word is going to be sung word in songs. Some of some of that word's going to be in prayer or whatever. But um so in the context of the worship, we are talking about worship and preaching. uh b uh outside of the confines of the recordings of this show. And Neil said something about uh an approach and talking about the kingdom and it really intrigued Jonathan and maybe the best way for me to try to frame this and ask a question is to ask Jonathan what was it that was intriguing that caught your ear on that? And then we can have Neil unpack what he was What do you say? Do you remember exactly? Yeah, well I've done uh a lot of reading just about, you know, grappling with what is the big message of the Bible, like what is it that ties it all together. You know, you and I, Troy, at different times have talked about, you know, that when we preach You know, we're we're we're preaching from you know, you we want to make sure that the big story is being told and that that whatever whatever message we're preaching in scripture isn't somehow um you know, being magnified out of proportion so that we're missing the big story. And so uh when you said that, you said, you know, we gotta make sure people get the big story I kinda perked up and said, Oh, I wonder what he you know, perceives as the big story. And uh you said that it was that that we have a king and that we're you know, that we're dealing with a kingdom. And uh I I've never heard it said that way. I've I've had a bunch of of uh different conversations with people grappling with what is that big story and um I Found myself wondering if I felt like that language was adequate for bringing together all of the necessary and important parts of you know what scripture represents, the big story of scripture and what that represents. And so um you know I'm just inclined to kind of ask Oh okay. Um Like like g give me give me the reader's digest version. King and we are his servants. How does that fit the whole story of scripture? Alright, let me put it this way. God is a kin. Okay. He has a kingdom, which we call the kingdom of heaven. Okay. The Bible is the constitution of the kingdom. Okay. We Christians. Where we call it the ecclesia, the chosen ones. Now the actual Greek etymological word is the Senate of God. We are supposed to enforce the laws of that kingdom. Okay. The earth is the territory. of that kingdom and we are only brought into the territory. For example, if uh a king has a child and he's in the original kingdom, that child is called a prince or a princess Okay. But then if the child gets shipped to the foreign territory to that kingdom, the child automatically assumes the status of a king because he's not in the mother kingdom. Now It the whole concept of kingdom and stuff like that it's a little bit uh foreign to this culture because all we know is democracy. And why am I saying this? Because in Genesis chapter one, verse twenty-six, when God said, Let us know. Oh, back to Genesis again. Let us make money in our own image and in the image of God created them, male and female, the Bible says, and he gave them dominion. That Hebrew word malaker originally means kingdom. So man was given kingdom or sovereign rule. So you cannot restore something to somebody that he never lost. Therefore, when Christ came, And he began to preach in his first his manifesto his first message he says repent for the kingdom of God is here And all through the messages of Christ, he always talked about the kingdom. Why? Because that is what we lost originally. So the whole scripture is about a king It's about a kingdom. It's about his k why he sent us here. It's come and enforce the laws of that kingdom. So when Jesus taught his disciples to pray, He says, When you pray, say thy kingdom Come. Now, even though in theological cycles it still has a connotation of the kingdom to come, it is simply just bringing God's rule amongst men. That is why we are here And so if you do not see the scriptures from this uh bigger picture, there are many things in scripture you will misinterpret. For example, When people go to church, they look at a pastor and then they say go, oh, uh, he's just um somebody who is here just to preach to us. No. He's been sent by the king. to do a work. And if you have a problem with him, you don't vote him out. You talk to the king. Because in the kingdom, you do not remove people that the king sends. You can only ask the king to take them out. In the democracy you vote them out. So it then puts into question many things that we do in the church. is because it's swelled by all kinds of concepts that are foreign to scripture. Yes. In order to uh to and enlighten our eyes to understand what scripture is talking about. Your sense is that it's necessary precisely because We live in a democracy and so we have this orientation that uh that power comes from the people You know, and so therefore the people decide what's right and wrong. And so so what you're saying is that that idea, if you take the time take the time to understand the kingdom idea, what happens is that it opens up scripture in ways that we wouldn't understand if we were just coming from a democratic perspective. The people cannot legislate that through Congress and says it's okay for somebody s to say that an exit is an entry. It's a night it's it's another way of me putting something. So what I'm trying to drive at is that if we do not have the bigger picture as to what the concepts are in scripture There are many things we do because we are simply just adopting them our own way. So there's a couple kind of pushes. There's a couple of questions that I have that that may or may not challenge that perspective. Right. Um my impression is that when mankind fell into sin, right, God created everything, he created it good You know, and that we were walking with God in the garden, but mankind, like you're saying, chose to submit not to God, but to to the enemy, and so we fell into sin. And in falling into sin that we lost our rulership. Instead of ruling over the earth, we we ended up being uh ruled over. You know, instead of ruling over our passions, our passions ruled over us. And so not just you know, the um the world, but uh we ended up treating one another the wrong way. However, behind the idea of democracy, at least as conceived in the West There's this idea that we are all the redeemed of the Lord. Yes. And so everybody, including the king, right, the Magna Carta, this goes back to what the thirteen, fourteen hundreds. You know, where where they went to the King of England and they they said, it doesn't matter if you're the king, you also are obligated to be under the laws that everybody else is supposed to be under. So Lex Rex, the law reigns. Right? And so um uh Th the question that I have, because the the the implication that you brought is that the pastor is the man of God. Yes. And so if people don't like what he's teaching, you know, it's they they shouldn't vote him out. Yet I see in scripture, like First Corinthians fourteen, and even the way that that that Paul and Peter are interacting with one another uh in the whole James uh f uh Acts fifteen council rather where where James was leading it was that there is a significant need uh for for accountability where leaders see themselves as like some ha some kind of a king over all the other people. And and when I read scripture, when I s when I say to God, God, I want to inherit the earth, like you said, you know, that you want us to inherit the earth, it immediately becomes clear to me that there are many other meek that will be inheriting that earth alongside of me. And so the restoration of the kingdom is not the restoration of certain people being kings over the body of Christ. But it's the restoration of all of us being saints together that are holding one another accountable. And so it's a race of kings. Not just in and so so even when you talk about like people not liking what the pastor has to say and voting them out, uh I think there's a lot of really healthy checks and balances there. Yeah. Right? Like like when we said with the President, you know, that that we want the President and Congress and Supreme Court, you know, to balance each other's powers. Uh they did that precisely because there's the danger of any one of those people arrogating power to themselves and thinking that they can do whatever they want. And I've seen a ton of churches Where this is a major problem where the guy in charge, you know, is preaching about the kingdom and he ends up being the king in whatever he hears from God, everybody has to submit to. But if you and I hear from God And it's different. My expectation is that you and I are going to not try to impose our dominion over one another, but that you and I are going to act as Kings and saints together, peers, that talk with one another to resolve where there's a difference. You know, and the and the challenge, you know, as iron sharpens iron so one man sharpens another. So do you see some of those potential dangers? Yes, I do. I do see those potential dangers and it's because we still do not understand the concept of a kingdom We do have see most people do not understand the concepts of the kingdom and so we take certain aspects of it. Did England understand the concepts of the kingdom? Because they had a king. Did they understand what you're trying to get at? And what about France back in the day? Because the emperor in the Roman kingdom called himself God. Good. Now I mean that was precisely the problem where kingdoms go off the divine right of kings, God has told me that I'm the king. You all have accepted me as your king, so now what I say goes. Yes. And it's arrogance. Yes. Because you're still looking at the concepts of a kingdom from a democracy mindset. I'm trying I'm not saying that it was right for human to do it. The Roman Empire. You're saying the Roman Empire is a good example? Very, very good example. I know that all the time we spent on the radio might not be enough for us to explain that. But I am saying that. Okay. I don't know that he's saying that it's a good example, meaning that the Roman Empire was Run by good emperors. I would argue this thing out this way. When the scripture says when the fullness of time had come for God to send for his son, he did. What was it all about? Because it was during the time when the Roman Empire rose that there was a kingdom that looked like the one in heaven because All the other kingdoms when they destroy people or when they conquer the territory, they would always carry the people from that territory and take them to the mother country. It was only the Roman Empire. that when they conquer the place would send like a herald to go and rule over the people. Now because God creating the territory, he sends us here. Yeah. He he he sends us here. Now, all these examples I'm trying to draw is not to say that those humans did anything really good, but then it gives us an example of what the picture is after heaven Now let me bring back in the question of the danger of a pastor trying to um amise all authority and put it on himself. It is because he still does not understand A proper he does not have the proper concept of a kingdom. Because if he does, then he knows that because he's accountable to God, he's not going to make himself God to men in the first place. And that if we are on earth, we are all kings. Because that is why Jesus is called King of Kings. Compared to the kings of this world, but us who are his called on ones as kings because we are no more in the mother country but we're here. What I'm trying to drive at is that I was born Not even in the kingdom because by then Ghana had gone outside the rule of the kingdom. But kingdoms do have impact. And if you understand the clear picture of kingdoms, you would understand the clear message of the scripture. I'll give one example. Back in my country, alright, it's about 190 degrees. And the people are in their three-piece suit. Now it doesn't make sense here in this culture to see people when it's that hot and it to pursue and it's so hot. Why? Because that is what the Queen of England do that's how that kingdom impacted that uh foreign territory. And so we do a lot of things. Like in Ghana, we have about hundred and eight languages, right? Yet English. It's the official language. Why? Because of the impact of the kingdom. I'm trying to invoke those kingdoms to paint the picture that if you actually understand the principles of a kingdom clearly, you would understand the message of the scripture, not to say that the human systems we see are perfect in themselves. Right? And the only reason for which I'm saying that the Roman Empire looks close to that of the heavenly kingdom was that they never took away um They never took away the the people from their own land. They kept them there and then rather sent a king to go and rule over them. So these examples I'm trying to draw is not to show that they are perfect kingdom concepts but then they give you an idea of what and if you understand them you understand Jesus' message because everything Jesus always talked about he was talking about the kingdom So my question is, why would Jesus so much speak so much about a kingdom if it is not what he was all about? And so if we will understand the kingdom, uh it will help us. The idea of trying to draw some analogy with democracy or maybe with communism and all that is that because we live in these cultures, it does not help us to have an appreciation of kingdom concepts Hm. Okay. So the reason the reason that all this got my attention was that you said that you feel like the kingdom, you know, is is like the key to really opening up Um and if we can understand of the scriptures, we will understand the scriptural. Yes, it's true that kingdom is is one of those that would be really um effective for opening up the understanding of scriptures. Um but I feel like there's there's some some more fundamental issues that that's what is embraced. It's because we uh if you go into like Russia, because they have this concept of communism They don't understand kingdom concepts. Right? So what what I'm trying to do is that the beginning of this year I began to teach our church. about kingdom concepts so that they can have appreciation for the things Jesus was saying. Jesus said that the Lord said, I'll give you the keys of the kingdom. Why is he still mentioning the kingdom? Because that's what this message is all about. And I made a reference to the book of Genesis because that is what we lost. And that is what he's bringing back to man. And the disciples asked him when he was about to go to heaven. He says, Uh Lord, when will you restore the kingdom to us? Because they finally got the message that this is what This guy was all about. This is what he was trying to talk about. This is what he's teaching to us all this while. Right. So and John the Baptist comes in and he prepares the way and he says, repent. For the kingdom of God is at hand. Jesus shows up, he says, the kingdom is here because I'm here to talk about it. So until the church comes through it. And when I began to teach our church, I showed them. I said, if You understand the concept of kingdom and how worship takes place in the kingdom, it affects the way you do worship in the church. And you would understand that worship is not about art. And songs. It is more about your heart and your respect for the king. And so it affects the way the atmosphere of worship is done. It's not it's not a time where people walk around. It's not a time where People just want to do it because when you go before a king, it's a different thing altogether. So um those are the things I'm just trying to bring to the church of the day that We need to start learning. But for those pastors who say, Oh, uh I'm a I'm I'm a I represent the king and then they want to just on some undue authority is because they still don't have the right understanding of what kingdom concepts are. What I meant by voting was that in the kingdom you don't vote. Is the king who appoint. And if God says, I'm getting rid of you, he will get rid of. And there are many pastors who are preaching today, their message is irrelevant. The king already gave up on them. And the same thing he did with Saul. Saul was still in power but he was irrelevant. Yeah, so what you're saying is that is that the principle of kingdom is how Jesus presented himself and that if we're not understanding the principle of the kingdom with with the uh with uh with the gospel message clarity of uh authority that or the way that that clarifies authority uh then it's going to end up um uh undermining our ability to get what what he's talking about and how he's talking about it. Yes and the how we present it to people and all that. Sure. I hear that. I wish one day we would have time to and I can trace it all throughout because you see when the prophet Isaiah speaks in Isaiah seven he says this. He says, For unto us a child is born Unto us the Son is given. Now the child is born, but the Son was not born. The Son was given. Right? The child was born. Jesus, the child. The flesh was born. But the son, Messiah, can be born. He was given. Now it has and then if you go down, he says, and of the increase of his government. So he's still talking about Kindle M again. So the the the part that that concerns me we addressed a couple weeks ago has to do with this question of power in general. Yes. Every time humans have been given power, they have abused it. And the same thing is true with the gospel, you know, it's the power of God under salvation, uh, that the church that set itself up like a kingdom under Constantine for years, you know, and even ended up having a pope, you know, that sits in Peter's chair of authority, uh s uh ended up um uh creating a regime that uh that to this day we spend a lot of time having to Uh apologize for the way that we have abused the authority that God has given to us in the kingdom. And The reality is that even when we evangelicals talk about, you know, we're going to restore the United States to its Christian foundations or something like that, meaning that you know, this sense that we're gonna kinda, you know, grab a hold of the the the power, you know, in the United States. Uh the the same question is there. I don't know what it would be like if I I had that kind of power And my concern is that I've seen, well, when Samuel spoke to the people, they wanted a king. And they wanted a king so that they could be like all the other people. And when they got their king, God said that it was going to be a lot harder for them and that there's going to be all kinds of difficulties. Saul messed up. David came along and David was a man after God's own heart. And uh just like nuclear power, just like giving my son the keys to the car, if I'm gonna start granting to him that kind of a power and authority, then we gotta be very diligent to recognize the ways that we can use that power wrong and end up using it in a way that's gonna hurt people. And um You know, part of what kind of really got me worried about it was when you're talking about, you know, people voting out a pastor in uh we just gotta make sure that pastors are under quality authority themselves that they're not seeing themselves as the as the end all of things in and because they themselves don't understand the concept of a king as somebody who is representing the king over others. In the Roman Empire, when Daniel referred to the beast, it was a fierce iron beast that was ugly. There was nothing uh i uh uh apparently redeemable about it, you know, the the kingdom of God hit the Roman Empire and totally destroyed it and then the kingdom of God grew. And so uh again I'm I'm uh leery of bringing too many worldly ideas of kingdom. And I don't know that I mean maybe it's better for us that we're in a democracy because then we can start from ground zero and build a biblical idea of kingdom as opposed to being in England or being in the Roman Empire where the idea of kingdom was so infused with ungodly abuses of power in and uh force and torture and you know, I mean uh there there's all kinds of uh abuses of authority that were used. Well we're gonna have we we've taken a vote and the king has spoken. We're out of time. Jonathan Sweites, our senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Dr. Neil A Tempong from Uh Covenant Family Chapel in Frederick. This is the Frederick Faith Debate brought to us by Putman, Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Visit us online at WFMD. com. What have I been reading? I mentioned him earlier, I think, maybe this week or last week. Ted Decker Thunder of Heaven, part of the Martyr Song series. Read along at home till next week, God bless