This is the Faith the Bate on News Radio nine thirty WFMD. I'm Frey Skinner, pastor of the Household of Faith in Christ. You can find us online at Household of Faithinchrist. com. You can find the radio show at WFFD. com. Keyword Faith takes you there. We'll get easy links to the podcast and all that. Uh you can also link to the Faith to Base show through the House of the Faith in Christ website for that matter, as it turns out. And if you want to follow along in social media, rather than we run through the complete menu of social media All the social media that I and the show are involved with is connected to the Household of Faith in Christ dot com website. So if you can find that, you can find everything that we're doing. So that's probably the easiest thing to do. I sent The whole show, sadly, last week, uh talking about kind of the history of the show and where we got and why we're doing what we're doing now. This is a relaunch. So if you didn't hear last week's show, you're like, what is this music he's playing in in the spirit of change, we're changing the music as well. And uh in the coming weeks you're going to hear a regular steady diet of not just me, but three really distinguished gentlemen And if you've been listening to this show over the last 17 years consistently, these are all names and voices you have heard before. So Imran Raz Razvi, he is the uh pastor of a house church and also the founder of uh Conquer by Love Ministries. And uh his son Daniel Rasby has been on this show uh in the past. He's he's uh an attorney And he has weighed in on some issues as they relate to uh the church and and faith matters and the government and and those sorts of things in the past. And um he's obviously involved in the same house church with his dad. And then we've got the David Forcey, who is the pastor of the house of the church that meets at David's house. Right. So uh it's a nameless church. So we're so we're uh as it turns out, uh all four of us on this panel are house church people and three of us are pastors Uh and I'm not sure if you have a a pastoral role, uh, Daniel or not. So I guess all four of us are pastors at house churches. And we'll end up talking about that, if not this week or in the next couple of weeks. We will end up talking uh i with some fervor uh about the house church uh idea, the house church movement and how that compares to other uh ways of expressing the church and that sort of thing. But I want to give everybody a chance to find out what this panel is all about. Maybe you didn't hear the last time Raz was on the show. Uh or the time before that when he was on the show. And so you're like, who are these people? So I want to give a baseline, a foundational understanding of who these voices are, where they're coming from, what they're all about. And it's such a cliche Christian question. So what's your testimony? Um but I want to clarify because we talked about this uh off the air the importance of defining our terms. So I'm gonna do that right now. When I ask someone to share their testimony I'm not specifically or necessarily asking, so tell me about your conversion. When I ask somebody to tell me their testimony, what I'm hoping they'll share is what their walk with the Lord has looked like, what their passage through life looked like has brought their way. I want to hear their testimony on how God has worked in it kind of thing. So if any of the people on the stand will have a dramatic conversion story, I'm sure we'll hear it. But more importantly to me is that I want the listener to get a sense of how we've come to be who we are now, how we got here, what that path has looked like. So we're going to start with with Imran Raz Razvi. And you have the floor for as long as you want. And if somebody has a question, they can just cut you off rudely and interrupt you and ask their question. Perfect. That sounds great. So I go by Raz. I uh grew up mostly here in Maryland and I was actually born in Pakistan and uh I grew up as a Muslim. So those of you that uh may have questions about Islam or or or what Muslims do I can ask some of those and I was a fairly good Muslim. I prayed five times a day and fasted and all those different things. I was the eldest son of the eldest son. And uh I was pretty confident in my faith. And my faith got shaken a little bit at uh University of Maryland. So at University of Maryland we had a campus crusader that would uh come. There's actually s a slew of them, I would say. Every time I'd uh stop at the middle of of the university at the mall, we'd have somebody come in and talk to me about Jesus and about the Bible. And I got to the point where I could feel that they were coming or would even nudge my friends and say, Hey, look at that guy over there with the ball cap and the and the backpack, he's gonna come talk to me about Jesus. I said, Well, do you know him? Has he done it before? I said I said, No, but I know he's gonna come talk to me. And sure enough, in a few moments he'd step over people, go around people, and come and talk to me about Jesus. And I always had the answers as a Muslim We were taught that uh Islam came to fix what Christianity and Judaism had failed to do. They had lost God's word and and it was mistranslated now, and so it was lost, and Islam came to fix it. And Muhammad was the last prophet. So if somebody came to me, talked to me about the Bible, I said, Well the Bible's not correct. It's uh mistranslated. And uh well Jesus died for you on the cross. Well, no, uh Jesus was raised up and God raised him and didn't let him die on the cross. He didn't suffer and die, and he was a prophet, and he was he was uh sin sinless and all the prophets were sinless. Little did I know what I was saying at the time, but that was the argument And the campus crusader would a uh this one time he instead of coming to preach to me, he came and asked me some questions. He wanted to know if I was a Muslim. And whether I was uh Shia or a Sunni and I was s surprised 'cause at that time, it was thirty years ago or so, um, yeah, I d most people didn't really know what the difference was between a Shia and a Sunni. And I said, I'm a Shia, which means that I was uh following the line of the Prophet, sort of like a kingship. And we followed his family lineage as the leaders of Islam. And the Sunnis uh elected imams from his uh Muhammad's disciples. So uh then he asked me some questions that I didn't have answers to and uh some of you might have questions that you don't have answers to either But those questions got me thinking, and one was, uh it's simply um, how why are all these people, all these children dying in Ethiopia at the time this is under the Ethiopian crisis if you guys remember that, um if Our God is a perfect God and He is merciful and He is fair. What did these children do? If they're if sin did not happen, if they did not commit sin, their babies, they had don't know how to sin, why are they dying this horrible death? And the tad answer uh that most people will give you that don't have an answer, Well God's teaching us something through that. He turned right back around on me and said, Really? So if your God is such a fair and perfect God, why would He punish a sinless child to teach you a sinner or something And my jaw about dropped and I said, I really don't know. I'm not sure you got me there. Um and he asked him other questions as well. And one was uh, you know, if uh He he knew that uh in uh in most Muslims believe that people of the book, which means people that uh follow uh the Torah, the Old Testament, or the uh NGO of the New Testament, the Bible If they do more good than evil, then they will go to heaven. That's what Muslims believe. And so he has to be so if you believe that, then both of us will be in heaven if we do more good than evil. I said, Yes. And he said, Well what if you're wrong? I said, Well I don't think I'm wrong. Said, Well, I know for a fact that I'm going to heaven. What if I'm right? You do more good than I do, yet I'm still gu guaranteed a spot in heaven and you're not Well I didn't really believe that, but he took one step further and he said, Well, this is during Mars madness and he said if I go into into the future next weekend and see the games that are being played and I know who won And I came back, would you bet against me? I said, No, of course not. If you know who won, why would I bet against you? And he said, Well why don't you take the same bet? Why don't you go ahead and Do more good than evil, but just do it under Christ, and that way you're assured a spot in heaven and you don't have to worry about it. Um I didn't know that at the time, but that's uh uh Pascal's argument. And it uh struck me as, okay, so this guy's kinda crazy. He wants me to still be a Muslim but do it under Christ, and that way I'm guaranteed a spot in heaven that's that's the only thing that matters. And at the end of the day, you know, that is the only thing that matters. Where are you gonna end up? Do you know, do you really, really know for sure where are you gonna end up? Because if you don't There are answers. And the answers are right there. They're not hidden from you. And for me as a Muslim at that time, I did not know. In fact in the Quran uh Muhammad says, I even I don't know whether I'm going to heaven or hell And if you want to know, ask Jesus. And that's actually in the Quran. So there's a lot of truths in the Quran. And so I started studying the Quran, studying the Bible. and learning some things and um it took me a while and the hardest thing was, you know, to for me to get my head around the tr Trinity. You know, we always thought that Christians worshi worshipped three gods, that they're idol worshipers. Uh and because that's an it's an understanding concept understanding that was not there and and took me a while to really understand that you know, the the concept of the Trinity and and there was one God. So at any rate, uh that's kind of my story and I I uh converted to Islam, got kicked out of my house and From Islam. I should have heard of Islam. I take that out of house and and uh the relationship got mended a little bit with my family. Not to where it was before it was where I was a favorite son, but Enough that we still visited and and so forth and you know my we're not we're not on great terms, but that's okay. Um yeah, I'm I'm on great terms with with God and I know where I'm going and I And uh got married and had some kids, adopted some kids, and I've got thirteen kids in all. Uh five are birth children, eight are adopted children, and we don't really differentiate between them because as we our as Christians we're adopted into Christ family is the same way. Wherever your background is, whatever you've done, whatever you you've done in the past is all gone and now you're a new creation a creation in um in God, in Christ. So Well we have adoption family and then we started an adoption ministry called Conquered by Love. And throughout this time I was basically an insurance agent and uh have an insurance agency and we call that Higher Ground Financial Group right here in Frederick And that supports everything. But uh Conquer by Love Ministries what we do there is we really help parents identify um and resolve trauma in children that have either been adopted or not have been adopted. But uh those uh traumas usually cause a lot of symptoms that are bad behavior that uh most parents would call bad behavior. And if we can identify it, label it, and medicate it, that's kind of the way to go these days. But what we do in Conquer by Love is we try to identify the root problem and resolve the emotional disorder, emotional challenge, and then the symptoms tend to go away So my wife Tammy and I have written a bunch of books, about forty-five books. Uh they're very thin books because we know parents are already under a lot of pressure, don't have a lot of time to read and they have a little subject matter, they want to read that Conquer by love. org. You can go there and take a look at it. We're also on Amazon dot com. Uh our books are there. And uh they're really designed for parents to have a practical um understanding and and a game plan of how to uh m move in a direction that could get them closer to a child's heart and to resolve some issues. So that's conquered by love and then we also have a home church. And it's more of a family gathering and it's also s sort of like Dave's church, it's the church that meets at Imran's house. Um and that's really what it is. And uh we Try to meet and fellowship and our church is set up a little differently. We'll talk about it at a different time. And I wanted to see if any of these guys over here had any questions, wanted to to get more clarification of my shortened version and I've done my testimony on several different occasions on this as well as other radios we in fact uh Uh Apple of my radio played it all over the world and we had uh I think over eight hundred people that called in to uh after my uh talk and and uh really s try to s re reach out and and understand who Christ was. So it was it was really a blessing. to be able to do that all over. Most most of them were in in Russia at the time. Anyways, any questions about that? I'm guessing that Daniel doesn't have a lot of questions because he's a six son, but who knows, he might want to he if if anybody's gonna ask the doctor question, it's gonna be Daniel. But I don't know if David I have some questions, but I don't know if David has some questions on his mind that he wants to go first. I don't want to speak from Ranch here. So I have two. I'll ask them both so you can kind of address them both and then you know David you can jump in at that point Uh uh if you want. Um you gonna talk about the disruption in your extended family with uh your conversion to Christianity, so I'd I'd like to hear the follow-up on that and how that has played out over time. If there's been additional conversions in your family or or not and what uh uh how that all stands. And also kind of more of your your history with the church. Uh I'm assuming that when you first came to understand Christ as your Savior, you weren't plugged into a house church at that point. Um so I'd be curious to know, you know, what sort of denomin denominational background or you know what scale of church, was it a smaller church, a larger church, those kinds of things? All right. So first of all, when I uh first converted, um, it didn't go over very well and I was uh kind of excommunicated from my family. They didn't want to talk to me, they didn't want anything to do with me. But I invited them to my uh wedding um because I guess it couldn't get any worse, right? So I sent them an invitation. And a couple of weeks before my mother got in touch with me and we mended relationships a little bit And not to get into a whole bunch of details, but um you know we were able to build a uh somewhat a relationship and I was told I could come come to the house and still participate. so long as I did not overtly try to convert anybody or talk about my faith. Um and they wouldn't press me or or or do anything like that to uh try to convert me either, but it would just be kind of like um loving strangers in the same house, uh strangers meaning that we're really of a different ilk. And so that went and we just lived our life as Christians, my wife and I and our kids. And uh throughout that time my family did hear the gospel. Um, you know, when they did ask some questions here and there we did every one of them has heard the gospel and maybe not of All of them have actually heard it, even though they heard it. Uh, but none have converted. And um you know, they've been somewhat curious here and there. We've had a chance to explain what it is, but they have not moved forward in any direction. So I'm the only one saved in my standard family. And over the time since I've gotten involved with more Christian ministry and on the radio and other places and uh it's actually created more of a thorn in my brother's side and as well as my uncles and aunts and and so that has actually caused more friction So I don't really um I'm not trying to dishonor them or hurt them anyway. And I have a lot of respect for my Muslim family. They really love God and they want to please God and they do everything they can to please God but and the mistaken um assumption that they can do something to get into heaven. And it also always comes to mind, um, you know, Muslims believe that Adam was kicked out of heaven when he committed one sin. Well if Adam committed one sin and was kicked out and couldn't get back in, how are we able to get in with all the sin that's in our at our feet? It's just not possible. Yes, absolutely. In fact, uh one of my youngest mem memories of understanding uh the Muslim faith was my grandmother saying, Well when you die you're gonna be asked to cross a vast chasm on the a rope as thin as a human hair, with all your good deeds on your right hand and all your bad deeds on your left hand. And if your good deeds are heavier, you'll fall into the right side which will be heaven And if you're all you uh your bad deeds are heavier than you're falling to the left side, I mean what a way to live. What how much fear. And I've got family members that are that are really living in fear. They're trying really hard to please God and they're not sure how to do that And they're grasping at straws. And I think many Christians today do that as well because they fall fall under the fallen or misconception that they have to please God. There's nothing we can do to actually please God God does it for us. And we'll get into more of those discussions at a later time. But I hope that answers that question. And the uh uh there was uh the other one was about what your uh experience with the church has been, the kinds of churches you've belonged to. So when I first got saved, I got saved in a rock and roll type of church. It was a Presbyterian, you know, uh raising your hands and clapping and electric guitar and drum kit. Absolutely everything. It was very loud. In fact I had never in my life been to a concert so I didn't know what a concert was. Oh wow. And uh culture shock So I have never been to a concert and uh when I got to church I didn't know any better. That's that's what church was, that's what I thought it was. And I invited a a Catholic friend of mine who's been to a very conserv uh Reserved Catholic congregation and he came down and he goes, Wow, this is a rock and roll chief. Really? That's the little conservative sounds like. I said, I didn't know But that's where I got uh really saved and uh I was not very good a singer. In fact I got tapped on the back of my shoulder at one time I said, Hey, either please stop clapping or stop singing, 'cause you're throwing everybody off So that uh I was not very good at singing clapping. Wow. Um or the other. Either sing or clap. Don't do it. It was definitely joyful mode. It was I was almost uh un unjoyful at at the extent I was doing. So at any rate, um from there we moved to another church, uh then we were seeking churches that were Bible based. So we weren't really that's one thing that came from my background since I didn't know any better. I didn't wasn't looking for a certain d denomination. I was just looking for somebody. When you say we mean you mean you and we Okay. Alright, we're just looking for a church that followed the Bible. And we'd ask questions. We'd go in and say, Hey, what is your um stance on abortion And more often than not, pastors with hem and hawks, well that's a complicated question and we can set up a meeting and maybe have a discuss and we're like, No, it's not complicated. It's simple And so there was uh three or four questions he asked us you know in that line and most times we would be very uncomfortable and say no. And and one other question was, How do you feel about children in the church? Well we have a nursery for them We have a daycare, we have a youth group, no, they should be in church learning with us, then why can't they be? Well that's not how our church does it So there was uh you know, several of those things that really were uncomfortable. We and we looked a lot. And so we were just drawn to Bible churches and family innovative churches. And uh one time we were at a church and you know, it was it was good the Bible the uh preacher was um very good, very knowledgeable and he would teach uh but it was usually only fifteen minutes 'cause the rest of the time was the singing and joking and telling stories and about fifteen minutes, but it was a good sermon. But uh my eldest son one time just looked up, pointed to a woman in there and said, Mommy, how is her dress staying on? And at that point we knew there's something not quite right. If people are so undressed in the church that my son who was very young at the time, Daniel, who you'll hear from a little later was questioning and and being looking at you know what is else is going on instead of uh you know what God is talking to the to the pastor, we decided we needed to be uh something else someplace else. So we talked to the pastor and the elders about that about different things that are happening in the church. And um they had complaints about us. You know, why is your son asking so many qu answering all the questions? Why is he quoting the Bible when uh it m it intimidates everybody else? It's It's making everybody else uh feeling How dare you ask questions and quote the Bible. Yes. It was it it it felt like he was showing off and he was uh you know answering all the questions and didn't give anybody else a chance And so that was uh a problem. And and why are your daughters wearing uh skirts, long skirts and dresses? Because uh you know, other people are feeling uncomfortable that you're judging them when they're wearing shorts and uh and so forth. And we're like, well, we're not judging anything. We just chose to honor God. And you were getting that kind of feedback from a supposedly uh because you vetted all these so this was a church that would have counted as being rather conservative on the spectrum and yet they were giving you that kind of feedback and fixed five. It was a Bible believing church and but they have never they had never done a a sermon on modesty on honor or shame. And uh so it they did uh the pastor preached in the Bible. He was a good pastor, he had very knowledgeable and uh you know, but it was just that a lot of the people. And we find out that really it was a lot of milk. They they weren't getting deep into the into God's word and trying to follow what he was. It was slowly getting more and more conservative. And one of the things that I brought to our marriage was the cultural background of the Middle East and the uh background of honor and shame. So when I was uh excommunicated from my family for a time, it was because I brought dishonor to my family And uh that was something that's yeah, really i irreconceivable. They they're they're uh irreconcilable. And they were They acquiesced to reconcile with me a at some point, but that that was really not what they needed to do. And in the Bible there's honor and shame as well as guilt and innocence, but on the West most people just focus on guilt and shame and not honor uh guilt and innocent instead of honor and shame. So We were talking a lot about those and at that point we decided and we stuck it out at that church for really another year after some of those challenges and then we ended up with a home church um that uh I grew probably the most because I disagreed with the pastor almost on everything. Wow. It allowed me to really get deeper into the Bible and and and learn and find out why And the funny thing was we would use the same verse to come to a different conclusion. Who was right? Obviously me. And uh uh but I was very thankful for that pastor because it he challenged me to really dig deep into the Bible and find out why I believe some things and why I do certain things and can I back it up And if I can't back it up, then I've got to be open to be able to change to what God's doing. And I thought that was very good. And uh throughout this, you know, Daniel, my eldest son, who's here with me Uh he was being homeschooled and we homeschooled all of our children and we started homeschooling really not intentionally, mostly because we just spent a lot of time with our children and started teaching them things and when we got them to enroll them in in school and they said, Well, they knew too much We can't put them in their classes. They already know too much. So uh we don't know what to do. So we ended up continuing homeschooling and later we realized w the what a blessing that was that we were able to protect them from the culture of this world So Yeah, we've only got like a very short amount of time left. Did you have a quick question to be addressed or do we want to carry it over into next week? Maybe you could ask it and if it takes a longer time. I was I was wondering about uh your wife's background and something you know, sort of how you met and um you know uh how how all that sort of played out. Well I married up. My wife is absolutely amazing. And uh she was brought up in a uh Christian household. Um and she went to church and she went to youth group. In fact some of her stories about youth group were really bad and that's one of the reasons we were against youth group. Um, that's where she was even introduced to seances. And uh she had to um step away and not do that and uh and the other children got very angry with her because she would not participate with their seances. and things like that. So um we are very much not a a fan of youth group and what it does to our children. I think uh that uh separates our our children instead of helping them. So she was uh you know b a Christian, Bible believing Christian and um she was one of the people I went to when I had questions and she helped me understand and research and uh after that we spent a lot of time studying the Bible and learn more about each other and that's when um decided to ask her to marry me. And she said yes. Eventually. I had to I had to beg and plead and for six months. She said Listen, Raz, I know I'm marrying down, but okay, fine, I'll marry you. Is that what happened? No, see the the question she had is what about love? And my answer was, well, what does love have to do with marriage? You choose to love, just like God chose to love us. Wow, that would be a fascinating t show to do. about marriage and undergirds it and what is the meaning of love inside of a a covenantal relationship like that. That'd be a great somebody make a note of that so I don't forget that we should definitely do that. We've only got like uh sixty seconds left on the show. So I'm gonna uh uh bid our due. So you've been hearing the the the life and times of Grizzly Grizzly Adams because look at the the the the beard that he has. Imran uh Raz Razvi. You can find his uh website he mentioned, it's conqueredbylove. org for all those resources he mentioned. Uh Daniel Rasley, I guess we're going to hear your story next week. I'm looking forward to that. The week after that we'll hear the story from David Forcy. He uh asked a question this week, so you got to hear him a little bit. We'll hear about him and his uh wife and his family and and his church background um probably in two weeks. And if we have time we'll get to me actually sharing a story about me, 'cause last week I went off on a forever about the story of the show Way too much time about the You knew way too much about the show by the time I was done talking. Anyway, find us online. Uh the easiest way is just connect with uh my church's website and you can connect to everything from there. Household of faith in Christ dot com That connects with everything that I'm involved with. So we'll see you there. Till next week, 167. 5 hours from right about now. God bless Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com. This is 930 WFMD and WFMD. com. Now. WFMD News. Community leaders gathered on Friday to remember the twenty year anniversary of nine eleven. Frederick Police Chief Jason Lando says it was an important day for him. It was very early on in my career, so I was at times questioning if I had made the right career choice. I was the only police officer in my family. Um I remember that morning right around 830, 836, uh excuse me eight forty six. I I received uh started receiving phone calls from friends and family telling me turn on the TV, uh you're not gonna believe this. He was inspired by the actions of first responders. The New York firefighters and New York police officers were running into this building while everybody else was running away. Uh and I just remember at that moment for me uh that really affirmed reaffirmed for me that the choice that I had made, my career choice was the right choice. And I'll never forget that. I'll never forget that day Frederick City Alderman Kelly Russell is running for reelection. She's been at the post for twelve years. I love the city of Frederick. I love being in public service. Um my motto is common sense for the common good. Uh I'd I'd like to Tell you that I you know I do my homework and I prepare for the decisions that I make. I work really hard to see all the sides of an issue and happy and willing to explain my position Um I'm also willing to hear feedback on an issue and I can be compelled to change my view if the case has been made. If she's re-elected, she would like to see significant completion of the rails with trails to increase connectivity across the county. I'm not afraid to take on new challenges as I did by serving as chair of the Transportation Planning Board at COG. I'm just a fierce advocate for the needs of Frederick at the local and regional level. And I love service to the City of Frederick and being a visible local and recognizable advocate for the city. Primary election day is this coming Tuesday, September 14th. I'm Kevin McManus, WFMD News Fox News, I'm Jessica Stone. The Taliban says women will be allowed to return to universities in Afghanistan, but must follow Islamic dress code and gender segregation. Still thousands of Afghans are trying to leave. Pakistan Airlines is expected to restart flights from Kabul on Monday. Two Qatari flights that rescued dozens of American citizens and other foreigners. This, as it does appear, progress is moving forward quite quickly to reopen Kabul's International Airport. Fox's Trey Yangst. The Senate is considering repealing two war authorizations with bipartisan support, but some Republicans believe they still need authorization to fight global terrorism Especially after the Afghanistan withdrawal. Indiana Republican Taggyong says it is not the time to repeal the 2001 A UMF that launched the war on terror. Fox News Jared Halbert. America is listening to Fox News. Good morning. Here's your 930 WFMB skyscan forecast for Frederick and the surrounding counties. For today, a sunny day, high about 89. Mostly clear for tonight, low 67. Tomorrow Monday, plenty of sunshine, high 92, mostly clear on Monday night, low 67. Tuesday, sunny, high ninety, partly cloudy on Tuesday night, low sixty-eight. Wednesday, mostly sunny, high ninety. On Thursday, partly sunny, high 84. Chance of showers. PJ's Roofing, when it comes to your roof, they've got you covered. Visit PJ'sRoofing. com. I'm Jim Peis. Free Talk, 930 WFMD. God uses sufferings It does not mean every suffering you go through is God. Sometimes we suffer because of the difficulties of the time. Sometimes we suffer because we put our nose where it doesn't belong. Sometimes we suffer because people are mean. Sometimes we suffer because there are demonic spirits who want to oppress us But ladies and gentlemen, my son, do not struggle, do not despise the chastening, the discipline of the Lord. When he whips and when he supports, when you realize it is only whipping and there is no there you know God in it