This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest, a free for all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The fate debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with the master of the From Reformed Theological Seminary, the Fate Debate Master of Ceremonies. Oh Troy Skinner. No, strange times. We live in strange times. So how you holding up? Actually uh it's not uh a well-known secret. The show tef tends to record uh a little bit in advance and that's no different this time. So Things are changing so fast, who knows what the world will look like by the time you actually hear this. Um and even more interesting, some of the things I'm going to share with you today on the Faith Debate Show uh are older than even today's recording date So, um but I think it'll provide a historical, short term, historical perspective. Every day feels like a week, every week feels like a month, every month feels like a year in in in the world that we've been living in uh with coronavirus as part of our lives. Uh as uh this airs, I guess we're in the middle of May, but uh we're a few weeks away from that actually happening as I as I record this for you. But I've got to take advantage of opportunities to get into uh the studio to make recordings as I can because the rules keep changing and if there's a lockdown uh even more stringent um in the weeks to come that I might not be able to come in and do a show at all. And we had a panel discussion lined up. We were gonna w were we let's split this out. We were going to re cord a few weeks ago. Um and we were gonna pull it all off and then um Jonathan was feeling a little under the weather and he thought, you know, given everything that's going on, not taking any chances. And so here we are Doing a show sans a panel. We've had to do a few of those uh in recent months, and I apologize for that. That is never the goal. It's a panel discussion show. But it's also a show to get you thinking And to look at uh the world through a faith perspective, and certainly there is a faith perspective uh to to take in on everything related to COVID-19 and coronavirus and the lockdowns, the economic uh struggles and all that sort of stuff. And uh as I think you listening might know, uh I am the pastor of a church in Hagerstown that um hasn't been able to meet. We're small enough that we actually could. We just haven't been able to pull it together because of a variety of of reasons I won't get into here. So we've done like a lot of churches doing things virtually online with Facebook Live and Lots of emails and phone calls and things like that. Certainly a a a a hollow substitute, but for now we do the best that we can. So what I'm going to do here today, um, other than you know kvetch and complain about how unsatisfying life feels right now, I'm gonna share with you the thoughts Uh as as I've shared them with the world. If you happen to follow me on Facebook, then some of this won't seem all that new to you. And if uh you've seen any of the Facebook Live um uh posts, you call that, videos, broadcasts, what are they called? Uh what's the right word there for Facebook Live videos? I don't know. Anyway, that our church has done. Uh I hesitate to call them worship services because I don't feel like worship services really, at least not I mean uh we're not even it's not even a corporate gathering per se. I mean it's a virtual uh corporate gathering, but is that the same? I you know doesn't feel the same, I'll tell you that much So anyway, I've uh I've shared some things via Facebook with the world and via email with our congregation and on Facebook Live to our congregation and for the world to consume as well, and I'm gonna share some of that. So a few things that I'm going to pass along that have nothing to do with my thoughts per se, but they might be interesting for you. There's a song called Your Hands by J. J. Heller and my wife absolutely loves it and it certainly seems to fit that the tone of the times and and dealing with struggle. And so if you're not familiar with J. J. Heller and her uh uh beautiful music uh particularly here's on your hands, I would commend it to you. Um so let me share, these are some things that um I'm trying to see if I can find a date on here. These are these are things that have a date that go back to seriously like late February, possibly, the earliest part of March. I mean this is before all sorts of heck started breaking loose. And I started sounding the alarm, uh, with anybody that would listen to me, which wasn't very many, that uh if we weren't careful, fear was gonna win the day. And so here here's something I I wrote that kind of encapsulates that uh that idea. Uh I hope you're well during the current craziness in our world. I wish Uh I could have seen you. Uh this is talking to the church and we couldn't uh come together for worship. We did gather at our house and I've got a special need son. He's got caregivers uh in his life and they're in you know in our house and and so we felt comfortable that we weren't even violating the spirit of much less the letter of the rules on um the uh the dictates from the um governor's um the state house. So Um we've had some people gather in the house and but most people don't come to my house. If we if everybody was coming to my house we would just have it in the sanctuary, you know what I'm saying? Anyway, I encourage people to watch some videos that I sent them. I encourage you to find some good videos online, some good edifying, spiritual, nurturing, feeding kind of stuff. I encouraged them to go find faith base shows that might be of uh topics of interest. That's something you can do uh as well Um so here's something that I wrote that's uh that's about maintaining our perspective in the face of scary statistics dominating the news coverage at the moment. And there is great reason for hope. There is always great reason for hope from a Christian's perspective, because Christians they believe, they know that God never loses control. However, there's also, you know, there are practical realities, and these can also give us reason for hope. Um sickness and death are bad, need I say that. Um but the only truth is all of us get sick. At some point in our life, all of us will die. And yet we still live lives that are blessed by God in the here and now. That is the Christian message, that's the biblical message. and we seek to be joyfully obedient even amidst tragedy that has swirled about us our entire lives. Think about that. What's been going on in recent months Yeah, it feels new and in a s in a lot of ways it it is new, but there's nothing new really under the sun. And so here's statistics regarding coronavirus that are problematic. Yes, they are problematic, but they're not more problem not more problematic necessarily. than some other things that we've been dealing with for years. And we don't lose hope and we don't give in to fear. For example, Alzheimer's dementia. More than five million Americans are now affected. Five million right now. One in three seniors who get it will die from it It'll cost the nation three hundred and five billion dollars this year, Alzheimer's and dementia will. Half of the doctors polled say that the medical system It is not ready for the growing number of people diagnosed with Alzheimer's dithentia. The death rate It it is up 146% from what it was not so long ago. I mean these are dire kinds of numbers, and yet we haven't lost our collective minds over it. By the way, the source for these statistics, the Alzheimer's Association website. Autism. An estimated four million Americans have currently been diagnosed. Four million. The numbers are climbing. The CDC has determined that one in fifty-nine children is now affected. One in fifty-nine. And if one a couple has an autistic child and they have another child, the odds of that next child, you know, one of their other children having autism, once they've already had an autistic child, one in five There is no trustworthy medical detection available. On average, a diagnosis will mean a projected annual cost of $60,000 a year for every year of life. Nationwide, the annual cost of caring for these autistic individuals is expected to reach nearly half a trillion dollars in the coming years. The source for these statistics, Autism Speaks. Seasonal influenza. The World Health Organization estimates that worldwide there are up to five million cases of severe illness. The number of deaths an estimated 500,000 The CDC estimates tens of thousands of deaths in the United States. Medical experts report that it spreads easily with rapid transmission in crowded areas, including schools and nursing homes, when an infected person coughs or sneezes, droplets containing the virus, infectious infectious droplets, are dispersed into the air, can spread to infect persons in close proximity. To f to prevent transmission, people should cover their mouth and nose. With a tissue when coughing and wash their hands regularly. Does that sound familiar? The source for the seasonal influenza data, the WHO and C B C Now the list of illnesses is long, and I'm going to share just just three more. It could go on and on and on about the things that cause death and and illness and pain and suffering in this world. And the point isn't to make us all feel depressed here Don't misunderstand. The point here is to help us to see a bigger picture. In the Old Testament, the book of Ecclesiastes, it says that there is nothing new under the sun. There have been dramatic threats to our lives in the past, and when we pause to consider it, there have been dramatic threats to our lives for each and every one of the days we've been alive. There is a risk every day. Tomorrow was promised no one And yet the Christian believes, and I'm a Christian, so this is my perspective, that God uses it all for the good of his people. And the COVID-19 threat is no different than all the rest. So I stand in unity with God's people to eschew with the fear and to embrace the hope. I mentioned there are sort resources online. Uh Chip Ingram ha actually has some pretty good resources and good videos and and and uh he's got a nice manner and way about him. So if you want to Google Chip Ingram and his living on the edge ministries you can You know, I'm not going to vouch for every single thing he he says, 'cause I haven't seen everything he's written or or produced in a video, but I will say on the whole, he's pretty pretty good. Um You know, I I'm reminded as I'm as I'm looking at my notes here that in the midst of all this, as I'm sharing this sort of information on, you know, on social media, with my congregation, now with you. You know, there are people I know that have died during this season of life have nothing to do, nothing to do with the virus at all. People are dying all around us for all from all sorts of things. And somebody in our congregation lost a family member just a few weeks ago. And so we need to be praying for those losses and mourning with those people as well and not and not lose sight of the fuller, bigger picture. Which again for the Christian, we have God's word that tells us and reminds us that his, you know, uh to convince us that when each of God's children dies, they each go to a life of flourishing. flourishing in unimaginable ways in intimate communion with the Lord forever. That is a basis for the Christian hope. So here I mentioned I was going to uh share a few more statistics. Just three more, all right. So these are three datasets. Traffic accident fatalities. More than 40,000 people in the United States have been killed during the past year. Each day more than a hundred Americans die in a traffic accident. World well might not be quite as many with everything shut down, but generally speaking, over the last number of years, about a hundred people a week die in America in a traffic accident. Worldwide, approximately 1. 24 million people have died over the past 12 months. We do the math, that's more than 100,000 per month, every month. It's now the one of the leading causes of death among those between the ages of fifteen and twenty-nine. And interestingly, middle income and low-income countries are at greatest risk. Men are more likely to die than women. And the annual economic impact in the United States for traffic accidents is an estimated one trillion dollars. The sources for this data, by the way, the World Health Organization, Safe for America, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Alan and Alan. By the way, this is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD online at WFMD. com. I am Troy Skinner. Thank you for listening this morning. These next stats, a lightning rod issue, but the stats are what the stats are, induced abortion. Worldwide, an estimated one million will die this week. One million this week. Globally, twenty-five percent, one-fourth, twenty-five percent of the world's very youngest people. Will die this year. It's a worldwide phenomenon with developing nations more greatly affected than developed nations, and the region most dramatically impacted, ironically, is Asia followed by Europe. Uh the sources for this information, the Singh S. et al. and the Gutmacher Institute. Okay, here's one more. H1N1, swine flu. These are side-by-side factoids from the 2020 pandemic that we're going through right now and the 2009 pandemic. the swine food pandemic that most of us were around for, unless you're, you know, under what, twelve years old or eleven years old, you were around for it Now these stats are collated from the World Health Organization, the NIH of CDC, and the U. S. National Library of Medicine All right, here we go. The first cases of COVID-19 infection are believed to have occurred in December 2019 within the borders of China, a huge trade partner with the United States. The first cases of H1N1 swine flu infection are believed to have occurred in March 2009 within the borders of Mexico, a big trade partner and neighbor of the United States. The COVID-19 strain represents a unique or novel influenza virus never before seen in humans or animals. The H1N1 swine flu strain represented a unique combination of influenza viruses never before seen in humans or animals. Within a few months of the outbreak, the World Health Organization deemed the COVID-19 spread to be a pandemic, with 121 countries reporting cases. Within a few months of the outbreak, the World Health Organization deemed the H1N1 spread to be a pandemic, with 214 countries reporting cases. At the three-month mark of the COVID-19 spread covering early December 2019 through early March 2020, the virus was estimated to have infected many thousands in the United States who were not yet diagnosed. With more than 1,800 confirmed U. S. cases and 41 Americans having died at that point. At a three-month mark of the H1N1 spread covering late March 2009 through late June 2009, The virus was estimated to have infected more than one million people in the United States, with more than 27,000 confirmed U. S. cases and 127 Americans having died at that point. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the most at-risk members of the population, they're older adults, especially those over the age of 70, particularly those who already face significant pre-existing medical challenges that have left them with compromised immune systems. During the H1N1 pandemic, the most at-risk members of the population were children under the age of four. The most uh at risk, the next most at-risk group, school children, kids under the age of eighteen, followed by adults under sixty five. And as a result, eighty percent of deaths during the two thousand nine outbreak were suffered by people younger than 65 years of age. And I gotta ask, until we were recently reminded by current events, Did most of us even remember the H1N1 pandemic all that well? It was only eleven years ago. It infected 60 million Americans. 265,000 hospitalized worldwide, 575,400 people died, and yet here we all are standing on the other side of it more than a decade later. Now something that's dramatically different is the economic shutdown and the quarantining lockdowns. And these could be history-altering. And they too need appeals and prayer to God. And a recommitment to being obedient to our Creator, if you ask me. So I would say if you're a Christian, press into God's word, ask the Holy Spirit to illumine our minds to God's truth as we stand in the gap. Uh let's see. How much time do I have? I'm trying I'm it's it's difficult, believe it or not, it's hard because I um this isn't like a regular podcast where I can go uh end whenever I want. It's a fixed time shield has to fit into a particular slot and I have to keep an eye on the clock, I gotta pay attention to the controls and and uh gotta keep my notes and my wits about me. It's Barely up to the task most of the time, I have to admit. Anyway, let's see. So I shared a couple of things that I had posted in social media and that I had emailed out to some people. Um but here's something else uh that I also shared. This was a uh an adapted quote from C. S. Lewis. C. S. Lewis wrote something about oh, I don't know, s seventy plus years ago, or at the dawn of the atomic age, you know, when uh When people were f you know, the start of the Cold War, people were freaking out, afraid of atomic bombs and things like that. And and it it was really a fearful time. And if you're old enough, you remember not exaggerating, that was a fearful time. And so C. S. Lewis wrote something that I've adapted. I took all of his nuclear, atomic, you know, warfare stuff out and I plugged in uh COVID-19 coronavirus medical kind of lingo instead. But the the overwhelming A majority of these words are C. S. Lewis's and the gist of it is clearly C. S. Lewis. So here's what he wrote. In one way, we think a great deal too much of the coronavirus. How are we to live in this pandemic age? I am tempted to reply, why, as you would have lived in the 16th century when the plague visited London almost every year. Or as you would have lived in a Viking age, when raiders from Scandinavia might land and cut your throat any night. Or indeed, as you are already living. In an age of cancer, an age of syphilis, an age of paralysis, an age of war, an age of railway accidents, an age of motor accidents. In other words, do not let us begin by exaggerating the novelty of our situation. Believe me, dear sir or madam, you and all whom you love were already sentenced to death before the current crisis was invented. And quite a high percentage of us were going to die in unpleasant ways. We had indeed one very great advantage over our ancestors, anesthetics, but we have that skill. It is perfectly ridiculous to go about whimpering and drawing long faces because the scientists have added one more chance of painful and premature death to a world which already bristled with such chances, and in which death itself was not a chance at all, but a certainty. This is the first point to be made, and the first action to be taken, is to pull ourselves together. If we are all going to be destroyed, by COVID-19, let that virus when it comes find us doing sensible and human things. Praying, working, teaching, reading. Listening to music, bathing the children, playing tennis, chatting with our friends over a pint in a game of darts, not huddled together like frightened sheep and thinking about bathroom tissue. They may break our bodies. A microbe can do that, but they need not dominate our minds. End quote. Again, an adapted quote from C. S. Lewis. There is a bunch of good stuff out there for you, resources-wise. Third Mill has a good website. Uh the Gospel Coalition has a pr has pretty good resources. Um what are some other ones? Monarchism I is is is one that I like. There's a there's some good ones out there, so you know be discerning, but uh you know, and read your Bible And pray. And I mentioned a song, J. J. Heller. Here's another song that uh my wife just loves this song. It's by a group called We the Kingdom. The song's called Holy Water. So if you want some encouragement and if you can find the one that has uh Tasha Cobbs Leonard making a guest appearance in the song, oh my gosh, they record it um It's just almost um parts of it are a cappella, parts of it are acoustic, and it's in the sanctuary, beautiful setting, and just the arrangement is fantastic. And if you're not feeling good at the end of that song, well you just aren't gonna have a good day It just meant not to have a good day if you're not feeling good after that one. Uh so I'm going to uh pause here and pick up oh, next week I'm gonna you know I I'm in the studio right now and I'm gonna record a handful of shows to run 'cause I don't know when I can get back in here. So I'm gonna Continue with more thoughts uh on this, including a quote from uh Martin Luther, which is particularly not Martin Luther King, but Martin Luther uh that is particularly insightful and helpful at a time such as this. So thanks for listening. We'll be back next week about 167 and a half hours from right now. In the meantime, you can go online to WFMB. com Keyword faith gets you to the faith debate page or you can hit the uh the program lineup button and you can see all the shows and click on the faith debate there and that way you can see shows that are coming up in few in in uh the next week or two You can also see what's run recently. And you can if you see a show you like, you can click on it, you can listen to a podcast, you can go to the audio vault on WFMD. com. That's what we call the section that houses all the old audio that we archive. And you can find the faith debate in the audio vault. And you can listen to the shows, and we usually do shows uh in arcs of, you know, three, four, five shows on the same topic, so you can listen to them all in a row You know, spend an hour or two. It's a good time. I've done it myself, believe it or not. Every once in a while I get to do some quality co control checking, you know. Anyway, till next week. God bless