Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock. County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement. People continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Face Debate, sponsored by BMC Insurance, Cruz Holidays, and Futman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate is online, wfmd. com, keyword faith. There you'll find links to podcasts, news items. Uh I think there's a little note there about how you can find Jonathan. It's at JonathanSweitzer. That's how you do no, it's at Sweitzer Jonathan. Ask Weiser Jonathan to follow him on Twitter. The Faith Debate blog, you can participate in that by emailing me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. Why would you not do that? Because if you don't email me, there is no blog. My blog is your blog So email me Troy Skinner at clearchannel. com. I post whatever you send me. Whatever you send me. It's gotta be in English because I have to know what it is you're saying. And it's gotta be words that, you know, could be in primetime television. You know what I'm saying? Uh forty five blog updates each week. That's nine per day, Monday through Friday. Uh check it out. See what people are sending me. Political commentary, recipes for brownies. Uh it's not all spiritual religious stuff, although a lot of it is. Brownies are definitely Very religious. That's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, joined this week by Dr. Staccato Powell with New Church Believers. Visit them online at New Church Believers We've been talking about uh denominations. Are they good? Are they bad? Are they indifferent? A lot of people are dissatisfied with the state of the church and the divisiveness between denominations. Most people don't even know You can walk up to Sunday, what church you go to? I go to uh First Baptist, whatever. What does that mean? I don't know. It's just the church that's closest to my house. Or what about you? I go to Fourth Presbyterian, whatever. What does that mean? Uh uh I don't know. Something about Jesus. That's all I can tell you So most people don't really know. All they know is there's problems in the church 'cause the Presbyterians don't get along with the Baptists for some reason. Right. Which is an unfair characterization, right? Because not all Baptists and Presbyterians don't get along. They they get along really well most of them. Yes. The Presbyterians sometimes don't get along with the Presbyterians. Right in Florida like last year. So Is that Eco? Is that the one you're talking about? Is that the newer one? Is that the newest one? That's the newest one I'm familiar with. But but the newest cars out there. They're all eco-friendly here, so you might as well have a new eco-friendly denomination. So anyway, one day, I don't know, uh well, about Uh is it four months? No, how many months ago would these been out? It's gotta be six months ago-ish, because we're in August. Okay. Um by the way, don't let me forget to come back around and talk about uh Frederick 48. Yeah. But it's it's it's it's a while ago you had a uh a news conference uh uh announcing the uh new church believers dot org, right? Was that the beginning? Like you woke up one day and said, I'm calling a news conference today Or did you you know it's been brewing and stewing for a long time and finally said, you know what, we need to formalize this in a way that people kind of know who we are and what we're about, and let's call a news conference. Right. It's it's been brewing for quite some time. A couple of years ago, uh Duke University has what they call uh publication called uh uh faith in leadership. And it's an online publication and they chose to interview me and a part of the interview was I talked about what I felt God was calling me to do in terms of uh giving birth to what I'm convinced is happening. It's not new to me, and that's God's reclaiming his original intent for the church. Uh I could talk about the book by that title, by um Wes Roberts and Glenn Marshall, uh reclaiming God's original intent for the church. David Platt has a book entitled Radical and and basically is capturing the power of the church that God has given to those of us who choose to believe, to see him move in miraculous ways as in the first century when we saw the woman who touched the hem of his garment and was healed immediately. When uh Jairis's daughter was ill and he sent for Jesus and Jesus agreed to go and this is when the woman interrupted them and then they come back and say, Don't trouble him anymore because your daughter is dead and Jesus says I said she would be fine. I'm gonna go and keep this appointment. He does, and the young girl is resurrected from the dead. As believers, we have missed it Because we're so preoccupied with doctrinal issues that sometimes divide us. We're preoccupied with the petty and the preservation, if you will, of institutions and organizations that we lose the dynamism of the organism that's given to us and entrusted to us to be transformative in the age in which we live Now two weeks ago you were talking a little bit about not as much as you just did, but a little bit about this idea and you also uh I think might have been in response to a J Jonathan Schweitzer question. And you said, look, I'm not saying you get rid of the uh the regular stuff, like take your medicines, go see your doctor, you know, get your checkups, but but pray, anoint with oil, do the things the Bible says, but but don't forget the the things that we should maybe just do as as practical human beings. And speaking about the practical human beings and the church being involved in those sorts of things, Frederick forty eight uh has launched again for this year. I think the goal of this year is to again tenfold increase. So three million dollars. For the uninitiated, Frederick 48 uh launched a couple of years back. Frederick County Commissioners had to, because of economic situations, they cut the funding to the not-for-profits in Frederick County. uh John Schweitzer uh spearheaded a move to get the the churches and the not for pro not for profits on the same page and and raise money to meet that shortfall and had a very successful, although Jonathan was highly dissatisfied, but a very successful first year, uh raising about thirty thousand dollars. With about three weeks of prep time launching into the forty I mean Fred of Forty eight. I mean there's no time and still thirty thousand dollars More prep time, a whole year of prep time going into year two, which was last year, and three hundred thousand dollars is raised. And so now this year again we're expecting three million dollars I'm not going so far to say that. Do it. But we are speaking. We are doing what has never been done in Frederick before, and that is everybody coming together online. for two days and giving online uh and then going and telling all of their friends that they just gave everybody picks mm whatever organization they think is most uh well positioned to help those that are most needy having to do with uh those that are at risk youth or overwhelmed with medical bills or the homeless. And it's the point is is if we all come together, we can easily uh uh raise a million dollars. Now I'm not saying that that's our goal for this year. We raised three hundred thousand last year. If we can improve on that, then let's improve on that. Uh but this is an opportunity that is huge just for everybody to come together for two days uh out of the year. And so uh I'm very excited about it. We've we've we We've got the school systems on board this year. All of the mayor uh all the mayors, the mayor, the aldermen, all the county commissioners are all doing the food stamp challenge for the week ahead of time where they're living on four dollars and fifty cents a day and there's a bunch of other people that are gonna go without food all to draw attention. So that everybody will say, Wow, what's this all about? I want to be a part of it. Let's go give and tell everybody else. Refresh my memory, what was the amount cut by uh Annually. The first year uh the amount cut was a hundred fifty thousand. The second year is two hundred fifty thousand or yeah, no it's three hundred thousand. The next year it'll be four hundred fifty thousand and then the final year will be uh six hundred thousand that is cut. So altogether, you know, one and a half million dollars ish, I think, is what was cut, right? And so if you could do four years. So if you if we are if we do a little over a million dollars this year you will have in three years cover what they cut. So I'm gonna let other people use that kind of language, but we're just gonna say that we're gonna improve on what we did last year. We th this is what excites me the most We had a 25% increase in the participating nonprofits. We ran the numbers of more people giving. to those organizations than had given previously, meaning they expanded the donor base, more people paying attention to the needs that are out there and what's going on all at the same time. So it was very clear. What are the exact two days? the September twenty-sixth and twenty-seventh. It's a Thursday and a Friday. And the concept is the f the if you want to to fast and pray during those two days. Well some are doing that, some but we are not asking everybody. Most people are not going to do that. And un un I mean unfortunately prayer doesn't work anyway, right? So we why would you want to fast and pray? I mean Yeah. But the fact is we got county commissioners and mayors that are that are willing to go on four dollars and fifty cents a day. uh eating for that week to draw attention to everybody joining together to to give like this. And that's a pretty big deal. That's like four and a half dollar meals. That's yeah in the new millennium. As a person new to free pragmatic, right? Very pragmatic. I'm ex Yeah. I'm excited and I want to push John. We agreed on most things. I want to push him even the more. to step out of the boat. Uh there there is a guy, Mark Batterson. You may be familiar with Mark Batterson and his work. Okay. He uh he writes a book, I think his seminal book is called a work is called The Circle Maker. And he planted a church in Washington DC, started a coffee house, and he talks about how he stepped up to the plate to draw circles around what it was he wanted. And this is exciting for a number of reasons. I think it speaks directly to new church believers, in as much as People are coming together. Yeah. Nonprofits are coming together with people of faith are coming together. That's right. We got Catholics involved. We got all the Protestants. We got we got non-denominational churches. And we have those that are not involved with church whatsoever. That's exciting. We got the Chamber of Commerce, we got the s the the public school system. Uh the the group that is participating in this is the most I don't even think eclectic is eclectic the right word. Group of people, you know, outside of everybody going and voting on the same day, uh coming together and threading. can have a negative connotation being how it's used. Diverse might be a better word. Yeah. Very diverse. Some people will will will use that as a as a negative critique. Yeah. Right, right. But but I think it's exciting because From a pragmatic standpoint, it demonstrates what can happen when people decide to lay aside their differences. and come together for a common cause. I would also say it it demonstrates what can happen if people choose to pray. And there are those who may make the decision to fast and pray to see what happens when this show we actually uh at this point have eighteen people committed to fasting leading up to it for ten days. Wonderful. And so we're going to expand that number as well. That's powerful. And I would hope that people would join those eighteen people. And to say What uh to see what will happen because I believe that you will exceed a million dollars. Dr. Staccato Powell is our guest this week. Jonathan Schweitzer is uh is is our guest. Are you a guest? What are you? I don't know what you are. Co-founder of I. Yes. Uh your perpetual guest. Yeah he's senior pastor across the welcome. Never. And Dr. Powell is with New Church Believers, you can check out what he's all about at NewChurchbelievers. org. Now when Jonathan was first talking about Frederick 48, and I was talking about him getting the tenfold increase over last year, and he was not real comfortable with setting that kind of a goal uh Dr. Powell jumped in and said, Jonathan, step out of the boat. You need to believe. So let's get back under the idea that the power of the Holy Spirit and the power of prayer, the power of belief. How much of of of that exact language do we need to adhere to and how much of that should we be nervous about? The idea that God's gonna move in proportion to the amount of faith that you have, the amount of belief that you have. Uh yeah, if John is there is there a faith camp that takes it too far? No. I think not. I think that the scripture undergirds the fact that all things are possible if we only believe. And what about the guy that wants to do that? Well The scripture talks about based on God's will. And though his will is revealed in his word. So it's not about the pink Cadillac, it's about setting people free. Yeah, God doesn't promise pink Cadillacs. or cows. He promises that yokes will be destroyed. His will is that all would be saved and none would be lost. Nobody wants pink Cadillacs anymore. Yeah, what do they want now? Pink. But I'm I'm saying it's exciting to see what God will do if we believe. But you're not saying to you you mentioned a couple of weeks ago about some healings that you're aware of. Yes. And they were healed because of their belief. And I have no problem with that. But if they were to be left unhealed and go to their grave with their cancer. Because of their cancer. Close friend of mine. We wouldn't then say that they die because they didn't have enough belief. No, not at all. You know, we acknowledge that God is sovereign. Okay. God can He can. He's able to do it. He and he may do it. But if he doesn't, that does not mean it dampens our belief. But every time I see a person healed In response to prayer, I'm emboldened to pray even the more and to get further out of the boat. Okay, so I I got a question along these lines. I was in a church setting recently where somebody was called out by another member of the congregation, you know, at the in front of the whole s service and said, you know what? Uh God wants us to pray for you today. And he didn't necessarily give the individual an opportunity to say yes. I want to be prayed for because it was so public, you know, he just kinda called the person out, so the person kinda came up and and uh and they prayed for him and and you know, laid hands on him. How uh How important is it when we go to pray for people that they're asking for the prayer? And that they're they're saying, Yes, I want that. Like should we just go pray for people that haven't asked for prayer? Or do or do we fork their road and we present them with an opportunity and if they step up, then we pray for 'em. One of the things that New Church Believers talks about, as a matter of fact, one of the first tenants is transparent with your issues. That transformation sometimes is a direct result of transparency. And people are living in the light, not hiding your sins. Not hiding your sins, not hiding your condition. As a pastor and I'm sure you've probably heard that People will come to me in private and say, I went to the doctor the other day and he told me I have cancer, but keep it quiet. I don't want anyone to know. And my response is, okay. However Everyone is about to know because your name is going to be in the paper and you won't be able to read it because it's going to be in the obituary column. But remember the scripture says that the effectual fervent prayers of the righteous available much. And if in fact you've been diagnosed, what do you have to lose? Now in re direct response to your question, John I've had people to come forward to intercede on behalf of a loved one or a friend. Yeah. In that instance, that person may not know anything about what's happening. And this is not I'm gonna out you kind of session. Yeah. Okay. When the young man was brought to Jesus by his father, I'm not sure he had anything to do with the bringing. where where it appears that the individual didn't might not have personally chosen to be prayed for Uh right, when you're dealing with uh well, except for the guy that was already dead. Right, that person have a say in the matter. They're sending for Jesus to to heal his daughter. I mean there there are number but I think in that instance particularly the father says you know, I want you to heal my son. Yeah. And Jesus says, Well all things are possible if you only believe. And the guy says, Lord, I believe, but he was transparent. He says But help thou my unbelief. And I think sometimes we have to be bold enough to pray for people who may not necessarily feel Either they need it or they want it because people tend to be a little hesitant about coming forth because we have this culture of secrecy, if you will. And we don't want anybody to know our business. Now it's one thing if it's health, but you know, let's say, you know, I'm going to church with with my good buddy and he's confided in me. that he's really struggling with the uh the dirty magazines and the the pay per view channels and you know that sort of thing. And and uh he confides in me, then I go up in front of the church say, I'm gonna pray for my good buddy who's really struggling against his pornography addiction. You're not advocating that, are you? 'Cause that's that could be a whole different kind of division uh within the church 'cause that buddy probably wouldn't ever share anything with me again. I'm not advocating any breaking of confidentiality. I'm not advocating that at all What I'm simply saying is if you're transparent with your issues, I think it fosters the transformation Yeah. So the idea is to get that person to then own it up and be willing to confess it himself. Right. Right. And and the scripture talks about if you confess your sins, he's faithful. To forgive us. Yeah, I mean. Right, so um you pray for people, you pray for anybody, if somebody doesn't get healed, uh you don't take that as an i as okay, well that's a good way to ask it. If somebody doesn't get healed, is that an example that their faith is somehow lacking? No, I don't think so. I'm a strong proponent of all things working together for the good. Amen. If you love the Lord, you're called according to his purpose. Sometimes God does not respond to us in the way that we think because there's a greater good to come. Uh this past Sunday I shared with the congregation from John eleven. Verses 21 and 22 and on 23, where Martha and Mary have requested Jesus come to see about their ill brother Lazarus. Jesus intentionally delays coming two days. When he decides to come, he says, let's go now, Lazarus is asleep. Thomas, who I can't believe, said this. After Jesus reveals that he's not asleep, he's really dead, because they say if he's asleep he's he's getting better. So when Jesus says, nah, let me be plain, he's dead. Doubting Thomas says, Well, let's go and die with Lazarus. I'm like, Really, Thomas? Is that really what you want to do? You want to go die with Lazarus? Right? So they get there. Martha comes out to meet Jesus and she says to him, If you had been here Our brother would not have died if you'd only been here. But before Jesus can respond, Martha says, but even now And and listen what she says. She didn't say I believe. She says, but even now I know that anything you ask God He will do. So there's faith, then there's faith, and then there's faith. And so God Jesus did not prevent Lazarus from dying. So that the greater glory, and he says to his disciples, even before they go, I wasn't there intentionally, so you could see the glory of God. And I have this theory, John, and your seminary, all your seminaries, that the this was a precursor to his own resurrection. And so it was a greater glory demonstrated in allowing Lazarus to die. Okay, so let me let me squeeze that issue just a little bit further. If one person has more faith than another person has, is there a likelihood that the person with the greater faith will experience a greater miracle or a more full miracle. The other person isn't we don't have to embarrass or shame the other person. They go as far as they can, you know, but you know, if they have more faith it's likely that they're gonna experience more of the blessings of God. And you're asking? Yes. I'm not sure how you really quantify faith, but I did say there are three degrees I I call it three degrees of faith in the Martha passage. And the fact that Martha was willing to believe. Because she says, because Jesus goes on to say in verse 23, he says, look. You your brother will rise again. And Martha in response says, I believe that he will in the resurrection. And Jesus says, I personify the resurrection, I'm the resurrection in the life. And if you believe in me, though you were dead, yet shall you live. And if you are living and believe, you will never die. I do think God responds to us based on the measure of our faith. Because he says in his word, if you believe and do not doubt anything that you ask, According to my will, in my name, it shall be done. I think it's important that we don't leave people condemned. that have a l a lesser faith. And so it's very important that we are diligent to uh to um accept them where they are and to encourage them where they are. Uh I think some of the faith teachers that are out there uh have not done so good a job in a and and I know people that have been told, Well, you just need more faith you know, and it and it becomes this hurdle that just another way where they just never quite measure up, you know, and they're just never quite good enough and it you know ends up being an attack of the enemy, you know, something that the end of the thing is, you know, it's a little bit more than a lot of people. on their own. Faith is a gift of God as well. So it's like just go out to the store and buy some more faith. Why don't you? You know, it doesn't work that way. We we want to encourage faith and we want to magnify that God's looking for us to walk by faith, but we gotta do it in a way that doesn't somehow minimize those And have faith in the event. When God does move in ways that I and others around me would see as miraculous and sometimes those people when they're in a church context will even admit that, you know My husband was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer and went back, you know, three months later for whatever and the cancer was gone. Power of prayer, God healed him. But then that same person out in the secular world in the workplace or you know the grocery store or the bar or whatever, not around church people, talks about how, oh the doctors they must have misdiagnosed him to begin with because now his cancer is gone And they totally diss the power of the Holy Spirit and the miracle that's happened. We've got to be on guard against that sort of thing. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, we're joined this week by Dr. Staccato Powell with New Believers uh new church believers. I keep leaving the church word out of there. New church believers. You can visit him online as his movement online at newchurchbelievers. org. Follow Jonathan on Twitter. at Sweitzer Jonathan. And you can check out Frederick48. It's it's Frederick48. org. That's correct. Is that right? Frederick. 48. org. It's Frederick48, the numeral four and the numeral eight. That's correct. org. Visit us online at wfmd. com keyword faith. I've been reading lately, Preaching Christ in the Postmodern World. And actually it's not so much reading. been listening. It's a podcast series by Ed Clowney and Tim Keller. They can get it for free on iTunes, on iTunes U. Uh I believe Preaching Christ in the Postmodern World. Uh huh. The clowny stuff, Clowney's past his prime when he does these lectures, so he's a little rough sometimes, but uh Keller's brilliant. Anyway, uh until next week, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from now. Wanna thank you for listening. Thanks to Putman Fleming and Heating, how can we make you smile? BMC Insurance and Cruise holidays. We'll be back next week to finish up our uh fourth uh session cycle on these shows. Till next week. God bless.