Good day. Not many people know what the Bible states about the second coming of Jesus Christ, and therefore they are in danger of being deceived. This broadcast will provide you with the knowledge you need. Need so as not to be fooled by false price and false profits. The faith debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com keyword faith, sponsored by high low auto sales and tire pros of Frederick. On the day which Jesus returns, there will be a polar reversal. Isaiah 2420 says, The earth will crack and shatter and split open. The earth itself will stagger like a drunk, sway like a hut in a sea. In this corner, weighing in with a Master of Divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, mix Master Troy Skinner. In this corner, weighing in with a PhD from Westminster Theological Seminary. Mary the good doctor. She's brought her. The world is weighed down by its sins. It will collapse and never rise again. Revelation 6. 12 says there was a violent earthquake and the sun became black like coarse black cloud, and the moon turned completely red like blood. The stars fell down to the earth like unripe fix falling from a tree when a strong wind shakes it. The sky disappeared like the sky being rolled up and every mountain and island was moved from its place. A polar flip will make the stars race across the sky. When will the end of the world occur? Will it end at all? Or has it already ended in some sense? What does the Bible have to say about all this? The study of end times is also called eschatology, your word of the week. What should readers of the Bible hold as their eschatological view? Should Christians scour the newspaper looking for clues in the headlines of daily events? Or have all the end times prophecies of the Bible already been fulfilled? These are the sorts of things that today's panel will touch upon on The Faith Debate. On this show this week, we have Chase Broadhurst and me, joined by blogger, broadcaster, uh podcaster, and seminary trained Bible teacher, uh Travis Finley. His podcast is called Rethinking Revelation. So What are we to make of the end of the world as we know it? Uh let me start with Jace and and just to to to lay out some of the the broad categories. Uh Christians in America would fall into various groups. So and I'll throw out some labels and you can help and and you can jump jump in when you want, Travis. But I'm gonna put Jace on the spot first. So we've got people that are Dispensational, all millennial, post millennial, you got pre-trib, post trib, mid trib, you got all these different things that People read the Left Behind series by Tim LaHaye and uh Jerry B. Jenkins, uh, and the Kirk Cameron movies, uh, and things like that. They're somewhat familiar with some of this. Um I those are most of them. Well I didn't throw up this people who have hold a preterist view or or a partial preterist view or something. Yeah, all of these diff so There are those who are futurists, you know. What is all what are some of the labels that we need to know about and let's sort of flush those out a little bit and then we'll narrow down. Well it sounds like you've already mentioned most of the label. I uh what we've done is w when you've talked about eschatology, you've talked about the last days and what most people understand by last days or by the end of time is something future to us, something that we are waiting to happen that is Jesus will come back. You know, we're talking from a Christian perspective here. Jesus will come back. He will either um You talked about Jerry Jenkins and LaHay. He will rapture his people. They'll disappear. You know, clothes will be left on the ground, airplanes will crash, all of those kinds of things. And that's that seems to be the popular perspective of how Christians understand things on that particular last day, whatever that day is. In this country anyway. In this country exact very true. Yeah. So th that last Last thing that's gonna happen is that rapture and then, you know, there's gonna be a a time some you mentioned post millennial, uh millennial, pre millennial, there's gonna be a millennium. a thousand year reign of some kind, whether it's literal or not literal. These are these are all huge questions. But I and maybe we can talk about every one of those if you really wanted to do each of those things. Um but I think I think when we talk about eschatology we need to be we c probably need to back up and say we're not talking about something that's going to take place in the future necessarily or only. We're talking about eschatology as as how as Paul would have understood it or as John would have understood it, since the last days have begun for them in some sense. last days are once the king has begun to reign. So eschatology you know a a lot of Christians say, well I I don't care about the millennium, it's it's all gonna pan out in the end. I'm a pan millennialist, right? It's all gonna pan out in the end. But eschatology is bigger Yeah, thank you. Um Eschatology is bigger than something that's going to happen later on. It is an approach to understanding the Bi all of the Bible is eschatological. We're all talking about what's coming. So for the prophets and stuff, you know, it it's an eschatological view that that God is coming back, that there's God is going to come and he's going to judge. He's the great day of the Lord. That's all eschatological. And that's not all future. Jesus fulfills a lot of those things. Or at least there are different perspectives on that. Some people would say that. But so for me eschatology is important not because it's something that's gonna happen in a million years or two thousand years or imminently, but because it's something that is happening and has been happening the last days. And I can get a lot more into that, but I don't want to keep going. Now in in a general sense, is there something that you would want to add, Travis, that would help us under d understand generally what's being talked about with Esc Eschatal eschatological views. It is. I think that uh if we think about the Bible's teaching on the end times, um in from a traditional perspective. I'm getting close to the mic hello microphone. Nice to meet you. Um so when we talk about eschatology In a traditional sense. I think most people think of how the world is going to end. And uh eschatology, we break those down into two Greek words, eschatos, meaning last Logos mean the study of it's the study of last things, but we have certain ideas in our minds that rule and reign our way of thinking. So that we have knee-jerk reactions and knee-jerk responses to oh I know what that topic is And so a lot of the things that I'm going to say today I'm going to say without qualification because we just don't have enough time to to um we just don't, you know. So I'm going to say things that are going to probably hit people upside the head. in a in an abrupt way that that will make things sound almost incredible. If you're coming from a traditional perspective, some of the things I'm gonna say you you're gonna think What? What is this guy talking about? I've never even heard this before. I'm already there. Yes. But but eschatology, so if we talk what what I'd like to say about eschatology is this that if you want to define eschatology as the study of last things I'll agree with that. If you want to say this the study of eschatology is the study of how time will end, I'm going to agree with that. If you're gonna say eschatology is how the world is gonna end, I'm gonna I'm going to agree with that. The problem is what you mean by time and what you mean by world. Is not what I mean. And that's always the case on this show. I've been doing it it took me a few years of doing the faith debate to r to To realize that it's all about defining your term. No matter what the issue is. And that's that's e exactly it. And and if you're if you're married or if you've been in relationships at all with people The the biggest uh segue in the conflict is communication. I mean I deal with this all the time with my kids. I say I I I I jump into the conversation and I say, slow down. You're yelling at each other because you don't know what she's saying. What and what sh and what he's telling you, you don't and I and I'm sitting in the back and I'm gonna hear it. They don't understand each other. And that makes each other that makes people upset and angry. And hostile and tense and so yeah, the whole thing is is communication. We have to define our terms Seems like we're already expecting uh people are to be very hostile to what we're about to say, huh? Well I and I and I think that I would agree, but here's why, I'm gonna guess that The listener right now uh if they hold a end times view at all The listener to this show probably is dispensational. Yeah. Because that is the pop Christian American view. That's what Hollywood likes to focus on. That's those are the best selling, you know, end times rapture kind of books and the that sort of stuff. And so m That's w where most people probably are. And I don't think any of us in this room fall into that category, right? None of us are dispensationalists. I'm a recovering dispensationalist. Okay. So, well then I wasn't gonna do it but you'll do a better job. In like sixty seconds, you know, what What is the because we're not going to spend a lot of time on dispensationalism, but I do want to at least touch on it. So in like 60 seconds, what are the main things that dispensationalists would hold that are true? a relief, a backdrop for some of the other things we talk about. Yeah. Well i it it again it goes back to biblical interpretation. Interpreting the Bible's story. So dispensationalism deals with i if you want to go to the farthest, you know, sp spectrum. that throughout history from Genesis uh onward, God deals with humanity in certain ways. And when we see him deal with Adam, it's one way we see him deal with Noah, Abraham, David, Moses prophets and Israel. God develops his relationship with his people. And so dispensationalism talks about those different dispensations, how God dispenses his revelation, revealing himself to humanity. Dispensationalism, I think, I would say, probably has a high view of Israel Uh and so the major tenant in modern eschatology still holds for and when you say high view of Israel, you're talking about geopolitical Israel mostly, correct? Well yeah, but but there's still the there's this idea that Israel is is still the chosen people of God. And that there is a future for them in our future. So that God is going to bring back Israel into f the fulfillment of the promises that he gave Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. So that in dispensationalism there is a parenthesis, there's this pause in history that was supposed to happen in Jesus' time. But because the people rejected the Messiah, and that wasn't supposed to happen, God had to have an alternate plan. And again, there's there's a wide spectrum of dispensationalism, progressive dispensationalism. I heard another term this last week on I'm like, what in the world? But so yeah So dispensationalism then would be labeled in terms of their expectation of eschatology still futurist. That is they still see in the future fulfillments of biblical expectations and that is going to involve Israel on a large scale. And then usually it plays out into into uh speculation about the tribulation. Will Christians be a around for what the dispensationalists identify as the tribulation, or will they be raptured away? before the tribulation, during the middle of the tribulation, at the end of the tribulation. And that's where a lot of the debate among dispensationalists uh ends up I don't know if it's it's more of an intramural debate at that point, I guess. And it's fun, speculative, and it's makes for good, uh exciting books with good chase scenes and You know, clearly to find good guys and clearly define bad guys and all that sort of thing. So um yeah, I wanted to clarify again, just make sure I think we're on the same page, but I think there's a future for Israel too. But I think that Christians are Israel. So uh now before I get accused of being a r uh replacement uh guy. Uh I'm not saying that the church replaces Israel, saying that uh the Israel and the church kind of mean the same thing from my point of view, but that's not what dispensationalists would say. They would say that they're talking about the the Jewish people, the nation state of Israel, the religious organization that is Judaism, that those identifying that s that subgroup of humanity is going to have a reconnection with their lord. That's kind of what I understand the focus of a dispensational outlook. When they talk about the Jews are gonna be called back, when Israel's gonna be called back, that that's what they mean. Is is am I misunderstanding that Is that fair? Do I have it right? Yeah, yeah, but I I get it I would take that back to the biblical story They they they're reading the Old Testament with its central focus on this plot of land and this particular group of people that received promises from God. that this particular way of interpreting the Bible doesn't see fulfillment happening the way they thought it was going to. So in order for God to be true and every man a liar, uh th God has to keep his word. So that's the expectation is that Jesus comes on the scene, he proclaims the kingdom, and the response of the Jews at large affects the success of that campaign. And the Messiah's killed and all of those things. So that wasn't the way it was supposed to happen. Right? Peter says to Jesus, You're not you're not gonna die. What are you talking about? So it's all about expectation, but I think it's also all about presuppositions. That is What they thought was going to happen is based on what they understand the story itself to be about. So what you assume the story is about to begin with affects how you're going to interact with what happens either in your time Or if you think it's in the future, you know, this is how we're going to understand these things when they come about. So it's it's all a matter of, I think, consistency in terms of um How the Bible tells its story. That's the voice of Travis Finley. He has a uh he's a blogger, he has a podcast called Rethinking Revelation. Uh I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. And Dr. James Broadhurst from Poolsville Baptist Church uh is here as well. Uh maybe you can uh sound uh a note on the the track of church history broadly over the last two thousand years because this Mul this uh premillennial dispensational thing is relatively new kid on the block, uh meaning uh comparatively to two thousand years. So what was what I I I've always understood it was maybe possibly more of a post millennial view through a large swaths of uh the church history. Is that do I have that right, do you think Um, I don't know the qu I don't know the answer to that. If it was been I I'm not a historian in any sense, but I know that this pre we do talk about premillennialism as coming on coming on the scene rather late. There have been it's not that it the whole concept has come very late. There has been Killieism for a long time. So um you know, the early early patristics talk about some of those things, but it doesn't look like dispensational thinking that we have today. It doesn't look like this return to Israel, speci specifically national Israel, this Zionist perspective. That is That's a relatively new thing on the scene. Um I don't know about the whether post millennialism or a millennialism or historic pre name. Right, right. I'll go back and say that I think from early on the church was premillennial. historically premillennial. Now what you started your question with was the distinction between dispensational premillennialism and historic premillennialism. And so the dispensational goes into a different aspect of um not just the end times, but the whole interpretation of the Bible. So then post millennialism, I think, is going to be predominantly the church um perspective. If you think about uh post if you think about the Reformation and then post Reformation era with the Puritans, they were post millennial. And um some people trace all millennialism back to Augustine. Um but I remember at least being directed to understand that Gerhard's Voss talked about the nuances of millennialism in the early part of the twentieth century. So they were tying that That distinction from post-millennialism into omillennialism, that transition that happened in the early part of the 20th century. And I remember in seminary being told that that was highly uh the responsibility or in the result of the First World War because postmillennialism expected the world to get better. under the influence of Christianity. We need to report and and uh the typical person probably isn't all that familiar and I'm just using myself as a gauge because a number of years ago, you know Uh I wasn't the strange person that I am now and I wouldn't have known what you're talking about. So as a general rule of thumb, we're talking we're talking about the pre-post uh whatever millennial. We're talking about uh the anticipated return of of Jesus is normally what we're talking about there. So if Jesus is going to return at the end of the Millennium Age, then that he's going to come post-millennium And so the post millennial view would be that things are gonna get better and better and better until Jesus comes and is ushered into his eternal kingdom as I'm using very broad brushstrokes, but I think that that's pretty close. And then premillennial is Jesus is going to arrive and then the millennium uh happens. And all millennial means that there's not a a literal thousand year millennial period and and uh it doesn't mean that there's not doesn't mean that there's not a millennium, but it means it's more of a spiritualized understanding of what the millennium is. And so we're talking about ah pre-post. It all has to do with when Jesus is is going to be coming back. Do I get that pretty close? Well yeah, that's that's the secondary issue. I think actually what we w what I would like to say in terms of what we should understand about millennialism is the kingdom. Okay, so again with with historic premillennialism and then dispensational premillennialism is is an expectation of the presence of the kingdom. So that when Christ comes and he says the kingdom of God is at hand He is going to inaugurate, he's going to start the uh the fulfillment of the Old Testament expectation of the Messiah who's going to uh uh sit on David's throne forever and ever. But that doesn't happen. And so then premillennialism says that we have to have the fulfillment of the pro of the prophecies of the kingdom. And the millennium is that error is that time period. You know, the uh Revelation twenty talks about the millennium. And so then Christ comes back before the millennium starts because it can't start without him. You can't start without the main guy. So he has to come back before that and then he starts the kingdom. So in the very in the very uh basis sense, there is no kingdom of God right now. Right. Yeah. Like a we mentioned that the post Post millennials are more optimistic that things are getting better and better and better and because of the presence of the kingdom. Right. They understand that Christ didn't just come and want to start something. He actually started it. He inaugurated the the kingdom and the there is a presence of the kingdom, but it's not a full presence, it's not the full reality because if we look at the scriptures, the scriptures seem to im intimate that there are certain things that still exist in our experience that the Bible says are not going to expi are not going to exist in the fullness of the kingdom. And so after the millennium, whatever period time period that is, uh post millennial and all millennial both take the view that it's not a literal thousand years In their I think probably postmillennialism might have might have started out with a thousand year view. Like they you know they have it. But but since more than a thousand years has gone. Right, right, right. You've got to adjust. Started and you're like, uh right. You know, we gotta adjust. That's where you see that they're they're looking for headline stuff like, oh, see these terrorist attacks, that's a sign that things are getting worse and they're gonna keep getting worse and worse and worse, and they're gonna get so bad that God's gonna rescue his people out of that and that's where the pulling the people out before the tribulation starts and all that comes. Now I think we've kinda hashed most of that out well enough. If you want to if you want to learn more, there are previous faith debate shows that have talked about eschatology and millennial views and stuff, you can go find those uh in the audio vault on WFMD. com if you want. Or there's plenty of books out there. Maybe maybe Rethinking Revelation has an episode or two on this issue. I don't know, but Um well where do we all stand? Uh Jace I'm guessing you're all millennial, but I don't know if I'm guessing right. Yeah, that's a good guess. Okay. Yeah, um my teacher well interesting, we all have uh similar backgrounds in the where where we're coming from, but my teacher explained this this hope of the kingdom Um he had an I and a C and a C. I'm sure some people remember that. Yeah, I got smiles around here. Um no not for you, huh? Uh the ICC, the inauguration, the continuation, and the consummation. So it's not, you know, we're waiting for this great day of the Lord to come back and we expect that Jesus is the one and Paul would say, yes, but it's not a good thing. This kingdom is is bigger, it's elongated. It's not it's not the way you expected it specifically. There's this Yes, Jesus is the King. He's crowned in his death and resurrection, specifically his resurrection, his ascension. The idea of an ascension is that he has been raised to the right hand of God. So he's Um he's been inaugurated as king. But then there's this this long phase, this continuation phase, which is a nice, easy way to put it. Um That we're all in right now. And it could be two thousand years, and I remember my teacher saying it could also be a million, billion years. So We don't you know it's not it's not it's imminent in the sense that it could be, but it's not. It might also be thousands upon thousands more years. We're not we're not in the very end. Or at the very end of the show. Well we're we're gonna find out what Travis thinks next time. So you're gonna have to wait one hundred and sixty seven and a half hours for the answer to that one. I know you won't sleep for a week now waiting. Uh thank you so much Travis Finlay, uh Jace Rogers, I'm Froy Skinner. I want to thank our sponsors, Hilo Auto Sales. Online at Hilo AutoSale uh hiloauto. com and also uh tire pros of Frederick. Until next week, uh again, I encourage you to check out our podcast at WFMD. com, uh tell a friend, and uh share, and we're gonna see about trying to post some of this stuff on Facebook. We're gonna be catching up with the uh the technological realities pretty soon, hopefully. Till next time, God bless