Following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD online at WFMD. com and on the FM at 99. 9 HD2 I'm Troy Skinner. You can follow along with us on social media through household of faith in Christ dot com. That's the easiest way to connect with all the various social media platforms I'm involved with and connect with the this radio show's page on The WFMD website through the Household of Faith in Christ website. So it's kind of a one-stop shop. You ever want to shoot me a text, an email, something like that You find all that information at that website as well, Household of Faithinchrist. com. We are uh gonna be talking about Something that could end up end up getting us uh in trouble with the uh big tech overlords, but we'll see. We'll see if they censor this in any way, shape, or form after the fact We'll see. So find your P's and Q's, alright, Raz. Imran Raz Razvi is uh on the panel again this week. So is his son Daniel Razvi and David Forcy. All four of us are pastors of house churches. We're representing three churches. The Razvis uh have a church called the The Church that meets at Imran's House. Uh David's the pastor of a church that has no name. And it's like well ride. Come on down. It's like riding a horse with no name. Reference to an old 70s song by the band Air America. Uh I'm the only one who was silly enough to think about giving a house church a name, apparently. So anyway. All right So a name that has meant a lot to us these last couple of years is well the Wu-Han flu. Uh Red Death. The the what's that? The Red Death Red Death. Uh the dreaded Rona, uh COVID 19, Coronavirus, uh Delta variant, uh Omicron, I think, the variant. Uh I'm not sure. They got all these different names they're throwing at us at us and uh we've learned also in one sentence. And see that And uh we've learned things that we didn't know a couple years ago, like mRNA technology, right? And uh and viral shedding. and spiked proteins and we've got like a whole new we need a new section of the dictionary. There's a whole whole other set of things we learned over the last couple of years is is um how easy it is for governments to take control and and uh And be totalitarian. Yeah, so we started off last week's show talking about death, right? And we and we talked about, you know, each uh actual physical death and and eternal life in Jesus Christ and he's our only hope for eternal life and and that sort of thing, which is of course the main thing we here at the faith debate, the three churches that are represented in this room. That's what we mostly ultimately care about is people understanding their need for Jesus Christ. But we're not talking about that sort of death There's uh we were talking about the death of icons and the uh the death of uh history, the death of learning. Well this week we can kind of pick up on that theme because we've witnessed the last couple of years the death of science Right? The death of liberty? And I'm not even I'm not even saying that for a fact. Like that's not hyperbole. You know, I was talking uh in between shows. Uh I was once the host of the Frederick's Forum program here on WFMD and I would purposely try to be provocative and throw a few, you know, rhetorical bombs out there to to try to get effect and break through and This isn't one of those times. We have watched in real time the death of science. Because science is about intellectual curiosity and and inquiry and and testing and retesting and And and having your your your conclusions uh challenged by other scientists are gonna do their tests and you have to have a vetted by people and before pi people would finally say, yeah, you know what, I think that that actually is what is true. When when do you think science died, Troy? Uh I think it's been on its deathbed for a while But uh I I think the I think the final death knell blow was probably I forget the exact date, but mid-March twenty twenty. March sixteenth ish, somewhere around there. When I w I would say that it probably had uh accelerated when the Al Gore and his hockey stick. Yeah, that sort of stuff was the equivalent of, you know Uh piping a bunch of rumdesivir into the uh into the community. And and then uh but it goes back further than that. I mean do we have the theory of evolution? Oh yes. Which is just the theory, but it's settled fact and the science is settled. And for a long time it was oh that's just one way and the creationism is another way and and then for the over the last 50 or so years, it's been very hardcore. This is the fact, evolution. Now we can argue about exactly how we evolved, but we did. And when that's completely contrary to scripture. And so that's the evidence. And the evidence. And the evidence. Well scripture, I mean they were talking about the well-face debate, so I wanted to make sure the listeners are understanding that evolution is not true. We were created in six days by God. Um we did not evolve from monkeys. But yes, the science is very clear, there's s mountains of evidence for a creator But the scientific community doesn't want to see that. But even the evolutionists now say, well, maybe some aliens uh kind of uh seeded this place Well then is you still keep with the Yeah well this this is I mean this is we're not we can do the evolution uh Darwinian uh creation thing, but I I will say this, uh just to put a uh tie knot in that If somebody wants to be intellectually honest and examine the question of evolution scientifically, it fails the test. Yeah, uh if you're willing to take the time, not even argue for creator, just as a theory on its own, does it stand up? It can't withh it can't withstand its own weight. It's not there's not enough evidence. That's what I was saying. It's kinda started there. It's getting worse and worse. You know, we now we have man can be a woman and you've mentioned mentioned chromosomes. Exactly. That's the death of science. Like, you know, DNA, like, you know, a Y chromosome and uh uh and the X But I wasn't I wasn't joking. I I might have gotten the date pro uh the precise date wrong, but it was middle of March Anthony Fauci is telling the world there's nothing to worry about. Don't wear a mask. Everything's fine. This isn't a big deal. And one week later he's in front of Congress saying, oh my gosh, we're all gonna die. It's a pandemic! What changed in that week? They're making it up as they go, and he's supposedly the leading scientist of on this issue of our day. Well he's the spokesperson for science, true. Yeah for the science. Right. It's never s I represent science. It's never s that's what he said, right? I I represent science. He it what? If you attack me, you attack science. Unbelievable. Well you had to wait to get masks until after Fauci bought stock in mass companies Probably. There's probably some truth to that. You know, it says a lot when the people that uh you guys might have grown up watching, Bill Nye. Bill Nye the scientist the science guy. He's not a scientist But that might have been the death of science. I don't know. But seriously, you can't trust any of these supposedly scientists. Wow. Cancel they'll die. It's on Netflix, I think, or was, but they cut out that episode from You got it canceled. So they they didn't leave it up there with a warning label? No, it they took it out completely. But the World Health Organization, you know, people used to be able to or f m maybe we shouldn't have, but we used to feel like we could trust with the data that they would tell us. But now we come to find out they're controlled by the Chinese and the Chinese Communist Party lies about everything all the time. So You can't trust the World Health Organization. You got the NIH, led by uh well, up until uh just recently, Francis Collins. Francis Collins supposedly a Christian But all the things he advocates for are not very Christian, so there's not any truth there. But the uh the stuff the NIH and the C D C are telling us. I mean Listen about the game they played the last couple of years about people who died with COVID, died from COVID, and those being interchangeable, and they're not the same thing. Right. And that was the game they were playing, because I remember famously Deborah Burke, she was a scarf lady in the White House press briefings. She was uh was asked the question and she said, No The way we're doing this is anybody, when they die, we're testing to see if they had COVID, and if they did, they count as a COVID death because they died with COVID. But Now you hear the news anchors, they'll say 700,000 Americans have died from COVID. From COVID? Wait a minute that you're playing a wordsmith game there because it was with COVID, not it was never from, and I'm not even sure how many of them had it to begin with. Well actually. Yeah. Um but that's a good example, right? So uh people will say clearly he died of other things. And there's many others, that's just a famous example everybody knows about. But there's many others. I'm sure have personal anecdotes of people they know of or know personally that had other conditions. But Let's talk about how this applies in our lives now, because with the death of science, that has given the oligarchs you know, we I think last week we mentioned how we have an oligarchy now. The oligarchs, it has given them just a a wide path to walk through to impose on us things that are based on the science, which isn't science at all. And so everybody's told you have to wear a mask because the science says so. Well if science are still alive and active, that would be debunked and we wouldn't have had to deal with these mask mandates uh for all this time. The social distancing or what I like to call m more better is uh e Uh jokingly I'll call it antisocial distancing. I prefer to call it personal distancing because it's n there's nothing social about it. But you're trying to be distanced as persons, so personal distancing, I like that better. But anyway That was a totally made up number. It was like some middle schoolers uh science project or something and they just made up a six-foot thing and somebody said, Yeah, that's so there's no science inquiry behind that and yet we all had to abide by that stand in line. In some cases you're going to the store and the line was so long cause everybody had to be six feet apart so you couldn't scrunch up in the line. And the line's outside and it's raining and people are getting rained on All because the science says you got to keep six feet apart to stay healthy, but you're standing in the rain. How healthy is that gonna keep you? Oh that's actually pretty good for you. Is it? Is it good to stand in the rain? Mm-hmm. Really? Yeah. Oh, I was always told my mom, get out of the rain, you'll catch cold, you get the pneumonia. My mom didn't know what she was talking about No. She's probably following the science. Probably so. That was her problem. And then these jab mandates Right? I mean I'm not sure what they are. They're not vaccines, right? The the C D C redefined what a vaccine is. So technically by the C D by the C D C's current definition, taking an aspirin would be the equ w you could call that a vaccine. Well it's it it's not logical. The mandates just are not logical from a matter of science, right? If getting this shot protects you, then what do you care if I got it? Because you already have it. You've already been immunized, so what do you care if I am because you're safe? If it does not in fact protect you, then why do you want me to get it? Because it doesn't doesn't protect you. But so you can't have it both ways. You can't say this protects you And therefore once I've gotten it I need to make sure everybody else gets it. But the problem is thus science is telling everybody it protects them when actual science proves that it doesn't. Because all sorts of people who have gotten the variety of shots are still getting sick, still going to the hospital, still dying. Um so there's a difference between the science and science. 'Cause the science is based upon political power Uh it's based upon, you know, these I think fraudulent uh claims of consensus among scientists. It's it's become a a word to uh like in end the argument. Right. Meaning all the scientists voted basically. The majority says this. Uh yeah, or I mean like any of the other Yeah, I I mean, you know, we've used we've talked about the word justice You know, how that's really just used to say, you know, like I'm in the right, you know, whatever you know, whatever I'm saying, as long as I say the word justice, well then that means I'm on the right side and you have to be quiet Uh yeah, I I think you know the s the science is just being used the same way. It's just a rhetorical device. And this ends up making life miserable because now you you know liberty is lost. You've got the vaccine pa what are called the vaccine passports. Uh And temperature checks and capacity limits, like for a long time uh maybe in some cases churches couldn't be full capacity, maybe limited capacity, and they had to they either couldn't sing or if they sang they had to have masks on their face or Yeah, and then and then you people are asking, doesn't this violate HIPAA? Like to ask everybody their their sh their shot status? Isn't that i uh an invasion of my medical privacy? And So bad things happen, and it reminds me of something that happened, oh, 500 plus years ago, when it wasn't the science, it was the church. The church says Yeah, but that didn't square with what scripture actually taught. And so there was a reformation where people said, no, no, no, we're not going to go abide by what the church says anymore. We're going to go by what God actually says in his word. And I'm hopeful that we can get to that sort of uh reformation, if you will, in this sphere. You guys are probably more pessimistic about that happening. No, no, we're very optimistic that God's coming back Okay, so yeah. So you mentioned that last week too, and I I I want to clarify, it's not pessimistic to say that the world is crumbling to the ground and God is judging the world. That's an optimistic thing. Read in Revelation 18 where it says Babylon has fallen and all these terrible things are happening to Babylon and Babylon is destroyed. Who is mourning Babylon? It's all the evil people. Who is rejoicing? The people in heaven, the Christians, they're all saying, wow, wonderful God, you destroyed Babylon. That's so great. Holy, you know, holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty, you know, and and uh I guess um uh for the uh Lord God omnipotent um omnipotent reigneth Oh that they're saying meant the destruction of Babylon. So that's a that's an optimistic thing. It's a time to rejoice when God's judgment is portion. Uh what's that going to look like? Because again, using my my comparison, my analogy almost, if you will, between what's happening now, what happened with religion uh at the time of the Reformation. when, you know, repl 'cause I think they they go pretty hand together. It was the church at the tradition of the church. Uh you can't challenge the experts and the you know within the church. You know, they're much smarter than you are, you know, they're the elites It's very similar, it's just a different sphere of our of our lives. Um but they thought that the Pope was the Antichrist. So with that in view, they also would have been that, oh, if Pope is Antichrist, well then Christ's return is going to happen any moment. And yet Who thought the Pope? In fact, if you read the Westminster Confession, it uh it it which came, you know like a hundred years later. No, probably not quite a hundred years. Pretty close to a hundred years later. I can't remember the date of the Westminster Confession. They still had language in there like the the the you know the church is the whore of Babylon or something and the Pope is the Antichrist or whatever. It that's kinda was their view But here we are, hundreds of years later, still trying to make a go of this crazy little thing we called life. So I don't disagree at all Christ is returning, and I don't disagree that it's highly possible that he will return before my next breath is completed as far as I'm concerned, but he could come at any moment as far as I'm concerned. Uh now those who think that certain things have to play out, he maybe couldn't return for uh another s seven or so years or something like that, but it's w relatively short amount of time. But what if that's not accurate? What if we are here for another fifty years, hundred years, three hundred years Well we won't be, but society will be. Do we do we think that there's any hope for having a reformation to get back to truth meaning something? And can the can the church Can can can Christians do something. Um, or reform within the church. I'm not I'm not real hopeful although I mean we can certainly try, but I'm not real hopeful of Christians taking over the government and and making it a Christian nation or Christian world, but I think the church can certainly we can we can have more converts to Christianity, more people actually I think one of the things the pandemic has helped with is it's helped identify who really are believers, who is still attending church regularly or or now a year and a half or two years after the um the pandemic supposedly started You know, who is still faithful in the group of believers when they wouldn't look. Yeah. Uh something with persecution, but also if oh church is online now, okay I'll just sit at home. Oh well now church is back in person. Oh well I d I'm I don't feel like it. You know, how many people are just not bothering anymore and how many people just caved to all the demands and and everything of the government Um so w it's a trial by fire and I think that's also going to encourage preaching of ac the actual gospel and more people will be drawn to that instead of the seeker-friendly church that in the past is you know a couple of decades has been really popular. You know, what's interesting is that for years on this show, um, particularly in the early uh period of the Faith Debates existence Uh we spent some time talking to people and and and it was like a recurring theme for a lot of shows for a number of years where we're talking about the grid through which you view reality. And so the Christian, I would argue, and I think everybody in this room would agree, we should view reality through the grid of the Bible. What what God's Word reveals to us, that informs us how to understand everything else And then those who have a uh what's called a liberal theology, they take the ways of the world and science and look at things and so they look at the Bible through that grid So um I think that if we have if we have a revival uh to to Piggyback on what you were saying, Daniel. If we have a revival, then we're going to get back to looking at the world through a biblical grid. Right. But the The problem is right now we're not even looking at the world through a scientific grid. We're using we're looking at it through the science grid, which is a complete like fantasy land. It might as well be a metaverse. It's not real. Yeah, I would have to um disagree with you a little bit on on the note that you said that uh they look at the world through their stuff and science. Not through science, through their uh um irrational decision of what science should be. They find people to promote their viewpoint. It's not science. The biblical viewpoint is science. uh over and over again throughout the centuries, the Bible's viewpoint, God's word has proven to be true and in fact the actual science And so when somebody says, No, we're using the the uh secular uh view and science, no they're using the secular view to taint science to make it do what they think it's gonna do. But that's not what science is Yeah, no well yeah, I don't I don't th know that we're disagreeing exactly. Uh but I'm saying in terms of uh like there was a big debate go back in our church history once more. You know, when uh uh when Copernicus um you know made waves. And but uh up until a certain point in history everybody thought that the earth was the center of of the universe really, at least the solar system. Depending on your frame of reference it is. Yeah but But the idea was that everything physically revolved around our plan. Like the like the sun was going around us as opposed to us going around the sun kind of thing. And so we had to understand, okay, maybe we misunder so general revelation, which is what scientific inquiry should all be about, understanding God's general revelation. uh can help us to to co correct assumptions, you know, unbiblical assumptions we might bring into scripture, and that would be an example. Uh but still the whole aim there is to try to understand what is God's word saying and how does that inform us about what is reality, and then science helps us to uh move that along helps us to fill in flesh it out a little bit. Is that is that helping you're shaking your head, Daniel. No, I I disagree with the history on that. Um And also with Copernicus too, um, in some ways that I don't wanna you know uh m yeah, I don't want you to misunderstand. I I I don't disagree with um so-called mainstream astronomy, that the idea that, you know, the the earth earth revolves around the sun. But it really does. I mean a according to real relativity, um it it it really depends on your frame of reference So the sun revolving round the earth, the earth revolving around the sun, they're both objects in motion. It really depends on where you're standing, what you're what is true. So there's not a there's not an absolute way to define that. But I also don't think that the church has historically been anti science as modern evolutionists like that. Oh, I wasn't s I wasn't meaning to suggest that. But uh I mean or that they were, you know, necessarily wrong on a lot of scientific issues in the past. I mean I'm I'm glad that you did not bring up you know, the flat earth idea because that's not something the church actually ever taught. That's more of a myth. Um but i uh I think uh much has been made of so-called inflexible theologians that that have no open mind to what science can offer. And I I I think that's that's more of a of a different view of history than what's what's actually true. Yeah, I I I mean I we we can get in the weeds, uh and we only have like a minute, so we're gonna we're not gonna we're not we'll pick this up maybe. We'll have to figure out maybe it would end up coming up naturally through a Darwinian science versus bible kind of debate and we would end up having some tangents and offshoots there. So we'll we'll save it for that. Does that sound good to you guys? Uh humanistic views versus Bible and science. Yeah, humanistic materialism versus Yeah. Okay. I'm I'm cool with that. Well we can all end an agreement then. So we're we're going to uh Yeah, we got like a minute left. So I'll I'll just uh wrap up by by plugging your uh ministry that you have. You have a number of books I I know that you've written over the years or booklets maybe is the better way. The Conquered by Love. org. org. What we do is we help uh especially children that have gone through trauma. Um any children that have had have those things. We have uh bunch of parents uh parents that have those children that have we have uh about forty-five different books that uh address a small subject so parents don't have a lot of time to read, but they can do address one subject at a time. So instead of medicating your children, you could able to go and find out what the actual root cause is and hopefully heal children Very good. So there you got your plugin. That was Imran Razvy. Uh Daniel Razvy is also here. I'm Troy Skinner. David Forcy is the other voice you heard today. You can find us online at WFMD. com, also household of faith in Christ. com. And I really would would point you there because that's a one-stop shop for connecting to everything related to me, uh the church I pastor, the show, everything is is kind of there. And if you want to connect with these guys, uh you can do it through that as well. So Until next week, 167 and a half hours from let me check my watch. Yep, just about right now. God bless.