This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-ball forum. KUA where Faith Community Leaders Wrestle over the truth. Yeah, but in less than 30 minutes to learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Well, how convenient. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble Let's get ready to rumble. Out. Yeah. In this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the face-to-bate master of ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. And in this corner, weighing in. As a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder, John Sweiser. No, I'm just getting warmed up. As I've mentioned a few times on this show in recent month. I am now the pastor of Living Faith Ministries in Hagerstown. What I haven't mentioned or delved too deeply into anyway is the hiring process and motivational purpose. of the church when they brought me on board to be under shepherd for this particular flock of God's people. So here to talk about this are some of the key members of the congregation. Roland and Dottie Stover, Michael and Kelly Lichtenberg, Diane Lichtenberg also. Lichtenbird, you see last one, I think it's a bird as well. Trying to say your name too fast. Lipton Berg. Uh and Jonathan Sweitzer, of course, is uh is here to be a foil and uh gadfly and troublemaker and all that sort of thing. So uh it was Uh well catching you up I guess last two it's really quickly. We have a group of people in this room that have a divergent background of different church experiences and uh they got to know each other uh through different church experiences. uh and then started being involved in a well Diane didn't but uh the others did, started getting involved in a weekly Bible study and then that uh morphed, if you will, into the idea of maybe we should just kinda start a church. And so this is Started a church with a rotisserie league of uh guest speakers and and uh um you know tried to structure a worship service with a lot of elements you would typically find in a worship service um and that sort of a thing. But They wanted to take it one step further, I guess, into what the outside we're looking in might see as legitimacy. So they were like, we need to have maybe a uh a different place to meet And so you uh change that, so you can talk about that in a minute, and then we may maybe we need to have uh an actual permanent pastor in place as opposed to having four to six, you know, people rotating um uh over the course of the year. So Why don't you take us back to last summer? You know, May, June, July, whenever it was you guys are thinking, okay, we need to have a different place to meet. Uh and start there. I guess uh uh I'm assuming Dottie's gonna speak first since Mike just shoved the microphone in her face. Yeah, okay. Um well when we first started meeting two years ago, we were meeting um in a room at Hager Hall. And it it served us well. But I guess maybe last January, February, something like that, we really felt the Lord was starting to say that it was time to leave that place. Um the way it was situated we really didn't feel safe there for one thing. Um and so we just kinda thought, well that's an interesting term for safe for for church. What do you mean by safe? Um, we were kind of isolated and the surrounding area was not the best area in Hagerstown. So uh when everybody got in uh Roland would lock the doors Um you're gonna hear the gospel of we have to like you. And that's what we did. So anyway, um a few months later than we found out that um Hager Hall was up for sale. So we said, Okay, Lord, we knew you were telling us, but here we are now and so we took a leap of faith again and went to them and gave them a 30-day notice. Did not have a clue where we were going to meet And so Roland and I kinda hit the streets and started going to different places, um, talking to people who said, Oh, we'll have the manager call you, we'll have the manager call you. We're still waiting on those phone calls. Um and we're we were coming down to within the last week or so of not having a place to meet and we thought, well, if we don't we'll start meeting in our home. Um but then one of our uh board members spoke to uh someone that she knew at uh Christ Lutheran Church in Hagerstown. To make a long story short, they got back to us and said we want to help you guys and so we have a beautiful facility now and actually our rent is cheaper Um so we get to use their church facility uh every Sunday evening. And so God opened that door for us. So was it a coincidence that on the heels of that you'd then start looking for a pastor or was that kind of a two-step uh plan is a strong word I'm I'm sensing. We didn't plan a whole lot. Um, we just asked the Lord just to take us step by step and he truly took us baby steps at a time. Um when we began we knew we were going to start out on Sunday evenings with guest speakers. But our ultimate goal was to end up with a a regular pastor and hopefully move to Sunday mornings. Yes. Yes. We can't call him part time because he tells us that's not true. Because they stay in a part time pastor. Yeah, yeah, yeah. A permanent bass. A permanent bastard, not a part time So anyway, right after that, um we began to feel the Lord was kind of nudging us that perhaps now was the time to go out there and start looking. And so we put the ad on the internet and within like less than a week we had fifteen applicants. And when the board methods are the same thing, out of the fifteen, how many of them were legitimate inquiries do you think though? As opposed to just fishing expeditions, like people just, oh, let me just repl There was yeah, there were some we just literally in the wastebasket. Uh we had one pastor contact us and said he had a small congregation would would we join his congregation. And I looked up their beliefs and I said, No thank you. So if there was an alignment that might have actually work for you guys. Potentially. It could have. But you know, in in going through this whole process there was a time that we thought maybe God was saying, well maybe we need to be linked to a denomination And we actually talked to uh one denomination. The guys came in, they were very excited, they wanted us, they were gonna provide us with a pastor. And when they left we talked and we said, this isn't what God wants. Um and we tried to contact another denomination and that it it just didn't work. So we knew God was telling us to stay non-denominational. So now when you say that you it just you knew it was what God it's just not what God wants, is that just a a sense or a feeling or is it something? Add uh a nuance to that question, like uh in a number of different parts of the story there's a sense that you try something, God says, No, that's not it. Is there like like a sense of this is what God's calling us to? Like like where you would say, you know what this is what we're looking for and some of those others ended up not being that. For me it was a peace. Yeah. If I had peace about something I felt that that was God saying This is what I want. Let's take this step together. But when we met So what happens when Troy has too much pizza the night before, Pastor Troy? And you you come out of the message and you're like, Oh, I don't have peace about that anymore. But I'm no longer regular. It makes him irregular Oh look at this, yes. We got 'em. Roland's coming in. We're swooping in. One thing about that is I don't know if I should say it or not, but Oh say it. particular denomination, which I won't say which it was, uh they did not want women on the board, on the church board. Now, a lot of denominations are like that and that's okay. Sure. But our Our group that we started, our church, mostly on the board were women. And our church was so small we couldn't take The women off the board and we didn't want to take the women off the border. Talented. Right. We feel they were called by God. And so So we definitely didn't have peace about that. Kimmy, you weren't one of the women on the board that they were going to take off. That's certainly a very contemporary issue, you know, the question the egalitarian versus complementarian, you know, approach. Like what do you you know, what what is the role of women in leadership uh and uh s uh scholarship is noting the significant women that were in leadership in uh the New Testament and in Jesus' little group uh you know of disciples Um and so that was a key so that's one element of it. Are there other elements that you would say like, you know what, some of those other things we didn't have peace about it, but this was, you know, but this is like what we're looking for. As far as denominational uh Sure, about leadership, about direction, like like bringing in a pastor or bringing in a denomination, right? You're you're you're thinking about what are next steps. And as as you talk together, what are some of those things that you're like, this is who we are? Right. Yeah. guidance and leadership ourselves. You know, 'cause here we are we started something without a leader, basically, other than God being the leader and um w I think that's what kind of drove us a little bit and this denomination was recommended by someone that we highly respect. And um and the more we thought about it was like, well if We become a denomination, why don't we just go to one of their churches down the street? And then the day's over, you know. So and again we if God had called us to that denomination, we would have went there, you know. So but yeah And so um so not the denominations, um, but I'm still trying to move in on on like what are the what are the things that that define like study of scripture seems to be a clear uh definer. You know, you talk a little bit about, you know, like who had the leadership, but there does seem to be a strong sense, Dottie, that that there's that there's a measure of leadership in you, but then in a group as a whole together, just the sense of, you know, what is this that that we're looking for? Well we came together. One of the first things we did, we sat down and made a list of our beliefs. um we wanted to be sure that we were all on the same page. So there's a statement of belief that that was at the heart. Yes. Yeah. And also the other thing was when we first started and was really in prayer about it I think the message we kept getting back from the Lord was basically, bottom line, preach the gospel. Preach the gospel. Um and that's what our guest speakers did. I mean we really have didn't have to tell them. They came in there Bible in hand and giving us scripture and um breaking it down for us and was right down the line with our beliefs. So God's hand was in every one of our speakers that we had. And so that was that was the main thing I think that we got our beliefs together to make sure that we were all on the same page. And those beliefs are like Like thirty, forty long, like ten long, like uh like how don't remember. I think it's more like like twenties maybe something like that. Yeah, twenty key things that ultimately kind of define what you understand the gospel as it's presented in scripture. Uh and can you give me an example of like it sounds to me like there's a a couple places maybe where you felt like, you know what, they're just not quite preaching the gospel, meaning like like you came away with a little bit of a So now I'm putting words in your mouth, maybe a distaste in your mouth, like, you know what, I I don't quite feel like the gospel's being preached there or there are there are there some uh Well I think you're when you'd go into church and Sunday after Sunday for months on end the sermon would come around to money. That gets old real quick. Um we don't we don't didn't want that. You know, we just But was that a more contemporary maybe congregation? Like a larger congregation, or maybe that was a smaller congregation just trying to take buildings? Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Interesting. So money, you don't want it to be just about building building project, I will have to say that, but stuff. And definitely a building project. That's e that in and of itself, I think, generationally, like where the church is in the United States, is a space Where people are like, okay, is it about the building or is it about ministry, you know, and and and once you move to to certain levels it can feel like, oh that's you know, it's just about you know, buildings or or you know, programs instead of, you know, just the simplicity of what the gospel is about. Right. Right. Yeah. And that that is one of the things we kicked around. If you look at the early Church of Acts, there was really no building You know, they would go to different places and preach, you know. They would preach here and they would preach there. So we kind of reverse engineered it. You know, we would have a different speaker at the same place. you know, going right going about it that way. So yeah, we don't have to worry about building fun right now. But It is the case that you had to pay like rent, right? So you had to set so there is some finances, you know, in terms of paying for location and that kind of thing. It's not yeah, we're set up as a five oh one C three. Um Kelly can talk more about that if we want to get into that stuff. But I mean but you know it's it's a legit thing, it's just not a group of people coming together and and and worshiping we you know we we sure you know we had to have the state and the faith, the bylaws, all those things put together. Yeah. The gospel. It's about the gospel. Yeah. This is the faith debate. Um that Jonathan Schweitzer's been the uh the questioner here the last few minutes. Yeah. You've also been hearing the voices of uh Mike Lichtenberg and Dottie Stover, a little bit of uh Roland Stover. Maybe we can see if we can get uh Diane Lichtenberg and uh Kelly Lichtenberg a little bit more involved. So let me ask you, because uh it sounds like Mike and Dottie uh uh over the last you know two plus years have kind of been uh the engine that drives the bus forward mostly. To group effort, I'm not saying that they're doing it all by themselves, but they're kind of the ones that are are are causing the engine to roar uh and and move things forward a little bit. But because you're not doing it alone, there's got to be some sense of trying to build consensus or getting feedback from others or hearing the hearts of others or that sort of thing. So let me Kelly, what were you hoping for in a new pastor, you know, a permanent pastor? Uh obviously somebody who would preach the gospel, they talked about that. Uh but was there something like, well, I don't know who we're gonna get but whoever it is, it better Well obviously to preach the gospel was the main thing, which you already stated. I think leadership. We needed leadership. We were Um, for lack of a better way of saying it, l a lot of times we were flying by the seat of our pants, trying to keep everything afloat and you know, coordinating all of our speakers and everything and then trying to find a place to to um hold our services and everything so um definitely leadership and and we wanted at least I know I wanted not so much or not entirely for myself to have someone as Diane said earlier that you could go to if you needed to go to someone and have some type of spiritual counseling. Uh you know, just a kind ear or something like that. Someone that we would have every week to be able to lean upon if need be. Yeah, now she might have just stole your fender, Diane, but I was gonna go to you next. You weren't part of you're not part of the board, so you weren't part of the decision-making team necessarily. But you certainly probably had some hopes. Uh You're rooting for Mike to make the right decision. You know? So w what were you kinda hoping for? Or and maybe if you if you're comfortable, if you have a sense of what others who weren't or and aren't on the board what they maybe collectively were hoping for in a pastor. Do you have a sense of that? Um way I was kinda looking for, but I totally trust them. They have not what they've built with this church, I'm comfortable with it and I knew that their calling was going to get us who we needed. I just I d I don't think I needed even be involved in that. I knew they were going to do everything they needed to do. Um and uh now there were some guest speakers, some who were my favorites, I you know, and stuff like that, but I wanted somebody in a permanent position that 'cause life sometimes can just be hard. Right. And somebody to just be able to sit down and talk to. And I wanna put a face and a voice and a person to that. And they've done that. So I'm happy. Yeah. Getting comfortable? Yeah, is that what that was? Okay, we've got about like so I was gonna ask oh okay go I was gonna just uh along the lines of like like direction and leadership, um uh I'm gonna throw a little bit of a curveball. So when you're in a location downtown, Hagerstown, right? Hager Hall, and you gotta lock it, um Was there ever any sense like maybe those people that would come in that would be dangerous, maybe those are the guys that you should be reaching that need the gospel the most uh and uh and maybe not obviously you know there's places where uh the disciples were told to shake the dust off their feet and move on, right? Because there wasn't uh an acceptance of the gospel. I don't know that that meant that I mean the Apostle Paul went to plenty of places where he got beat up. and left the church behind him right in those places where he got beat up. And so kind of the question is what you know, what's the target audience. It's funny you bring it up because I remember we had talked to one of our pastors before that and that was one of the things he said was who who are you targeting? We're targeting everybody. Yeah. I mean why why limit it to say I want, you know, this demographic from twenty-five to fifty-five or you know so you know, we definitely uh it just took me funny is that 'cause that's more of a marketing thing, you know, who's your target audience? Well God everybody's God's targeted audience and that's what we kinda we looked at 'cause But did you ever talk about those guys that could have been the dangerous ones Uh part of the reason I even asked that is that recently, like I work here in Frederick with a uh a halfway house and there's a gentleman that came through there that um had to go back to jail, right, and his girlfriend lives up there in the area. And when you said that I got a picture in my mind of the area where we dropped them off, you know, where the courthouse is, uh, and there's some kind of hotel right there, and they were like, Yeah, it's kind of a dangerous area, and I was thinking, man, that's exactly where the gospel is needed Right, to the poor and the broken and the the hurting. And so so my target audience question maybe less has to do with are you targeting a certain group but you know Uh like did you ever think to yourself, oh maybe these are the guys that we should be reaching? Yeah, n I'm I mean I don't think we lock the door per se in in total fear or fright or anything because the door is wide open from five o'clock to six o'clock and the sign was above the door all week long. Um the reason we locked it because um it was access to the rest of the Hager Hall and their office supplies and things like that. So that was part of me and obviously we don't have we didn't have enough people to man the door you know in that aspect of it. But and I mean the door was always open and you know, there were some people out there, a lot of them were from out of town. We know what you're doing, you know, you're passing through, we know what you're passing through for. You know, things like that. But no would we ever limit anybody to come in through our door. Now if someone knocked on the door, we would have we obviously would have opened it up. And when you say that, we know why you're there and you're talking about drug trade and that sort of thing. Sure. Yeah, there were some shootings and that area. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, for sure. And I didn't block it I didn't lock the door right at six o'clock when we started. I waited until about ten or fifteen after. Mm-hmm. Made sure everybody that was coming would come. Yeah, this the question I wanted to ask earlier, I'm gonna ask it now, we don't have a whole lot of time to answer it, which is probably a good thing because it's an awkward question. So I need you guys to pretend it's not me asking the question. You know, some some strange radio guys asking you this question. You guys recently hired a pastor. You had fifteen people apparently that that expressed some level of interest. You mentioned Dottie that some of those were pretty quickly dismissed, like, okay, that's not a serious inquiry or that's obviously not going to be a fit or whatever. And you were left with whatever's left. So from those that were maybe more seriously possible, uh what was the grid through which you you know, sifted uh the candidates. Well you know how how were you you know what were the one or two or three key things that were either knockout blows or things that kept them a strong consideration? Mm-hmm. Well When we read through a lot of the um resumes, there were certain things that stuck out. We were looking for some like Kelly said, someone with leadership ability. Um there were a few of them who had never pastored a church before. And we kind of laid them aside to begin with because we felt we needed somebody who had some experience. Um we had people apply from Oklahoma um, Tennessee, Alabama, and for what we were offering, we were like Are you serious? Are you moved across the country? I mean the gentleman from Oklahoma, he was like, Yes, I've already done the you know, the dynamics for the Hagerstown area and all of this, but um When we went I made copies of everybody's resume and I handed them out to the board members and I said please read over them And when we meet, I want you to have gone through them, put your number one choice on top and number two and so on Uh hold on we're gonna have a cliffhanger because we're out of time so we can finish the story next week. All right. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMB. Thanks everybody for listening or for participating and for you uh listening uh in your car at home or whatever. Till next week 167. 5 hours from right now, God bless