So a number of years ago I was working on the sales team here at WFMD and Sister Station WFRE and I belong to one of those networking groups, D and I, Business Networking International, you know, you give each other leads and that sort of thing. And one of the guys in there and you know had what they call them a one-on-one and I was meeting with a guy and he he's trying to pitch me on what had nothing to do with his business. It was something totally unrelated to his business, but he was trying to pitch me on this what to me was a newfangled thing. This is like twenty years ago, so I don't know if it This was new ish at the time as far as popularity. But it was the Enneagram. No idea what it was. He he Tomato, tomato, right Um anyway, he gave me a book and some resources to look and I I I When was this try? This is like twentieth years ago. And and he was telling me that, you know, it's um You know, it it's like one of those personality profiles like Myers Briggs. Myers Briggs or a Gallup thing or whatever person Well what are the personality profiles? Is it Gallup? They have your um uh it doesn't matter. But I think okay, in that context, no, it might be interesting. Uh and I couldn't put my finger on it. I I wasn't um as mature in my faith and advanced in my theological understanding and my knowledge of the Bible back then. Today I probably would have found a whole bunch of things that I would have gone back and go But it just gave me an uneasy feeling. And so here we are, twenty years later, I finally have the courage to start talking about this on the Faith Debate Show. 'Cause about twenty years ago I started the Faith Debate show, as it turns out. I'm Troy Skinner. You can find me online at WFMD. com, the Faith Debate page, or my church's website Household of Faithinchrist. com. Joined this week by uh David Forcey. I don't know if you've heard his voice just yet. This week. Howdy. That's David And uh I think you did hear for a half a second uh Daniel Razvi's voice. Okay. And Imran Razvy is here. Imran and and uh Daniel, they co-pastor a church called that church that meets at Imron's house. It's in the Fairmont area David Forcey Pastor is a church that kind of meets in various uh locations depending on the week. Undisclosed, yeah. Deep in their bunker In various spots in and around Frederick County. At least we don't post. And to be honest, kept building. So are we. As it turns out. Maybe that's just what radio people do, I don't know Oh anyway, and uh I'm the pastor of a church Household of Faith in Christ. And I think I mentioned that website, Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Um so the the this Enagram or Enneagram. Um Is it harmless? For us to define what is it. Yeah, what is it? Well you seem to know it something about it. I've been doing a lot of the I I I have notes, so I can refer to them. Does somebody want to take uh take a ball and run with it or do you want me to just say what it is? Well, f one thing when you and you look at the the the way they lay out the personality test, it does have a pentagram like right there in the middle. So that's Yeah. And that's not that's not really even by mistake. I mean it has definite occult Uh Mystic Origins. I mean that's Do you have like a definition you can read or something? A nice summary, Troy? So here we go Uh this is um not my words. I copied and pasted somebody else's, but I think they do a nice job. What's known as the uh enneagram of personality or the traditional enagram or however Daniel said I'm supposed to say it. Enneagram. I never heard it said that way. Is some pastor that was preaching against it was use pronouncing it that way. He was my own. Oh I know what he had an odd stuff to say. Anyway. So these this this enneagram, I'm gonna have to say it the only way I really am comfortable remembering to say it. It's a complex system of understanding uh individuals that some doubt has a path to liberation or self-actualization, even a way to know God It's uh the the geometric s uh geometric symbol that Daniel referenced. It has nine points intersecting lines. Uh gets its name from the Greek word for nine, uh enia, I guess, or NA. I don't know how to say nine in Greek. I can't remember. I should know how to say that. Um anyway, it it goes way, way back uh i i in time, but then it became uh introduced to the West back in the uh early part of the uh nineteen hundreds and became very popular in the middle part of the last century, like in the nineteen sixties. Um and it's very complex and everybody's gonna agree on what it is or how to define it because Apparently this guy in the 1960s taught a system that had 108 Enneagrams, not nine. But uh most of them, like a hundred of them practically did not catch on catch on in the West in the United States. So we we're stuck with the nine They're somehow connected with the uh the the uh nine personality types are uh are are uh connected somehow with nine divine forms of Plato Uh plus the seven deadly sins somehow and also has a lot of influence from the uh the mystic Judaism, the the Kabbalah uh traditions are somehow part of all this as well. And If you dig deep enough you'll see, oh, this is connected to Roman Catholicism, this is connected to Buddhism, Islam, Taoism, uh e even ancient Greek philosophy. So it's This is kind of an amalgam of a lot of new age stuff all coming out as a personality protest. I've heard some some pastors caution against uh uh personality tests in general that they they uh m may also have new agey and occultist type of things. But Enneagram especially, if there's any personality tests you want to avoid it'll be the Enagram. It's got too much history in the occult. And and here's the thing that really I I think is ear-catching. All right. Believers in the Enneagram seek to unravel the mystery of their true identity. They see themselves as spiritual beings who've lost contact with their true nature Once discovering their true self by means of the Enneagram, they experience a spiritual awakening full of freedom and joy, a conversion of sorts. Thus the Enneagram is seen as a mystical tool for solving mankind's problem, lack of self-knowledge, that's the big problem, of course, and providing the means of salvation, which is self-discovery. So it's about focus inward, finding out my true self. This is very in in variety of ways in the political discourse even right now. I I found it very helpful actually. You found the Enneagram helpful? So what w what did you find out about your true self? Uh well not not in the sense so I mean I think first it's important uh to couch this i by saying um Uh so so like with with all of these things, right? Um so if people are gonna view any of these personality tests as like Yeah like keys, right? Like they they unlock something like that was hidden before. Uh right. That that is uh That that sort of is is like m making making that thing more important than scripture, than than the Bible, right? Um so so one, I think anytime anytime we're looking at anything, learning anything new, finding out anything that is, you know, helpful knowledge, right? 'Cause we're warned against that in scripture. We're warned against worshiping knowledge, right? Um and uh and learning. Uh that that can become a god to us. Um so But I'm intrigued. What you you actually like filled out all the the questionnaire and and did the and all that. There's like a million of them out there. Yeah. Uh I mean the one that I was exposed to twenty years ago, it was Holy cow. Lots of questions. Yeah, there's a whole there's a whole lot of different things. I mean th there's like simple little tests online and stuff. Okay. Well so I did this big full finangle thing years ago and I just sounded to be gibberish myself. I didn't find it helpful like even a little bit and a little weird actually. Even then. Now I'm sure I'd find it even more weird. But you don't seem to find it all that weird. You found it helpful. Unless you're being tongue in cheek. I don't know. No, I'm I'm being serious. Uh and Um how how did you find it helpful? What was helpful about it? Well and and just to just to tie into something else that we've said about all these things, which is uh Right, like i it takes it takes real truth to make a good lie. Sure. Right. That's that's how people get led down paths away from God is by being given true real date. Right. And then and then they head down. They they follow places they shouldn't go. So um Uh the the thing that I have that I found helpful about it is uh is considering uh i it it causes you to think about the the differences in people. Uh what makes people different. And and I I think that if we're if we couch that conversation, right, and And I you know, and I I never thought of it as anything more much more than just like a a personality test. Right. And the the idea behind a personality test is if you can try to broadly categorize people into different personalities, you know, the uh two basic ones i i it would be introverted and extroverted, you know, and you know if you know somebody's more introverted or extroverted ahead of time you might be able to interact with them in a way that number one does not cause as much offense and number two lets you accomplish whatever your mutual goals are with meeting that person. Yes. That's the idea. So it can it can help you be more hospitable Right, if you understand how other people are different from you. How is it actually bringing that up in this context actually? You're reading my mind. And uh Are you a mind reader? Yeah, the E S P. Are you clairvoyant? She's just looking at your at your open hand over there. Uh so right, so like we need to be hospitable, and part of being hospitable is getting to know how other people are different from us. Uh also I think you know considering the differences in uh every every one of us has different strengths and weaknesses. Right. And so can s thinking about how people are different from one another, which I God has made us different from one another, right? And that's good. Uh and so so taking that into consideration, that that also helps us to say, okay, you know, what what are my strengths and weaknesses? Uh as well. So like it's it's it's good to uh to to think about who we are to think about who other people are, who God has made them to be. And and and also the different ways that we Um the different ways that people uh bear God's image, right? Because of by their by their strengths that that God has built into them. Yeah, I'm gonna jump in for a second. That's David Forcey. Um I'm Troy Skinner. You're gonna be hearing from Daniel in a second because he's like he's got a look on his face like I've got some things I want to say or ask. But I want to jump in um I don't want to say this. I feel like there is some truth in what you're saying, but I would feel like I would apply that to the more generic Gallup personality tests or the Myers-Briggs tests or Are you an achiever? Are you a connector? Are you like you know what are you? Those aren't those don't have an as far as I know, maybe somebody can educate me, but those don't have any sort of spiritual background or baggage in them. I mean you read some of these guys Uh Roman Catholic Friar Richard Rohr says the Enneagram is concerned with change and making a turnaround, what the religious traditions call conversion or repentance. Another guy, uh Roman Catholic, and he's an author, Christopher Hertz, he says that the anagram is much more than a personality tool, says it provides nine ways we can find our way back to God. Uh an episcopal priest, Ian Crowan uh Crohn, I think, says, um, every number on the Enneagram teaches us something about the nature and character of the God who made us. I mean these are spiritual For those of you listening, there is only one way to God, not nine ways. Yeah, and so that I mean I'm concerned. I would I I I want to throw out like a caution flag a little bit. You know what it reminds me of as you were talking? What it reminds me of And we we're we're dealing in the throes of it these last five, six years now. It reminds me of critical race theory, of CRT. The defenders of CRT is it's an analytical tool. It's just it's just an analytical tool But it's analyzing things that the Bible can help us analyze. I I I'm concerned that the spiritual aspects of this are undercutting the sufficiency of Scripture. That would be my concern. any personality test type of thing and this n whether whether it has a cult history or not is if you're gonna put yourself in a box And then that's the whole critical race theory issue too. You're putting yourself in a box and then saying, Well, this is how I am. There is no way to change that. I'm always going to be this way, so I might as well learn to live with it. And and you might say, Well, Daniel, you may used to you say that gender is unchangeable. Well yeah, 'cause that's that's a physical reality, but the way that you you interact with uh things and and and the way you use your mind and and your s spirit uh you know, God can change your heart and change change your uh you know your mind in different ways to to give you new uh ways ways ways of serving serving God and serving the church. I think it's a little bit different for personalities. Now David, have you done Myers Briggs or The Gallup or any of the other ones, or is this the only quote unquote personality test that you believe? No, I think I I think there's a couple others that Did you find the Enneagram more helpful than the other ones? Uh yeah. And how so? Yeah. So uh and let's see. So I've I've done um Uh there's uh there's one called what strengths finder that was popular. Is that the one that has the the uh the shapes? The squiggle, the triangle, the square, the circle. I don't think so. Uh the strength finder is is is popular a number of years ago. Yeah. I've done like a half a dozen of them 'cause That was in sales. I mean it's like every three years. Every seminar every seminar you go to they they give you what they want to do. So the the thing that um Th the thing that I I found helpful about the NA gram is because like there are these there there are these sort of like nine right uh basic categories. Um but uh but the thing that I found helpful about it is that uh it it it it basically th the idea of of the Enneagram in essence is that right y you m you might sort of you might fit into one of those categories But there are there are ways that you um there there are a lot of nuances to that, right? There are a lot of ways that you uh like you you know The the different categories tend to think about the other categories in certain ways. Um And i it it's just it's much more nuanced and and I think that it right, I again I I think if you start with God God has created us. Right? He's made us to bear his image. Uh there are a lot of different aspects to God's image. Right? And we don't all Right. He hasn't he hasn't made us all the same. Like he's made us different from one another for a reason. I'm not exaggerating. I think I've taken at least six of these different things. I if there's a major one out there, I've probably done it. Yeah. And uh and some of them I've done times because you work for different companies or different w different bosses come in or different seminars and y y you might take the uh the Myers Briggs three times in your life or whatever. And the thing I found to be interesting is the results were not the same every time. So I think if there's any value in any of these things, I think that their only value is giving you a snapshot of where you are right then. If you guys you might find this hard to believe you've only known me, you know, within relatively recent years. If you knew me thirty years ago, you wouldn't recognize me I was totally But if you're not changing, you're not growing. I mean after you're dead. Yeah, but I was totally like introverted and you know nose in a book all the time and very awkward. I mean still awkward but in different ways. Um but I was not You know, I couldn't do this show thirty years ago. I couldn't you know well, I could do a different version. I could I could be do an insulated version of a kind of a show. But in my personal life I just I'm a very different person, so my s my personality profile will be very different thirty years ago than it would be today. I I could take one now and take it in a year and it'd be different. So I don't know that I ha that always kind of p whatever psaw. And Daniel brought up the um Love languages, the five love languages. Now that's supposedly based on some sort of Christian idea and biblical model. And even that is like, okay, whatever. It puts people in a box artificially. I I I'm not an even fan of that one. And then the enneagram makes me even more uh suspicious or uh put off by it. I'm just I'm not where you are on on the I you know, I think it's like uh uh maybe the five love languages in in particular is more like Um like a like a little coffee table book that has like some get to know you kind of questions like you know, like what kind of things do you like? What would you do in this situation? You know, how would you feel if this happened? But if it's not based on scriptural truth, you might as well ask a magic eight ball those questions. No no no no no no no. I I disagree with you. This is an identifier and people do change, people do grow and move And but whatever your situation is now, I mean you might have trauma and you can get healed from trauma and now those same things don't bother you anymore. So if this is just a tool used to identify what your personality is right now, that doesn't mean you're that's the personality you're gonna die with I mean I was no I'm agreeing with that. I was extremely changing. So Right. I was extremely introverted in in in uh high school even. Uh even a tenth grader if I didn't see my parents when I was going grocery shopping I'd start breaking out in the sweat and start crying. as tenth grader. I was just just very uh phobious. And that all changed because I made a decision to change. I didn't like my life, uh changed. So I think if the an anneagram or whatever it is, and I don't know m enough about it, but if it's used to identify different things that that you that uh your behavior shows And that is the starting point of how to change your behavior. But I don't need the Enagram to tell me that. Scripture can tell me that, right? A good sermon will tell me. That's my concern, is I feel like we're we're really weakening the sufficiency of scripture We're trying to find our true nature through the Enneagram. No, God tells me what your true nature is. My heart is desper desperately wicked. Who can understand it? I'm a sinner in need of sav saving. And I've committed probably every sin imaginable, at least in my heart You know, that's my true nature. I need to have a new nature by being born again. I don't need the Enneagram to tell me those things. I think there's a difference and and David apparently has had a different experience with this, but From what I've seen and I've researched in Agram a a decent amount. Uh I've heard so some sermons on about it as well. Um the guy the The the it it goes deeper for that than other personality tests. Uh Troy, your um phone is dying now. Um It goes it goes deeper for an Agram. It's more of, you know, this is the way that you you are and and and and uh it there's there's a lot more spiritual. But it's got a lot of Freudianism in it too, if I remember correctly. And it was talking about like, you know, there's a difference between your like you Your person is your essence, but then there's also your ego. And it's talking about who what your ego is. That's very Freudian. That's not really biblical language. I'm trying to remember all the things I remember from twenty years ago. I'm very scattershot, but I'm sure yeah, I'm sure there's a lot of uh and and it uh it all depends on who is um Uh in in my opinion I I think it depends on the the the lens through which you're viewing it, right? So if you're viewing it through the lens of modern psychology, right, then And not just modern psychology, but also esoter esoteric psychology if that's a term. New Ageism, occultism, it esoteric psychology kinda blends a whole bunch of these things kind of together. And I feel like the Enneagram reinforces somebody to go down that path. It's kind of the Myers Bridge, so I don't think I would say, well, okay, whatever You know, do it, don't do it, I don't care. But the Enneagram is has such a spiritual rootedness that I be I'm very nervous about accepting it's okay. I think that's because people have a a hunger for spiritual things. And Right, uh if if they can pursue if they can get some sort of sense of spiritual fulfillment apart from God you know, th they will, like that's our our sinful tendency, right, is to to try and to try and fill that space with something other than God, with something that focuses on us, right? Where we're worshiping us. Um and so uh again I I I think it's uh uh going back to several shows ago at this point, in some way similar to yoga, right, where there is uh like like like maybe you know, there is a certain sort of religion of sorts, you know. The Bill Formula. The founders and the creators of this program were intending it to be an occult type of thing. Uh or maybe New Age at least. Yeah or such a thing as a holy Enneagram. I I think there is a uh Um, you know, just like the Bible doesn't have everything in it about uh you know what we should do to be physically healthy. Right? I I think that that uh through through e experience and discussion. And you know, certainly a and and the thing that I do like about the Enneagram is I think it one, it recognizes that we are spiritual beings. uh and uh that's true, right? Two it it recognize like it it talks about us in terms of of uh uh in in in biblical terms of what is what's good and what's evil, right? What's sinful and what's righteous. And uh and Right, and so and we should filter all of that through scripture, you know, is is this true, is this right? You know, what what are my sinful tendencies? You know, what are the things that God w you know, and and there's spiritual gifts, right? Like that God gives to h people in his church and You know, uh I I should I should try to recognize what those are that God has placed in me and use those strengths. Yeah, I'm gonna do that. So to your point, uh that you said about sales and about all these different things that help you evaluate and stuff. I mean while uh you're always f trying to find ways to be a better salesperson, right? I've I've been doing that and been sales, how do I be become a better salesperson? And this Christian um you know uh help guy uh you know, I bought into his program 'cause he was he was a Christian and he's telling me all these different things that he can help me be a better self and better closer, better this, better that, and improve my life. And I bought it and brought it home and started looking at it. My wife looked at it and she said, No, don't do this. This is not biblical. I said, But the guy is a Christian. He's a he he's he's this and that and he proclaims Christ and everything he does. She said, But this is all about your inner self and how you can repeat the certain words and to make it happen and and to it's like it's a prosperity gospel which is not biblical. And I didn't even notice that because I was looking for ways to improve my performance. So a to David's point is there's a lot of tools out there. You gotta know what you're looking at, but though if you're disidentifying what's wrong with you Th that's a good way place to start and if that using something uh you gotta know where it's coming from and and give the glory back to God because that's really where it is. And I might have to take the uh the final word here. I will say, in in fairness to David, because I've been pushing back on it. It it seems to me that there could possibly be some good meat in there and you could chew and digest that meat and spit out the bones. My concern is there's so many bones. And the risk of choking on one of those bones, uh with the enneagram feels very, very high to me. So I would I w so you can agree with David? You can Yeah, be use caution. You can agree with David if you want and be wrong. That's okay. Or you can agree with me. There's a lot of bones to choke on when you go to the shopping mall. So anyway. So that's uh David David Forresey, uh thank you for being on the show and being a good sport about my uh my ribbing. Uh bones, ribs. Uh Daniel Imron Raspberry, thank you for being on the show on Troy Skinner. Find us online at householdfaith in Christ. com and WFMB. com until next week, 167 and a half hours from about now. God bless Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com.