This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most. Most others learn in a week. The faith debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this. Corner weighing in with a master of divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Oh, yeah, Troy Skinner. Welcome to the Faith Debate. Thanks for tuning in. Appreciate it very much. much on this Sunday morning. Um we don't have a panel. You know? Had to get some shows done while we were under the uh really strict uh rules about gathering together and so trying to do my Part to practice anti-social distancing, and so here we are. Um, what just happened? Hmm, okay. That stopped suddenly. I'm not sure why that stopped so suddenly, but okay. No fade out of music, just sudden stop. I was afraid to stop recording, but it's it's still there. So if you listen last couple of weeks, you've heard me uh run through some things I shared on social media, have shared with my congregation, have shared with people I've talked to personally, and now I'm sharing with you on the show as it relates to the coronavirus, the COVID nineteen stuff, the economic uh problems, all that sort of stuff. And as I record now the stuff that I'm sharing with you, I I shared I was early adopter on jumping all over this. Uh in February I was uh I was was trying to get in front of this and trying to warn people against fear. Uh Seems like I lost uh the warning went unheeded for a lot of people, but fear seems to have uh uh won the day in large measure in a lot of people's lives, unfortunately. Anyway, so and now as I'm re as I'm recording this for you, it's you know it's weeks Weeks and weeks actually now, but before this particular episode's gonna air, so who knows how much the world's gonna change? Who knows if Christ will return by now? So you won't be hearing this at all if that's the case, I wouldn't wouldn't imagine. Uh I don't think the face debate show will be on the radio in the uh New Heavens and New Earth. Well who knows? I don't know that for sure. I don't know What's to say? Uh I shared something at the end of last week's show that Paul Monday had had written and uh I'm not gonna read this next thing, but I'm gonna point you to it Uh a good friend of mine, uh dear, dear friend of mine, uh Bill Full Love, he was once uh my pastor. He was once even one of my seminary professors. He is a brilliant thinker Uh but even more important to me than that is that he has a deft pastoral touch. And uh he has wrote an open letter. That is a beautiful explanation of what his supersized church in McLean uh decided to do in their context. So and I would expect nothing less than the sort of quality that we get from uh from Reverend Dr. Fulolo's keyboard. So I would encourage you to go to the uh website for Um McLean Presbyterian and and and see if you can find that open letter by Bill Fullove. Dr. Bill Fullove. It's really good stuff if you have the time to read it. It probably took you just, you know, five minutes or something. So it might take you five minutes to find it and five minutes to read it. All right, Bill Full Love, uh Pastor one of the pastors at McLean Presbyterian in McLean, Virginia. So anyway, so now let me turn you to some other words written by a friend of mine. This one I'm going to read, okay? This is from uh also a a different friend who is also a former mentor of mine. Um his name is John Frost And he writes, the antidote, antidote, there we go, for anxiety is calm. The antidote for fear is hope. The antidote for bad news is encouragement. The antidote for despair is to be uplifted. The thing we need to do is to double down on why people come to us in the first place because that's the benefit, the value they need now more than ever. Trust is not impulsive. Trust can only be built over time. Trust is built with a mindset of a farmer, not that of a hunter. Plant, tend, plow, fertilize, weed, repeat. Build relationships and be there when they need you. What is your role while the coronavirus is in the headlines and impacting people's daily lives? Well, consider three things. Here's some practical information. Or three things. The first one being practical information. Balance the latest news, which is mostly negative, with context. For instance, did you know that 93% of all cases are from only four countries in the world? This was true when he wrote it. Did you know that the coronavirus has a greater likelihood of affecting older adults who already have lower immune systems or existing health issues? Did you know that no cases have been reported in any children under the age of fifteen? Again, this is all true when he wrote it Eighty percent of those impacted by the virus have recovered. Obviously these numbers change daily, he says. Avoid what one psychologist calls gloom and doom entertainment I'm not suggesting we minimize the severity of the situation, only that we offer context. Here, here. The next thing he writes about here is expert advice. Dwight Bain says, the more you panic, the more your immune system goes down. A strong immune system will fight any virus or bacteria. We want our immunity system to go up When you panic, your immunity goes down. Also, you can be a good neighbor and remind your friends how they can best protect their health while not panicking. And his third point, faith and where we find hope. Be a constant reminder, and contrast to the media, of the true hope we offer every day of the year. Fear not. is the most frequently mentioned command in the Bible. In fact, it's given 365 times one for every day of the year. I've recommended consistent daily prayer with believers praying for the containment of the virus, the protection of our community, and for the researchers and scientists who are searching for a cure. This is also a great opportunity to utilize social media to connect our purpose to others. Want to supercharge your immunity system? Focus on positivity over fear. The more you laugh, the more you meditate on scripture, the more you practice diaphragmic breathing, the more you pray, the stronger your immunity grows. Breathe. Trust, believe. That's how to increase faith over fear. And that was a quote from Dwight Bain inside of an extended quote from John Frost, a friend of mine who is a very wise observer of life, isn't he? And so yeah, we need to build relationships, which is one of the reasons why I hope I hope is we can see each other, you know, with great regularity. Um And they get a point to do so. And uh as this airs, if we're not allowed to do that by the powers that be yet, hopefully that'll change really, really soon. Um I recently heard plenty of a fresh per fresh per uh having a hard time speaking here all of a sudden, fresh perspectives to contrast with what is heard from mainstream media perspectives that I think could actually be helpful to people. So here are some uh that are listed below. Quote, when the story of COVID-19 is just a story we tell, let's make sure our stories are worth telling. It's a quote by Andy Stanley. Quote, the more messages that get out there about how we should behave and how we should respond to this dilemma of the coronavirus outbreak, the more we can all work together in the face of a crisis. End quote. That's uh Stephen Dragotas. Our God is the God that takes these difficulties and turns them into opportunities. Hearts are soft. People are listening. Max Ocato. While I can't control the situation around me, I can control my actions Doing breath work, calling loved ones, getting enough sleep and proper nutrition, prayer, and doing activities I love at home will all help during this time. Also, washing my hands regularly, avoiding close contacts with those who are sick and re Reminding others where to find hope and to focus on the things we should dwell on. Again, that's John Frost. Yeah, I hope that we all feel the privilege, for those of us that are believers in Christ, the privilege that it is to be a Christian during what is a rather unusual season. Because when you think about it, after all, I mean this is what we practice for. Right, so let's be a blessing to others as we recognize God's blessing to us. I saw this on social media. And it uh it captured my attention. I don't usually read memes or things of directly from social media, uh, but this one caught my attention so I figure I would. It says, in three short months, just like he did with the plagues of Egypt, God has taken away everything we worship. God said, You want to worship athletes? I'll shut down the stadiums. You want to worship musicians? I'll shut down civic centers. You want to worship actors? I'll shut down theaters. You want to worship money? I'll shut down the economy. Collapse the stock market. You don't want to go to church and worship me? I'll make it where you can't go to church. Chronicles 7. 14 says, If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven, and will forgive their sin and will heal their land. Maybe we don't need a vaccine. Maybe we need to take this time of isolation from the distractions of the world and have a personal revival where we focus on the only thing in the world that really matters. Jesus. Start the revival in your home. Spread the love of Jesus. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD online at WFMD. com. I am Troy Skinner without a panel. uh for probably obvious reasons at this point. Uh so we've got uh not quite halfway through today's show, just uh reminding you who we are. And uh what what we're trying to do here. I'm sharing with you things that uh I've already shared on social media, shared with people in private, shared with people in my congregation, and now I'm sharing with you And here I'm going to share an item that's adapted from something I read by Christopher Wels uh Wesley. Life can be can feel pretty draining in the season we're in. Stress can drain you to the point where you wonder, why bother with anything? That's why it's so important to practice what we've been taught and to lean into our need for prayer. So many burn out or are tempted to give up because they ignore the basics of the faith. that we share with others. We need prayer, but it can be easier said than done because it's too easy to confuse it with work. Or we assume that we'll get to it in a moment because it's readily available, or busyness takes over, or we invest in what others say about us over God, etc. No matter our reasons, we need to have discipline in our spiritual life and practice. How? Embrace the challenge and surround yourself with Christians for accountability. And always have quick access to a Bible. Pick up the scriptures. Confess your sins. Have quiet time. Attend weekly worship in whatever ways are available to you in your situation. The reality is faith is evidenced by work. Embrace the struggle and remind yourself it will be hard at times, but it's worth it. That prayer is a priority. Are you starting out your day and various aspects of your day with prayer? Whether it's personal or professional prayer needs to consume everything that you're doing. You need to consciously involve God in every part of your everyday life. Many advocate that the most important time to incorporate prayers in the morning, whether getting up at 5 a. m. or noon. We need to make sure that we're giving God thanks and seeking his guidance. Perhaps you should build it into your daily habit by putting it on your schedule and working on it. Create boundaries. Mixing prayer and work isn't a bad thing. However, you do need clear boundaries. Set aside time when you just go with your family or on your own for times of focused prayer. By committing to prayer without ceasing, and prayer focused in regular moments of intensity, you'll experience in God, filling you with his joy. Build in accountability because you need people sharpening your faith journey. We all need people making sure that we are constantly growing. We need people praying, and you need people praying with you. And for you in your journey. Take time away to retreat from the messiness of life. Sometimes you need to step out to purely and intently focus on Christ. When doing so, you can offer up all your worries and anxieties to become rooted in Christ. Prayer is one of the most essential tools that we need for the long haul. Above almost everything else, make it a priority in how you live your life. Might take work, but the benefits always outweigh the labor. So I stand in prayer with you and with God's people. And I also want to mention I received a um a newsletter from good friends of mine, and they actually were they were on uh this show about a year ago, I want to say now. uh the Weirsma family, Scott and Susie Weirsma and their children serving long-term overseas missions in Albania and wow, you think it's draconian in parts of uh this country right now. Wow, the stuff they were sharing what was going on in Albania. So as bad as it seems, it can always be worth worse. So you can keep that perspective too, right? There's always somebody that's as we also as we heard as kids. There's children starving in Ethiopia. There's there's always somebody who's got it worse. So uh let's not forget that healthy perspective too sometimes. It's it could be helpful. Um So here's something uh do I have time? Yeah, I think I I think I have time to do this. A member of uh of of my church sent me an interesting meme. And uh I really appreciated that he shared it with me. Uh because it's a meme that certainly captures the opinion of many during the world's current pandemic. And many of us they might have questions about how we should understand such statements as reflected in the meme. And so I feel it could be helpful if I were to offer you a few comments from my perspective. So first, here's what the Internet meme says. Quote The Lord commanded a lockdown during the Passover in Egypt that every member of the household was to be home, hidden, and protected under the blood of the Lamb, partaking the Passover lamb with members of the family. Don't feel bad about closing the church during this lockdown period. Your faith is just being tested and strengthened. When you're being taught something and God is doing a work, be still and know He is God. End quote So what are we to make of this quote? Well, here are a few thoughts for your consideration. This meme contains at least a sliver of biblical truth, there's no doubt. But as with any meme, it is too lacking in substance, because it's a meme, to maintain status as the final word on the matter. Some church leaders and churchgoers, they have determined that in their context and within their biblically informed conscience, the God-honoring thing to do is to avoid gathering corporately for at least a short while. Some church leaders and churchgoers have determined that in their context and within their biblically informed conscience, the God-honoring thing to do is to continue gathering corporately for at least a moment. And both groups can be correct. How? Because their circumstances are different. As an expositional matter, the meme quoted above that as I quoted here at the beginning here It offers a weak case of support for those who might be looking for a biblical defense of the decision to dispense with corporate gatherings. This group who went who was dispensing with the gatherings, they might indeed have strong biblical support for their decision, but using the argument found in this meme would be to miss the context of the Passover story that's recorded for us in the book of Exodus. In this scriptural narrative, the people of God They weren't instructed to stay away from worshiping him, but rather to demonstrate their worship of him. God's people weren't cowering in fear of sickness, but were obediently following God's life-giving instructions. God's people weren't giving in to fear of proximate worldly enemies, but rather gave evidence of a righteous fear of our ultimate supernatural God. So put simply, the people who were spared by the Lord in the Passover had an appropriate and honoring fear of God. And put conversely, the people who were not spared from death on that particular night due to having they were not spared due to having an inappropriate and dishonoring fear of the world. So you can see that the meme doesn't exactly square up and fit the space very well. God's people, they found protection from the judgment of a holy God by trusting in the blood of the Lamb. And this is a profound corollary for God's people today. We'll find ultimate and eternal protection from the judgment of our holy God in the blood of the Lamb. We must always remember that Jesus Himself teaches in Luke chapter 24 and John chapter 5 that the whole Bible It's about him. Until we uncover how all the passages, including those related to the Passover, instruct us in the revelation of the Messiah, we have not found the intended meaning of those passages. Exodus chapter 12 is about Christ, who will come in judgment to destroy his enemies, while at the same time protecting those who are his. And we recognize those who are his by their obedience. This is a central theme for us to glean from the story of Exodus. Now the question of whether or not to take a break from corporate worship gatherings is a question of obedience for pastors and for all believers. Deciding to take a break and deciding to not take a break in our current worldwide situation can both be the right decision. And they can both be the wrong decision. Immense trust in God to provide wisdom by the guidance of the Spirit is needed in a dramatic way at times such as this. So I implore you, please, include all pastors everywhere in your prayers at this time. You know, too many are being too quick to be too condemning. Of pastors and congregations thinking differently about what they should do at a time such as this. We are called to give evidence Of the fruit of the Spirit in our lives. So when thinking about fellow believers, let's think in terms that are loving, good, kind, patient, and gentle. If we can demonstrate this level of self-control, then we are likely to witness more joy, peace, and faithfulness among God's people. So let's stand together with all the brothers and sisters in this sort of thing and recognize it's it's it's tough and everybody's in a different situation and they're making decisions for their situation. Um I do have to I had plenty of time to do that, didn't I? I've got time to share something more. Okay, so Uh da da. Yeah, so what I was talking about uh just now is talking about the divide in the church right now. It and it's it's caused uh by some churches that are cause that are canceling con congregational gatherings and others that are continuing congregational gatherings. And it's a major issue that's affecting the unity of the body of Christ at this moment in history. And so really I I'm feeling compelled to dive a bit deeper into the debate for everyone's mutual edification on this. And given that most of the negative energy appears to be directed at the churches who have decided to continue meeting Right now I'm going to try to uh self-consciously work to help us see things from their perspective, the ones who are mostly under attack. Let's take up their cause a little bit. Any church making the decision to cancel worship services, so long as it's a decision that's rooted in godly fear and not worldly fear. can properly make that decision, having prayerfully sought wisdom, provided to their biblically informed conscience However, the church making the decision to meet together, so long as it is a decision rooted in godly obedience and not worldly self-righteousness, Can also properly make that decision, having prayerfully sought wisdom provided to their biblically informed conscience A church group that does not meet will, as many currently like to argue, perhaps keep someone's mom from contracting a contagious illness that leads to her death. However, consider if the church group that did meet had that same mom as a visitor to their church on the day that's in question. And she hears the gospel that day. And God uses that moment to bring her to saving repentance. And so seen this way, isn't it Fair to say that both churches sought the loving path forward? And the way the illustration is constructed here Wouldn't it be fair to say that the mom in the second scenario, the one who has salvation, is in much better shape than the mom in the first scenario? And as an intramural question, is it possible for the body of Christ to have more generous attitude toward one another and toward pastors who are tasked with making such a difficult decision? As an exercise and larger question, how far do we want to extend our risk tolerance? In addition to avoiding church gatherings, should Christians also avoid going to the grocery store? Even without having attended the worship service, a Christian could contaminate the cashier at the grocery store, who might be someone's mom. And if the answer is, well, getting bread from the grocery store is a n is a necessity, well that's fair enough, but isn't getting the bread of life, from a Christian's perspective, an even greater necessity of eternal consequence? Yeah, it's something to think about. I'm gonna pick up the the the thought thread on this in next week's show. Um so we'll be doing I guess it'll be our fourth I think it's going to be our fourth program uh uh on these topics. Um and so maybe maybe that'll be the last one. We'll see. We'll see how much more fodder for material I have here. By the way, uh joyous uh Memorial Day. We just celebrated Memorial Day. And you know, I can't help but think, you know, there are a lot of freedoms, and not to make this political, but a lot of freedoms that people gave their lives for in this country. And those freedoms some would argue are under assault, some would argue they've been surrendered. Um Something to think about. You can find our show online, WFMD. com. Keyword Faith takes you to the Faith Debate page. Uh there you will find uh a a teaser of shows that are coming up in the near future. You'll also see a rundown of shows that are aired recently a description of those shows so to see a topic or or guests that you find interesting, you can listen to those podcasts. You can uh find those podcasts right on the Faith Debate show and you can find a longer list of podcasts in the WFMD audio vault section. That's where we archive the older shows. And uh I know there's hundreds of them. Hundreds and hundreds of them More than you'd ever care to listen to, probably. But uh pick the ones you like and listen to 'em. Uh till next week, one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours from right about now. God bless