This is the Fate Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Thanks so much for tuning in as part of your Sunday routine. So much appreciated. You can find us online. The easiest way is just go to householdfaith in Christ dot com and there you can connect with the Faith Debate Show. You can connect with podcasts, you can connect with blogs. connect with uh every all my social media, everything that's involved with this show and my life. I'm an open book. You want to try to find me on social media, I guess you can. I don't use any clever handles or anything like that. If I you know if you try to find me on Parlor or Mi We or Facebook or Gab or LinkedIn or whatever other stuff's out there. Just look for Troy Skinner, you'll find me. I don't use any fancy names. I don't hide behind aliases. I want people to know what I believe and why, and I'm willing to stand behind it and Take the bullets if they should come, God forbid. So um we've spent the last we're now thinking a month into this. The the the new edition of the the new improved edition. Like kind of remember like when we were kids? Every Tide commercial was new and improved. Like Tide was always new and improved. That's like the faith debate now. Every episode is the new and improved faith debate. So let's keep that in mind Uh next week's show will be even better than this week's show. Well that's actually a guarantee because you're about to hear an awful lot about me, sadly, this week. A few weeks ago we heard from Imran Raz Razvy, he is the pastor of a house church and the founder of Concord by Love Ministries. They have a website, Concord by Love Ministries. org. And uh right. Concordbylove. org. Concordbylove. org. Don't you don't need the ministry's part in the website. Concordbylove. org. And uh see what they're all about. Lots of great resources for raising your family and and dealing with difficult situations and and that sort of thing. So Uh we also heard uh so we heard uh Imran share his story, which is pretty dramatic. So if you missed that, go find the podcast from a few weeks ago and listen to that. Uh after raise uh being raised uh in in Islam, uh converted to Christianity. Then the week after that we heard from his son, Daniel Razve, uh and we heard about you know his uh I think the most interesting and uh Compelling part of that testimony was the last half when we talked about the courtship and the marriage and the wedding and drawing the connection between uh his wedding ceremony, which is a traditional Pakistani Middle Eastern wedding and how it connects to a biblical wedding. I thought that was particularly helpful and interesting. Uh so you might want to check that out on podcast as well. And then last week we um heard the the story, the backstory and the testimony of uh David Forcy. He's the pastor of the House that meets at David's house. and um heard about his family and his uh walk into the ministry and uh where his heart on things are now and I don't think we nailed this one to the ground so if you've got the answer of what a production arborist is and how production arborists are different than other arborists, you can email me pastorskinner at protonmail. com because I am curious because David is a production arborist. As opposed to a consumption arborist apparently. I don't know what that's opposed to me. I'm not sure. But anyway. So now it's my turn to share a story. If you go back four weeks, I guess, uh the first Sunday in September, I was kinda sharing the story of the show. and how we've evolved over time and why we're doing what we're doing now. So if you're curious why we're going to have the same panel week after week after week, go back to the first Sunday in September, listen to that show and get an understanding of why we're doing what we're doing now. So I'm Troy Skinner. Who am I? Well, I think I should start with the highlights. So after I've climbed Everest, uh I don't have real fancy, exciting stuff in my story, but I have some pretty dramatic stuff uh in my story. So I don't want to get bogged down in the details of the drama, so I'll just kind of skate across the top and Those who have shared similar dramas in their life will probably be able to make a connection and say, Oh, I think I know what he's talking about there. So When I was born, um my mom was uh just newly married and uh her husband decided he didn't really want to have a new wife, a new baby, and so he disappeared from the scene and so I have no physical memory of ever seeing my father. So my mom, when that happened, moved back to where she grew up and so that's where I grew up. I grew up in the Chicago, Illinois area, the the west and uh northwest suburbs of Chicago Uh so I grew up a lifelong Chicago sports fan. Uh my first sport rooting interest was the Chicago Cubs, so 2016 was a good year for me when the Cubs finally won a World Series. Um but to be honest, as big a Cub fan as I was and uh uh uh uh was throughout my life and still was up until a few years ago when I've become less enamored with professional sports. I don't count myself a big fan of anything anyway. I still kinda pay attention, but I'm not I don't watch the games and stuff anymore. I'm just more important things to do. But I would say if I had to pick a Chicago sports team that that I'm still most connected with uh psychologically or emotionally or whatever, would be the Chicago Bears. So nineteen eighty-five was a good year for me that in that uh season of life. And, you know, Michael Jordan and the Bulls and all that sort of stuff. So that was a big part of my life. It dominated my life for a long time. So when I w uh was going to school, when I was in high school, I'll get they'll do the church ministries uh kind of stuff after. So let me get the more secular stuff done first. So when I was in high school I thought I was gonna be a doctor. So I was um training myself in that direction. I was taking all the because I I don't know if all high schools do it the same, but my high school we had some options in choosing different kinds of classes and tracks that we would get on So I was on a science and math track in high school with the idea of going to medical school. Uh pretty either right before or shortly after graduating from high school, I decided to shift gears and go in an engineering direction instead So when I entered uh college, I entered as an engineering major and uh if I knew now what I knew then I might have stuck with it. But My first experience with the engineering classes, I wasn't enjoying them. You know, if this is what engineers do, I don't think I want to do this So my second year I continued to go to college but I didn't have a declared major. I was just trying to figure it out. I found out since then by talking to engineers. Like yeah, I hated my first year of engineering classes too, but fortunately we don't have to do any of that stuff. Should have stuck it out. I needed you in my life back then maybe. Of course if I did that, I wouldn't be doing this, which we're hearing right now. And you're thinking, Why didn't you stay with engineering? I know, I get it. So I'm having this kind of this, you know, quarter life crisis instead of a midlife crisis. Like what am I gonna do with my life? And my best friend at the time, and to be honest, uh I would still count him as one of my dearest, dearest friends even to this day. Uh he said, you're a huge sports fan. Like, you know, I mean nobody knows more about the Cubs and the Bears and the Bulls and even the Blackhawks and DePaul Blue Demon basketball and even just the broader teams outside of Chicago, like you're so into it, like you should do that. I say th like what do you mean do that? Yeah, you should be like and one of the more popular uh sportscasters on TV in Chicago at the time was a guy named Mark Gian Greco. And he said, Oh, you can do like what Mark Gian Greco does. And so yeah, like those jobs grow on trees. He said, Well, Mark Gian Greco got the job. Like Why couldn't you someday get that job? Like somebody's got to do those jobs. Why couldn't it be you? And the simple, profound like wisdom of that, like, yeah, why not me? So I totally shifted gears and I put all my energy, my last two years in college, uh, in a broadcasting track and I learned way too much about television and radio. If I had to do it over again, I probably would have uh still pursued that professional track maybe, but I would have taken more classes that had to do with history and philosophy and things like that. Uh, 'cause a lot of the things that I learned in T V and and radio uh either aren't important anymore because the industry has changed so much. Or the the kinds of things you can learn on the job. And so I didn't need to waste my time in school doing that. So but anyway, so I got into the radio business. My first uh paid job I had some uh well In broadcasting. I had some uh related to the skill set that I uh like production houses and that sort of thing. I did some things like that by first paid job in the broadcast industry was as a disc jockey on a, and I'm going to emphasize this, country and Western radio station. It wasn't just country. Wasn't what you think of as country music? It was country and Western. It was, you know, swing music, Texas swing music and You know, stuff that went way back, you know, from Hank Snow, and I don't know if these names read anything to you. Lefty Frizzell, you know, uh people from like the even the fifties, you know, fifties, sixties, seventies uh kind of country music. Lots of twang, lots of steel guitar. Um so that was my first paying job in the business. And then I uh but that wasn't what I wanted to do. I didn't want to be a disc jockey, I wanted to be a sports guy So I persuaded them to let me do a sports cast uh uh on the station in addition to my paid duties, and so I was able to do that and build a resume tape, that sort of thing. I was able to send the tape to another radio station in the market And uh I wasn't very good, but I was persistent. And I kid you not, every time that radio station had an opening I applied. And I forget exactly how many times it was, but the hiring manager, I'm sitting across his desk for the third time, the sixth time, I don't know, it was a number of times. And he said, I'm gonna and he's not sure what to say to me. And so he says this is life advice for you listening. You got young kids, you want to tell them how to get a job? Be persistent. Show 'em you want the job. And if you and you hang in there long enough, you got a good shot at possibly getting the job. So he said, you know I'm gonna put the niceties aside. I didn't even listen to your last tape because your other tapes were so bad. I mean y You have no talent. You're horrible. They're among the worst resume tapes I've ever heard. But you know what? Every single time we have a job opening you apply. And you come in here and you try your best to persuade me to hire you and I tell you no and you go away with your tail between your legs, but then you come back three months later asking for a job. You know, somebody that's willing to try that hard that wants a job here that badly, I'm gonna hire you and see what you got. And so fortunately, um not only did I get the job, but he ha as it turns out uh is one of the best programming minds in the industry. He was early in his programming management career at the time, but he went on to wonderful, great things. People in the industry know who he is. He's a he's a name um with huge responsibilities on a national platform and he's a he's a big shot. And so this is a guy, he wasn't a big shot then But this is a guy that taught me so many things about the radio business and the programming side of things. And so that got me jump started. So that led to me, I was a news reporter and a sports reporter and um I had an opportunity to get a full this is part-time I was hired, an opportunity to get a full-time job by uh becoming a producer for somebody else's show. So not gonna turn down a full time job, took the full time job and I really wasn't on the air. I was doing a lot of behind the scenes stuff, a lot of production, a lot of uh bookings of guests. Uh I've talked to some really famous people on the phone. Like really, really, really famous people on the phone. Um and so that was fun, but it was again it wasn't what my dream and idea ideal was. I wanted to be doing sports. Well Things shifted around at the radio station and I had a chance to um uh to additionally produce a daily sports show And that, you know, long story short, that parlayed into me becoming a sidekick on that show. That parlayed into me hosting my own Call In Radio Sports Show. Uh there was a time when I was hosting a four-hour you know daily sports show. Uh uh and uh it wasn't necessarily the best idea for me or the show or what we were trying to do as a company, but You know, I'll throw it out there. I felt like I kind of made it. I wasn't making any money. But I felt like I made it because I was on a network of stations. My show was heard on twenty-two stations. And I was like, it's not gonna get a whole lot bigger than this. And I'm still making like no money. I gotta make some money. So I gotta get like on the managerial track or something, yeah, I gotta make some money. So I had a chance to get into management by moving. I was in Orlando at the time, by the way. Moved from Orlando to uh Syracuse where I had a chance to get into management. That's where I programmed a couple of stations there, a sports talk station and a news talk station. And uh by the time I left, um I was also the uh the director of news and pro uh so I was the director of news and programming. And back then they had real news departments. Today, you know, most radio stations don't have anybody doing news. Don't even give the news, and if they do it the news reader, so somebody that does something else happens to read the news they pull off the AP or something. And stations like WFMB that actually have a news staff, it's minimal. You know two or three people, that's all you got. Well, the station I was managing seriously have fifteen people on the news department. plus fifteen producers. I mean it's a big operation. That doesn't exist anymore. We can talk about that maybe sometime about how to curate our information and who to trust and where that information can come from. But then I still I want to I've realized the ones that really get to have fun are the general managers because they get to tell the program directors what to do. So how do I get that job? And the way m 98% of general managers have a sales background. So I decided to make a big shift in my career, moved to Frederick, got into sales. Which I did for twenty years uh here. And then because of my connection to the station and sales, they allowed me to do this radio show, which is still, you know, uh it's a hobby. I don't get paid for doing it, but it's a passion. And it allows me to talk about the preeminent passion in my life, which I'll now transition into. So the first church I can remember belonging to was I think it was an Episcopal church. The the uh my grandparents backyard abutted the church property. And so on Sunday mornings my grandparents would send me through the backyard to that church and they didn't go. They didn't even know anybody there. I don't think they'd ever met the pastor. I was like, I don't know, four years old, five years old, and they're sending me to church by myself. And fortunately, you know, there'd be some family there. Like, you know, to me I felt like they were 90, but it was probably like a 30 or 40 or 50 year old adult. It was like, you're here alone? Like And so they would take me under their wing and they'd bring me to the you know, the kids Sunday school class and they'd sit with me during the worship service and I didn't know what was going on, but and then when it was over I would just go home. And They would just let me go home. Like they weren't worried about where I was going. It was really weird. That's my first church experience. Um anyway, my mom finally um She remarried. That was horrible. He used to beat her mercilessly, so that didn't last very long. Um and then as a means of protecting me from the violence, uh she sent me to a boarding school, so I went to boarding school for three years And then she um eventually remarried uh yet again. Well anyway, in the midst of all of this, she's realizing that something's amiss in her life and she wants her son to grow up with some sense of But they didn't call it spirituality back then, you know, but that's what they would call it now. I want my son to have some spirituality. Have religion in his life kind of thing. So we went looking for a church. Well, she went looking for a church. I was her psychic. And this was after Vatican II. And so um the Roman Catholic churches were beginning to become quite a bit more experimental, and the hippie movement was gaining some ground inside of certain Roman Catholic uh congregations. And so she found a church that was kinda hippified and they were playing a goostic guitar and singing uh folk kind of worship songs and she's she's kinda hippified herself at the time and she's like, Hey I'm a hippie, they're a hippie, I'm gonna hang out here. So for a number of years I was uh you know, Roman Catholic. Uh but then she uh married her third husband. They're not still married uh anymore, but he's uh Constantly, he even to this day as far as I know, he's a person that kind of bounces between uh between uh uh religious and spiritual traditions trying to find the truth. Um last I heard he was dabbling with Buddhism, but I'm not sure if that's where he is now. I don't really keep in touch with him. Um have no reason to, so um but there was a time when I was in high school when one of the places that he landed and that therefore we as a family landed was the Worldwide Church of God led by Herbert W. Armstrong. I don't know if that name rings any bells in this room. or to you listening to the show. Herbert W. Armstrong's now long dead. Uh but uh he was leading a Christian cult. It it was this he founded it, I don't know, back in the twenties or thirties or something. He was an old guy. When I was going to that church he was like A hundred and fifty. I mean he was an old guy. And he used to do this radio and TV ministry and he had these big heavy jowls and he would talk like this and he had And he would talk about a lot of end times prophecy and all that sort of stuff. And then he would he would take a Bible and he would smack his hand on it as it and he'd go and he'd smack it and go, Boom! You gotta blow the dust off your Bibles That kind of guy. But his theology was kind of a mix, uh a cocktail, if you will, dangerous cocktail of Jehovah's Witness thinking and uh Mormon thinking and um uh Seventh day Adventist thinking and uh a a heavy dose of uh of various strains of dispensationalism and stuff. So some of what they thought was biblical and true. There was some good stuff, but mixed with a ton of bad stuff. And so Um I was thoroughly confused. And uh we also visited some other churches as I was a kid, different uh when my mom wasn't going to a Roman Catholic church. So now I'm confused and I'm not trusting anything that's religious or claiming to be the church because I've, you know, come to find out that Herbert W. Armstrong's a fraud. And I'm like, well, maybe they're all frauds. You know, so I get married to my wife and we start bouncing to different churches and I'm not trusting any of them. So we couldn't find a church because I w I we're looking for a church, but not really, because I'm not giving any of them a chance. You know, I'm I'm going there looking for flaws. And if I could find any reason to not like the church, I'm outta here. And so we were vagabond gypsies, you know, looking for churches for a long time. Exhausting time. It got so bad in me being the anal retentive type that I am. I'm bringing my notebook and I'm taking notes about the church and so I could justify my case of why we're not gonna go to this church. Anyway, all that odysse finally began to settle in when We ended up well there was a short period of time between uh Syracuse and Frederick when we were in uh New Jersey, which is where my wife is from. And uh an old drama uh coach or teacher of hers uh got reintroduced into our lives and she was so excited to run into my wife Dina again and she said, Oh my gosh, I've been praying for you I have been praying for you for years. Wow, we've kind of almost forgot you existed maybe. I don't know. She wasn't part of my wife's life at all for years, but she continued to pray. I was praying for your salvation, praying that you would find you know you'd get connected to the church. So anyway, we started going to her church. It was a Dutch Reformed church. And uh we settled in there for enough time, it was a handful of months, but enough time for my wife to have a conversion experience. And so she left Roman Catholicism behind and uh became a uh Protestant Christian. Uh I always considered myself a Protestant Christian, but I didn't know where to label it, where to assign it, uh that sort of a thing. Um and so I don't know you didn't really know what you were protesting. Yeah, yeah, exactly. I was a Protestant in the truest sense of the word. Yeah. So uh we ended up in Frederick and we landed it at uh at a at a reformed Presbyterian church in town and the then pastor He's still one of my mentors, uh one of the most influential people in my life, and he was patient uh and kind and gentle uh but direct. And We had marathon sessions where I would ask him a zillion questions and I would be asking him questions I don't know that I meant them as gotcha questions, but I could see how somebody could receive them as gotcha questions, and he handled them well, you know, and and and was pointing me to the scriptures and settled me in to, okay, I feel like I can actually trust you, and maybe I can trust your tradition Uh and so he helped me plug into uh a seminary, went to Reform Theological Seminary, which I feel like I dodged a bullet because when I started there I feel like they were okay, but from what I'm hearing now they're not so okay anymore. They've begun to go woke, which has me very concerned. Where have I heard this before? Yeah, it's a real problem. Uh real real problem. But I feel like I navigated I got out of there just in time, if you will. Um and Because of my background, I kind of like to call myself a denominational mutt and my various experiences and something I didn't share with my mom moved so much when she you know trying to raise uh you know her her son by herself and stuff. I went to twelve different schools. Uh we moved a lot. Uh and so having all these various kinds of bouncing around experiences and bounce around in church experiences I have a rather eclectic way of processing information and viewing the world. And so it's been hard for me to fit in a denominational structure where they have a tendency to clench not only the essentials of the faith, but really important non-essentials for their tradition, really hard in their fists. And I'm yeah, I'm willing to hold on to those things, but not as hard as you need me to. And so I've got a hard time. But in spite of that, I've been able to be the pastor of uh of a few churches now, uh one in Hagerstown, one in Frederick, and then COVID. Um Uh uh one of them was like a church plant and COVID did the church plant in and I for ten years have been thinking about doing a house church and I finally decided, you know what? If I'm if I'm not gonna do it now, I'm never gonna do it. So let's do it. And so that's when the house church thing happened. Theologically, I would say um an essentially reformed Um but I'm not hardcore on all the tenets of Calvinism like a lot of Calvinists are. So if I'm in a room full of Calvinists, they over time will think Thought you're a Calvinist. Are you Arminian? But if I'm in a room full of Arminians, they will very quickly say, oh, you're a Calvinist, aren't you? So I definitely have a lean in the Calvinist direction. But I'm not gonna put up my dutes and fight over those things. There's there's uh the kinds of things that Christians should be agreeing over cl all Christians should be agreeing over in the Bible, those are the things I'll put up my my my fist and fight over. The rest of it, yeah, I I've got strong persuasions in one direction and another, but Um and I think that lends itself has lent itself to uh a good experience on this show because I understand a lot of the various perspectives. But I'm willing to be reasonable and open minded about it. So that's kind of my story where I'm coming from. The question that I might have enough, just barely enough time to say is when was I saved? I would say that I was saved before the foundations of the earth. That's a Calvinist answer. I would also say I was saved at the cross. I would also say there's a sense in which I am still being saved. Uh I would say that I am saved right now in a particular sense, and I am s I would say that I will one day be fully saved at glorification upon Christ's second coming after the judgment. So I would say that that's my understanding of salvation. I, like David Forcy, do not have a dramatic conversion story or anything like that to share. We'll say this. I know I'm a believer now. I know I was a believer yesterday, I know I was a believer the day before that, and I know I was a believer for as many days back as I have my mind can take me. I can't remember when I wasn't. So it's hard for me to point to a conversion experience. Even though I had this weird eclectic childhood thing, my mom wasn't going to church, but she was reading me Bible stories and spending time praying with me. She was doing her best. And so I just my earliest childhood memories are her reading, you know, stories to me from the Bible and things. And so I just that's just been the air I've breathed and the water I've drank and that's So that's my story. And we're good t thing I'm done because we're now done. This is the Faith Debate. Thanks so much for listening. Find us online. Find me online, the show online at householdfaith in Christ dot com. Till next week. God bless. Thanks for listening.