Sense of doing justice. Of clothing himself with with the glory of God and riding forth to finally bring justice. Yeah. See I'm less interested in with in Isaiah and prophecies. Yeah. I'm I'm interested in in in Isaiah's moral voice. Yeah, which is the heart of that whole thing. There there are things in Isaiah that that that's the decided reconstructionist approach to to the pro prophets probably. You know, what what's the ethical moral this whole question of the of of the role of the prophets in in in You know, I'm Judaism is always up for grabs. You pick your rabbi and now you prick you know you p you you pick whether reconstruction is okay. So I'm uh So you came off of Orthodoxy in in Germany and and you had the conservative branch Right, and then you have the reform guys that came off of that, but then you guys came off of the conservative branch, not as far as the reform guys trying to still hang on to. uh rigorous uh appreciation for the traditions. Am I describing that accurate? Uh I don't know. I don't want I don't want to get into that. I wanna let me let me say what I wanted to say. Okay, go. Okay. So there are two things about about Isaiah that that I think are particularly relevant. One is um he talk when he talks he talks about peace at one point and he says um essentially that Um those who do not know the path to justice don't know the road to peace. That basically you cannot have peace. without justice. Yeah. Okay? Absolutely. So that that's that that is in many ways my orientation towards this conflict. But then he has something else, another passage that That is so amazing because you have this whole thing about the centrality of Jerusalem and inside of Jerusalem, you have with with Donald Trump and so on. I did a study about the negotiability of Jerusalem, right? Sure. And you know, the the myth was that Ju Jerusalem was non-negotiable. And we mapped both we did a study both on the Israeli side and Palestinian side. We asked people as to, you know What disaggregated Jerusalem? We stopped asking questions about Jerusalem and started to ask about neighborhoods and specific things in the city. And we asked them, how important to you as Jerusalem is such and such? Okay And at the end of the day what we did is we mapped Israeli and Palestinian responses to that. And what we found basically is that of the hundred square kilometers that make up Jerusalem, there was only one square kilometer that was essential to both peoples. Okay? And that was the old city. And inside of the old city, it wasn't even the old city as a whole. Inside of it Right? It was the Temple Mount or the Haram al Sharif, right? Okay. Now the thing is that the point is that they could sh uh most people could share all the rest of Jerusalem provided they had the mount. Yeah, well I think there are ways of sharing the mount also. And I think the best the the best solution to that was put forward by King Hussein, the father of the of the for of the present king of Jordan Abdullah, and he put forward the idea that we should say that with respect to j to the old city, that sovereignty belongs to God And and the point is that that would that because Jews and Christians and Muslims believe in the same God Um you could say that so because it's everybody believes that there's only one God and he's the God who revealed himself to Abraham. That's why we talk about sure this is the Abrahamic face, right? Yeah. So the idea would be that we could we could take in a certain sense this position that ultimate sovereignty over the over the old city of Jerusalem or the Temple Mound, Haram, and so on belongs to God. And because we agree on that, we can de-escalate the question of political sovereignty. We can say S as far as sovereignty is concerned, we give it to God, let's work out an administrative framework for day-to-day, and let's put the issue of political sovereignty aside We don't have to come up with it because we're never going to agree on which country this belongs to. We don't have to. Let's work out an administrative framework. So that was the best thing. Now we've got inside of the state. Well that's that would fall under Muslims neither allowing like a shared uh uh administration of shared administration right now and no you're wrong. No but I mean in terms of like a temple You know, like a Jewish temple. Oh that's different. In fact in fact are if you're talking about from a religious point of view, would Would the Muslim population, for instance, entertain the idea that there'd be a synagogue on the mount? That's very different. And what we found is actually that no matter across the entire spectrum of Palestinian thought, from people who I would say, let's say, are real humanists to people who are, you know, totally aligned with terrorist groups. Sure. The one thing that they had in common is that nobody countenanced having, you know, Jewish synagogue or whatever on the Temple Mount. But the point is the Israeli government doesn't either. The Netanyahu government has accepted the the the so-called status quo in which Jews are allowed to visit But they're not allowed to overtly prey on the on the Temple Mount. Okay? So there's only a small group of Israelis. That's right. You know, they're they're breeding a red heifer And they and they you know and they evangelicals end up kind of encouraging that at the end of the day. You know that better than I. But here's the thing about Isaiah, right? Isaiah says Isaiah says um You try to house me? I created the universe. This is actually and and then he says he says, you know, uh the world will you build your own. The world is my footstool and you're gonna try to put me, you know, in a little box on the Temple Mount. And then he says, I am sick of your of your ceremonies and your sacrifices. He does. Your sacrifice and the Temple Mount in the old days, of course, was a place of sacrifice. So he's attacking the Temple Mount Religious the religiousness of the Temple Mount. Okay. So he says He says, right, he says, this this i the your incense is a stench in my nostrils. And he says, you know, what he wants is, you know Be good to the widow. Help the poor. Right. And he lays out a moral agenda, which is what he wants. Right. He doesn't want this religious stuff. Now the thing is Isaiah fifty eight you know, says that so well that that Jews have got to decide. Are your chapters the same as ours? I think they are. Okay. I think they are. But the point is that the challenge the challenge the challenge for Jews, and I think that they that in Israel, to tell you the truth, I think, you know, the mainstream is amazingly soft on um People who cloak themselves in religion. Right. Somehow or other religion gets gets a free ride. Well, Isaiah didn't give them a free ride. I don't think we should either You know, we should say to these guys just what Isaiah is saying in the in the name of God, which is God is puking about you. Okay? That's what Isaiah tells us What Isaiah is telling us is that God's reaction to you is he's vomiting. Okay? So don't give me your rabbis. I'm not interested in your rabbis. Your rabbis, God God said your rabbis are revolting. Okay. Now Israelis don't say that. Nobody says that. Because religion is supposed to be, oh, it's religion, we've got to take it seriously, and so on. But the Bible tells us that God was unmerciful in his criticism. God said it's the voice of God saying about these about these religious sects. Bummet Vom it. Muslims, Christians, and Jews would all agree that God uh vomits uh uh i and is is horrified uh at the expression of of uh corrupt religious expression uh that was being manifested at the time. Uh Christians, Muslims, and Jews would recognize that that's been the case in all three of those religions many times through the years, right? But the question is, what is it about the expression of that religion at the time that made God puke. And all of us would agree that one of the key components of that But I don't know that we'd all agree that it's the only component is what you just described, meaning that we take care of the poor and the widow and that that we uh we care for those that are uh that are um you know outcast and the and that are rejected, meaning that that we're handling these issues and that we're we're not coming with with wicked fists, as it says in Isaiah fifty eight. But there's additional parts of that that have to do with worship of false gods you know, and uh those kinds of things that that Christians would say were a major component to why like like I always feel like when I study scripture, the Old Testament in particular, that that Uh not following the law and as a result becoming injust in the way that you treated one another was downhill in the mind of the prophets from worshiping other gods. And so my sense is that you know when I read Deuteronomy and then and then I read the other prophets, that that was like the the the watershed point was that they would worship other gods and then the result was They're not even paying attention to Moses anymore. And so then they fall into all kinds of levels of injustice that they're not even doing what they were created by God to do. The beauty of the Bible is that it's so rich that you can't come to the Bible except as an actor. In other words, you come to the Bible, you read it, and you decide, you know, what you're going to find there. as your faith tradition. The Bible can support all sorts of things. Yeah. You know, like like that that's pretty important to the way that you want to make one point about this. Where he where he says, you know, that your incense is is is makes me sick at your sacrifice to make me sick. Okay? What he doesn't say Is you're doing the sacrifices wrong. In other words, he's there's a whole tradition that and you can find it in the Bible, right, with the you know, the the incineration of Aaron's sons It's like they made some kind of mistake in terms of, you know, whatever God's instruction was. Yeah. And so but in this passage having to do with holiness and he doesn't want to play around with it. The point is what Isaiah is what Isaiah has God what God is saying Yeah. Is even if you're getting it right, it makes me sick. What he's saying is is that I'm not about sacrifices even probably done. Yeah. David says that. I'm about I'm about right how you treat each other. That's the heart. That's the heart of my being. Says God. Yeah. Okay Well that's amazing. Well but I would add this is this is the the what ends up being this huge divide because I would add to that Right. Uh in Christianity, Jesus uh says that there's there's two commands. Both of them are quoting from the Old Testament. One is love God. with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. The other one is love your neighbor as yourself. But the loving God part of it, uh, all through and uh and it's true in Isaiah 2 And pretty uh extensively even in forty through sixty-six, right, that whole you know section where he's grappling with it that that that You can't love God if you are uh if you are prostituting yourself or being uh unfaithful in your marriage to God by uh by worshiping other idols. So he ties that together so extensively that he's not just saying that that you need to treat one another with justice. But he's saying that that that starts with treating him the right way. And so it's hard for me to get away from that and you're probably probably doing what you're saying and bringing my own perspective. I pay a lot of attention to the body. Joseph's bones. Yeah, yeah, I love it. Alright. Joseph Bones understanding the struggle which you make. You would love it. You would love it, okay? Okay. And we could talk about but But let me just tell you one important thing about the about the commandment to love God. So we have in the Bible you know, hundreds of commandments that God gives the Jews. Yes, so six hundred and one hundred and twenty, whatever. The commandment to love God isn't one of them. The commandment to love God's not included in the list. No, the command though it is said in Deuteronomy. That's right, but guess who says it? Moses says it. There's no point There's no point in which God tells the Israelites, Love me. It's not part of the Ten Commandments. It's not part of anything that's portrayed. was that the reason why they missed it forty years earlier when they came up to the promised land was that they weren't doing that one thing. And so Moses tells them, You're right, I see that. I'm gonna have to think about it because I've never really put two and two together before. But Moses' sense is that what's gonna make the difference this time around is that they would worship God, love him with all their heart, so mind and strength. And and as a result the rest, you know, and keep them listening to his voice. What I say is actually much more specific, which is that in the story leading up to that point There are several times in which basically God sets out to destroy all of the Israelites. Yeah. And in fact, even offers Moses that he'll start over with him And Moses time and again intervenes Moses time and again intervenes to save the Israelites. And we told God repents of the evil that he was going to do. Now here's the thing. A nice segment of people who are dispatched. Yes. But the point is the point is at this point in Moses' life, Moses is at the end of his days. Right. And the key question on his mind really is What's gonna happen to the Israelites when he's no longer there to protect them his whole song is about that. And and my my theory is that Moses gives the Israelites this commandment to love God with all your soul and so on as the one protective thing that if they follow that, that will protect them against God. Because he intuits that God, above all else, wants this love. He wants this love, but God has never asked for it It's interesting that you say he intuits it, because isn't that what what God said to him when he revealed his glory on the on the mountain? He never says love. Right, but he does say he he i he i uh it's not chabad, it's uh hesed He does use the word Hesed, which is very sorry, okay fighting off a uh a cold. God's the character of God's attitude towards Israel and humanity. about the commandment about what people's attitude should be. Okay. And and here we've got the love commandment, right? We've got the love commandment. And the point is that I think actually Moses intuits God's deepest need, which is to be loved by mankind. And right after this, right, when we get in the book of Joshua, God tells the Israelites Follow everything that Moses said. He doesn't actually say to them, oh, by the way, you know, go back and look at Exodus and look at my commandments and so on. He talks much more broadly. He tells them Do not add or subtract to what Moses said. Now the thing is that Moses added the love commandment to what God said, and God now is endorsing the whole The whole ball of wax. And and the question actually a very interesting question that I explore in the book is whether or not the Israelis in fact do love God thereafter. Clearly. And I don't think I think they work out a modus vivend vivendi Um without Moses. A way of living. That's that's there, and it's fascinating what goes on in the story of Joshua. Yeah, in the judges where they Well but you see the My book is about is Genesis through Joshua. I call it I call it Joseph's bone because um where does that come from? The last the last paragraph of Genesis says that Joseph dies and was embalmed and placed in a coffin in Egypt. And then we hear nothing about Joseph. Until Joshua. No, we hear one more time, one more time In Exodus, we hear and Moses took Joseph's bones with him. Right, very one word. But we never we never hear anything further about what happened to Joseph. Oh, and here's the thing. Joseph As he was dying, right, made his brothers take an oath, right? And the oath was that when God Brings them back to the land. Brings us back, right? Then bring back my bones. Bring back my body. Now this is very interesting because Jacob died. Yeah. And Joseph led a pro s a procession of the whole elite of Egypt right back to Canaan and buried his father. There seems to be historical evidence of that happening. He could have actually asked for the same treatment. Instead he does this other thing, which is amazing. He says, No, keep my bones with the people. And then a and only when the people come back bring it back. Now, that's how Genesis ends. You turn the page and four hundred years have gone by. Right. Four hundred years have gone by, we know nothing, and so on. But then we hear that when they leave Egypt They take the bones with them. So for four hundred years, right, they've remembered this commitment to Joseph's bones. Right. And then the big question is Who are the Israelites, right? Will they remember this oath was taken? Well I do remember it. Four hundred years later remembered it. But then the question is, well what happens to Joseph's bones? And we go through the whole Torah, that is through the the first five books. Right. There's no mention of it. And it looks like It looks like we'll never hear anything again about Joseph's bones, except you get to the last page of Joshua, and Joshua's already dead. And there's no leader who's come in and and so on. And now we're talking about the Israelites as a people. Yeah. And it says the Israelites buried Joseph's bones in Shechem. And it's flabby gas thing. She's basically na which is knobless, right? Right, which is also where where Joseph's offspring are uh were given land by joshua, right? So they bury them within the right place to come from. So that's right. Yep. By the way, there's a uh there's a cancer doctor here in Frederick Yeah. Who grew up in Nobles? But so here's the story. It's cool. Here's the thing. So Joseph's the story of Joseph's bones begins In the last paragraph of Genesis, and it ends, right, in the last two paragraphs of Joshua. Okay, so my theory is that these are bookends, right? The promise of Joseph, the fulfillment of that promise. And that this story about Joseph's bones is is the key to understanding the Bible. That is this part of the Bible. And what it tells you is what it tells you is this very fundamental thing. It tells you that the Israelites are a faithful people. It tells you that for f a half a millennium, for five hundred years. They remember, God never reminds them, God is not involved in this. This is something internal inside the tribe. For 500 years they remember a promise. that Joseph's brothers made to him, they bring his bones back, and then when their leaders are gone, Josh Joshua is gone, the Israelites themselves Bring Joseph's bones to Shechem and they bury him. Now, Okay, so this is all academics. What is God's main complaint about the Israelites. Faithlessness God is all the time killing the Israelites. Moses is all the time criticizing them. And so on. But the Bible itself is telling us something about the Israelites that's remarkable, which is that they are different. than God and Moses think. And my thesis is actually the Bible sides with the Israelites in terms of their character and the Bible's judgment, the Bible's judgment is that God and Moses are wrong about the Israelites. The Israelites are a noble, faithful. My goodness. And God is wrong. And the thing is God can be wrong all the time. God is wrong all the time. Moses is wrong all the time, right? Okay, so are we like to the end of the show? So we gotta like be out here. We are. Because your description of Isaiah in the e Isaiah sixty six would seem to argue that at that point in history that Israel wasn't so faithful again. Meaning that that you're uh just what you've described to me in the last two shows about Isaiah, well this show in particular, was that um was that Israel were was at certain times in our history guilty of faithlessness in a sick significant way. Certainly Hosea You know, Joel Amos. I mean I mean prophet after prophet after profit. Elijah's time frame, you know, with Ahab and Jezebel and, you know, Jehoshaphat's son, you know uh uh Jehoah has I forget his name it's it's a Jay that comes out all those guys, you know there's there's uh it's a history of sometimes faithful, sometimes not so much, sometimes So I have more questions. If if that's your conclusion, I have more questions about how you could uh believe that at the end of, you know, the whole thing. We're better than God thinks we are. That is fascinating. Jonathan Sweitzer is fascinating. I don't think I'm better than God thinks that. I'm going to leave that one alone. Jerry might be Troy on the show. Also on the show today was Dr. Jerry Siegel. Thank you for listening. Check us out online at WFMD. com Keyword Space. That's the end of today's show. Till next week. God bless.