To wake up today wondering what would be the most offensive aspect of Christianity to the Chinese people Well good news for you because you're about to find out today on the fate debate. I'm Troy Skinner. Uh thank you for spending part of your day with us here on News Radio 930 WFMD, or if you're listening via podcast, thank you for that as well. Uh I'm a pastor of a church called Household of Faith in Christ, and so we have a website very cleverly uh named Household of Faith in Christ dot com. You can Access to faith-debate stuff and everything else that has to do with uh the social media related to this show and and other aspects of the ministry of the church uh by going there, household of faith in Christ dot com. You can also go to ConqueredBylove dot org and find out about the Conquered by Love Ministries. That's uh something that Daniel Rasvy and uh Imran Raz Razvi and the whole Razby clan have been involved with for years and uh Daniel's on the panel again this week and maybe last week Uh Imron, he made a uh cameo, maybe he'll make another one uh this week. Um they are uh pastors of a church in the Thurmont area and uh David Forcy is a pastor of uh of a church that meets uh in in various houses on different weeks. uh of the month throughout the mostly Washington and Frederick County areas. And we are joined the last couple of weeks and again this week by Moses Fu. He is from Singapore and his quick background is that he was uh born and raised in China and then moved to Singapore where he was introduced to uh Jesus Christ and uh and converted to Christianity And then he went back home and uh he preached to his his uh grandfather uh in the hospital, not doing well. His grandfather uh uh apparently accepted Christ and and his mother now is a Christian as well. It's a quite the s quite the success story in so many ways and it's been really interesting because you hear all these things in the news uh about China and uh not so much about Singapore but about Asia in general and China more specifically and and what it's like over there in the underground churches and that actually came up briefly um last week. We'll talk more about that this week, I'm sure. And as we ended last week's show, David Forcy was was curious to ask uh Moses In China, when you're trying to share the gospel, the biblical truth to people, what's the most offensive part of the Christian message to somebody who was raised in a very secular uh world in mainland China? So what what does offend them the most? Okay. There's one very intellectual uh professor saying that uh why Christmas must be uh Jesus is a saint. We have so many saints in Chinese culture Why we as Chinese person to celebrate a Western festival called Jesus a sense. We can say yeah. So we will um set up a confuse As a saint to set up a his birthday become a another festival equally or even higher priority than the Christmas. That's the thinking of those intellectual and culture Chinese people, if they they will say this term If you become Christian, we will lesser or we will lesser one guy that believes the confusion. So you're saying that the um the the different festival days for different saints, like in the Roman Catholic thing, that that really throws them sideways. They're afraid that replacement a new culture fully replace our traditional culture. That is totally ex unacceptable by The traditional society in Chinese. The pastors in this room don't tend to put a lot of emphasis on some of those Roman Catholic holy days, but we would obviously put a lot of emphasis on Resurrection Sunday. and on on Christmas. Like those are two biggies. And if you're Protestant, probably Reformation Day is somewhere in the midst of something that's important to you. So even just those kinds of things would be offensive because it's not Chinese. It's not Confucianism is is the idea that you could you can do those things, but you need to do something that is more Chinese I think they are more proud of our culture stent rather than the Western uh preaching to us because they don't really understand who is Jesus. Not like Western culture, European culture is after the Roman Empire changed the uh Christianity become a national religion, then the whole culture changed. But Chinese culture is never have such culture change for Christianity. before. I mean tremendously changed. So we are always keeping our own strong traditional Chinese cultures I think it's interesting. It seems to me that maybe what's happened is that uh China because of or and Singapore uh more specifically I guess has become increasingly Christian uh over the years. And America has become less Christian, if you will, culturally over the years and so we're beginning to get closer to one another because I look around me, I see my neighbors in this country and they make a bigger deal about the fourth of July or Halloween. or Juneteenth even, you know, or something. Kwanzaa, you know, uh, than they do uh the the actual Christian uh celebratory kinds of days and you see it every week um, you know, during the fall in this country, you see it every weekend where people uh refuse to attend church on Saturday or Sunday because well that'll interfere with my favorite college or professional football game. Right? Those are the citadels of uh of religion these days. Right. It's not that different, it's actually. what the Chinese culture found most offensive about Christianity is I I was sort of thinking back to Uh yeah, Daniel's comment um maybe last week that uh you know, with Moses that you all you all see the Chinese Christian church very similar to the the early church in the Roman Empire. Uh and so I was thinking, okay, um the the thing that the And the Christians, you d you know, they weren't trying to overthrow the Roman government, um, but what was offensive to to the Romans and the cultures around them was the Christians saying that Jesus is is the King of Kings. He's the only God. He's the only God and he's greater than all. Yeah. And uh so it sounds like that is something like that. Pretty much the same sort of situation there. Yes, because in uh Qing dynasty, the uh hundred plus years ago, the uh Roman Catholic Church with the Chinese uh Catholic Church uh and the Chinese government, uh the Qin uh Empire uh kings have a debate about uh worshipping our ancestors in families Chinese families because we will very honor our ancestors and set up a temple and put their all their names nicely, uh in uh curved their names on the roots. to to to remember their uh achievements all that. So we are how many generation of this age group or the surnames. So Is that considered a spiritual worship to uh spiritual things? Or is just uh honor our ancestor in in our Chinese way, that debate um caused a huge impact because Roman uh Catholic Church em emphasized this is not a law, should be prohibited But Chinese government say this is our culture and our freedom to honor our ancestors in our Chinese way. It's not about worshipping some spiritual uh uh god, something like that. That caused uh uh separation that uh the whole Roman Catholic church be chased out by the Chinese government Yeah. So then chatter. But the Ch uh Chinese Christians by and large now mostly are Protestant Christians, right? Yes. Most yeah, but also have an uh big group of uh Catholic church. But the Protestant traditions also would still say that you cannot be worshiping the ancestors. Uh and so most of the people I would think in the b underground church, maybe also the official registered church, they would also teach do not worship ancestors. Yeah. Uh I think the worship is couldn't describe our Chinese way to worship. That's different. It's not really praying to them that You you you you bless us or what? It's really a a way of honor that uh how to say to memorize. Remember memorize all their Achievements role models, memorializing is the word you're going for there. So have a genealogy. We we cannot use the traditional understanding of worship to describe that uh that that culture uh activities. Yeah and that I mean maybe the words are what we would have to figure out. It might be just a semantic argument sort of, but the um the idea of having honor for your ancestry and where you came from and your forefathers, that's a biblical thing. Yes. I mean we have the genealogies you mentioned that prove how important it is to remember God has like where we came from books of geneal nothing but genealogy in the Bible. So if it's about honoring them and remembering them and memorializing the the great things they did for our society, for our culture, for our families, for our people. uh for our our nation, whatever. I I don't see any problem there. So maybe it's talking to them. Yeah, is yeah, is that the p that's what I want to clarify. So if Beyond that, is it that you're like talking to the the the culture in China would be talking to passed on, dead ancestors as as though they're hearing them and com communicating with them? Is that what you're describing? Or what what is it that people who are concerned about this are labeling as worship? So what is what is it that people say, oh that's that's worship of the dead or something. for the long term of uh um government uh to be success, they won't emphasize a lot of spiritual things They will use their own conquer or the war or other uh ways to success to win the people's heart If you s if you um emphasize wow you you you ask some uh some people to um very spiritual way, uh or like Western culture have uh uh a lot of uh A lot of terms of um wizard. Wizard. A wizard? Wizard, yeah. Woman wizard or your witch. So this is like the Chinese folk religions that are into that? Because we re-emphasize uh very offensive in Christianity too. Yeah, yeah. We emphasize uh real what real success, not those uh spiritual things to help you or what to protect you or that only those uh Buddhism come in then people have uh uh a more space to release their religion uh maybe I'm understanding this backwards. Maybe the what you s what what you're meaning to communicate, I'm not catching it, is the Christians praying to Jesus who from a secular mindset is a dead guy. Did they find that offensive? Is that what you mean? I'm not sure I'm tracking. Uh um not uh no r not mean that. You don't mean that, okay. Uh let me change another way to explain this question. Um because in the Chinese culture we are influenced by those non-Christian uh uh influence peoples. Like if you're talking about who will influence China uh most in the culture aspect, most people will will vote uh confused. You if you ask you most people who vote are confused? Yeah, conf that doesn't happen in America. Okay, hope this is our joke. Anyway, I'm sorry. Yeah Then uh if you ask who is the most influential person in sports, right? Yao Ming. Okay. Yeah, a lot of people will see Yao Ming or Liu Xiang, he's running very fast in hundred met hundred ten meters. Yeah. This RMP good gold gold medal. Yeah, so people that have success in uh in real life in the world is is influential. Yeah, it's the same here, right? Michael Jordan, LeBron James You know? Um Tom Brady, whatever. Yeah, same thing here, I think. Yeah, that's what I'm saying. I I I feel like this is really exposing something that there's been a a a rise of of Christian values perhaps in China and Singapore. and a demise of those values here so now there's the sameness that I don't think it's that different. But I want to point some difference because Benjamin Franklin is not attending church, but he holding the Christian values That's a difference. Many people may not attend church, but they have the Christian values. That is a big difference between China and uh Yeah, the the Western country the history and the heritage is definitely different, but uh I wonder at this particular point in time how different they really are because then Ben Franklin, he lived over two hundred years ago. I mean a lot of you right now, a lot of Americans holding the cushion. And if you watch an old T V show, like if you were to watch I don't know if you watched these old shows back in the day, him around, but the Waltons, do you ever watch the Waltons? Or uh Little House on the Prairie even. Those are shows that were based on an earlier version of America and the characters knew their Bible. And they they would pray and uh there was something different about America in the nineteen thirties even, as recently as that, and certainly in the eighteen hundreds, which is when Little House in the Prairie is is set. But those shows feel way out of step with what happens now. The so that that being steeped in uh a a Christian worldview, a biblical informed worldview I don't know that that really exists so much anymore and we're seeing the results of that. The people who are in their teens and twenties right now they're confused as to what sex they are and and you know, I mean it's it's really off the rails. And so um That's what I was getting at. The the history in the background, very different. But at this moment in time, that in it I'm using my hands for the radio, that's not gonna help, but it'll help you hopefully, Moses. In America, the amount of Bible knowledge, whether they're Christian or or not, the amount of Bible knowledge was up here. But over the years it's been going down. Mm-hmm. And From a Chinese perspective, the amount of byulage would be way down at the floor. But it's been slowly maybe coming up a little bit because of people like you And I think we're getting close to a point in history where they're kinda gonna meet. Seriously, I don't think that that based on what I'm hearing from you, it doesn't sound that different to me. It does. Alright, that uh pushed me to really deep thinking about what really offended by the Chinese people. Okay, I I really get the idea. Yeah if you tell a Chinese you are singer Yeah, totally un unacceptable. Because we are intellectual, we're holding high moral values. Why you say me a singer? I never offend any laws. Does sin even means any mean anything in their context? Because if they I mean, in a biblical context we know what we mean by sin, but from a secular point of view, they have a high moral value and if they fail to meet that standard Right. Like they should be loving to their family, let's say. Like that would be a standard in China, I'm hoping. If you're not loving to your family, they wouldn't call that a sin, would it? What would they call that? Just a moral failing of some sort uh lack of moral. Is it a lack of morals? Yeah. Because uh Western culture and uh Chinese culture a big difference is Western culture is lower trust for the human uh natural uh r uh uh reality. But who has lower trust? Amer America or China. Western culture. Because the same culture But in humanity bad people. Right. We will do uh those things under control. Yeah. So you can see the Western uh political system uh three different to to balance we cannot have absolute power in Western culture. So if you were to go to the typical Chinese or even Singapore person who's not Christian And and probably a lot of them would be described as not religious. A certain percentage, maybe not the majority, but a a big chunk of them would be not religious at all. They're very secular. all about science and personal appearances and those sorts of things. And so they don't have uh a biblical grounding like we do in the West even in our in our cultural influences. So if you go to them and say, l oh pretend that you're not a Christian and I'm meeting you and I'm Chinese also, and I say, Moses, well you wouldn't be Moses because you wouldn't have a Christian name. Whatever Chinese name you have I say, Moses, you have these these high moral standards. Right? You want to love your country, you want to take care of your family, you want to do good things, serve the community, make China a better place to live. Yes. But you have to admit there are times when you don't do that as well as maybe you would like to. Right? There are times when Your wife is upset with you because you've been mean to her that day. Or your country isn't better because you decided to be lazy and sleep in even though you were well enough to go to work. And so you didn't do what you knew you should do. So I don't know what they would call that. They would call it shameful maybe? They would call that they wouldn't call it guilty probably. Yeah. What do you do with that sense of dishonor? What would they s what would you say as them responding back? What do you do with that th ha that you the the reality that you have dishonored even your own standard? So it's only shameful if somebody finds out about it. Okay, that's one of the differences between the East and the West. Shameful is how other people view you. And if nobody finds out that you slept in or you abuse your wife or whatever then you're not guilty or your wife knows if you abused her. But nobody outside does. Okay, it's an honor thing and how do other people view you and your family? And that's one reason the West can't win over the East if they go after guilty and not honor. Honor makes a big difference and and the people in the West just don't understand that. But what would they do to to to get their honor back? Oh their their neighbors did find out that they they you know they they were abusive to their wife and the neighbors saw it. And so now they've been dishonored. What would they do to get their honor back? Or can you get your honor back? Uh in Chinese culture uh we very confident in our morals. So in confusion they have a traditional teaching that In our conscience, you're already full of kindness, love and everything. All the good things in you, not in God give you. So it's a confident culture compared to uh Western culture is singing culture. It's we are weak, we need God's help to perform a better person. It's totally different. So if we not perform, we will go to our Chinese com culture community. They have traditional teachers to teach you, to help you, to be a more better moral person. Yeah, so if you still not teachable, we will treat you as a person that only care for yourself, not care for the whole bigger groups That that that's we treat treat uh those unperformed behaviors. Yeah. So if someone we will use a moral to to describe a person. So if someone violates those morals, all they have to do is change their ways by being trained up to do better in the future and then everything is issues. Troy, think about this. You know, in the early church there was excommunication. And it worked. Why? Because they were ostracized, they were not part of the community anymore. And that's what still happens in the East. You're you're not part of the community and to be a functional part of the community you have to change your ways and you have to r you have the honor restored. But we don't really care about excommunication here in the West anymore. If your church excommunicates me, I just go down the street to the next church. And I don't have to say any put credentials. I got another community right away and nobody even cares Yeah. We are living together so you cannot run and escape. Everybody looking at you. So how do you share the gospel then? What do you say? Yeah, we need to do something um really can uh i attract them. Means if secular work is success, we need to do um use a biblical way of success. Not mean we earn more money than you, but we really benefit the society that people can see Not only pray and uh James. Show me your faith by your works. Yes. Faith by walks, but not by saying because In the uh Chinese uh uh church we have uh wrong theoretical uh teaching for for a long time that uh this this is called uh anti-intellectualism So which means people just pray and read the Bible but they didn't do the real uh efficient work to h influence the society. So that cause the government uh understanding the church is not really helping us, but also become a threaten us because you are more organized than our Communist Party now. If y I allow you to be more um freely developed you may become a political power that under my control. Then if you connect to the Western Church, if they use their political mindset to influence you then I have have big trouble. That's the Chinese government main concern. Yeah. So there's a few things that I had uh scratched out some notes that we haven't gotten to yet. So if you guys are comfortable able to do another episode and uh and see where that leads us. Uh I feel like we might be able to tie up some loose ends in in one more episode, but if not, we might be due too. But if you guys are good for doing one more. 'Cause I I noticed that uh one of our panelists uh he had to duck out apparently. So oh okay, hopefully everything's uh okay there. But uh David Forcy was part of the show early on today and then he ducked out. So fortunately we've got our uh our our eighth reliever coming out of the bullpen. He tagged me in. Don't don't body slam me too hard, Imran. Uh do you get the reference by the way? I was a cultural reference, professional wrestling. I don't know if uh if uh if lost on Moses. So Moses Fu, he's uh lives in Singapore now, he grew up in China, and we've been talking about the church over in uh Asia and and that part of the world a little bit, and it's been uh quite an education. Uh Imran uh Raz Razvi is uh is now on the panel and uh he's a pastor with a church that meets at his house. It's called the Church of Beast at Imran's house in Thermont. And uh his uh son Daniel also pastors there, and they've got a ministry called Concord by Love Ministries online at Concord. by love dot org. And I'm Froy Skinner and uh this is the Faith Debate. You can follow us on WFMD. com. You can follow me on pretty much all the major social media platforms in some regard. Easiest way to connect with me in any of those places, we go to Household of FaithInChrist. com. That's the name of my church. Household of Faith in Christ dot com and uh even if it's just to check in with what the faith debate is doing, you can go to Household of Faith in Christ dot com and connect with all the Faith Debate stuff uh through that portal as well. So we'll do at least one more round with this particular panel assembled next week one hundred and sixty seven Half hours from now. God bless