Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brothers City in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate sponsored by Footman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? You can find us online at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. That's the home is a faith debate blog. The blog for the most part is a program guide these days. although those have links to to other information that's uh helpful for those who are seeking information about religious uh faith and some philosop some philosophical kinds of uh matters. Um if you were listening last week, then you know what's coming this week. We heard the first portion of a of a sermon message I had an opportunity to share uh in the community not too uh long ago called the culture of Christ Church in Crisis. The message focused on Acts chapters one through seven. Didn't have seen have enough time because finish the entire message. But enough how does it well have enough time to finish the entire message the rest of the message this week either, although we'll get the lion's share of it in. So it'll be mostly last week and this week put together to represent uh the fullness of that message. Uh Jonathan Swipe Hitzer not with us uh on the show today, but we hope to have him back on and get back up to our standard uh uh program with a panel discussion on on areas of interest uh in the not too distant future. So um Bear with us through this time of uh transition with our schedules. Uh Jonathan and I are both just crazy, crazy busy of late, but uh we're getting it all figured out. So uh appreciate your patience with us. Anyway, here's uh part two of the culture of Christ's Church in Crisis. Acts chapters one through seven, the focus of this message. As the number of believers increases, the need for godly leaders is We see through the early portions of Acts a contrast of the God honoring leaders with the God rejecting leaders. There were twelve apostles among about 120 believers. That's chapter 1. And then in chapter 2, one of these apostles, Peter, prayed by the power of the Holy Spirit. In fact, he preaches about the Spirit. And 3,000 people repented and were baptized for the forgiveness of their sins. In chapter 4, the number had increased to 5,000. And it didn't stop there. Chapter five says that more and more men and women believed in the Lord and were added to their number. Chapter six says the number of disciples was increasing, so the word of God spread. The number of disciples in Jerusalem increased rapidly, and a large number of priests, even, became obedient to the faith. Unless you miss it, allow me to point out a connection to the Old Testament that's made by Luke when relating the words of Stephen right before he is martyred for his faith. In chapter 7, verse 17, Stephen is he's outlining the history of God's people. During the Old Testament times, and he says that the number of our people in Egypt greatly increased. God is in the business of increasing the numbers of his people, preparing them to victoriously march through the Wilderness of persecution and suffering until arriving together in the Promised Land. God is in this business of increasing the numbers of his people, and he always has been. And God has always worked through leaders that he has ordained to shepherd his people. We see leaders like Moses, Samuel, and Abraham mentioned in Acts chapter 3, and leaders like Isaac, Jacob, Joseph. Uh Aaron and Solomon are all mentioned elsewhere in Acts. These are Old Testament names. And then we see the importance of leadership in the giving of New Testament names too. Chapter 1 of Acts mentions Peter, John, James, Andrew, Philip, Thomas. Bartholomew, Matthew, James the son of Alpheus, Simon the Zealot, Judas, the son of James, and Mary the mother of Jesus. And then chapter six mentions Stephen, a man full of faith and the Holy Spirit Also Philip, Procorus, Niconora, Timon, Parmanus, Nicholas from Antioch. Having a good number of godly leaders is important Judas Iscariot is mentioned too as one who is ungodly in leadership. And after his death, he needed to be replaced by someone who was true to God, and echoing Psalm 109. Luke quotes Peter saying, May another take his place of leadership. And they prayed and they depended on God by casting lots, and they ended up adding Messiahs to their number. Now Judas is an interesting case study. I mean, he was part of the inner circle for Jesus. But he went off the rails. And before seeking after redemption, he killed himself. Let's be clear, this is a negative example. An ungodly leader. But Judas is not the only negative example that Luke gives us. The Sadducees, they weren't interested in the message of redemption either. I guess it might be hard for them since they didn't accept that there's a resurrection from the dead, and they didn't like the witness of Peter and the others who were pointing to Jesus, proclaiming that in Jesus is the resurrection from the dead. Of course they wouldn't like this message. These are the men of the Sanhedrin who only weeks earlier had conspired. To have Jesus killed. And in Ash, they are conspiring together again to squash the gospel. These are the religious leaders. Of God's people. They lost their way. And now they were turning their backs on God, no longer leading God's people. The high priests, filled with jealousy, along with his associates, the captain of the temple guard, the chief priests, these religious leaders of the day, arrested the apostles and commanded them to stand down. Stop preaching Jesus Christ's good news of the kingdom. This borders on being unbelievable. The average everyday people in chapter two, they heard the same sin-convicting message and they asked brothers what shall we do and in response to that question they repented and were baptized and then in chapter four the religious leaders Again, hearing the same sin-convicting message, they also ask, what are we going to do? And in response to the exact same question, their response is to flog the apostles and wish that they could kill them. This despite saying in chapter 4, verse 16 that everybody living in Jerusalem knows that they, the apostles, have done an outstanding miracle. We cannot deny it. They knew better. It's hard to imagine almost. It's easier to imagine we think, well, this was a long time ago. And these religious leaders, they weren't Christians, so what do you expect? I mean Christian leaders they would never do anything like that. Oh no? Remember that God's church has not replaced God's Jews. What we have instead is an expansion of God's people, an expansion of Israel. The Old Testament covenant people were truly God's chosen People and the New Testament covenant people are truly God's chosen people. Grafted onto the Old Testament people. The Old Covenant people don't disappear. They are added to. Now, of course, many in the Old Testament covenant, they fell away. And they are broken off branches in need of being re-grafted in repentance. And this was true for these first century Jewish leaders. And sadly, it is true for many 21st century church leaders. A pastor friend of mine told a story the other day of a visit that he had with a pastor friend of his own. They were at a regional conference for pastors. They ran into each other, hadn't seen each other in a while. My friend was concerned when he saw this pastor friend of his. Sitting quietly, alone, in deep thought, with a pained, defeated look on his face. My friend walked up to him and sat across from him and with compassion in his voice he asked, What troubles you, my brother? And his friend then shared his struggles. He's been the pastor for seven years of a congregation in the Carolinas, about 150 people Under his care, and he is feeling beaten up. It has been seven years and he can't make any Headway. He is fought at every turn. He is under pressure to avoid preaching the gospel. It seems that a more seeker-sensitive approach is what others want. And he is tired. Exhausted, really. He doesn't know if he can carry on. And my pastor friend asked him why he felt he was battling all alone. Weren't the other leaders in the church helping him to fight the good fight? And it turns out that the other religious leaders in the church were the ones causing the fight. These present-day American church religious leaders are pressuring their pastor to deny Christ. My friend, asks, what do these men say when you appeal to their Christian consciences? And the reply from the other pastor, who by the way is carries a reputation for being overly generous in his assessment of others. He said, I'm not sure any of them are Christians This is a church not really all that far from here. Meeting right now, like we are. And they have leaders conferring in the shadows in an ungodly sort of togetherness. Leaders claiming to be Christian while asking their pastor. To avoid preaching in Christ's name. This is real. This is now There is a crisis in our culture, in our church culture. I blame myself. I blame you. I blame all of us. What is wrong with us? Where is our prayer life? Do we even have one? How dependent are we on the power of the Holy Spirit? Are we obedient to Him? Are we gathering together by his leading, witnessing with boldness to our neighbors and to strangers, to our friends, to our enemies? It's interesting to me that in Acts chapter 3, Peter healed a crippled man. The crippled man he asked for money, and Peter was with John. He said, Look at us. And then, empowered by God's Spirit, he took the man by the hand and he said, In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, walk. And instantly the man's feet and ankles became strong. He jumped up And walked. And praised God. This is interesting to me because in Ephesians chapter 6, beginning with verse 13, our Bibles tell us, therefore, Put on the full armor of God so that when the day of evil comes, you may be able to stand your ground. And after you've done everything. To stand. Stand firm then. With the belt of truth buckled around your waist, with the breastplate of righteousness in place, and with your feet Fitted with the readiness that comes from the gospel of peace. This crippled man's feet were made strong, fitted with readiness to praise God, to stand. Witnessing the gospel of peace. This might be what we need in the church today. So often focused on money. We have crippled feet. Unready, unwilling maybe, to proclaim boldly God's praises. To call people to repentance unto salvation. If we the church don't change, a change that rests with each of us individually, then we should heed the warning of what happened to Ananias and Sapphira in Acts chapter 5. They lied to the Holy Spirit. And Peter asked, how could you agree to test? The Spirit of the Lord. And Ananias and Sapphira, they both fell down and died. To test the Spirit of the Lord is that's a heavy thing. Are you lying to yourself about your commitment to Christ? Examine your heart. Are you lying to others about your commitment to Christ? Repent. Confess. Are you lying to God about your commitment to Christ? God help you. God's church must Witness Christ. Who he is, what he has done, what he continues to do, what he will do. Having a Sunday morning social club is not enough. Developing church programs to help our neighbors and friends, programs that would be the envy of the local moose lodge or the rotary club. It's not enough. Someone once taught me that a church that's not caring for its needy is a sick church. But a church not preaching the word is no church at all. Do you faithfully stand for the faithful witness of our Lord's Word? The deacon Stephen did. Acts chapter 7 tells us of his extraordinary example. It's an example for us to heed. But more importantly, it is example that points us to Christ himself. Like Jesus, Stephen faces the false testimony of false witnesses. Orchestrated by the false religious leaders of his day. Stephen stands strong, pointing people to God's plan of salvation. Like Jesus. And this is what we are to do. But we're not perfect in doing this, are we? If we're honest. What are we to do when we fail to stand like Stephen? Stand with Christ. Stephen is picturing Christ here, picturing. He talks to corrupt rulers in Jerusalem, like Jesus, about corrupt rulers hundreds of years earlier in Egypt. He talks to those who were Oppressing the people of God about those who had oppressed the forefathers years ago in Egypt? He talks about supposed brothers. Bent on hurting each other about others, supposed brothers, who years earlier had asked God's anointed leader Moses, who made you ruler and judge over us? These Israelite fathers from years earlier refused to obey God and his ordained leader. These people of God were stiff-necked, a stiff-necked people. Well, so were the first century Jerusalem leaders. Who rejected the true testimony of the tabernacle when rejecting Jesus Christ? So were the first century Sanhedrin who stoned Stephen to death as he witnessed to them. And so it is with us in 2016, possessing the same power of the Holy Spirit that allowed Stephen to do what Jesus did. Again, amplifying this picture that Stephen gives us of Christ. See if this sounds familiar. Stephen prayed to God at the end of chapter 7, saying, Receive my Spirit. Then he fell on his knees and he cried out, Lord, do not hold this sin against them. Echoes of Jesus at the cross. And then Stephen, when he had said this, he fell asleep. He died. The story's not about Stephen per se. It's a story about Jesus. Now we might be tempted to give up hope when thinking about this as a story about Stephen. Read a great hero heroic story like this, and we can fall Into the dangerous category of dare to be a Daniel. Slay your Goliath with faith like David. Be your best self now. If it is to be, it's up to me. I said a few minutes ago that we must each change individually, and it's true, but not solely. As I have been emphasizing this morning, and as this church is emphasizing this entire month, Christianity is not an individualistic religion. It is a corporate faith rooted in our corporate union with our King Jesus. It is unlike what Elsa sings to us in Frozen. Many of you might be familiar with that song. I'm not going to sing it, but I will read it for dramatic effect. A kingdom of isolation So the song goes. And it looks like I'm the queen. Don't let them in, don't let them see. Be the good girl you always have to be. Conceal, don't feel, don't let them know. Well now they know It is time to see what I can do to test the limits and break through. No right, no wrong, no rules for me. I'm free. Let it go, let it go, you'll never see me cry. Here I stand, and here I'll stay. Let the storm rage on my power. Flurries through the air into the ground. My soul is spiraling in frozen fractals all around. Let it go, let it go, and I'll rise to break the dawn. Here I stand in the light of day. Let the storm rage on. The cold never bothered me anyway This rugged individualism rings true for so many Americans. The isolated individualistic worldview really resonates With many in the context of our present worldly culture But as Christians, we need to be reminded that we're all in this together. Because we're all united in and through Christ, which means that we're all in this with Him Stephen has a bright, shining moment here And with the same Holy Spirit residing in us, we can have similar shining moments. But we know that Stephen was not perfect, because we know that all men sin and fall short of the glory of God. Stephen as great as he appears in the book of Acts, he is still in desperate need of a savior. fully dependent on the blood of Jesus Christ. And this is our situation. You are not rescued by being like Stephen. I'm not rescued by being like Jesus. We are rescued because God loves us. And he has called us to himself through Christ. Trust in what has been given to us by the miracle of the cross, and we will find that we can be filled with a mighty power. shared with us from Christ Himself. The power that comes from His Holy Spirit. And that's gonna have to put a wrap on uh things for this week. A little bit uh uh frustrating that we're gonna break this up into uh three pieces because there's still like five or six minutes left in the message if you can believe it. So we're gonna have to uh uh finish this up next week. That's gonna be awkward because the show's about a half hour long and after five or six minutes we'll still have quite a bit of time to fill. But actually I had a chance to speak at another church uh just a little bit shortly after this message was shared. It was only a short amount of time. at that other church just stood up and spoke for a moment. Maybe I can find that audio. And we'll have kind of a an interesting potpourri of of uh messages uh next week and then we'll uh try to get back on the saddle. uh with this program uh doing things the way uh we normally like to do them a panel discussion. I want to thank our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. They've been our sponsor now for oh my goodness, it's gotta be uh Close to all twelve years we've been on the air. Maybe not all the way back to the beginning, but very early on, at least ten years anyway. Footman plumbing and heating, how can we make you smile Thanks again to my longtime uh friend, brother, and cohort in uh in uh this program, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church in Frederick. Thank you for your longstanding loyalty to listening to this program on Sunday mornings, uh first at 6 a. m. for a while and then 8. 30 these past uh ten or so years. Um Not sure exactly what's uh on the ledger after that. John Sweitzer and I will knock heads and compare notes and we will figure out exactly what things will look like moving forward. Uh until then, God bless.