The last day. The Apocalypse. Armageddon. The rapture of the church. The blessed hope. The tribulation. The second coming. The coming final judgment. The end time. The end of the world as we know it. Ah! Here to share their opinions on such matters today are Jonathan Schweizer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church in Frederick, and uh Chris Jackson, who has a whole bunch of different things on his resume, but the one that we're gonna focus on mostly right now is he's the organizer of Life Bible Baptist Ministries. A pretty interesting initiative he's got going on. I'll put a link to his website on our website. You can find us at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. That's WFMD. Kind of mumbled it the first time. com Keyword Faith takes you right to the face. There you'll find descriptions of the uh of some of the shows that are upcoming uh and shows that have recently aired, links to the podcasts and all of that sort of stuff. And if you're on Facebook, you can uh try to find me on Facebook and you'll find links to the shows there as well. So So is this our final day about the last days? This this is the this is the final show in our arc of program. This is the four last day about the last days. And by the way, we are now well into admin. That was totally witty and you like didn't even like pay attention to that. We are two weeks from Christmas. We are. Merry Christmas. We can still say that. You know why Because we've made America great again, apparently. Didn't you notice? He is pro he he fights the war on Christmas. He's a happy warrior. Yeah, the unnamed the great unnamed one. We alluded to this um uh through all three shows we've done so far. Uh oh. And we've actually quoted small portions of it in snippets This isn't the first time, but it's one of the rare times. I'm gonna actually read a long stretch of scripture on the air on the face of Bait Show. Which we can still do because we're in the midst of making America great again. So I gotta throw in some Trumpism and some reason for everything. It causes the ratings to spike. Yeah, you just say something about Donald Trump or something that's alluding to Donald Trump. Oh maybe something about Trump. I should do that. I should make it part of the description. This week we'll talk about Donald Trump and the end time. Totally. I mean two seconds of Donald Trump. Of course they might be disappointed because we don't spend a loter, I can do that. All right, Matthew twenty-four. The trumpet will sound, not the trump. Now the exactly, yeah. This is the uh this is the English standard version uh of Matthew twenty-four. Okay. All right. Jesus left the temple and was going away when his disciples came to point out to him the buildings of the temple. But he answered them, You see all these, do you not? Truly I say to you, there will not be left here one stone upon another that will not be thrown down. As he sat on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately, saying, Tell us When will these things be, and what will be the sign of your coming in the end of the age? And Jesus answered them, See that no one leads you astray, for many will come in my name, saying I am the Christ, and they will lead many astray And you will hear of wars and rumors of wars. See that you are not alarmed, for this must take place, but the end is not yet, for nation will rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom, and there will be famines and earthquakes in various places. All these are but the beginning. of the birth pains. Then they will deliver you up to tribulation and put you to death, and you will be hated by all nations for my name's sake. And then many will fall away and betray one another and hate one another. And many false prophets will arise and lead many astray. And because lawlessness will be increased, the love of many will grow cold. But the one who endures to the end will be saved. And this gospel of the kingdom will be proclaimed throughout the whole world as a testimony to all nations, and then the end will come. So when you see the abomination of desolation spoken of by the prophet Daniel standing in the holy place, let the reader understand. Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. Let the one who is on the house top not go down to take what is in his house, and let the one who is in the field not turn back to take his cloak, and alas for women who are pregnant, and for those who are nursing infants in those days Pray that your flight may not be in winter or on a Sabbath, for then there will be great tribulation, such as has not been from the beginning of the world until now, no, and never will be. And if those days had not been cut short, no human being would be saved, but for the sake of the elect, those days will be cut short. Then if anyone says to you, Look, here is the Christ, or there he is, do not believe it. For false Christs and false prophets will arise and perform great signs and wonders, so as to lead astray, if possible, even the elect. See, I have told you beforehand. So if they say to you, look, he is in the wilderness, do not go out. If they say, look, he is in the inner rooms, do not believe it. For as the lightning comes from the east and shines as far as the west, so will be the coming of the Son of Man. Wherever the corpse is there, the vultures will gather. Immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken. Then will appear in heaven the sign of the Son of Man, and then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with power. and great glory, and he will send out his angels with a loud trumpet call, and they will gather his elect from the four winds from one end of heaven to the other. From the fig tree, learn its lesson. As soon as its branch becomes tender and puts out its leaves, you know the summer is near. So also when you see all these things, you know that he is near, at the very gates. Truly I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away. But concerning that day and hour No one knows, not even the angels of heaven, nor the Son, but the Father only. For as were the days of Noah, so will be the coming of the Son of Man, for as in those days before the flood, they were Eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage until the day when Noah entered the ark. And they were unaware until the flood came and swept them all away. So will be the coming of the Son of Man. Then two men will be in the field, one will be taken, and one left. Two women will be grinding at the mill, one will be taken, and one left Therefore stay awake, for you do not know on what day our Lord is coming, but know this That if the master of the house had known in what part of the night the thief was coming, he would have stayed awake and would not have let his house be broken into Therefore you also must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect. Who then is the faithful and wise wise servant? whom his master has set over his household to give them their food at the proper time. Blessed is that servant whom his master will find so doing when he comes. Truly I say to you, he will set him over all his possessions But if that wicked servant says to himself, My master is delayed, and begins to beat his fellow servants and eats and drinks with drunkards The master of that servant will come on a day when he does not expect him, and at an hour he does not know, and will cut him in pieces and put him with the hypocrites. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. And that is Matthew chapter 24 We've alluded to an awful lot of that in our last few shows. If you are not familiar, get familiar. Find a Bible online for free and read it. If you want an actual physical Bible and you can't afford to buy one, email me. I will get you a Bible. So There's a lot there. There's a couple of things. So much, yeah. So much. Now John started to allude to this in one of his questions to Chris, I think it was last week. How is it in that context that we w if you were trying to teach me to understand Matthew 24 from a dispensational point of view, how do I understand the rapture fitting into this? Or do I or is the rapture not really fitting into Matthew twenty four specifically? The rapture is not fitting into this chapter at all. But there are some time markers in here that uh we dispensationalists would say uh pretty that kind of stand out. Uh in verse 3 the disciples asked the Lord, tell us when these things will be, and w and what will be the sign of your coming in the end of the age. So they asked two separate questions. And so from verse 4 through 14, you know, Jesus is constantly telling them, uh, you will hear of wars and rumors of wars, see that you are not troubled, for all these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet Uh in verse eight, all these are the beginning of sorrows. And he goes on and on. And then verse 14, and this gospel of the kingdom will be preached in all the world. as a witness to all the nations, and then the end will come. But fifteen, therefore, when you see the abomination of desolation spoken of by Daniel the prophet standing in the holy place Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. Okay. Uh the end so so your point is that that you're saying that that that abomination in the holy place that there's kind of a a time gap between fourteen and fifteen Let's see. Fourteen well fourteen takes us to the end of the world. Okay. Um 'cause cause that that phrase in in particular in verse fourteen from uh from my standpoint, uh is I think a key marker because we're told in several places in the New Testament by Paul and by other apostles that this gospel of the kingdom has been preached in all the world. Like they say that it's done already. And so so when I read that passage and I say that that's gotta happen, then I look at the rest of what Scripture says, specifically the New Testament, meaning these guys. and they say it's happened, then uh then I'm like, Oh, okay, then Christ is ready could could return at any time. Then then it could happen. Right. We wouldn't see it that way. We would see that we would quote Romans uh fifteen where Paul says he still looks forward to go to Spain to preach the gospel. Okay, so um but again when uh the abomination of desolation is set up in the temple and and that's clear evidence that a temple needs to be built. Yeah. Okay, that kicks off uh what the Lord says in verse twenty one for then there will be great tribulation, such as has not been since the beginning of the world, until this time, no, nor ever shall be. And then verse twenty-nine is another benchmarker. Immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun will be darkened and the moon will not give us light, the stars will fall from heaven. Yeah. And then the sign of the Son of Man will appear So we all agree that those are key markers. Right. The question is what we point to as being the fulfillment of those markers. Right. We see it as the future. Yeah, I see that. It hasn't happened yet. And then Well hopefully not, yeah. Didn't need to be said, huh? But then verse thirty-two onward Uh the Lord answers the disciples uh second question, what will be the sign? No When will these things be? Yeah. Okay. And he says, you know, look at the leaves of a tree. Yeah. You know, by that you can tell that summer's near, so when you see these things start to take place, know that it is near Yeah. Okay. But verse thirty six, but no one knows the day or nor the hour, not the angels of heaven, but my father only. Yeah. Okay. So they had the expectation, uh as I do that the coming of Christ could come at any time. Uh but this is here in chapter twenty four Matthew's specifically speaking of the second coming of Christ. The rapture, the tribulation, and then the coming of Christ, and then he brings in his kingdom. Yeah, so so what what's so hard for me now it wasn't previously when I look at this passage is that he says these things will happen before this generation has passed away. He's talking about the destruction, right, that that's the key, the destruction, uh of um of the temple and there was right like uh Titus, Emperor Titus, uh actually set up with prostitutes in the temple and had his standards worshipped in the temple, right? So so the whole abomination that caused desolation, like all that happened at that time. And three and a half years ahead of time Uh there was a moment where where Nero was attacking Jerusalem and for some reason he pulls all his guys out. And what we're told is that all of the Christians at that point fled Jerusalem, meaning they did that. They fled to the mountains, and as a result, they weren't under the worst of the tribulation, meaning they w they it would be a mid-wrath. uh a millennial view, uh as it were, that they fled and they didn't face the worst of it. And when you read Josephus and those that write about what happened at this time frame, there's all the wars and rumors of wars. There are uh all these false prophets that led people astray out into the desert. He lists, you know, five or six of those guys that that were really significant. Uh he describes how those that were in Jerusalem at the time saw in the heavens the sign of the Son of Man. Okay. He actually describes that there were that there were unusual signs in the heavens and that people actually saw like uh you know, various things happening in the heavens that were like really significant. Like everybody saw it, everybody attested to it, and Josephus wrote it all down. So that was part of the uh exciting thing for me is that is that there is very clear historical fulfillment that was recorded in great detail about the things that happened at the time that seemed to me to be precise fulfillments of all those things. I'll I'll even say it this way. If I didn't ever think about what you say about this, um meaning uh primar view, uh I would I I would feel like I had no reason. If I read Josephus and read this, I would have no reason to think otherwise. Because it's so like like the the the fulfillment just looks to be like precise and and accurate at so many levels. Yeah, a couple of passages that uh John alluded to, th these would be places that somebody who's supporting John's point of view would turn. They would go to Romans chapter ten, uh, where Paul writes, um So faith comes from hearing and hearing through the word of Christ, but I ask, have they not heard? Indeed they have, for their voice has gone out to all the earth and their words to the ends of the world. If indeed you continue in the faith, stable and steadfast, not shifting from the hope of the gospel that you heard. which has been proclaimed in all creation under heaven and I and of which I, Paul, became a minister, that's where they would point and say the world has been reached. There is enough wiggle room there that you don't have to understand them a pr that particular way. So you could exactly so but that's that the that's where you would go. Oh John said I think in show two on this four-show arc, I think it was that show, where he was talking about, you know, this is a recent development, uh, dispensational theology. You know, and I went back and I studied and it looked like the early church and early church fathers uh were all millennial. Um I wanted to give you a chance to kind of address that, because that was not intended as a charge against dispensationalism, I don't think, but it could be taken as, well, okay, that's a legitimate gripe against dispensationalism. What does a dispensationalist say in answer to someone who wants to say, this whole theological worldview, or this view of the Bible, is less than two hundred years old What would you you would say you would probably say no it's not right? But I mean what would what do you say in answer to that? Uh no it's not. Good, I'm glad we got that over. Feel better now. But no, uh there are ample scriptures that really kind of point to a kind of a rapture uh type of event. Um For example, you know, there's the example of uh the children of Israel uh in Egypt Okay. Uh they did not suffer any of the plagues that the Egyptians suffered and went through. Yeah. Uh there was light, there was health, there was you know, protection and Goshen where they were. So that was like a a foreshadowing to us. Also in Luke 21, verse 34 Actually verse 36, 21, 36, watch therefore and pray always that you may be counted worthy to escape all these things that come to that will come to pass and to stand before the Son of Man. So we see that as uh uh support for the rapture, as well as uh one big verse and let me ask a question because I I think I think these passages are you know profound. I I I would agree I would say that I agree with the importance of these passages but I would ask the question, could those passages and I'm just asking could I recognize that you don't interpret it these this way, but could these passages be interpreted uh or be fulfilled in a way that is not rapture oriented. That that meaning, yes, like God did with the Israelites, that he'll protect the believers. But he does does it without using a phenomenon that we would describe as the rapture. Is it possible that the scriptures could be fulfilled by uh another method I don't think so. I honestly don't think so. Um I did mention about the Israelites being protected in Egypt. Then we have the example of Noah. You know, God saving him and his family from this worldwide flood. And of course none of those situations required a a rapture in order for God to do that. God used used other phenomenon to protect his people. And Lot uh escaping from Sodom. Okay. So the whole point, um Yes, God didn't require a phenomenon really to protect them. Um but, you know, what's coming on the world, the tribulation, is is gonna cover the whole planet. It's gonna be worldwide. Okay. And uh and God does love his people, he protects his people. And what I was gonna read earlier and so what in those passages makes you think that what's coming will be worldwide? Like you just made a statement that I I think you really believe, but I don't know that you've given me a passage yet that would say that that that particular You know, things gonna be worldwide. Right. Well we w read in uh Matthew twenty four. Yeah. Okay, twenty-one, for then there will be great tribulation, such as has not been since the beginning of the world, until this time, no nor ever shall be. For unless those days were shortened, no flesh would be saved. But for the elect's sake, those days will be shortened. Right, but that passage doesn't specifically say that the whole world is going to experience it. Uh it could be referring to that there's a phenomenon that's gonna happen at a particular location that that nobody in that location could be saved. Right, meaning that it is referring to a very dramatic thing, but that it's not necessarily, you know, global in its in its orientation. So that's another place where I think uh intelligent people could disagree. One main theme we probably should have spent some time talking about is the idea of Christian suffering. You know, two white people that buy into this idea of the rapture from the tribulation means that Christians are gonna be spared from suffering. Uh and there's no support for that. In fact there's a clear uh New Testament teaching that the Christians will suffer. You know, read the uh letters from Peter, for example, and it's very clear there. So anyway, we have uh like a minute left. So John, do you have ten seconds of anything you wanted to say? Uh just that um I have uh great hope for what is yet to come and um that uh that Those that are partial preterists recognize that there is significant things yet to come that that main t that give us reason to still live in our significant hope. For his son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus, who delivers us from the wrath to come. Thank you, gentlemen. John Sweitzer, Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, Jackson. He is with uh Life Bible Baptist Ministries. You can find a link to his website on our website at wfmd. com keywordfaith. If you find this show in podcast, give it a day or two and it'll be up there. And you'll also be linking to it on Facebook if uh if you want to try to find it there Thank our sponsors, Hilo Auto Sales, online at HiloAuto. com and Tire Pros of Frederick. Thank you so much. Again, we're just two weeks in Christmas. Happy Advent season. Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas. Uh remember the real reason for the season. Jesus came. The Son of God came in human flesh so that we might be saved from the deserving wrath of God. Meditate on that this morning and head on off to church. Now Godla