This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Treble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all form. Where faith community leaders wrestle over the truth. Yeah, but in less than thirty minutes, learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Oh, how convenient. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Ready to rumble! Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Fate Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy. Skinner. Get a moron. And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. Ooh, mama. The notorious big bridge builder, John Sweister. No, I'm just getting longed up. John Sweitzer playing hooky again, he done know what he's missing. But I'm here And Thomas Bonifield is here. This is our fourth and uh it'll probably our final show in this arc of episodes of the Faith Debate. We're focusing on a brand new movie that's out, Miracle on Christmas. And by this time, I imagine you've seen it. You've probably watched it three or four times. If not, what are you waiting for? It's been available since November third. Come on, chop chop, let's go. It's can you s can you spell stocking stuffer? Um seriously, it's getting grave reviews from the critics. Um if you like the homework style of movie, you know, the the brightness and the cheeriness and all and the vibrance of the production value and all that sort of stuff and excellent music and that You're gonna like this movie. But if you're not a fan of Hallmark because it's about a mile wide and an inch deep, if you know what I mean, this isn't that. This is a movie that tackles serious issues, uh people's wrestling with faith issues and and and life challenges and and overcoming through Christ uh faith in Christ and it's a distinctly Christian message that's in this movie so I have not seen it yet, but I've seen the trailer. I've read a bunch of stuff about it. I've now spent uh probably all together uh two, two and a half hours talking with the writer and director of the movie and I have utmost confidence that I'm going to love it and I trust that you will too. You can find it at Amazon, you can find it at Walmart, you can find it at Target and well and you can find more information about it at miracleonchristmas. com. Well enough of the commercial Um, welcome back to the show, Thomas. Thank you. Thank you for having me, Troy. It's been a real pleasure. So I gotta ask you, you you you know, we've if it uh We've spent the last three shows talking about the movie, the story, the production, the your your your story behind the story, uh your background as a as a Christian man and and your your experience uh living in Frederick uh for for uh your f some of your formative years, graduating from T J, all that sort of stuff. And something that struck me is you're making this movie You've written some screenplays and done some TV stuff, you're a journalist, so you you understand communication and writing all that sort of stuff, but still a full-length feature film You you write the screenplay, not really having ever done anything like that before. You go and peddle it to people and and get shot down by some people, get accepted by some people who help you then to navigate through You then not only wrote the movie, but you directed the movie too. And in the process of all that, you had to have learned a ton about the movie making business uh in general and the Christian movie making business more specifically. And so I thought what a great opportunity for us to pick your brain on those things that now you might have a particularly unique vantage point on to share some insight. Yeah, absolutely. It was quite an education. Yeah, but but before we get into that uh uh uh hold that for one second. Is this a full time jockey? Are you a full time movie maker now? Are you gonna be making more and more movies From your lips, brother, to God's ears. That's my plan. So if this does well, then yes is the answer probably. If it doesn't, it I may be one and done to borrow from uh the current college basketball landscape. Yeah, well ho I it doesn't sound like that's gonna be the case. So you were gonna say you've learned some things and I and I rudely interrupted. What were you about to say? Oh no, I was going to say and I I paid a lot for it because I actually also financed the movie largely, so I Trusting God and taking a large step of faith here. Betting on myself, so to speak. Well that's it. Well so if this movie doesn't pan out and it should end up here God forbid being one and one one and done Uh uh what other kind of work are you still a journalist? What other kind of work are you doing? Yeah, well I do I r I run my own website tracking the Christian movie business, but it's a hobby more than anything. So yes, I'll be uh Praying feverishly and pounding the paper if it doesn't pan out. What do you mean by tracking the the Christian movie making business? What does that mean? About movies that are coming out or things that are in development or you know, figures who are well known in the c the land. Then you are perfectly equipped. Perfectly equipped to talk about what we're talking about here uh now as we transition to talking about movies that aren't yours. So some of some of the more um Uh popular movies, uh more well-known movies of recent years would include like there was the animated movie a couple of years ago called The Star And that and that was that was uh that was a good Christian uh movie. Uh you know, uh kinda I mean, in this if you liked Veggie Tales, you really liked the star. Um they had some big Hollywood names voice some of those characters too. Yeah. Um I think Oprah Winfrey's in that. Yes, I do believe in Zachary is also one of the characters I remember. So yeah, so they didn't have they they didn't have just uh Christian voices in that animated movie, but big names nonetheless Um Soul Surfer was very popular about a decade ago. Um, you know, The Shack. Uh the movie did okay. The book was uh a runaway best seller. Uh Son of God, God's Not Dead, that that one did uh really well and and the the song by the Newsboys did really well from that movie That's about five or six years ago. Uh Miracles from Heaven was a box office uh reasonably big box office success. The War Room, a Kendrick's brother movie, was uh was really successful. I can only imagine just, you know, what was it, a couple of years ago and uh had somebody in it that was in your movie as well. That was a smash success. Heaven Is for Real was a pretty big movie. And of course, the thing that kind of relaunched the whole uh possibility for people realizing there was an interest in Christian movies, you've got to go back about fifteen, sixteen years for The Passion of the Christ, the Mel Gibson. movie which is very different than all the other ones I just mentioned. Uh you know, being rated R, none of the other ones R. But what a what an interesting smattering of movies we have there Some of them I think oh sorry, report very faithfully, you know, Christian, I think, and some of them not so much. So w y what were you gonna say? What do you have to say about this mattering of the bigger? Passion of the Christ, which is an outlier in so many ways. I mean, first of all, it generated, you know, three hundred and something million dollars in US box office only, which is far and away the most profitable Christian movie because Mel Gibson paid about thirty million of his own month to make it. Uh and and nothing else is even in that range. Um and it's you know, it's it's about the savior of course, so it's got a huge built in audience, uh and it's a really violent movie, uh unlike most other faith based movies Um and then some of the ones that you've mentioned, like the Shaq, I mean there they've got, you know, there's an intellectual property franchise there with a book that precedes the thing. So again you've got the built in audience which Filmmakers always like to have because that lowers the risk that the things are going to perform poorly financially. Which is one of the reasons you see so many movies of all genres, not just fate based, that come out of you know, literary endeavors initially. Uh but I I would say, you know, when you're looking at these Christian movies, the faith based ones, of all stripes, whether they're really you know, dogmatically hold close to biblical Christianity as we know it, or if they take some liberties, uh some of them do. If you have a successful Christian movie You you're looking at something in the range a theatrical theatrically released one. You're looking at something in the range of thirty-five to forty million dollars at the box office. Uh so the Mel Gibson thing is a complete outlier. I mean really there's nothing to be learned there, frankly, in terms of what do we do in terms of making our own faith-based movie. Right. He did ten times that in the box office. It's all sudden, yes. And those are also outliers. Like oh I can only imagine from a few years ago the Barton Lards Story. He's you know the lead singer in Mercy Me, which is one of the most well known Christian rock bands out there. Christian band of all time. I mean I'm I'm not sure. Um but that did something like eighty six million domestic box office, which again is an absolute outlier. That was from the Irwin brothers, who are one of the two big Christian filmmaking teams uh going right now. Um and the Shaq and And uh Miracles from Heaven also were in like the eighty, ninety million dollar range memory serves. Um but typically if it's a good one, you know, Kendrick Brothers, Courageous, Fireproof um overcomer, you're looking at somewhere in the thirty million dollar range for what they can do. So that necessarily You know, you've got to back that backtrack to okay, w how much are we gonna spend on this movie to make the kind of money we need to make to make it a profitable endeavor And I think, you know, for my and I'm still a long way from th this range myself, but you know, I think somewhere in the like five million dollar range, you start crossing that on the budget and you're heading out into risky territory in terms of making back your money. Because that's only the production budget is only what you're spending to actually shoot and edit the movie, basically. And then you're gonna have a huge B and A of advertising budget on top of that, which is gonna probably at least equal that and sometimes it might be more. So You start going north of five million on that production and you're really taking the chance on whether you're gonna make a profitable movie. No. In this space. Yeah, no And I'm wondering and you might have some insight on this, why is that now the case? 'Cause back in the when I when I was a But a young chap. Uh in the nineteen seventies, Jesus of Nazareth was made, and that's uh, you know, regarded by many as one of the all-time great uh Christian genre movies. And it's been very successful over the years. And if you want to go back even further, in the nineteen fifties you had Ben Hur, which is still a considered an all-time classic movie. You know, and um, you know, Black Narcissists, I've seen that. That was, you know, interesting movie. Ten Commandments. I mean, who hasn't watched that every single year on TV for their whole life with uh with you know, with Chuck Heston. Uh and and those those were box off box box office successes. And even even movies that weren't overtly about Christ or Bible stories, like, you know, Sergeant York from the nineteen forties is about uh you know, uh a a Christian man who who struggles with his conscience uh in World War One and you know it's a it's an overtly, you know, Christian themed movie. It did well. It did exceptionally well. at at at the box office. Um and and then, you know, th th so that's the forties, the fifties, maybe into the sixties and if you want to go with Jesus of Nazareth get into the seventies. But then but then the nineteen eighties come And you have movies like Last Temptation of Christ. Like so but what happened there? So w how is it that we had these very successful, very highly funded, and then very successful in the box office and highly regarded critically movies in the you know, the golden age of movie making, I guess. And then the the wheels come off with the last temptation of Christ and It kinda stays the wheels left off until about fifteen years ago, sixteen years ago when Passion of the Christ comes out. What happened? Do you have a sense of that I think those those the older ones that you're talking about, those were huge studio productions. I think both those Charlton Histon movies, uh Ben Hurr and Ten Commandments were MGM pictures, if I remember correctly And if they weren't, they were another big studio. So you had huge studio money behind 'em. They're done on a grand scale. And I think, you know, to their credit, they largely stayed true to the faith. Whereas movies like that, Tem Last Temptation of Christ, I mean clearly it's like virtually nothing to do with anything in the Bible there. So your core audience who people who either are believers or have some affinity for Christianity are going to be turned off by those kinds of movies. And I think Hollywood is a different place now than it was obviously back in the golden days, uh, and they don't you know, there's not much reverence out there for faith based issues or hasn't been traditionally. Though I think, you know, we're in a moment now where There's money attached to these movies if they're done right and that's kind of changing the view in Hollywood because the Kendrick Brothers, for instance, the the top dogs in the Christian movie making business, they work with Sony Pictures. The Irwin brothers just last year signed a huge deal with Lionsgate and their latest movie which got kind of s scuttled after one week in the theaters because of coronavirus, I still believe, was off to a really good start. It in fact led the box office on the first Friday night it was out in of all movies in America Uh, and they've got another one coming out about Kurt Warner of the NFL Hall of Famer who played for he won a Super Bowl with the LA Ram or the St. Louis Rams when they were still there and played in another Super Bowl for the Cardinals and is a devout Christian. So you know, they're and they're bringing in big time Hollywood names that I o I still believe had a young New Zealand actor who's in a very popular Teen show called uh Riverdale, I believe it is. His name's KJ Appa and he played the lead. He played Jeremy Camp in that an actress named Brit Robertson was His love interest in the story and Gary Sinise, who's also a devout Christian, was the father and Shania Twain, the country music legend was the mother, so they're they're going kind of Hollywood in some ways at the top end of the spectrum here in the bass based space. And as a Christian movie financier I know sort of distantly once said, you know, they don't call this the movie party. They call it the movie business. It doesn't matter if you're making, you know, thrillers, horror movies, or faith-based stuff in that sense. If you can make money at it, you're gonna have interest from Hollywood. And I think they're finally their eyes are being reopened after a period of slumber to the fact that, you know, the faith based audience is out there, it's large, and it's got money. So if you can Catertooth, cater to their interests and deliver quality productions, you can make a lot of money. He's Thomas Bonifield, writer and director of a new movie that's out this year called Miracle on Christmas. You can get yours at Walmart, Target, Amazon, places like that. Go to their website, miracleonchristmas. com and learn more. I'm Torres Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. And I hear what you're saying, but you know, it it's a little bit frustrating. When Facing the Giants first came out, my wife and I thought, oh, our nephews would probably love this movie. We bought it for them, gave it to him as a as a birthday present or a Christmas present, came over a witch and And and they watched it and and they thought it was okay, but they gave it back and and you know, they weren't interested in keeping it and re watching it and re watching it. And we were a little bit surprised 'cause they like football But they're not maybe committed to the faith in the way that uh my wife and I are. And the feedback we got from them was well, no my brother in law actually, you know. Nobody lives like that And so we're like, wait a minute. We do. We we we sure try to. I mean we're we pray together and you know we we we try to be firmly committed to living a biblical life and so sometimes these movies are so on the nose for a Christian only audience that those are only loosely connected to Christian. They might identify as Christian, but they're not deeply involved in the faith, maybe they don't connect. And so a movie like Chariots of Fire, which is an overtly Christian movie in a lot of ways uh can be appreciated by a broader audience. Is there something good for that from that though, or is Cherry the Fire you know, not uh helpful enough because it's not on the nose enough. Should we be thinking in terms of having movies that proselytize better or movies that are gonna be connecting in a in a more subtle way with a broader audience? Yeah, I think that connecting in a more subtle way with a broader audience is kind of the the unicorn of uh the faith based filmmaking world. It's it's so hard to do that. I think beyond, you know, Divine Providence orchestrating it, it's virtually impossible And when you're looking at it from a monetary perspective, and you cannot not do that because as I said, it's it's the movie making business. And that applies to us as faith bas faith based filmmakers as well as it does to secular filmmakers. If you can't make it viable financially, you're not going to be making movies. And if you to the neglect of your core constituency, meaning church attending Christians go for the broader audience, you end up in the no man's land with no constituency You're not going to get the ones who you really can count on and you're not going to get the ones who you hope to bring into the tent. So, you know, my sense generally speaking is you take care of your core constituency, people who like faith based movies, who are typically church attending Christians, and you know, make it as appealing as possible to people who might be outside of the scope of that group. But you cannot neglect that core group or you're gonna have nobody watching your movie. And that's why I think they're generally speaking When you don't consider the outliers, the general rule is, you know, thirty-five to forty million for a box office release of a faith-based movie, because that is your core constituency and that's the kind of money they're bringing to the table Unless you, you know, have a stars aligning, pardon the expression, Mel Gibson Passion of the Christ or on a lesser scale, you know, Miracles from Heaven or I can only imagine. Which you know are gonna do eighty or ninety, maybe a hundred million at the domestic box box office. Yeah, but I think the part of it is just the the the this um insidious almost biased that the Hollywood folks would have. Because they they have thrown big money at a few movies that they were hoping to be blockbusters, like Noah comes to mind. uh five or six years ago. And I don't know how that ended up doing in the box office, but I think it was a disappointment because they spent a ton of money. The special effects on that were outrageous. And but the problem is it's not based on the Bible story, it's based on the es extra biblical uh uh uh writings of a long time ago. And so people who are well versed Christians who are well versed in the Bible didn't recognize anything going on in that movie almost. It was it was weird. Uh and then of course because it was positioned as a Christian Bible based movie you know, the non Christian, you know, audience w really wasn't as interested in maybe seeing it either. And yet it can be done successfully because we have the Chronicles of Narnia movies where they've big budget lots of special effects And I think the Christian audiences have mostly liked it. And the uh the the not necessarily Christian audiences have gravitated and hopefully gotten a a a good message from it as well. So Maybe they just need to have people like you help them to understand what a Christian understands about the Bible and about Christian living and No, I think you're right on the money, and that's why you see people like Sony Pictures doing a deal with the Kendrick brothers who are former pastors. and filmmakers. And you see Lionsgate doing a deal with the Irwin brothers who are devout Christians. And you see people like Paramount Pictures doing a deal with Devon Franklin, who was the man behind or one of the men behind uh the star, that animated Christmas movie that you referenced earlier, because they understand there's money to be made here. We don't know how to deliver what we need to get our hands on that money. We need to bring in who are part of that community who can help us access those folks who are gonna support this kind of filmmaking. Well I mean th it's come a long way. I remember the the earl some of the um S some of the movies that were attempted to made to be like spot on Christian movies, like the Christiano brothers. You know, a little cheesy, low budget, right? And we've come a long way from that, that's for sure. You mentioned the Irwin brothers and the Kendrick brothers. What's with all these brothers? Do you have a brother You gotta get I d I I do, but that's what you're gender than me. You gotta start making movies with your brother. But they're not all good. You know, I mentioned, you know, some of the heaven is for real uh you know, okay. Um the shack loaded with heresy. We actually had William Paul Young on this show a couple of years ago, by the way, and uh talking about his movie and his book. and uh asking him to defend it theologically. And so that was kind of interesting and fun. So not all anything that's labeled Christian is necessarily Christian. No doubt. So we gotta be careful. But yours is, it seems. I mean everything I uh I I'm finding out about it and you tells me that it is So congratulations. Uh the movie again is Miracle on Christmas. The website is miracleonchristmas. com It's available right now. We got 12 days till Christmas, so you can run out right now today. Go buy it. It's a beautiful stock stocking stuffer. And I'm not getting any residuals for this. Probably something like a I'm hawking uh stuff on the uh what's that jewelry channel where they're always fellas up Oh yeah, G V or uh QVC. Yeah, exactly. I feel like a QVC person. I'm not Not meaning to, but uh I'm excited that we've got somebody else now entering the fray to make uh movies that are faithful. And this isn't a Bible story. This is a a story about a Christian life about somebody who's living the Christian life and having struggles and overcoming through their faith in Jesus Christ. And so that's really exciting. So Uh Thomas Bonifield, thank you so much for being on the show. Uh any l any final words in 30 seconds you'd want to share? I think that y while I'm targeting generally the fate based community, that there's a lot in this movie that will have general appeal. We're talking about serious life issues, life and death issues, and the hope we find in the birth of Christ, uh, which really is the only hope ultimately that will remain unshaken despite your life circumstances. And I think that the the broader issues that are touched on here fidelity and f familial relations, uh love, support, reconciliation, forgiveness, redemption are things that are virtues that are respected across the faith-based spectrum and I think there'll be enough here that will engage a general audience and I hope people will give the movie a chance. And I think it's gonna leave them with an uplifting, hope-inspiring message of the Christmas season Well, thank you so much for your time with us on the show. I look forward to not only seeing this movie, but seeing your second, third, and fourth movie as well. Well, thank you. Uh well keep me in your prayers that it it happened. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, don't get too big ahead, all right. Oh my, he keeps me humble, no worries. God knows where my buttons are, knows how to push 'em, so that's never gonna happen. Again, you can find information about the movie at Miracleonchristmas. com. You can find us online at WFMD. com. Keyword faith Find me on Facebook, LinkedIn, Parler, MeWe, all those places. You follow me, I'll follow you. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now God bless and joyous Advent season to you and yourself.