The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Thank you for spending part of your Sunday morning. With us, you can follow this show at WFMD. com and you can follow everything that I'm involved with at Household of Faith in Christ Why would you want to do that? Who am I? I don't know. Well, let me tell you who's with me first. David Forstey, he's the pastor of uh House Church in the South End of Frederick County. Daniel Razby, he's pastor with the House Church on the north end of Frederick County. I'm the pastor of a house church that meets in the center of Frederick County, and my church is called Household of Faith in Christ. Again, Household of FaithInCrist. com will give you information about not just my church, but some information as well about the Rasby Church and the 4C church. And uh all sorts of links to to my social media and trusted Christian resources. You can listen to sermons and read blogs and Uh it's kind of a one-stop shop for uh just about everything that I do that's related to the the ministry of the church. So anyway. And including linking to the the faith debate stuff. So and I've mentioned this a couple of times uh in recent shows, I should mention it again. We are now in the habit of doing a live stream on Facebook until I can figure out how to replace Facebook's live stream and stream with somebody else. But for now live streaming with Facebook while we record because we're you know we're busy on the weekends. So we don't uh come in and do the show live on Sunday morning. So we record uh usually usually, you know, four or five shows at a time and we're doing those live on Facebook. So if you want to kinda get a jump start on that Pay attention to me on Facebook and then you can uh you can watch what we spent a couple hours talking about all this stuff and get a a uh you know, a a sneak peek, sneak preview of the things we're talking about. We typically talk about boring stuff, you know, nothing all that interesting. You know, we talked last week about uh almost forget what it was. It wasn't that consequential. Like the culture doesn't even focus on it. Um What was uh what was it again? It was homosexuality. Oh that's right, homosexuality. That's actually a pretty hot topic. Well it's this week this week's show that we're not gonna do. Actually it's not a hot topic, Troy. It's It's normal. It's uh Oh these days. Yeah. What what topic is trans transgenderism? Don't pay attention. It's uh Yeah, so we're talking about transgenderism. Um Let me start with something that's really practical. Okay, like a practical application for for Christians. So if you're a Christian, you're listening, this is for you. Is it okay for a Christian to use someone's preferred pronouns if those preferred pronouns would be in disagreement with their biological DNA sex? It is not correct, I would say, as a Christian, for you to do that, for you to because by doing that Uh then you are affirming that the re the fa false reality that they're claiming i exists. And that you are affirming that God made them differently than he actually did make them. Um now, with that said, do you have to go out of your way to insult somebody to their face? No, I mean there's ways to do that. If you have sitting down Unless the person's name is Daniel Rasley, then you should do it all you can. So so if you're sitting down with co for coffee with somebody Right. And your your your intent is maybe to share the gospel with them and they say, Oh, my preferred pronouns are this and they're clearly not for whatever reason or and you know this to be true. Um You can have a conversation with somebody, especially one-on-one, without using your pronoun. I you don't generally it doesn't generally come up. Where it comes up is in group conversations where you refer to this other person. So you could just use their first name And the name is what it is. If they've changed their name, it uh it doesn't really matter. I I think it's it's a different thing to use somebody's preferred name. than to prefer a pronoun because a name is what they who they are and you can change names. God changes names. There's reasons to change names. Um there are righteous reasons, there's also ungodly reasons, but the name can change The pronoun refers to who they actually are, whether they're a man or a woman, and that's something that God has determined that's unchangeable. Um and so I I think it it's important to make that distinction. Um this is is not right necessarily uh to Uh i i it may be fine, depending on the context, uh to call somebody by the name that they have chosen for themselves, but not to use their preferred pronoun. David Um yeah, I think uh And why whichever way you're gonna go. Yeah, so when it comes to the pronoun usage aspect of it, I think that um that speaking the truth is is what we we must do. Um even if it is uh You know, I I I don't I don't think that it is loving to um you know, uh allow you know, if someone is wanting to believe a lie, I don't think it's it's loving to go along with that lie. It it it's just take it to a a laughable extreme. Forget pronouns, but if I met you for the first time and s and we're gonna have a conversation, maybe you're gonna witness to me. But I started the conversation by saying, you know, I'm happy to talk to you. But I'm only going to talk to you if at the start of every sentence you tell me that the sky is green. And if you can't tell me the sky is green at the beginning of every sentence, then I don't want to listen to you. I don't want to talk to you. Well you're not you can't agree to have what if I put in my green shape. Right. So we can maybe uh uh find some other Some other example that's not and look who's talking, I'm colorblind actually. No, no, no, I I I kind of joked on purpose because that's what ends up happening, I think. We try to find like workarounds and ways to But I c I think it does come down to what David said. But that doesn't mean that you necessarily have to then start every sentence reminding me the sky's blue. Right. You can just not talk about the sky until it comes up and then address it as it comes up. But you you don't have to go out of your way it will come up. Somebody in your family, maybe not your d direct nuclear family, but somebody close, you know, a cousin, uh you know, a nephew, you know, whatever. Um They're uh confused if we were I would want to do whatever you Uh, and they they say, I want you to call me by this name and you're gonna be okay with calling 'em by you know, Bob is now Sally, okay, whatever. But Bob is not now she, Bob is still he. I think that's kind of where you are. Is that where you are as well? Yes, David? Okay, and that's where I am as well. But now, uh Bob who's now Sally uh has uh has an infatuation has has emerged with um with a Sally who's now Bob and they're gonna have a A wedding, so they say. And you're invited. Do you go to to nephew Bob who's now Sally's wedding? What because a marriage between one man and one woman? I guess in that case it'd be off the hook, right? Right. I thought I thought you were going with that, you know. Um I I would I would just consider it a a non Christian wedding. What if it's uh Bob Who's Now Sally? Um which I don't particularly with another Bob Who's Now Sally. So or just two bobs or two cell bits. But there's some of that the reason I'm asking because that's I've seen some of that in like social media or in the news or whatever where you know you got uh Uh it was actually on one of the T V shows. So Survivor, last season of Survivor or something, one of the characters uh identifies we're talking about homosexuality last week. He identifies as gay and he he's a biological male, he identifies as gay, and so the whole show you're thinking, Oh, here's a gay guy, you come to find out that he's married, but he's married to a biological woman who identifies I I think so it's like so you're not really gay identifies as gay and yet you're married to a woman, you just r have reversed the roles, which is you know kinda Interesting. Uh and ungodly. So but so yeah, so you're case that's just like a non-Christian wedding, but it's a male and a female biologically, and so that's fine. But what if but what if it's uh you know They're they're both the same sex but they're because this is what's happening now in our culture. They're both the same sex but one of the but they're right. One of them but one of them says they're transgender. Exactly. So now so do you go to that wedding? No. See here's here's the thing. I love how he's always so very definitive, right? I I am. I there it is. I I've thought about most of these topics at in depth and I have my opinion. So wait, so wait, would you go to the Sally Bob Bob Sally rather. Yes. Interesting. So so so and and and and I say that with with with with maybe a slightly more hesitation than you hear my voice. But To me there's a there is a big distinction, okay? What the person believes to be true about themselves is irrelevant. There is a truth about them. That's how God made them Okay. So whether they're gay, not gay, w whatever that doesn't really matter. Um the that's that's you know the the actions. And whether they're a man or a woman, that matters, that's how God made them. So if someone invites me to their wedding Um and and it's it's a man marrying a woman, whether or not they're saved. Now if one of them is saved, and I believe this to be true, and I and very certain that the other one is not saved. That may be an example of of one that I I don't think I can support. That I don't think I can go to the wedding because I'm voicing my support of for a unequally yoked, some of the Christian marrying a non-Christian. But assuming first of all they're both saved, whether I like the people particularly or not, it doesn't matter. You should go go and and and and show s you know, sub uh encouragement that they're celebrating something. And if they're not saved Well, the act of getting married is not a sin. We talked about this last week. There's there may be plenty of sins in their life, but the actual act uh the actual um marriage Um the fact that they're married now, that's not a sin because they're um it's a man and a woman. They're together and they're committing to each other monogamously. Now if it's an open marriage there's a whole whole nother st story to that. Right? But if if you get two people that are saying something to the effect of I'm gonna be with this other person and I'm gonna choose to love them for the rest of our lives uh lives then I don't have any reason why I shouldn't shouldn't um Uh sh shouldn't say, Congratulations, good for you, have a great to have a great life, you know. Um am I gonna say that everything about them is is is righteous and good? No, I'm not gonna do that and I'm not gonna affirm um their false identity. But if it it does end up being the man now, if they are if you got a man who says he's a woman who's marrying an um a a woman who does not say she's a man, so now they're pretending it's a lesbian ceremony when it's actually a man and a woman. That may be w example of something that say, look, I can't actually go and support this because now I'm trying to affirm that it's a man and a woman, but what everybody else around me sees is that I'm affirming homosexuality, which I don't intend to do. And so I I think that's so so some of it's a case-by-case uh basis. Um And and and I I think to be it's not just affirming either, right? I mean it's a step above Right. You're celebrating it with them. Right. And if they're claiming that it's a homosexual ceremony, then by going because you are saying that if it were a homosexual ceremony, you'd be okay with it. But the but there's that old slippery slope thing, what happens with the culture, the slide into depravity, it begins with the the the the the the sinful uh components of our culture wanting us to they claim that all they want us to do is to put up with them, tolerate them. Just wow. You're so intolerant. Could you just tolerate this? But then, once you give up that ground, tolerance isn't enough. Now they want you to accept them. You have to agree with them. You might not like it, but okay, I'm going to agree with you. And then that third level, the final thing, and if you don't go there, you're a hater, you're a bigot, you're a jerk. You have to celebrate with them And that's what's going when you go to a wedding is you're going there to celebrate. There's actually another level. There's a fourth level? Which is summing yeah, it's coming up. Oh boy. We're in trouble. What is this one? It's you say Troy, you were a man. Right? Yes. Okay. Manly mad. You are and you are heterosexual. True that Okay. And you are actually married now, but let's let's just suggest I'm not gonna be soon? No no no. But uh but hypothetically if you were single, if you were not married. Right. So let's just uh pretend I'm t I'm talking to a single guy here. Okay. It would you be open to um going out with a dude who thinks he's a woman? Which they would say is i a transgender woman. Sure. When I was growing up he called them transvestite. Right, right. No, no, I and and I I knew your answer, that's why I'm I'm I'm asking I'm being a little facetious, but that's actually the fourth level, is that not only do you have to be okay with it and out only say it's a good thing that they're doing and then even celebrate with them, but you also have to be willing to put aside your own actual feelings saying that you're t heterosexual engaging. Right, because if you say you're heterosexual, but you wouldn't really be okay with going out with a uh a a guy who just says he's a woman then, you know, but the ho or heterosexual will be fine with it because because that's a woman. You know, you don't have any say over your own feelings and um desires anymore at that point. That's been talked about. I've seen a bunch of articles on that they they interview and they're saying you are a hater if you eliminate from the pool of potential dates somebody who's transgender. And you know what? I mean this is gonna sound you know, like linguistic tricks or something, but and that's kind I think it's okay for us to own that label if if we if we can properly define it. Well sure. You know what? Absolutely. I do hate that. I hate what God hates. I hate sin. I hate brokenness. I hate the things that you know, the depravity that robs people of living out their full full potential to to have the lives that God intended for them to have. It breaks my heart and things that break my heart I tend to hate. You know, when when grandma dies And you're sobbing because grandma's dead. There's death in this world because it's a broken world. Right? Death is is an enemy. Death is bad and so we should hate it. I hate death. So I think we can own the hater label, but that's not usually how they mean it. No. But we may be there's opportunity for us to to spin it. And you mean Uh you mean hating the uh the celebration of sin? Um Not not hating the actual people. Right, not hating the individual who is who is celebrating the sin. And there's another topic for another day. Yeah, no, I have some examples in the Bible of godly man actually hating people. I would say that I certainly I I hate uh I hate that they do. Yeah. Right. And we have love. I mean God Jesus has love for for people who no matter what their background. You cannot You cannot commit enough sins that God is not is not capable of showing love to you. Now whether he you do get saved or not, that's a whole nother story. But there's no way that you can do bad enough things and enough sins that it would prevent you from becoming saved. No. If if God will never love any of your sins. Correct. Correct any of them. And if the person is covered by the blood of Christ, he doesn't see the sin anymore. He sees Christ. Now of course you're only covered by the blood of Christ if you've repented of your sins. So there's there's a lot more steps to this. But uh yeah, I I I agree. Um all all I meant by by the the different levels is I it n it nothing is good enough for these people, right? First you had to say Oh yeah, I'm out you know, there was a hateful phrase right there, these people First they can't say these people. First you had to say it's okay, then you had to affirm it, then you gotta celebrate, and now you have to agree to engage in it yourself, otherwise you're seen as somebody that's uh uh bad. You know, so uh y you could push back on that by saying, Well no, I wouldn't go out with any of those people uh any anybody, even uh uh a woman I wouldn't go out with unless that person was saved and even then I wouldn't go out with them unless they were planning on getting married and that's the purpose of having a date. And we we may have talked about this briefly sometime, but it's probably worth getting into dating, courtship, how do you find a spouse? The whole purpose of when you're single, the whole purpose of meeting people and going out with people is to find a spouse. If there's any other person, then you're playing around with somebody else's wife. Um and and and so that's that's something that I think a lot of people fail to realize and there's a lot of Christians who's just go on a lot of dates and then they get fallen into that trap of, Oh well I could date this person. Maybe we're not quite compatible but maybe we'll find out later if we're not the right fit. Let me let me shift gears a little bit because of the language. Like I've I've become self-conscious. I purposely try to not use the word uh uh race the way the world, the culture uses the word race, unless I for clarity I have to use it so people don't talk about and I'll usually say quote unquote race. Because uh biologically speaking there's one hu uh one human race. There are different ethnicities, different people groups, different nationalities, different uh you know, commonalities that people have. There's there's men, there's women, there's those differences. There's different kinds of people groups and those should be recognized and in many cases should be celebrated, not just recognized. I mean those some of those kinds of differences and diversity within the the the the the the human race. uh are are are wonderful and I I think if you're Italian and you're proud to have Italian heritage, I think that's wonderful and you're honoring your great grandfather and great great grandfather for them being good Italians or something. I I'm t totally fine with that And I think spiritually speaking, the Bible uh talks about there being um you know, a second race in a spiritual sense, and that would be those who are believers. uh who are in Christ are uh are are a holy people, a holy nation. It's uh it's uh it's a and actually the say the word there in the original in the Greek is the same word that we would translate as uh as ethnicity and and nation and things. So you could use it for race. So I'm I'm okay with all that. So I try not to so I'm wondering same thing with gender. Gender is a literary term primary that's originated as a literary term. And now we've used it as a biological term So we should we shifted disciplines in using it and if by doing so I'm wondering if if we're helping to reinforce the problem and if I'm right. It's a little awkward to always have to say biological sex. So are do am I too hypersensitive on that? Or I would use gender and sex uh synonymously. That's how the world does. I'm saying but that wouldn't have been the case. No, the world doesn't use them synon synonymously. They say gender and sex are separate in distinct terms. In common usage and practice they're using them the same way. No, no. No, that's that's the whole ideology of the transgender movement is that Gender and sex are different. Your biological sex is male or female, but your gender is how you identify. Identify as a man or a woman or a point where Uh there's like fifty-three options on Facebook for your gender. I I think I think it's it's at at one point there was you know sex and gender were used very differently. But I I think it's they're they're coming closer and closer together in the at least in the in the in the you know in the transgender ideology um because you know body body parts now have nothing to do in in their minds with sex or gender, like neither. Mm-hmm. Because it's it's not just gender as in masculine or feminine. They would say male, female, man, woman, you know. All all the same. And there's not just two now, that's the thing, is there's so many different types of genders. Right. But as a literary term, I'm not sure how there's at least three, because there's male, female, neuter. Are there other genders literarily speaking? Are there are there only three? I don't know. I'm not a I I wasn't a literary major. Literature major. The three. But it also depends on which language too. Yeah. By literary, I mean I guess you'd you mean written language. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. I mean in in in spoken language, right? And uh in all the all the Romantic languages. You know, uh French, Spanish, Italian, you know, there's there's masculine, feminine, there's neither right. Like he would be the masculine pronoun for a biological male. She would be a right feminine pie. Feminine pronouns. And then they would be a neuter Yeah but but in English but in English we don't have nearly as much we use it for individuals though too. I said this and then they said that. We said we sometimes will be able to do that. Especially when you don't want to identify whether you were talking about a man or a woman because you want to keep some privacy. You're saying I was having a conversation with somebody in my congregation and they said Right. Yeah. You you could say that. Um but it's really more of a thing in other languages because some in a language like Spanish, every word is either masculine or feminine, feminine generally. There unless you want to say Latinx. Anyway, that's gonna Latinx would be the punchline on today's show. This is the faith debate. Uh the one I just had to interrupt because we're out of time is Daniel Razby. Also joined this week by David Forcy. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks so much for listening to Faith Debate. If you want to follow along with everything that we do, go to Household of FaithInChrist. com, Household of FaithInChrist. com. And uh of course you can go to WFMD. com too. I won't I won't mark you off for that one. You'll get bright points for that too. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now