This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn. In a week. The fate debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com. Keyword fate. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner. Wang in with a Master of Divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Troy Skinner. Just you and me Excuse me. No panel this week. I'm uh recording uh some shows while we've got restrictions on how many people can get together and stuff, and so I'm in the studio. uh after hours when there's no people that can be concerned about getting infected to to get some stuff done and down and I've shared um down on the record, if you will I've shared a bunch of stuff on social media and in person with people and with my congregation. I've been sharing those sorts of things over the last several weeks on the Faith Debate Show and now I'm going to share some thoughts that were part of a a long um thread of comments back and forth. I think are representative of the kinds of discussions that I've been having. And some of the stuff that I'm gonna r m mention here is going to feel a little bit dated because the story is moving so fast. It changes by the day, but You know, bear with me if you will. So first I want to say that, you know, I really do appreciate the discussion that I have with people when they're willing to have one, you know, and and and good ones particularly. And questions people ask of me, they're they're important to me, they help me to uh reflect on on my own thinking and reflect on how I'm being received by other people, how they're hearing me and and help me understand how I'm hearing them. And I've had some friends who've kind of said, Well let me understand this. So what you're saying is, and when they try to summarize what I'm saying, I realize, eh, I'm not saying what I want to say very well. Because their summary is just not quite there. So hopefully by the end of these string of shows that I'm uh throwing at you the over the course of a month and a half or so uh collectively all a as one package will do a better job than any maybe any one part of a show or any one show standing on its own. So anyway, as an example uh of what I'm talking about. Um I had somebody who uh commented on social media that you know I I had a string of posts that I put up like ten days in a row with similar themes and some of my friends were saying they were crying uncle, saying enough already. Well you get the point. You know, and it's caused some people to say, see you're talking you've been you've been r talking about this on social media like fifty times in the last day, you know, which no I don't it wasn't fifty times. I have been more active on social media than I typically would be, but uh not not that insanely. I don't think so anyway. And I I in one of the threads I was talking about making a connection or a comparison between COVID nineteen and H one N one. And some perceived what I was doing there to be dismissing the coronavirus. Some confusingly thought that I was comparing COVID-19 to the seasonal flu, which I wasn't. Far from dismissing the danger of coronavirus, the post was actually drawing attention to the to the danger, in my opinion Because I see the two pandemics uh as eerily similar in in a number of ways. Now I understand the viruses they have important differences too. That's the reality with all viruses. I'm not dense You know, the CDC calculates that as many as ninety million Americans might have been infected during the H1N1 outbreak of about eleven years ago. At the end of the CDC, uh at the high end of the CDC uh estimates, more than 400,000 Americans were hospitalized, and the CDC says that the number of Americans who died from H1N1 It ranges up to eighteen more than eighteen thousand, almost nineteen thousand, somewhere in there. And so that's you know that's serious stuff. Now I don't say that COVID nineteen is not serious stuff, and comparing the two, I believe I'm showing that Each one is due their respect. Using a term for the sort of boxing, I was you know, I prov provide a sort of a tail of the tape when I do this sort of thing. Now some people, you know, they're correct in perceiving that I draw these sorts of comp comparisons for other purposes. My main purpose is to re sh reassure everyone that uh I cross paths with and follows me on social media, you know, that we've been in situations similar to this in recent past. We uh uh we've concl we collectively have come out of it okay There was no need to panic. As with other pandemics of the 21st century, we should be mindful of taking precautions to protect ourselves as individuals, protect our families. And yet what seems to me to have happened is that a society gave in to panic with this year's pandemic. And history has illustrated that panic does not tend to lead to good outcomes So let me uh continue with some of my comments, sort of break them down into bite-sized pieces. That'll be a little bit of a challenge, but I'll do my best. So, for centuries, Americans They've lived under the banner of each person has rights given to them by God that government institutions and authorities have no right to take away. And these include life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, which means personal property, the right to earn a livelihood. And my concern is that in the reaction to the very real COVID-19 threat, we've gone to the wall for life. But have laid down and surrendered a liberty and the pursuit of happiness. And this is not a good trade When looking at various world cultures and the ones that best defend individual rights, the right to personal property, the right to assemble, the right to worship as individual conscience commands, the right to trade services for goods and vice versa, and other rights like that. When liberty and economic freedom are lost, when these sorts of rights are lost, the right to life eventually gets taken away too Now I fully agree that once this is all over, no one, based solely upon medical stats and medical considerations, is going to be able to win the argument over the appropriateness of the response by the public and the authorities. I mean if millions of Americans end up dying after all of this, it's going to be argued that, well, it's really good that we shut things down, or would have been millions more dead. Or it'll be argued that a million Americans probably would have ended up dying anyway without the shutdowns. And if the death numbers are relatively low after all of this, well it can be argued that the shutdowns proved to be unnecessary. Or we argue that the shutdown accomplished the relatively low numbers. Nobody can win that argument However, there will be ample evidence of what I call the carnage caused by the shutdowns. I would suggest that the statistics for some really bad stuff could really dramatically increase and most likely already has begun to rise. There will be more emotional depression and mental health crises. There will be thousands upon thousands of newly unemployed, some such as with the food service industry where the re you know the restaurant association says that they've been devastated, millions of jobs lost. A number of small businesses, uh you know the heartbeat of many small c communities, they're gonna die. And when they do, the small communities may die with them. Pressure upon the fundamentals of the economy will cause cracks in financial institutions with defaulted loans, stalled job growth, supply and demand disruptions. Domestic violence will rise, perhaps. Crime will increase, perhaps Overdoses already at crisis levels become even more common. Uh and atop all of this, our culture has now received an inoculation against concern over future authoritarian dictates. from bureaucracies and smarter than everyone else rulers. These are very serious concerns. And I would love, love, love to end up being proven wrong about this. Now it is a fair point that the consensus of experts, quote unquote, is that the shutdown model was necessary. You know, although I I I you know uh I wonder though uh if you personally accept as uh reasonable the worst case scenario if no shutdowns were enforced. I mean w w were those worst case scenarios ever really likely But you know the point is fair. There's a lot of experts out there saying certain things, but honestly it it it it doesn't persuade me necessarily. Shocking, right? I'm not persuaded easily. And I yearn for the day when more people will at least be willing to vigorously examine the claims of the expert class I mean some do, I know. I have friends, I know there's some of them, but in my estimation, the vast majority do not. Why am I not automatically persuaded by expert consensus? Well the experts, they once taught that the earth is flat, that bloodletting is a good standard in medical practice, that a worldwide famine would come in 1975. That ecological collapse would occur in 1989, that global warming would place cities underwater near the turn of the century, and that conversely an ice age would encompass our planet in the early 21st century that Y2K would possibly devastate our computers, that there were weapons of mass destruction in Iraq following 911, that Hillary Clinton would win the 2016 election in a runaway. The experts said all those things, and the list could be much longer. Now let me add just for fun that experts have said for how long now that it's impossible for Jesus of Nazareth to have risen from the dead. Now I'm not meaning to disparage people who are intelligent and educated, trained, experienced in their field. I mean at the risk of sounding immodest, I consider myself to be intelligent, educated, trained, and experienced in my field. However, I still make mistakes in my areas of expertise. I'm wrong a lot in my field of expertise, and I learn from my errors. It's the way it is for all of us, I think. The difference maybe isn't that the experts know everything and that the non-experts know nothing. I wonder if maybe it's something like the the non-experts know what they're talking about in another person's field I don't know, mm small percentage of the time. And the experts, they know what they're talking about in their own field a much larger percentage of the time. So in that sort of situation, I mean the experts, you know, they could be wrong a lot still. You know, let's say the experts they're right fifty times more often than the non-experts. Well That could still have them being wrong a lot. They're not always right. You know, there have been expert studies about expert studies, believe it or not. Some of these studies have suggested that expert studies are mostly unreliable. Now whether a study arriving at this conclusion is one of the few reliable expert studies, that's something that we might never know. Uh but uh even the experts say the experts aren't always right with their studies. Now those who want to say so, they're right. When they summarize part of my view as believing that the shutdowns uh they might have been akin to curing a hangover by inducing a coma Um and they might be right be right if they want to be, you know, playful in saying that, you know, part of my view is believing that forced government shutdowns and mandating quarantining is is is like, you know, taking the admittedly torn and tattered tattered American ideal into the backyard and shooting it in the head. Yeah, and that's a bit of an um obnoxious way to put it perhaps, and so I apologize for that, but You know, let's just throw caution to the wind here and and and and and speak freely and allow people to have some playful turns of phrase and and know that they're just trying to, you know, have some personality. Anyway. Um I can see in some cases I have swung and missed in making it clearer that I am not saying everything should be left open. uh as usual. I'm not saying that that necessarily should be the case. I'm I'm I'm not saying that we will pay a higher price merely through economic hardship than we would have through medical hardship with COVID-19. There's no way to know that And I'm not saying that our precautions should have been only at a mundanely basic level. Uh uh I got a number of areas that, you know, I I could highlight that I'll do that here on a couple of places. Uh individuals at greatest risk in our population with the COVID-19, they're reportedly to be the elderly. And to put a finer point on it, the elderly who are already ill. Or are we fading from underlying issues that compromise their immune systems? Those are the ones most at risk. And so we should take precautions and institute measures to help protect them. These measures should be focused on nursing homes, assisted living facilities, critical care hospitals, adult daycare operations, rehab centers, and things like that. And visitations to these sort of locations could be limited and stop completely all caregivers and employees in such locations could could prep As though they were entering a neonatal intensive care unit, which would include pre-surgical style hand washing and medical gowns and face masks and heck even throw in you know FTSE coverings for their shoes. And those caring for elderly patients at home, they could be encouraged and educated as to how to adopt these similar sterilization protocols. Now it wouldn't be fun or easy, but it it it can be done, and if they love their older parents, they'll do it. And I speak from experience, by the way, on these procedures, when hearkening back to the days when I had to care for my infant son who was sent home in a condition that was about as medically fragile as it gets And there are lots of other ideas, but I'll pause here just to say that this is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. I am Troy Skinner, and we're also online at WFMD. com. Now my goal with all these con uh comments is not to offer a full dissertation of every idea possible. It's just it's simply to provide a fuller clarification than maybe I've said before in social media or on this show or if you know me personally uh you know uh what would m sharing my ideas about what could be done that are more proactive than what is generally seen for our annual flu season because this would seem to be a little bit more profound than the the typical flu season. But the economic hardship is real. Let's not forget that. A good friend of mine, he owns one of Frederick's most successful businesses, and he told me he had to lay off his entire staff. And he was heartbroken telling these fifty employees that he simply can't keep his business afloat because of the government shutdowns. And as horrible as the loss of income is, that's that's not the worst of it because the economic hardship that's only about dollars and cents. You know, as I've said before, the crushing economic developments caused by the the shutdowns will cause deaths, perhaps far more deaths than one might hope to save by turning off the economy. At least this is part of what I think we might see the data bear out when it becomes available. And consider also a major part of the negative impact of a death is the profound sadness experienced by the surviving family and friends. Well, a major part of the negative impact of the death of a business, of of a of a job, of of a career, of a dream. It's also the sadness experienced by the loss. We've seen a lot of examples of that on social media and in news reports. At least I have. I'm assuming you've seen some of the same stuff I have. You know, our preparations for the impact of the virus, they they they could have been far more anticipatory. That's okay, that's a fair. You know, we knew back in January that there would very likely be a dramatically heightened need for respirators. And uh we you know but even so, think about back in World War Two when we needed tanks. We need them immediately after Japan attacked Pearl Harbor. We called upon the called upon the get-or-done entrepreneurial spirit of our American companies to build more than forty thousand tanks in a year and they did it Same thing could have been done, could still be pursued if we really needed the respirators that badly. I don't think that it proved out that that was the case, but You know, when NASA's rover, it couldn't land on Mars in the same way that we uh landed on the moon due to uh fiscal limitations. The scientists they got creative and they invented ways to bounce the rover onto the surface of Mars So there are innovative creative solutions to some of this that could have been a uh uh pursued rather than shutting everything down. You know, the same sort of ingenuity has actually been seen with fast-tracking treatment experiments, setting up drive-through testing sites. pursuing increased uses of telemedicine. I mean these ideas could have gone into development sooner. There should there could be even more ideas. I can't help feel that you know these i innovative ideas and more of them would have come to fruition much faster if instead of staring at panic in the mirror We have placed our eyes on the same ball that made America the envy of the world. And that ball is Pragmatism and inventiveness and artistry and inspiration and perspiration and instinct and faith all rolled into one, one big American ball. Yeah, maybe these things could have been done earlier. But it was never too late to start pushing for it. And we can continue to be pushing even now. for more and more innovative ideas and solutions qu that that don't destroy people's lives in the process You know, here's an idea. We have an oil reserve for emergencies that are caused by international problems. You know, we have an oil reserve just in case. Well, why not have an am antibiotics reserve and a respiratory uh a respirator reserve? And an emergency action plan that that can set up pop-up mass units in the blink of an eye. And people who are way, way more gifted in these areas than me, they they could put my short list, you know. um to shame at providing a list that's way longer. A list that might be could be longer than with the the phone numbers you find in the old yellow pages. Remember the the yellow pages? Sure would have come in handy if they had the yellow pages uh this year. Could have been used as toilet paper, huh? And by doing the the sorts of things I've mentioned, planning in these sorts of ways, we'd we'd be better positioned to help our citizens during a time of crisis and better positioned to lend a helping hand in acute crisis situations for our friends living around the globe. Maybe churches can start to get some of these sorts of things ready. Who knows? You know, by doing stuff like this, we might not have to get mad at teens. You know, the college kids who go to party on the beach, they could do that all they want. You know, just keep them away from grandma and grandpa during a pandemic that threatens the elderly and physic uh physiologically weak. But doesn't significantly threaten the healthy as an ox young spring breakers. You know, I'm not trying to be difficult in what I'm saying, you know, although maybe I don't have to try that hard to be difficult, maybe it just comes naturally for me. But you know, uh I read comments from experts that that say, you know, by by s by slowing it down or flattening, you know, the the curve, we're not going to deep Yeah. We're not going to decrease the total number of cases. We're going to postpone many cases. That's what some of them were saying. Well, okay, so we're just delaying the inevitable? You know what my mind thinks? If we're gonna have just as many cases anyway, you it seems to support the view that what we needed to implement were strategies that don't kill people with friendly fire Yeah, the shutdowns seem to have done. Um yeah, I I know that the the the shutdown is said to buy time for a vaccine to get developed. Uh but you know there was talk early on that it might take a year and a half. And a year and a half of what economic shutdown like holy covet Batman. A year and a half. Really? Do we want to s be shut down? Next time there's a a a virus in a pandemic until there's until there's uh a vaccine, we can do that every time in golly gee whiz. I hope not. Now I am fully in support of social distancing measures that are voluntary. If we protect through things like what I've mentioned already, the old or infirm, then everyone else, it seems, could live in liberty. If our dogs are dying, we don't cage our cats, do we? I think I pretty much agree with a lot of the assessments that people have and different viewpoints. I'm not totally contrarian and fighting on every little thing. Uh uh uh I just you know one one group maintains a willingness to keep a a healthy acceptance of what's said by the uh the experts and another group says, Yeah, I got a healthy skepticism about what's said by the experts and You know, I think that's good. I'm not distrustful of the experts. I just you know, but it's kind of like Reagan, trust but verify. That should be the approach. Now my whole view on coronavirus, it began to take shape as the story was breaking. Um and I didn't distrust the information I was hearing and reading, but I wanted to learn more for myself what the experts were talking about. You know, I'm kinda weird that way I guess So I dove into a bunch of non-news sources online to see the raw data and the history of things like this outbreak. And in so doing, you know, I What I was looking at didn't seem to match the narrative that was unfolding, and so I dug deeper and I started my own efforts as fact fa uh f checking. And it appeared to me that the experts on the newscast, on the news feeds, they weren't lying, but they were choosing selective data points. And the data points they were almost always the worst case scenario and it troubled me and it still does trouble me. And it troubled me also that no one, and I mean it felt like no one, that crossed my field division anyway, in the early days of all this was taking into account the law of unintended consequences. If we try to motivate people to take the virus seriously with over dramatic and one-sided rhetoric, what does that do? Yeah, sure it gets people talking about things and taking it seriously, and so that goal is accomplished, but what's the unintended consequence? The stores run out of toilet paper. As panic hoarding kicks into gear Absolutely there there were numbers that were that were made up. And sometimes for illustrative purposes I'll use numbers that that seem to be made up. But I point those out and say it's it's it's it's just being rhetorical. Now it it occurs that a lot of us, you know, we have these kinds of dialogues and and we should be able to do it friendly. You know, and and sometimes we can come at you, yeah, you know, we d agree to disagree. But when it's Important, maybe we need to stand up and fight for what we believe in and do so with respect. You know, the consensus on certain things might be clear, but the science isn't accomplished by opinion polls. It's re it's rooted in testable theories that can be disproven or not. The rest is speculation and statistical modeling, and that's not the same as scientific investigation. You know, it's kind of like with climate change, the same thing, they build these models. Just makes me wonder why would we basically blow up the world when we can't possibly know for sure what will happen with the virus? And even if it's far deadlier deadlier than people like me might suppose that it it would end up being, will it have been worth it to blow up everyone's way of life? And I was saying then, I'm saying now I don't think so. Far more Americans gave up their lives in defense of our way of life than we can expect to be killed by a virus. I'm going to have to pause there as that's the end of this show. I might try to do one more on this topic, and by then, hopefully all the restrictions are over and we can have a regular show. So I want to thank you for listening and putting with my putting up with my diatribes. Uh I'm I'm doing the best uh to to be even minded and even handed while at the same time advocating for what I think is true and right. That's what the faith the the faith debate's all about. People advocating for what they think is true and right and doing it as respectfully as if they know how. So anyway, find us online, WFMB. com Keywordface, face to Bay page. You can find podcasts and a listing of shows that are coming up soon and and that sort of thing. We're also on the WFMB Facebook page. And if you follow me on Facebook, I put stuff on there by the Facebook debate as well on my personal page. Till next week, 167. 5 hours from right now. God bless.