This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gap fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Where faith community leaders wrestle over the truth. Yeah, but that's what you in less than thirty minutes to learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Ready to rumble! Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron here, is that it? And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges connecting needs and resources in the local community. Ooh, mama. The notorious big bridge builder, John Soister. Politically there's been a move to have what some call same sex marriage recognized in all fifty of the United States. It's had an important judicial component too, as the courts have had brought before them questions about making cakes for what Some might call gay weddings. Uh not sure what the right language is these days. Culture culturally there has been an ongoing push into waters that continue the flow from the sexual revolution of the previous century. We're on the panel today to talk about the religious and theological components of the issue are Sharon Watts, rector at Grace Episcopal Church in Newmarket, Maryland, and Jonathan Sweitzer, founder of Cross Bridges in Frederick, Maryland. We're going to start with Sharon this week because we had a cliffhanger last week. This is part two of what we intend to be a four part series. And we're talking about um the Episcopal Church um sanctions um gay marriages. And uh we were talking about why that is and she talked about scripture as part of it, but also traditions and reason. And the tradition was relatively short, it's twenty, twenty five years, but there m might have been some happenings leading into that and that was the f question that Jonathan posed. So what were some of those things that led you to re examine your tradition? And we ran out of time and so here we are and we've got plenty of time now. So In fact I was asking what part of your tr traditions led you to re examine your tradition about So it probably wasn't so much of a tradition as a historical event, okay? Um in New Hampshire there was an openly gay man who was um in the administration of the Episcopal Church up there. But New Hampshire's a very small state. Most people knew him and really revered him as a person of faith. And he became the first openly gay bishop in the United States. And this kind of catapulted the Episcopal Church into having to review what their policies were in relationship to um gay clergy, to marriage. Now one would think they would have examined all that before making him a bishop. Right. So there must have been some seed baggage. Well I think many, many traditions have people that they have ordained that are gay. Some of them openly gay and some of the traditions have people who are married who are gay. um, both male and female, and in the Episcopal Church that was true, but bishops seemed to make a little bit more headlines. So when this happened, um there ended up being a tremendous amount of controversy. The presiding bishop, which is the bishop who is in charge of the Episcopal Church, was Frank Griswold at that time. And he is a very um very sacred man. I was really grateful to have some courses from him at my seminary. Um and what he described is that he ended up going on um a lot of international trips and he sat down with people from all over the world um in Bible study about this issue. And what he told us is that he never led the Bible study. He always studied as a participant with everyone else. And he said the interesting thing was they'd start Bible study on Monday. And by Wednesday people were coming up saying, What are you talking about? What are you talking about with homosexuals? What he realized is that the word for homosexual is blended with a lot of felonies. in other languages. It's not a neutral term like we have in English. So that oftentimes people were saying they were against it, but It's very confusing. So when we as priests and pastors what we do when we talk about the word love, in Greek the word love is like many words. And so we in English use the word love, but we're oftentimes spending a lot of sermon time trying to explain what agape love is and what the different types of love is. Right. Exactly. But in reverse, the term homosexuality is very neutral in the United States. But then we also have separate terms for different sexual predators. So what um so go ahead. It's interesting um that that you're saying that in the United States the term is neutral. My impression is that is that there has been an effort to move the the term into a more neutral Uh even more than language. So we're now using L G B T Q. But I but I would argue that in you know in traditional um circles, whether Jewish, Muslim, Christian, you know, whatever, that in traditional religious circles that that the term homosexual continues to this day to carry um felonious uh uh import. And so uh probably that, you know, in English that it's it's neutral Um feels like it doesn't it doesn't quite tell the whole story. I I'm meaning to be analytical and just try to understand the history of the traditions. It seems to me that those that would follow after and by the way, I don't think I said last week, but I think it's probably implied, even listening to the show for a while Uh I would agree with Jonathan at least on the basics. I don't know if we would agree on some of the argumentation we're getting there, but I would also be uh in the camp that marriage is between one man, one woman, and ideally one time. That would stand on that. And so in this room, uh Sharon's kind of in the minority, but I think culturally, uh I we talked about this last week. I think that Jonathan and I might be culturally in the minority uh on the wrong side of history as they say, John. Uh and I think that um trying to analyze the traditions, I'm trying to go back to the traditions, Jonathan's point of view and my point of view is rooted in a tradition that has heavy emphasis on grappling with the scripture. And the Episcopal tradition ha is has gotten less and less uh um has has less emphasis on that as time has passed. And so I think that's where the I think that we are also very heavily invested in scripture, but we also uh observe other ways of looking at how God comes into our life. So can I ask a question just about about about that shift. Like it it feels to me like the eighteen hundreds were a were a season across the whole body of Christ when uh when many mainline denominations and at that point Episcopal was only a couple hundred years old, right? So all the denominations are still pretty young in terms of you know history. But but when many of the denominations uh we're kind of confronted with the s science versus miracles, you know, the uh the Darwin versus creation, you know uh conflict and that that there was really a a separating out that kinda went right down through all the denominations and even ended up, you know, developing new church plant movements. you know, uh uh around people saying, okay, we're gonna be more you know, we're gonna try to stay with a more traditional view and others saying that we want to go in a more uh like you're describing it as reason, uh which I think fits with, you know, kind of that so would you agree that that was probably a a uh a dividing point between where where I tend to stand on this and where Where you have to do that. So let me back up a little bit. So the Episcopal Church is part of the Church of England. And the Church of England in the late 1400s sent a um group of people to Martin Luther's um land and they learned a lot. Matter of fact, our original historical documents are almost exactly like the Lutherans. So there's a very close link between historically between the Episcopal Church and um Church of England. Um we have this little problem called the revolution And yeah, the revolution was tough for the Episcopal Church because for about thirty years we were writing a new prayer book to direct our liturgy because the prayer book from England had prayers for the health of the King of England and all such and new Americans didn't quite feel that that fit them. So Literally And that's when we sh we switched. But um it's still the same tradition. It's basically the same format and tradition. It's an Americanized version. as is other parts of the communion. Other parts of the communion took that tradition. Okay, but you're moving into then kinda answering the question, like where's that split? that you know from from those that might have been the Episcopal Church, which was the Church of England at that time, always um supported a close intellectual um uh format between the uh best minds in England, including scientific minds And so the religious people, scientific people, and the c other cultural people would get together with certain societies that they always worked at. So the Episcopal Church has always been very interested in science. Um, matter of fact, I tell my kids all the time, we're not afraid of science. We th we believe that our scientists are finding out more and more about God's creation. And that's fine. It doesn't bother us at all. Are you afraid of science, John? I think that's pretty emb I'm glad I'm glad you asked that because because by me describing it in those terms, like I'm far from from being uncomfortable with science My my question is is whether or not there is a scientific naturalist world view that ended up uh being imposed on uh a biblical worldview and and I've always said it this way. It's it's not a question of whether you're pro science or pro Bible. It's a question of what you put first and it feels to me like Neither do I. I'm saying that I'm saying that I look at science through the grid of the Bible and it feels to me like oftentimes what you're describing is that you're looking at the Bible through the grid of reason or science. And so it's it's it's not either or, but but there is a question of what comes first. And ultimately what I've found is that there's a watershed there in terms of what comes first. in that that that watershed uh results in many of these hot topics, you know, with with if you're the one you you tend to be on one side, if you're the other you tend to be on the other side. That feels to me like Like it's pretty consistent across the board. And that's why I just kind of asked that question. I don't see science as being different from the Bible. I really don't. Um I think literally what our scientists do is they explain creation. And so I So I don't know are are we getting off topic too much by getting onto science? Uh no well related that will get us back in, but first let me reset the person asked Ironic, by the way, Jonathan Sweiser would ask me if we're gonna get it. Anyway, so Jonathan Sweitzer's a phone. Cross Bridges in Frederick and Sharon Watts is with Grace Episcopal Church in Newmarket. Uh I'm Troy Skinner, host of the Faith Debate. And uh I I guess now recently I can start saying pastor at uh congratulations in Hagerstown. So Um the the reason and science and all that sort of thing, I think this gets us back on topic. If I'm wrong, then Jonathan, you've took me down a rabbit trail and I'm just pushing us further down there. So uh Sharon, when you said that you know there's no difference uh in your mind, and uh piece of the exact words was pretty close to this, uh between you know the Bible and science, the Bible and reason. I would argue, I don't know if John, I think Jonathan would agree, I would argue there's a significant difference. The significance and that significant difference being that scientists make mistakes Absolutely. Right. And God's perfect. Science is not perfect. But God's word is. Do you agree with that? And that's why I say they're just describing. And sometimes they get it right and sometimes they get it wrong. When I I worked at Hopkins for a long time and I'm very um aware that scientists will spend some scientists will spend their whole life trying to prove something. And they get to the very end and they get under scientific critique and find that it's all been wrong. But what if the what if the proof of the wrong comes from scripture? Would scripture tr trump Uh no I don't mean that politically. Would uh would would scripture uh override um the the science? For example, what are you talking about? Uh I would argue that this whole idea about identity, whether it be sexual identity, gender identity, all this stuff, has its roots coming out of the 1800s and really finds its f its formative uh thrust with Freud. So I think Freud was wrong. And I think Freud was wrong because my understanding of scripture tells me that Freud was wrong. So if all of the psychologists and psychiatrists and sociologists out there agree with Freud over against what the Bible seems to be saying, I'm gonna say everybody's wrong because the Bible says. Okay, so you have to teach me because Freud is a vast body of knowledge. So what specifically in Freud are you talking about? Because I'm confused because for me Freud was Freud's large thing that he brought to humanity is a way of talking to people to get to understand trauma that they've had in their life. Now the way Freud framed it is from a man of his error, and science has moved way on. But You know, when you're talking about major scientists, they have large bodies of knowledge and many experiments that they've done, and each one almost has to be taken individually. But the when people are talking today about um I have the um biological equipment of a man, but in my mind and in my emotional center I feel like a woman That sort of identity thing finds really its first articulate scientific expression in Freud. That really wasn't the case before him And I'm saying Freud got it wrong, but our culture, our society, has decided he got it right and look where we are now a hundred years later. So again I'm not Yeah, and ar arguably the romantics of the early eighteen hundreds uh were romantic precisely because they were acting uh reacting against science saying that there's no such thing as love. That you know, that that we're we're merely you know, made up of whatever we're made up. So everything that is in the mind that has to do with identity is not scientific you know, and and for that matter, not real. And so the reaction was for people to say, well, nonsense love, you know, and so so there's kind of this overreaction saying, you know, that I really believe in these things and almost in in my mindset an idolizing of of my identity, an idolizing of of my emotions that that ended up resulting in Freud. And for that matter, you know, dialectical um you know materialism, you know, the whole hag Hegelian, you know, uh thesis, antithesis, you know, that that were progressing, you know, the the the spiritual progression of of the world uh that that led into Darwinism was this sense that that the mind isn't uh is it real or is it not real? And so the result was that there was this separating out of the two in everything that has to do with the five senses we know to be true, but everything that has to do with religion, well it could be whatever you want as long as it works for you. and and that things kinda moved in those two directions uh generally and so I I I wonder if we we have some sense of agreement along those lines that there was a kind of a mu uh uh uh a reaction to science in in that era that that resulted in in you know, m my group responding one way, your group responding another way. So I I do think that during that period of time um people began to idolize their ability to find out things. But that was something that was given to us by God, that we have the ability to learn and to grow and to understand. And sometimes we all take that to the extreme, I think. But if you're working with science, you're working with um people who have a hypothesis, they have a a thought that maybe this could be true, and then they go about and try to prove it And if they prove it, it's one thing. If they don't prove it, it's not a fact. So and it takes a very long time to prove things because you have to do a series of experiments and they have to be double checked. Um, when you're talking about evolution, people talk to me about whether I believe in evolution and actually I do because as a nurse One of the things I used to do is sit down and track organisms and how they changed in relationship to antibiotics, to how sensitive they were and how and and so I would track when they got less sensitive to the antibiotic and I would track when they got back to being sensitive. So in a way I was tracking evolution. I was seeing an organism change in relationship to what we would do. That's part of evolution I would agree with. I call that microevolution adaptation, which is Wh which which I feel like we've seen countless times. For that matter I'm adapting to you know being older, you know, so you know I'm a little bit bigger than I used to be. But my point is is that is that micro adaptation Well but you're talking about the things that we're talking about. One of my teenagers, I thought I was gonna die laughing. We were having a little discussion that if you could do something totally and completely What would you do in the world? And he basically said, I bring back all the animals that were extinct. And then he sat there and thought about some of the animals that were extinct and he thought, Well maybe not Which is true. Because we have a lot of people who are not going to be able to do that. If you and I just start going at it about where we disagree about homosexuality and you know this this sense of sexual identity, I think we're just going to talk past each other But if we can identify where it is that we came to a fork in the in the woods and we took the path less chosen, you know, in different directions I think it it provides a basis where you and I can r can can respect the logical way that you got to where you are and the logical way that I got to where I am. instead of what happens in so much of society today where we just throw stones, right? So this is what I was talking about at the kickoff for for the Frederick County Goes Purple that the vitriol in our in our communities I think is part of what has led to there being so much isolation in this generation and so much you know drug uh addiction and that those kinds of things because uh because there's a um there's a loss of ability to respect and to have these kinds of conversations and if the next generation can't see us doing that respectfully, then they're gonna give up hope that it can be done because they've never seen it done. Right? And so then there's a there's a a a you know a momentum that builds negatively. So it feels to me like like we're in agreement that that we took some different paths and that those paths lead us to where we are. I think you're probably correct because that period of time had quite a few people that um started identifying themselves as agnostic and atheist. So I think there was a period of time where people it was um now I can't tell you that before that period of time everybody was equally faithful. My experience with people of faith clearly not is not but the way it is. But for that matter, atheism and agnosticism are not new either. Correct. Right? Christian, you know, post Catholic society finding a space to be more public about it. Even when the church was very strong and people talked about being a part of the church, it doesn't necessarily mean they were all equally strong in faith. So I think there's always been ranges of faith in people. And I think what we do is we try to connect people with a sense of faith and a sense of God. And so we're as we're coming up on the end of the show, where we got to today is to say that that this sense of defining who we are ends up being deeply rooted in even how we approach you know, the Bible as you know, the the truth claims of Bible versus science, and we're we're both agreeing that neither of us is saying no to science. Correct. Neither of us is saying no to the scripture, but the the algorithm by which we approach those things is is significantly different. And we're going to pick up with that next week. Jonathan Sweister should have I'm Froy Skinners of the Faith Debate on nine thirty WFMD online at W. WFMB. com and don't forget there's a bazaar on the 16th. Go to Facebook and put in uh Grace Episcopal Church New Market and get all the details. Till next