Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. Less than one half hour learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The fate debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com. Keyword fate. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with a Master of Divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the faith debate master of ceremonies. Troy Skinner. When I wrapped up with last week's show, toward the end of it, I was uh talking about you know reasons to double check with the actual experts say because the experts aren't always always right, right? I mean they're they're not right nearly as often as they think they are anyway. And you know, so I I seek to do my best to learn and equip myself to think for myself. I am a work in progress on this front to be sure and perhaps you are as well. That's part of what the space debate's all about. It's an education for me, hopefully it's an education for you And we we we challenge each other's thinking and we check things out for ourselves and we dive deep uh and and we try to be better equipped to have wisdom and interface with the world in a way that is beneficial and helpful to uh ourselves and others. So I was skimming through some things toward the end because I was running out of time at the end we of last week's show and I thought, you know, rather than skim through, let me uh Um they give more full voice to it and this w I I expect this will be the last show in a string of shows. Let me count them if you one, two I guess seven. A string of seven shows where it's just you and me hanging out together on the radio. with me sharing with you thoughts that I have um put on social media, that I have had in conversations with people, that I've that I have uh spoken with uh about with my congregation, um Living Faith Ministries, um you know conversations I had with friends and with family and uh now the last six weeks, now this is the seventh week having with you. sharing with all the different angles I can think of that relate to faith matters when it comes to the coronavirus and COVID-19 and the economic shutdown and and what are we to make of all of it and you know, churches uh arguing with each other about whether they should open or not open and it's you know and so we've addressed all that and if you're interested in all that you can listen to the podcast. Let me kind of pick up with where I was on what I was talking about last week and go a little fuller on some of this. Um It occurs to me that, you know, you listening and me, if we were to be in the room together right now, we might be engaging in uh Yeah, and we as we talk about the coronavirus and and what the right approaches are and what whether to believe the experts or not believe the quote unquote experts, the white coats as they sometimes call them. Yeah, we might have the same dialogue not only about that, but about you know, man-made the question of man-made global climate change. Yeah, that's up for discussion a lot. And um I don't know if I've ever talked about that on this show, because why would it typically come up on the fate debate? I don't know, but I'm rather agnostic about that particular issue. Um you know, s and so I very rarely engage on that topic, so I probably haven't brought it up on this show. Um but the reason I'm, you know, and go agnostic is you know, I just I haven't chosen to dive deep into that. But as a spectator on the sidelines, you know, I have been Yeah, I pay attention to the news and the arguments that are out there and I have been repeatedly amused by how often, uh perhaps even always, I mean Uh, I don't wanna be mean about it, but so far it seems like they kinda always. Uh the experts' predictions have been like wrong. You know, it's a big time talking point used by uh the people most concerned about cataclysmic outcomes. What they like to say is the scientific consensus. is fee is is is clear. The scientific consensus. Well the consensus might be clear, but science is not accomplished by opinion polls. It's rooted in testable theories that can be disproven or not. The rest is speculation and statistical modeling. That's not the same as scientific investigation as I define and understand science. Now, as for the climate, it might be changing. Are humans causing the change? It's possible, I guess. But is there enough correct data being fed into the statistical modeling? Oh, one might or might not wonder. And regarding the pandemic, we might be dealing with these same sorts of dynamics, with the additional issue of too little data that's constantly changing and being tabulated in ways that are not consistent across the the the spectrum. All the different countries and different places are doing it completely different. So you know, garbage in, garbage out, maybe? It just makes me wonder, why would we basically blow up the world when we can't possibly know for sure? What will happen with the virus? Even if it's far deadlier than any of us suppose it will be, will it have been worth it to blow up everyone's way of life? And there are some who would say, I don't think so. And consider far more Americans gave up their lives in defense of our way of life than we can expect to be killed by the virus. As for loss of rights and liberty, I was touching on that last week, I think the week before that. You know, uh I I I find a lot of agreement with some people here, but some differences as well that Yeah, I don't usually don't talk politics so much on this show usually, but I will say that, you know, I I tend to myself have kind of a a a libertarian leaning viewpoint on a lot of stuff. However, there are lots and lots of restrictions that we do currently have in place in our liberties that are meant to protect the public safety. You know, we're not allowed to drink and drive. That is a restriction of my liberties and yours. We're not allowed to drive a military tank down the street. That is a restriction of my liberty. Um we are not allowed to yell fire in a movie theater. That is a restriction of my liberty. Uh basically there are restrictions. On our actions, if those actions put other people in danger. And that seems reasonable to me. Now, if I want to put myself in danger, that's my business. But my actions should not put someone else in danger. I think a lot of what we're seeing right now are things that are being put in place to protect the health and well being of the public. And it is a trade-off. For sure. So for example, should a person who has been identified as having the Ebola virus, let's say, And who is currently highly contagious, uh, let's say, should they be allowed to visit a school and pick up his children? Now, this I use that example on purpose because a friend of mine used that example. Somebody had Ebola virus and they were currently highly contagious. Uh should they be allowed to visit the school and pick up their children? Now hopefully we we would all agree that a person in that condition, they should be quarantined. Now we we may disagree. about COVID nineteen being as dangerous as that, dangerous enough to warrant those types of actions. You know, and I understand that position, but surely you have to admit that there are times when certain individual liberties uh should be removed in service of the health and well being of the public. But Ebola, I don't know that it's all that contagious by the way, so I think it was a I don't know. Maybe I'll say something more about that in a minute. So getting my thoughts back on track, we do have restrictions now in place, that's true. Restrictions intended to defend the inalienable rights of others. And these are immensely immensely valuable. Driving drunk, that recklessly puts in danger my neighbor's right to life. It should be restricted. Yelling fire causes panic and recklessly places lives in danger. So again, it comes with restrictions. You know, and it's interesting, I just use an example here that talks about restricting people from causing panic, by the way. Maybe there should be restrictions on what our media can say to us and do to us in inducing panic. Um I mentioned a moment ago, you know, driving a tank down the street. You know, I I kinda like that idea. It's kind of fun. Not sure who I'm hurting by driving a tank. If I'm firing a tank at somebody I'm I'm just I'm just having fun, L O L, okay. Uh now those in danger with the virus, you know, those at a significant level of danger anyway, uh, they are the the older people. And they're people we love. You know, and and I have talked over these last six and a half shows now, over the last six and a half weeks, uh I have talked about steps to protect their life. And we want to protect their life. You know, uh but we're not protecting them from Ebola You know, I I used Ebola again because a friend used Ebola as an example as as an illustration, but you know, I gotta say I got I had to dock him two points on using that illustration. Because the Ebola death rate Seventy per cent. Seventy percent. Not you know zero point five percent or zero point seven percent or not even three percent or four percent Seventy percent. I can't even imagine an Ebola virus patient who is currently highly highly contagious no less, even wanting to pick up their kids from school Um so if you follow me on social media, I'm not sure if you would have seen this this post that I had quite a while ago. Um but just in case, and I think I might have mentioned something about this on a show a few weeks back as well, but just in case you missed it, did you know that More than one hundred thousand people die every month from traffic accidents around the world. You know, something like forty thousand American deaths every year. Thousands of these are innocent drivers killed by another driver. So why doesn't the government shut down the roads and make it illegal to drive a vehicle unless you happen to be deemed essential personnel? Because doing so would protect life. But this is not protection from recklessness. See, that's the difference. It is protection from someone else's right to liberty and the pursuit of happiness. It's a huge distinction there. You know, a friend of mine, actually somebody here at the radio station, is joking around uh the other day and said, Don't make me mad or I'll come over there and sneeze in your mouth. Yeah, pretty gross and that was totally a joke. However, you gotta think about it, for some nutjob out there, they might actually do it on purpose, with the intent to harm. You know, like stories we've all heard about people purposely infecting others with sexually transmitted diseases. Or in this endemic, people purposely doing stuff to, you know, fruits and vegetables at the grocery store and stuff. And so I will add this, if someone is recklessly going around attempting to infect people with COVID-19 or any other illness for that matter, then this is morally reprehensible and it should be restricted with criminal code. There can be no doubt about that. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for listening. Uh we're at about the halfway point on today's show. I want to read something to you. I mentioned it uh probably four or five weeks ago. I mentioned how good it was. I'm going to read it to you. Dr. Bill Fullove. He wrote an article called A Theology of Incarnation Amidst Online Worship. And he uh his church in his in their context has a diff uh has made a different decision than another church in a different context might have made. And I've gone out of my way to advocate for those who took that other position. And so in fairness, I wanna s I I want to demonstrate that I'm um I support both points of view depending on the context. And so I'm gonna read this brilliant article. by Bill Fool Love. He says, due to the rapid spread of COVID-19, our church, like many others, has made the choice to worship fully online for the time being. For many who are only used to big church life, this is going to be quite an adjustment. This past Sunday, the four of us in my immediate family worshipped in our living room along with our church bodies spread out across the district of uh you know the DC, Maryland, Virginia area. Our usually packed facility had only a few people present. James preaching that day, Rob leading liturgy, Jeff leading singing, John running tech, and only a few more. Yet week in and week out we stress the importance of presence, the importance of being together. As the book of Hebrews said two millennia ago, Let us consider how to stir one another to love and good works, not neglecting to meet together as at the habit of some. That's Hebrews chapter ten verse twenty five We meet together to worship a God who became incarnate, who came to physically be with us, and yet we suddenly have to do it online. How are we supposed to think about fully online worship in the time of the coronavirus? Well, with a theology of incarnation. We should start by remembering one of the basic doctrines of our faith, that what makes us Christian at all, that God became flesh, incarnate. In a way that can be only partially explained, Jesus is fully God and yet only also fully man. As the theologians tell us, God incarnate made man, but no less God, and yet no less man. Nor does that mean Jesus is something amphibious, like a mermaid, as Dorothy Sayers cautions us. It means, as mind-boggling as it is to comprehend it, God took on flesh, that God came to be with and in his creation, that God is with us in a stubbornly physical way. Further, the Christian faith so validates the physical that it is not only core to our belief that in Jesus God took on flesh, but we also believe Jesus will have his resurrected physical body forever. We cannot put a greater value on the physical than God did by becoming man. Even more we consider why God became man. God became man to be with us. Throughout the Old Testament, God has been with Israel in many ways, but those ways were largely metaphorical. The book of Exodus shows that God was with Israel when the nation was enslaved in Egypt. Throughout Samuel and kings, God was with Israel to deliver them on the battlefield. The psalmists praise that God was with Israel to lead them and care for them and shelter them. God's presence in the Holy of Holies in the temple could even be lethal. But none of those compared to the claim that God took on a human body, walked the earth, ate fish, preached the good news, healed the sick, was crucified on a cross, and then resurrected in that same body to keep it forever. And so, in God's model, being physically with someone matters. We see this working out not just in the gospels, but also in our own lives. Paul wrote in Timothy, 1 Timothy 1, verse 4, I long to see you that I may be filled with joy. Paul can write Timothy a letter, but it isn't the same as coming in person. He wrote a magisterial letter to the Roman Church, and yet as he wound towards the close in chapter 15, he wrote, By God's will I may come to you with joy and refresh, be refreshed in your company. Romans 15, 32 Communication by letter, even letters that were scripture, was still at a distance. And Paul longed to see people in person. It is very much the same in our own lives. A letter is wonderful, a phone call encouraging, a FaceTime chat refreshing, and yet none compares to a visit in person. Consider, in that regard, the deep hand-wringing of many recent commentators about social media, how it can connect us, but leaves us still feeling lonely, and sometimes even leaves us unable to connect in person as we should. Simply put, for the Christian faith, being with people matters, as any minister who has done a hospital visit will tell you. We must, for good reasons, be socially distant for these weeks or months, as uh Francis Collins argues ablely. Nonetheless, there will be real cost in loneliness, especially for those who look forward to Sunday as one of their main times for connection with others. But now what about virtual worship? How then should we approach worship when, for good public health reasons, we cannot be with each other? We should come to our worship for these weeks recognizing that it would be better if we could be together in person. There is something best about the church gathered physically for worship. A purely online church cannot approximate some of the things that a physical church can do. To say that is not a Luddite rant. We have live-streamed our services for years and for the sake of shut-ins. Nor is this to say that everything done online is bad, quite the opposite. One can really reach out in love online. And one can even be self-sacrificial online. But bodily presence does still matter. It would be best to be able to be together and To worship in person. But we live in a world where best isn't always available to us. We believe that in his first coming, his life, death, and resurrection, Jesus broke the power of sin and death. He decisively conquered the devil and set the world back on the rails, decisively redeeming us. We also believe that it is only when he comes again that Jesus will finish that work making all things new. And the Bible gives many pictures of what that great end will be like. A feast, a party, and worship. At the end of time, all who will follow Christ will worship together in spirit and truth, and God will dwell with mankind. All will be as it should be. We know we will worship together again in person when this current crisis passes because it will. That's a small picture of the bigger truth. We will all worship together again in the new heavens, the new earth, when this life itself passes away and is a mere blip in memory. Until Jesus comes again, though, we live in what the theologians call the already, not yet, or the overlap of the ages, or if you want the really big fancy term, inaugurated eschatology. The practical implication is quite d direct. We should not expect best in this life. Because Jesus has come, we can look for better. But it is only when he comes again that his people are to expect best in every way, shape, and form. Right now we live in a public health crisis that means we ought to meet ought not meet together. We still have the legal right, but Paul reminds us that not everything lawful ought to be done. First Corinthians chapter 10, verses 23 and 24. All things are lawful, but not all things are helpful. All things are lawful, but not all things build up. Let no one seek his own good but the good of his neighbor. Our rights, much less our preferences, can be laid down for love's sake, and for that reason, for the good of the vulnerable in our world, we are foregoing meeting together in person. We are worshiping entirely online these weeks not from fear, but as an attempt to love our neighbors, even at our own inconvenience Even if we are healthy, we understand that we could end up endangering those who are not. So out of love we worship online. It is an inconvenience and a loss, but that loss is tiny compared to the incarnation itself. For our good, Jesus left perfect fellowship with God, the Father, to become incarnate. He sacrificed all for our sake. Philippians chapter 2, 4 through 8. Let each of you look not only to his own interest, but also to the interest of others. Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped but emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeliness likeness of a man, and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. We are worshiping online because we want to love our neighbors well. And online worship, it is better than the alternatives. We are blessed to live in an age where we can attend worship services online, from our own apartments or homes, where technology can bring excellent preaching and worship through our computers and phones into our homes and lives. So get used to online worship. Depending on the course of the disease, we may have to be doing this for a while, and while we do, we worship with approximate connection. We are not disconnected. We are a single church, still worshiping together on Sunday, just not physically present. But when this crisis passes, and it will eventually pass, though we know not how soon. Commit now to return to being together in worship. Don't get so used to good, our current online worship, that it becomes a substitute for better, our worship in person, while we wait for best, our worship with all the church from all time. when Jesus returns. The psalmist was glad when they said to him, let us go into the house of the Lord, Psalm 122. And when we hear that call, we will understand the psalm like we haven't before. When we have the chance, we will return joyfully to a fuller presence with each other. And we are going to throw a great party when we do. Thus ends the article by Dr. Bill Fulalove, a great personal friend of mine, as it turns out, and a brilliant man, as you can see Um I'm gonna leave you with some thoughts written by Andrew Simpson about coronavirus. He says uh I'm not here to downplay our current conditions, but if you and your family have lost a loved one from coronavirus, I can only imagine your heartache But for many of us, myself included, the truth is that our biggest loss in all this extreme inconvenience, boredom, being stuck at home versus being forced out of our home and loss of money, I get it the effects of financial loss could be huge, but likely not fatal. You will come back from this. Compare the quality of our lives with the lives being lived by others. Five point six million Syrians are refugees forced out of their homes against their will, and another six point two million are displaced within Syria. Nearly twelve million people in Syria need humanitarian assistance. At least half of the people affected by the Syrian refugee crisis are children. I just read a few articles about the Syrian refugee crisis and saw some pictures of the ruined families have encountered. That was all I needed to shift from an attitude of another day to an attitude of gratitude and an enhanced desire to not just exist but to really live today. I need to remind myself The greater is the servant. If you realize that you are in a blessed position right now, then you are in fact filled with joy because you have been more than you realized. And I encourage you to serve five people today through a text message of inspiration, a video call, just to check in, social media posts that bring hope and inspiration to others. You know what? Andrew has some good thoughts, I think. And you, Christian, if you're listening right now, you indeed are blessed. You're in a blessed position right now because he is risen He is risen indeed. That is the end of the Faith Debate Show. Thanks so much for listening. We'll be back to normal. Hopefully, with next week's show, we'll find out Uh visit us online, wfmd. com, keyword faith. Until next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless.