Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News, Radio 930 W. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. Our show is brought to us by Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile in Deer Valley Hardscape, Landscape, and Masonry? Glad to have them on board as sponsors of the show. Be sure to visit us online. At WFMD. com Keyword Faith, there you will find a uh for the most part Monday through Friday updated daily blog Um the blog is not so much my thoughts as your thoughts. You send me an email at Troy at WFMV. com and if it's not filthy dirty, I will put it up there without almost any editing. Sometimes I'll clean up your spelling just a little bit so you're not embarrassed, but other than that, um jokes, fun stuff. uh serious stuff, things that are in the news, that sort of thing are what you'll find there. Also find a link to the Audio Vault section of the website where you can Um listen to this show over and over and over again to your heart's content. And uh it it helps sometimes 'cause we have a tendency to do th uh topic arcs where we'll do two, three, four, five shows in a row with the same panel on on similar topics so that we can get a fullness. And so sometimes it is helpful to to go to the podcast and and and listen to them back to back. Um by the way, what am I reading? I've read a lot of Ted Decker. We've given him a lot of publicity. I'm sure he's uh selling just like hotcakes in Frederick these days. Uh but uh this is not Ted Decker. Great book by Carl Truman, Reformation yesterday, today And tomorrow, um, put that on your to read list. Doing the show solo today, and here's a reason why. Do it a little bit different. Somebody once made the huge mistake of asking me to share a message from the pulpit. You can imagine that. So I thought you might find it halfway interesting to hear what would that knucklehead on WFMD, who's always got these different pastors and religious leaders on his show and he's always kinda poking holes in what they have to say, what would he sound like? What would he have to say if he were given the opportunity to preach? And so here is your chance to get a sense of what that opportunity might sound like. So I hope you enjoy this. I hope you get something from it. If you don't, email me at Troy at WFMD. com and let me know what you think. All right? I'll I'll I'll get back on at the back end. uh of this. I'm not sure if we'll get the whole message in. We might have to pick up the the last part of the message with next week's show, but we'll see how far into it we can get. So bear with me. Always makes me feel like I'm in an AA meeting, but my name is Troy Skinner and I'm a sinner, saved by grace. As you know from your uh bulletin, we're going to be uh Addressing what John has for us in 1 John verses 1 through 4 gives us reason to rejoice. That's the title we've given today's message. And I know we just had a a word of prayer, but I'd like to um um say another really quick word of prayer over this message if you don't mind. Father, we thank you for your greatness, your magnificence, and your deigning to reveal yourself to us, your creatures. Not because we deserve or worthy, but because you love us so much and you love us so much that you have given your son So that we might have relationship with you. We thank you for revealing yourself and your truth to us in your written word in the person of Jesus Christ. We pray that you would clear our mind of distraction this morning and that we would Open our hearts and have clear minds to hear what you have to share with us. What the Apostle John wrote so many years ago and is still alive for us today. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. So 1 John chapter 1, verses 1 through 4 say, that which was from the beginning Which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked at, and our hands have touched. This we proclaim concerning the word of life. The life appeared. We have seen it and testified to it. And we proclaim to you the eternal life which was with the Father and has appeared to us. We proclaim to you what we have seen and heard so that you may also have fellowship with us, and our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. We write this to make our joy complete. Now, unlike what we're used to seeing in most of the other books in the New Testament, we don't find here a kind of the formula for these epistles and these letters. We don't have a formal declaration of authorship. We don't have a friendly greeting. Instead what we find is John hitting a square in the jaw with the gospel message. This is a letter about Jesus, and John wastes absolutely no time telling us what we need to know about Jesus. The very first sentence says so much. I doubt that I or maybe any of us here have ever said so much in any single sentence we've ever said in our entire existence. In just one sentence, John tells us Jesus is God. And man. And we can trust that it's true because there are witnesses, and that our very life depends on believing it. I doubt that many of us have said that much in any paragraph we've ever uttered in our entire existence. The first phrase in the sentence, that which was from the beginning, reminds us that Jesus was from the beginning. Think of the implications of this. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. Of course, the famous first verse of the entire Bible, Genesis 1. 1. So this very first verse, this very first phrase in John 1, tells us something incredible. Jesus is God. Now you might be thinking, tell me something, I don't know. Of course Jesus is God, right? Many Take John's claim of Jesus as divinity for granted. However, there's got to be a reason that John reminds us of this truth. So let's ponder it for a moment. Remember, this letter was written to the church. The intended audience is a group of people who already profess to be Christian, to believe in Christ. Throughout the epistle, John uses words like my children and friends, and he uses the inclusive we when talking about the fellowship of believers. So his audience is us. Many in John's original audience might have, and perhaps even many of us here today, might have come to become believers in Christ because of other things that John said or wrote. Things that we find earlier in the New Testament, like, in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The familiar refrain from the Gospel of John, chapter 1, verse 1. By the way, verse 2 says, he was with God in the beginning. There's that word, beginning again. It reminds me of Jesus in Revelation. Which we read this morning. Revelation also written by John saying that he's the Alpha, the Omega, the beginning and the end. So this is familiar turf that John is covering. Yet he doesn't spend time waxing eloquent to make his point here in 1 John 1. It seems that there must have been some Christians in John's day who denied the deity of Jesus Christ. Just like we have people today who deny the deity of Christ. Christians who do this. John tackles this issue head on, and he doesn't get bogged down in you know full length argument you know argumentative style here. Just state the truth. Waste no time reaffirming the truth. It's an absolutely important truth. It is the absolute important truth. And this is why it's John's headline. In the newspaper business, the editors try to capture the reader's attention by encapsulating the thrust of the story in a very flashy headline. Electronic news media. Same principle applies. They'll try to capture what the story is all about in an opening sentence. And um if they fail fail to do this, if they If they don't give you what the fullness of the story is right up front, or if they completely miss what the story is altogether, it would be called burying the lead. John doesn't bury his lead. Not in the least does he bury his lead. Some will have their doubts, but John won't have any of that. As I mentioned a moment ago, John tells us that Jesus was from the beginning, which means that he is God. John says then that I heard what he had to say. He says, I saw him with my very own eyes. He says, I touched him with my very own hands. This is exactly what John is saying in the middle part of verse 1. Almost exactly. John doesn't say that I saw, heard, and touched Jesus He says, we saw, touched, and heard Jesus. You don't have to simply take John's word for it. There are a whole bunch of other witnesses saying the same thing. Perhaps you've heard of them. You can almost hear John reading between the lines. The apostles. These apostles didn't simply glean a passing glance at their Lord and Savior. They saw him. They heard him. They touched him. They experienced him. This is much more than mere hearsay. And this is what John is telling us here in the middle part of this first sentence. And as much as that is, he's saying so much more John isn't merely saying that there are a bunch of trustworthy witnesses running around proclaiming the truth of what they've experienced, although, let's be clear, to reinforce the importance of this, Jesus himself says in Matthew chapter 18 that it is important for every matter to be established by the testimony of two or three witnesses. But the fact that these witnesses experienced Jesus in such a personal way tells us something else that is of monumental importance. Jesus is a man. John could almost appear to be schizophrenic here. On the one hand, he tells us Jesus is God. The very next hand Jesus is a man. Wow. Is God but a mere man? He's seen and touched? We're told that God tells Moses in Exodus chapter 33 that no one may see his face and live, and yet hear, we have John saying that God was not only seen, but touched too. How can this be? It can only be if Jesus is both fully God. And fully man, which of course he is. In Colossians 2. 9, it says, In Christ, all the fullness of the deity Lives in bodily form. Paul repeatedly tells us that one man, Jesus Christ, is the key to our salvation. In fact, Paul uses the exact phrase, one man Jesus Christ twice in almost the exact same breath in Romans chapter five. So John isn't telling us something that we're not hearing elsewhere. From these other witnesses of Christ, but it doesn't make it any less fantastic. The final third of this first sentence ends with Jesus identified as the Word of Life. Once again, we're reminded of John's gospel account. Jesus is the word of life. The word is powerful. God speaks, things happen Let there be light. Bingo. It's better than the Clapper, right? Clapper never said, let me make man in our image. God reveals himself to us in his word. God reveals himself to us in the person of Jesus Christ. The word is good, the word is perfect, the word is God. John doesn't merely say here in verse 1, by the way, that Jesus is the Word, and leave it at that. He says that Jesus is the Word of life. There's life in the Word. We're again reminded of the book of Genesis, the Tree of Life, and the Book of Revelation, the Book of Life. Might also be reminded of the flip side of the equation. The opposite of life is death. Life is found in the word. Death is found in sin. See the last half of Romans chapter 5, which I referenced a second ago, if you want, for example. So not only is this important stuff, But John is telling us literally this is an issue of life and death. In Romans 6. 23, Paul writes, the wages of sin is death. Have you ever sinned? It's a rhetorical question, by the way. Well, if you've sinned When you go to collect your check at the end of the day to get your wages, your wages will be death. And that's both before and after taxes. That's what you've earned. However, Paul goes down the last half of the verse to say, this is verse 23 for those following along, but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. This is exactly what John is saying here in 1 John. We have eternal life if we are in Christ Jesus because Christ Jesus Is our source for eternal life. In Jesus we have eternal life. Now that might not sound like any great shakes for somebody who's depressed or stressed or discouraged by the things of this life. But what if you could have eternal life and never have to worry about paying taxes? Not have to worry about weeds in your lawn or removing heavy snow from your driveway. What if you could have eternal life and never grow weary or get sick or struggle with issues of aging or be concerned about the welfare of a loved one? Now eternal life takes on completely different connotations. Revelation 21 gives us a small glimpse of what the Christians' eternal life is like. It says, now the dwelling of God is with men. And he will live with them. They will be his people. And God himself will be with them and be their God. He will wipe every tear from their eyes. There will be no more death Or mourning or crying or pain. That's living You see, John doesn't tell us that in Jesus we have mere eternal existence. He is the word of life. In Christ we have in the fullest, most complete and perfect sense of the word, eternal life. John packs all of this into one sentence. What has taken me more than a thousand words to share with you, John says in just one verse. Then in verse 2 he tells us the same thing all over again for emphasis in a slightly different order. In verse 2, he tells us as readers that basically Jesus, who is the word of life, appeared. We witnessed this appearance, and now we're telling you about it, and what we're telling you about this appearance is critical because it has eternal life and death implications since what we're talking about here is God. And oh by the way, did I mention that he's appeared to us? So after John tells us what he has to say, provides the reason we can have confidence in believing it as the truth, and then reiterates his points for emphasis, he goes on then to give us the why. Why is John, and why are the other witnesses sharing what they have to say, sharing what we need to hear? John says in verse 3, it has to do with fellowship. John wants us to have fellowship with him and the other Christians who are sharing the Christian testimony. Well, isn't that nice? Perhaps they'll invite us over for coffee in a Danish in chapter two. I'm being facetious, obviously, but isn't that usually kind of what comes to mind when we think about fellowship? Right? We hang out together Maybe we share a little bit of ourselves. Maybe we don't. We simply happen to be a couple of fellows traveling along in the same ship. Hence we get the word fellowship. Sound about right? Our common understanding of the word? Word fellowship, thank goodness, obviously has a much richer meaning than this. Webster's College Dictionary says fellowship is the condition or relation of belonging to the same class or group. The root word, of course, is fellow, and Webster's tells us that the word fellow means a person belonging to the same rank or class. Equal. Peer. We see this full sense of fellowship demonstrated for us in Acts chapter 2, right? Peter preaches, 3,000 people are baptized, and then what follows is this you know amazing scene of fellowship, the breaking of bread, uh teaching, miracles. And then in verses 44 through 46, we read, all the believers were together and had everything in common. Selling their possessions and goods, they gave to anyone as he had need. Every day they continued to meet together in the temple courts. They broke bread in their homes and ate together with glad and sincere hearts. What a beautiful picture. A biblical example of Christian fellowship. Did you notice anything particular about verse 44? It says all the believers were together and had everything in common. Sounds like Webster's definition for fellowship, doesn't it? The people are equal. People are peers. They're the same group or class. They have everything in common. This is fellowship in its fullness. And this is what John has in view in 1 John 1, verse 3. He wants us to have this sort of fellowship with him and the other Christians that are preaching the truth about Jesus. Well, like I said before, isn't that nice of John? We should all aim to be so kind to our fellow Christians, be so warm in our letters to others, as John is here in his letter to us. However, as nice as it is of John, again we find that there's so much more meaning behind the verse. The first half of verse 3 might merely say that John and the others Who testify about Christ want us to have fellowship with them, but then the last half of the verse, that's a real whopper. Remember now, if we're in fellowship. This means we're of the same class. We're peers belonging to a common group. People who are in fellowship are equal in some important way. Now keep this idea in mind and look at the last half of verse 3 again where it says, fellow, John says his fellowship is with the Father. And with his Son, Jesus Christ. John wants us to have fellowship with God. This is the sort of thing if you're standing up it makes you need to sit down. And if you're sitting down, it should make you want to jump up. I don't know about you, but to me, this is exciting stuff. John wants to share. What he and the others who testify about Christ have, and what they have is fellowship with God. John wants to share with us Christ. He wants us to share in Christ. Have you ever read this verse and truly thought about the connotations? Do you really appreciate what it means to share in Christ? We have unity. In Christ. The believer's union with Christ is at the center of the Christian salvation. Which is why the phrase, in Christ, in him, and in the Lord appeared in the New Testament more than 150 times. Everything that Christ has, the believer has. Christ Himself teaches this in John 14, 20. Where he says, On that day you will realize that I am in my Father, and you are in me, and I am in you. Paul writes in chapter 15 of 1 Corinthians that Christ has now in fact been resurrected, and that Christ is the first fruits, the believers, the harvest to come. Due to the believer's union with Christ, we will not merely be raised in the future, but are now raised in Christ in some sense. If you'd like to see more on that, by the way, we're not going to go into a full discourse on these verses, but you can see Colossians 2, 12 through 13. Galatians 2, 19 and 20 and Romans 6, 2 through 13. I think those passages are referenced in the bulletin that you have with you today We're gonna have to pick up the rest of the message which uh we're a little about two thirds through that message. We'll pick it up next week and then maybe we'll uh throw on because the people that were crazy enough to invite me to speak Once, believe it or not, invited me to speak again. Wow, are they crazy or what? Anyway, this has been a special edition of the Frederick Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. I want to thank our sponsors, Futman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile and Deer Valley Hardscape Landscape and Masonry. Uh again I encourage you to visit us online. Go to WFMD. com. Keyword faith takes you right to the Faith Debate page. There you will find a link to Jonathan Sweitzer's blog. Jonathan is my typical cohort and partner in crime here on the show, but uh because of the special meeting of this show. Uh didn't uh need to trouble him with to come in. Plus I didn't want to hear what he had to say. You know what I'm saying? I'm sure he'd be picking apart what you just heard over the last twenty minutes or so. Uh anyway, but there's a link to his blog. There's a daily blog uh from me, but really my blog is your blog. You email me Troy at WFMD. com And if it's even halfway interesting and and and clean enough that the kids could could view it, whether it's political 'cause there's a lot of political stuff for some reason. Or it's uh funny jokes got a lot of that stuff too, or or insights into uh theology. uh questions about religion, uh what have you, I post it up there pretty much unedited. I will, like I said earlier in the show, clean it up just a little bit for you so that I can, you know, period the embarrassment of spelling mistakes and that sort of thing. Anyway, thank you for indulging me uh in this special edition of the Faith Debate Show. I appreciate it very much. Until 167 and a half hours from now Uh this has been the Faith Ebay. Thank you so much for listening. God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, and Honest answers an amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Put in plumbing, how can we make you smile