Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the hearts of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com keyword faith There you'll find links to podcasts and news items and uh the faith debate blog and video log and sometimes post what you send me uh if you want to email me, Troy Skinner at iHeartMedia. com. Um I encourage you to check in on the website and see what people might be saying there. On the face debate today, we do not have a panel discussion. We have a message called our Roy our Warrior Kings Royal Rumble A message on Exodus 17, 8 through 16. We'll catch the first half of that this week, and then you can catch the second half next week. But hopefully the two halves will will uh hold up on their own. uh at least to some measure. All right. So here's the first half. Our warrior warrior kings. Easy for me to say. Royal Rumble. Exodus 17, 8 through 16 Good morning. If you've been paying attention to the Hollywood Award shows lately, you've heard some buzz about a movie called Creed. Which I think would be Rocky Seven if they were continuing to name the movies in the Rocky franchise. And it helps me to remember that when I was a kid, all the way up until my early twenties, I was a pretty big fight fan. I Really loved boxing, the sweet science, the mono-imano hand-to-hand combat in the square circle. And there are surely some legendary fighters from other generations, but for my money, the golden age for the sport came in the 1970s and spilled into the nineteen eighties. I mean among the heavyweights alone you had smoking Joe Frazier. You had the brilliant tactician Jimmy Young, the competitor extraordinaire Kenny Norton And I even liked Ernie Shavers. I think man could Ernie hit. And then there was the fearsome as a bear, George Foreman. Before he became a warm and cuddly pitch man for home grills, and before Mike Tyson brought fear into the ring, there was George. In the 1980s we had the always underrated Larry Holmes as the heavyweight champ. But it was the lighterweight classes where the real stars were in the 80s, and they had great names Sugare Leonard, Marvelous Marvin Hagler, Thomas Hitman Hearns Even Hands of Stone, Roberto Nomas, Duran There were tremendous days to fight to follow the fight game. It was before pay-per-view destroyed being a fan. It was before professional wrestling stole the limelight. It was before the Italian stallion turned into a leathery Sylvester Stallone who forgot that he's Rocky Balboa, and so he starred in this horrible comedy a couple of years ago with Robert De Niro Called Grudge Match about these two over the hill boxers. But back to the golden age. Howard Cosell was around back then as a sports announcer back in the seventies. And he made everything that he touched seem larger than life. And Howard really helped to make Cassius Clay become the icon that is Muhammad Ali. Ali float like a butterfly sting like a bee He said about himself once that he was so quick he could hit the light switch on his wall in his bedroom and dive beneath the covers in his bed before the lights went out. He famously said, I'm a bad man with a pretty face. And he would yell out, I am the greatest. And he would predict the round within which he would knock out his opponent to prove that he was the greatest. And there was even a song, a hit song playing on the radio back then called Muhammad Awee, the Black Superman. Echoing that Oli was the greatest. Remember that song? Muhammad, Muhammad Oli floats like a butterfly, stings like a bee. Who else has a hit song on the radio as an athlete these days? But before Ali Before the thriller in Manila, before the rumble in the jungle, there was the rumble at Refidim. Before the fight of the century, there was the fight of the ages. Before Ali was claiming to be the greatest of all time There was God protecting his people in the desert, proving that he is the greatest of all time. Even before time. Yahweh is the undisputed greatest within time and outside of time, the creator of time The creator of Muhammad Ali. And this one true God shows us this fact about himself in Exodus. Chapter 17, verses 8 through 16. And I would invite you and encourage you to turn there in your Bibles. Exodus 17. Verses eight through sixteen, we will really be spending our time camped there. We will touch on other passages that connect, but really it's going to help you in understanding what we're talking about today if you turn to Exodus chapter 17. If you're not real familiar with your Bibles yet. Exodus is pretty easy to find. It's the second book in the Bible. So you're going to open your Bible. There's Genesis. Go one more book. There's Exodus. Go to chapter 17. And we are going to start with verse 8 and go through to verse 16, where we find a powerful story. And as powerful as the story is, it's really just a small glimpse. But even a small glimpse of God's greatness, it's beautiful and humbling. Exodus seventeen, verses eight through sixteen, God's word says to us The Amalekites came and attacked the Israelites at Rephidim. Moses said to Joshua, Choose some of our men and go out to fight the Amalekites. Tomorrow I will stand on top of the hill with the staff of God in my hands. So Joshua fought the Amalekites, as Moses had ordered. And Moses, Aaron, and her went to the top of the hill. As long as Moses held up his hand, the Israelites were winning. But whenever he lowered his hands, the Amalekites were winning. When Moses' hands grew tired, they took a stone and put it under him, and he sat on it. Aaron and her held up his hands, one on one side, one on the other, so that his hands remained steady till sunset. So Joshua overcame the Amalekite army with the sword. Then the Lord said to Moses, Write this on a scroll as something to be remembered, and make sure that Joshua hears it. Because I will completely blot out the name of Amalek from under heaven. Moses built an altar and called it the Lord is my banner. He said, Because hands were lifted up against the throne of the Lord, the Lord will be at war against the Amalekites from generation to generation. Let's pause and pray. Father God, our mighty warrior in heaven, providing for us and protecting us, your people. Who you know and love, and allow us the privilege of knowing and loving you. We thank you for the truth of your word. We thank you for the power that is in this story, a power that I think has eluded many of us over the years as we've read our Bibles. Help us to understand it anew, to recognize the truths. In this passage from the Old Testament, it points us directly to your Son, our Savior Jesus Christ. It's in his name that we pray. Amen. Now I did the boxing setup for a couple of reasons, and one of them is it's going to help you to understand the flow of the message today. If you've watched boxing matches on television, you'll notice most of them follow a pattern, three parts You start with the pre-fight analysis, and then there's the fight itself, and then there's the post-fight analysis, and that will be the structure of today's message. So we will begin with the tail of the tape Where the two competitors are sized up. So in this corner, we have the Amalekites weighing in as the first among nations. As we read in Numbers chapter 24, verse 20, which is to be understood as the chief among the wicked. Who will be defeated, who would come to ruin at last, as God's word tells us. There from among the Edomites, the line of Esau, who sold his birthright They take their name from Amalek, the grandson of Esau. We learn about this in Genesis chapters 14 and 36. Remember the quote, Jacob have I loved, Esau have I hated. We find that in both testaments, Malachi 1. 3 and Romans 9. 13. So these are the enemies. Of God's people, representing the seed of the serpent, who is constantly warring with the seed of the woman. We're introduced to these seed lines very early in Genesis. And the conflict between these lines Continues right up until our day. Now to refresh our memories, let's read from Genesis chapter 3. Now the serpent was more crafty than any of the wild animals the Lord had made. He said to the woman, The serpent did, did God really say you must not eat from any tree in the garden? The woman said to the serpent, We may eat fruit from the trees in the garden. But God did say you must not eat fruit from the tree that is in the middle of the garden, and you must not touch it, or you will die. You will not certainly die, the serpent said to the woman, for God knows that when you eat from it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil When the woman saw the fruit of the tree was good for food, and pleasing to the eye, and also desirable for gaining wisdom, she took some and ate it. She also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate it. And jumping ahead to verse 13 in Genesis chapter 3. Then the Lord God said to the woman, What is this you have done? And the woman said, The serpent deceived me and I ate So the Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, cursed are you above all livestock and all wild animals. You will crawl on your belly, and you will eat dust all the days of your life. And I will put enmity between you and the woman and between your offspring. And hers. He will crush your head, and you will strike his heel. Now don't go thinking that the serpent was gonna somehow in a physical way go give birth to a bunch of human babies. The serpent's offspring should be understood Spiritually. The seed of the serpent is the unrepentant, sin-filled people of the world. At enmity with the people of God, the offspring of the woman, the seed of the woman. These are the battle lines. On one side, we have the scene of the woman represented by the Israelites, and on the other side we have the scene of the serpent, represented in this case by the Amalekites. Israel's first king, Saul, battled the Amalekites, but he failed to destroy them all as he was commanded to in 1 Samuel 15. Israel's iconic king, David, defeated them, but he also did not wipe them out. You can read about some of this in 1 Samuel 30 and in 2 Samuel chapters 1 and 8. The Amalekites are also talked about in Numbers 14, and they show up if you know what you're looking for in the book of Esther. In Esther chapter 3, we learn that Haman, the guy who wanted to kill all the Jews, including Mordecai and Esther herself, was an Agagite. This name is derived from King Hagad, who ruled the Amalekites during King Saul's reign. We note that from 1 Samuel chapter 15, verses 7 through 9, and also verses 32 and 33. And so this seed of the serpent That's represented by the Amalekites attacking God's people, and Haman seeking to destroy God's chosen was still around. To bruise Christ's heel in the first century A. D. or the first century CE, if you prefer. And this serpent seed is still around today. To battle Christ's church. Even now. That's who's in this corner. And in the other corner, we have the Israelites. The players' names specifically in the text include Moses, Joshua, Aaron, and Her. And don't miss the primary player. God. The power of God is also in the text, pictured by the staff carried by Moses. As we will see during this battle, Moses is representatively pictured as intercessor for God's people and as the sitting king over his people. Joshua is also representatively picturing Christ as the one doing battle and leading battle in the field of battle, the field of works. And Joshua wins, like Jesus wins for us. Incidentally, there was some foreshadowing, quite a bit of foreshadowing in this passage Of coming changes for the Israelites as they traveled in the wilderness. Moses would not live forever Israel would need a new leader. And the successor to Moses would be Joshua. And it's right here that Joshua is first introduced to us in the Bible. This is the very first time Joshua's name appears. Now, not only would Moses not live forever, but he would not be able to rule alone forever. He would grow weary. He would need help from others. In fact, the very next section of Exodus This is where we meet Jethro who tells Moses, you had better find some other guys to help you with your responsibilities. And even before this Jethro scene, right before this, the we are in the passage we're in this morning, Exodus 17, verses 8 through 16. And we see in this passage Aaron and her shouldering some of the burden for a weary Moses. So there again is foreshadowing It's no surprise that we see Aaron here in this passage. He has been in the narrative, he's been around for some time being of aid to Moses. But who is this her guy? Some believe he was Miriam's husband. Other traditions hold he was Miriam's son. Miriam is Moses' sister, so if these traditions are true, then that would make her either Moses' brother-in-law or nephew. Now it does seem more certain that her was Caleb's son, and Caleb is one of only two men. Who would advocate for entering into the promised land the first time they had a chance to do so. And so we have good reason to believe that her comes from good stock. The stock that is the seed of the woman. First lineage, by the way, is noteworthy later in the Bible as well. His grandson, Bezalel. Does that name ring any bells? I'm not sure, but he is the famed artisan from the tent of meeting and the Ark of the Covenant. You can look that up later if you want. Exodus chapter 31 and 1 Chronicles chapter 2. So now you know who is in this corner. Again, I want to highlight what is being highlighted for us if we only know how to recognize it. There is a rumble going on in this section of Scripture between the line of the seed of the woman and the line of the seed of the serpent. And this rumble continues throughout all of Scripture. From Genesis to Revelation. Because this rumble continues throughout all of redemptive history. And so it continues for us today. The scene from our Bible tells a story of national Israel, but it also tells us a story of spiritual Israel. This story is part of Israel's ancient history, but it is also part of our current contemporary history. So now that the tail of the tape is complete, are you ready? Now the two fighters have been properly introduced. Let's get ready to rumble The fight is on. The seesaw battle. Who will win? The Amalekites get a jump on the Israelites. They storm from their corner and they begin their attack before the fight bell has even sounded. How do I know this? Because in Deuteronomy 25, verses 16 through 19 it says, For the Lord your God detests anyone who deals dishonestly. Remember what the Amalekites did to you along the way when you came out of Egypt, when you were weary and worn out. They met you on your journey and cut off all who were lagging behind. They had no fear of God. When the Lord your God gives you rest from all the enemies around you in the land he is giving you to possess as an inheritance, you shall blot out the memory of Amalek. from under heaven. Do not forget. So the Amalekites had the advantage of surprise. A surprise attack from behind Poaching the weakest, the stragglers. There's no honor in a sucker punch And yet we know how devastating the effects can be when you receive a sucker punch. And the line of the serpent sucker punches the line of the seed of the woman. And what are they to fight back with? The Israelites are already weary. They're already staggering before the battle has even begun. Remember in the scene right before this, the passage in Exodus, right before this, the people of Israel had been fighting. Fighting amongst themselves and fighting with God, bringing a lawsuit against God. But God turned the tables and he was vindicated in the trial. Now think about it. The guilty people from that scene deserved to be punished. And here would have been the perfect opportunity for God to punish them. The Amalekites were lurking in the wilderness. The warrior tribe was there, ready to pounce Through these devilish people, God could have executed justice against his rebellious people for rejecting his leadership. But instead, in Exodus 17, verses 1 through 7, the passage right before this one, God absorbed the punishment. In a way that points directly to his son, who is the ultimate end and beginning of the seed of the woman. So now in this very next scene, in verses 8 through 16, what we're focusing on this morning, the people are in position to overcome the advantage of surprise. With the advantage of intercession. Moses goes to the top of a nearby hill with Aaron and her and the staff of God in his hand. And he lifts his hands in prayer, standing in supplication before the throne of God, as it were. Interceding, hands raised, the staff of God held high. Giving us a sort of picture of Jesus Christ interceding for his people. But the Amalekites, they are seasoned veterans of the Rumble. They not only have strategy and tactics like surprise attacks from behind, they have many weapons and a large army A well-practiced crew of powerful warriors. So they do not fall easily. And Moses grows weary. He is not the son of God, after all. His endurance is limited. He struggles to intercede continually. He drops his gloves. And as his gloves come down, the Amalekites gain the advantage, the upper hand. Jab, jab, jab, right cross, left hook, uppercut! The wine of the sea of the woman is now reeling. And so Aaron and her, they scramble to help Moses to find his stool in the corner. Not really a stool in the corner. They find a large stone for him to sit upon. But don't dismiss the stool in the corner boxing analogy idea completely. If you've seen the various Rocky movies You might remember a few times when the Rock's opponent'd get tagged by Rocky, and then he'd wobble over to his stool on the corner on rubbery knees. Now, as fans of Rocky, there's a surge of pride in that. But you know, it's also kind of funny, right? There's an inward smile. There's Some humor in seeing such a mighty, gifted man stumble about. Like Bambi in that movie in the early parts where Thumper says he's kinda wobbly, isn't he? Well, here in Exodus, we see Moses wobbly. The great hero, the great hero of Israel needs to sit down The men in the battlefield might possibly be looking from time to time up to that hill Looking for Moses on the hilltop. And what do they see? They see nothing that In his own strength, Moses can do for them. Nothing that will help them. In his own strength. Moses falls back onto his very air. But our God is an amazing God. You need to understand, it is not Moses who wins the battle. Now I sort of picture Aaron and her kind of stumbling all over themselves trying to figure out what to do in this scene. And then they spot the the large stone. over to the side and they're like, oh dear, oh what are we gonna do? Oh, oh my oh my here Moses here here here here come sit sit sit sit sit sit here you sit here sit down over here sit here I think we might have before us, right from our Old Testament, the very first sitcom. That might be grownworthy. And we're going to end on a groanworthy note. Thank you so much for listening this week. This is the Frederick Faith Bait Special Edition. We'll complete the message. The uh the first half you just heard, the second half, the last half is next week. Uh thank you for all your years of loyal listening. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer and I really appreciate it. We're coming up on 12 years of the Faith Debate Show, if you can believe it Uh it it's humbling when we think about it. Thank you to our sponsor, Putmin Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Again, thank you for listening until next week, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from now God bless