This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most other Learn in a week. The faith debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner. Weighing in with a master of divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the faith debate master of ceremonies. Oh Troy Skinner. We don't have a panel today. I'm sorry. You know, it's hard to do things in your life. Get together. You know, and as I record this show, not allowed to get together. So we're doing a show just me. Just me and you. Just you and me. You and me hanging out. Talking about important stuff. And what we're going to talk about in recent weeks is coronavirus and COVID nineteen and the economic stuff and the shutdowns and the churches uh reaction to that and some of the battles going on in the church or or attacks leveled at the church, even the tax level at the church from others in the church. It's been an interesting thing and so I'm going to continue now uh picking up on some of those things that we've been talking about in recent weeks uh with more of our in-depth look at uh an issue that I'm telling you, church historians are going to surely be studying this until the return of Christ. There's no doubt about it. So uh picking up on a theme from uh uh of of last week, I'm gonna start with a pretty strong statement that is meant to uh engender a spirit of generosity among believers. If a person attending a worship service or prayer meeting or a choir practice or a Bible study or a leadership meeting or whatever other church-related activity should end up dying while en route Or ends up being exposed to the coronavirus or H1N1 virus or tuberculosis or any other contagion That person and the church is not guilty of any sin in this If someone feels that his or her attendance at a worship service would be to test God, then he or she is rightly prudent to avoid the danger. If someone else feels it's not a test of God, then he or she can, good conscience, attend the worship service. Christ promised danger for his followers during the time prior to the second advent. Didn't he? So it's unfair, biblically speaking, to condemn an individual or local church that does not automatically advocate safety at the expense of boldness. If the Bride of Christ takes the avoidance of risk too far Then no Christian would seek to disciple anyone in certain parts of the world where being discovered to be a Christ follower results in death. The conundrum begs the question of where to draw the line. Scripture indicates that the line is best drawn in a place where there is a higher priority placed on things eternal. Then it's placed on things that will pass away. And when this happens, the Christian is not afraid to die. But these wisdom questions are tough. So again, believers need to be sure to be generous with empathy toward one another. Without a doubt the the church exists, whether it prays as often as it ought, or studies God's word as it ought, or witnesses as it ought. However This isn't tackling the question, what we've been doing these recent weeks, about the church's existence, but about the church's behavior All of life is worship. And yet the body is called to meet together for particular moments of corporate worship, which include congregational singing. deeply personal fellowship, administering the sacraments, and so on. In addition to the things that many say can now be even more easily done with virtual church. These are important considerations always, and even now, of course You know, it's become clear that no matter what, even if the worst-case scenario estimates for COVID-19 are assumed, There will still be brothers and sisters who believe that they should meet together to worship their maker and the great physician. When questioning the wisdom of this approach by appealing to Bible verses, it is absolutely crucial that the context of Scripture is rightly understood. What is the historical setting? Who is the original audience? What is the writer's primary purpose? What was said immediately prior and immediately after the selected passage? How does it fit within the whole of the biblical book that it's in and the whole of the canon for that matter? What type of literature is in play? And so many other considerations And using scripture to interpret scripture, that is the foundation to a healthy hermeneutical interpretive approach. With this in mind, I talked about Romans 13 last week. Let's tackle it again. Romans 13. How is it best understood? The now oft-debated Romans 13 passage that talks about being subject to governing authorities. It falls within the context of a long epistle written by the Apostle Paul. In the first eleven chapters. Paul hits hard on doctrine, and in the final five chapters he dives into application of the doctrine. And generally speaking, that application is to love others, including government authorities. This early part of chapter 13 that gets referenced all the time, it is immediately preceded by the tail end of chapter 12. Go figure. Yep, right after chapter twelve comes to chapter thirteen. And in chapter twelve, it tells believers to love one another with affection and honor, and to be fervent in spirit while serving the Lord, to be patient and prayerful in tribulation. And to live in harmony with other Christians by never being wise in our own sight, among other things, Paul writes there. And then It says individuals are never to avenge themselves because God says basically, I got this. This is the lead-in context to the text of chapter 13 in Romans, which says that the governing authorities are placed there by God. In other words, it's part of how God has got this. And so Christians, they trust God in this arrangement by showing love to the governing authorities. And this is done by being subject to the authorities. By not resisting the authorities. These are words that Paul uses. By being in subjection to the authorities, and by giving the respect and honor that is due the authorities. And that's it. That's all Paul says. The Apostle Paul says nothing at all about exceptions to this rule when it comes to bowing down before idols or continuing to pray publicly when commanded to stop or ceasing the practice of preaching the gospel or anything else. He gives no exceptions to the rule And yet, as was pointed out last week, these exceptions they surely must exist. Because there's Daniel chapter 3 and Daniel chapter 6 and Acts chapter 5 with which to contend. I'm not gonna relitigate those particular verses. You can listen to last week's show on podcast if you want. But in addition to these three that I cited last week, that doesn't even mention The midwives who disobeyed the Pharaoh, and even lied about it, where the reader is told that they feared God and did not do as the king of Egypt had commanded them. That's Exodus chapter 1, verse 17 Or how about the Israelites, who later in the book of Exodus openly rebelled against the government of Egypt? Famously so. Or Rahab in Joshua chapter 2, who directly disobeyed a command from the king of Jericho when she lied for the Israel spies. Or the people resisting the command of King Saul when he ordered the killing of Jonathan for having broken the law in 1 Samuel chapter 14. Or the story found in 1 Kings 18, when Obadiah feared the Lord greatly, we're told, and preserved 100 prophets from Queen Jezebel. Defying her. Or the story in 2 Kings, where Joash is not only hidden from the authorities. But the authority, Ethelia, is put to death. And so the list it goes on. I could continue. And so the the lesson here is to get us to think more broadly. And if we're going to start peppering each other with quote-unquote proof texts, we better know what we're talking about. 'Cause it's bad enough to get it wrong amongst each other and to make each other look bad or try to make each other look bad and cause division within Christ. That's really bad. But it also makes the f makes us the fool to watch in world. Because there are people around the world who aren't Christians and know the Bible better than a lot of Christians. And they're going to hear these fights that what the Christians are having to say, that's uh that Christian doesn't even know his own scriptures very well. Or she doesn't know her scriptures very well, or whoever it is that's talking that way You know, in the meantime, all we want to focus on is, hey, we did this, and hey, we did that, and oh, isn't it neat neat that Fox News Channel put the Franklin Graham thing on on uh Resurrection Sunday morning That's fine, that's good. But we're stuck in this cultural Christianity thing, this churchanity thing. Instead of pressing in the prayer and reading our Bibles and learning what they say. Anyway, bit of an aside there. So let's continue our our look at the huge issue of the moment for the Universal Church. So in these recent shows This week, last week, week before, we've been examining the the the way to best approach the biblical teaching that people are to be subject to government authorities. And it has become a wedge issue within the church in recent weeks. And this need not be the case. By the way, this is the Faith Debate. I am Troy Skinner, and you're listening to it the show on WFMD, 9 30 on your A. M. dial. We're here every week, Sunday mornings nine to nine thirty. Now using scripture to interpret scripture, Romans thirteen It is seen in the context of numerous exceptions to the rule throughout God's written revelation that include worship. And prayer and preaching and refraining from murder and rebelling against an authoritarian government and covering for God's agents and rejecting unreasonable orders and giving sanctuary to God's religious leaders and even taking the life of a government authority if necessary. There are enough individual examples here, and the list could go on, by the way. I just stopped there. There are enough individual examples to suggest that what the Bible student has before them is a biblical principle. If the government interferes or threatens or seeks to thwart God's people by attempting to take from them their life or liberty or freedom to worship or pray or preach or even their economic freedom. If the government attempts to thwart God's people from advancing his righteous causes in these ways, then God sanctions disobeying human governments. So long as Christians are willing to humbly face the consequences of the disobedience. See, that's the thing. Now, certainly it's not always simple to determine when such disobedience is God sanctioned. Nevertheless This principle is what allowed Martin Luther to lead the charge during the Reformation. This principle allowed God-fearing men to fight for independence from the rule of King George III This principle is what allowed Rosa Parks to spark a revolution in civil rights. If this is not a biblical principle. then all of these well-honored heroes were actually behaving as depraved sinners. That their behavior was sinful is a conclusion that could be fairly considered. Okay, fine. But this is not how the church has traditionally viewed these historic examples, is it? Many have offered the suggestion that God's people can only disobey the government when there are directives that would force people to sin, such as the examples of worship this idol or die, eat this uncleed unclean food or die. However, this does not explain the Exodus narrative or what happens in Joshua chapter 2. Nor does it excuse the Boston Tea Party or Martin Luther King Jr. I mean if Rahab was not committing sin, nor Luther nor Parks How would somebody prove it? How would you prove they weren't sinning Well, he could prove it by appealing to the biblical principle that's been outlined. That's how he can prove that they weren't sinning. The government's role is to punish evil and to promote good. There are people who are loudly saying that they believe it to be evil. selfish and therefore not good for congregations to gather during the pandemic. Well in response, some would respectfully ask if this view is consistent with God's opinion on the matter. Some might even ask if this view is consistent with how these critics live their own lives. I mean these critics they generally assume it's okay to go grocery shopping or to the bank or to the gas pump or to work as essential personnel So if so, why do why do they assume it's not okay to go to church? Is it because people need food? Need money? Need gas? Need to perform important services for the community? If so, couldn't the local church make the argument that people need what they offer when they gather? to perform important services for the community too. There are individuals who might reject this argument out of hand, but they should be asked if they can at least empathize the other points of view well enough to soften the edges around their position that other Christians are being selfish. Think about a scenario for a moment. What if the church, wanting to meet together, has extensive hand washing stations and protocols set up? What if They have fewer than fifty people meeting in a sanctuary that holds three hundred, and this is a common reality for many churches in Western civilizations post-Christian culture, by the way. What if everyone s stays at least six feet away from one another? And all the greeters and ushers and so forth, they wear gloves. And what if it's safer than the grocery store and the gas station and the ATM machine? Are they still then being selfish? You know perhaps I've already said more than enough. Uh but there's a few more things. I'm not sure. See if I can finish it this week. If not, I'll finish up uh next week. I mean I'm I'm glad that, you know, we're able to have this conversation uh on the radio station at least, and that maybe people in the church, people everywhere, uh particularly those in church leadership and those around the world we Yeah, we can recognize that they're those people that are leading the churches, the congregations, they're seriously wrestling with what's going on. This is not willy-nilly. They're not just Yeah, m most of them. Some of them maybe, but most of them they're really struggling to figure out what the right path forward is. And it's unfortunate that many believers They might have to agree to disagree over some parts of the body being considered selfish because they view the worldly wisdom of humanity's expert class through a different prison than do some others. Christ's bride is called to do better than this. And by the power of the Holy Spirit, she will. By the way, um last month Was it last month, two months ago? Recently. Time's gone by so fast. I guess it might be two months ago now. Marked the seventy-fifth memorial of Dietrich Bonhoeffer's martyrdom. He was a a man well acquainted with suffering and separation from fellow believers. And so I'm going to share ten of his quotes to help us maintain focus on the life of discipleship and Christian community. If you're listening and you're a Christian, this will be edifying to you. And if you're listening and you're not a Christian, it will be an instructive to you to you to hear what Christians think about on these sorts of things. Quote At a time uh at that time I was terribly alone and left to myself, Dietrich Bahnhofer wrote. It was quite bad. But then something different came, something that has changed and transformed my life to this very day. For the first time I came to the Bible. That too is an awful thing to say. I had often preached, I had seen a great deal of the church, had spoken and written about it, and yet I was not yet a Christian, but rather in utterly wild and uncontrolled fashion my own master. I do know that at the time I turned the cause of Jesus Christ into an advantage for myself, for my crazy vanity. The Bible, especially the Sermon on the Mount, freed me from all this. Since then everything has changed. I have felt this plainly, and so have other people around me. It was a great liberation It became clear to me that the life of a servant of Jesus Christ must belong to the church. And step by step it became clear to me how far it must go. That's from his theological education um in the mid-1930s he wrote that. The fact that Jesus Christ died is more important than the fact that I will die. And the fact that Jesus Christ was raised from the dead is the sole ground of my hope that I, too, will be raised on the day of judgment. Our salvation is from outside ourselves, extra nos. I find salvation not in my life story, but only in the story of Jesus Christ. That's from Bonhoeffer's Life Together and Prayer Book of the Bible. In discipleship he writes, Suffering willingly endured is stronger than evil. It is the death of evil. The more terrible the evil, the more willing the disciple should be to suffer. Evil persons must be delivered to the hands of Jesus. Not I, but Jesus, must deal with them. Where am I? Lost my track. Here we go. This is a letter uh from Letters and Papers from Prison. In the last few years I've come to know and understand more and more the profound this worldiness of Christianity The Christian is not a homo religios, but simply a human being in the same way that Jesus was a human being, in contrast perhaps to John the Baptist I do not mean the shallow and banal this worldliness of the enlightened, the bustling, the comfortable, or the lascivious, but the profound this worldliness that shows discipline and includes the ever-present knowledge of death and resurrection. Here's another quote from Bonhoeffer's Discipleship. Cheap grace is preaching forgiveness without repentance. It is baptism without the discipline of community. It is the Lord's Supper without confession of sin. It is absolution without personal confession. Cheap grace is grace without discipleship, grace without the cross, grace without the living, incarnate Jesus Christ. From a Centorum uh Communio he said I'm reading Bonhoeffer quotes here. The miracle of the Christian concept of community is that love for God involves submission, but that God's love in ruling serves. A life together under the word will stay healthy only when it does not form itself into a movement, an order, a society, a collegium theatus, but instead understands itself as being part of the one holy universal Christian church, sharing through its deeds and suffering in the hardships and struggles and promise of the whole church. That's from Life Together and Prayer Work of the Bible. Here's another one from that same work. A Christian community either lives by the intercessory prayers of its members for one another, or the community will be destroyed. The revealed community of love had to be broken up one more time by its founder's own action, though not before Jesus had tied them tightly together with a close bond at the very last hour. This happened in the Last Supper. Jesus says, Just as I break this bread, so my body will be broken tomorrow, and as all of you eat and are filled from one loaf, so too will all of you be saved and united in me alone. That was from uh Sanctorum Communio. I might have said that. Here's one from discipleship. To flee to invisibility is to deny the call. Any community of Jesus which wants to be invisible is no longer a community that follows him. Anyway, that uh that thus concludes the um the quotes Let's see, I've got like two minutes. What can I say in two minutes that would be interesting and helpful to you? Um Hmm Well let me just say that, you know uh as it's become clear with the things I've said, there is definitely there are differences theologically within the church. There's no doubt about that. That's why a show like this can even exist And yet there is unity. There i true Christians are in unity with each other because they're in unity with Christ. I mean there should be unity anyway demonstrated Because there is unity, so we should demonstrate it. And this unity is rooted in things like all Christians maintaining a very high view of God's sovereignty and his holiness and love. You know, I was asked the other day Why don't we just do whatever we want and live lives of hedonists? And perhaps you've wondered this yourself at some point in your life. Well we don't surrender to living sin-filled lives because we recognize that living life to the fullness is experienced by being obedient to God. He gave us his law because he loves us and wants what's best for us. So we recognize that living life to the fullest is experienced by being obedient. As we walk in obedience, we are blessed to have the privilege of experiencing his face shining upon us. This is flourishing. This is shalom. This is what it should be all about. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Thanks for listening. Find us online at WFMD. com. I am Troy Skinner. When you find our page on the uh WFMD website, you'll see uh a preview of shows that are coming up in the future. You'll see a listing of shows that have aired recently, you'll find links to the podcast of of shows that go back many years including this one. So um until then, have happy hunting finding a podcast, I guess. So 167 and a half hours from right now, God bless. We shoot pass