This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Treble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. We're Faith Community Leaders. Wrestle over the truth. Yaba do in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. And in this corner. Weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder, John Sweiser. No, I'm just getting wrong. The Middle East is on fire. Fire. At least it seems that way. It's always seemed that way, hasn't it? Why? What's at the root of the conflicts? What has been tried to bring peace and what should be tried next? On the panel today, two men who will share their understanding of the history standing behind where we now see. Stand. What has brought us here? On the show, of course, today, past president of Frederick Evangelical Ministerial Fellowship, founder of Frederick 48, founder of Crossroads Valley Church, co-founder of the Faith Debate and Fact, and most recently founder of Bridges, connecting Needs and resources at Frederick County, Jonathan Schweitzer. And also on the panel this week, candidate for United States Senate. That's right, we're moving on up in the world. Woo! Author of Joseph's Bones, Understanding the Struggle Between God and Mankind in the Bible. He's the leader of a Sunday school Bible class as part of a Jewish Reconstructionist Shavara for ten years. He is Doctor Jerome Jerry. Eagle. So I really appreciate you taking the time. Uh, Dr. Siegel, uh, we were further away than he thought. He followed the breadcrumbs and seven hours later, here he is. Thank you for making the trip. Yeah, that's a long trip. Yeah. So We got a lot of ground to cover. We're going to try to do an arc of shows. Our goal here is to try to get four shows done so we don't have to get everything said today, but you know, let's try to stay focused. I want to start broad and narrow ourselves down. So starting broadly, looking at the Middle East region more generally and talking about some of the big picture issues like uh the Arab Spring and and how Iran influences what's going on in that region, things like that. So with that in mind Uh this is for the the listener to know what's going on as well as us uh on the panel. Uh Dr. Siegel, what's been your role? You have a pretty impressive resume. If you go on your website and look at all the things or you do a just a Google search, it's rather impressive. So, you know, in a relatively short amount of time. How would you describe what your role has been in the Middle East Peace Process over the years? Well, I started out it was funny, I I actually professionally was working in USAID uh as the coordinator for the Near East, which meant that I had a professional responsibility uh for bringing U. S. policy to bear on the Near East Bureau that is implementing it when he discovered that just making a law doesn't necessarily mean that you change government. Right. But Interestingly, that actually really had very little to do with what emerged. What emerged really was in 1982. Um Israel invaded Lebanon and it invaded Lebanon um under a pretext, uh an attempt had been made on the life of the uh Israeli ambassador to Great Britain um by a Palestinian and the other group that actually did it was a group called the the Abu Nidal group He was a breakaway uh from Fatah, from Arafat's group and actually uh tried to kill Arafat. Um but the um the kill everybody. The Begin Shamir uh not Begin Shemir, Begin Aryo Sharon government, Sharon was defense minister, uh used that uh as a pretext for invading Lebanon. And the idea was actually that they didn't explain this to their colleagues in the Knesset. But the idea actually was to catch the whole PLO leadership in Beirut and just kill 'em. They really wanted to kill them. And the idea was that You could eliminate Palestinian nationalism. Cut off the head. If you cut off the head, right, exactly. And what their goal was really was permanent Israeli control over the West Bank and all of Jerusalem. And they believe that that if that the PLO really was was the source of this nationalist impulse Uh and they went after them. And so this has come out pretty uh clear since then that that was the case with the Begin Sharone government at the time? Yes it is. um it it turned into a horror story and a disgrace. And it was the Reagan administration, by the way, that that transported the PLO leadership. out of Lebanon on US Navy vessels. Wow. We took them out and we we brought them to Tunisia where they had refuge. And one of the things that happened actually After they were taken out such a dramatic story, isn't it? Israelis said no. The Palestinians said we insist The Americans said, Okay. Then the American captain, right, radio depending on and about the Israelis say, what do we do if they shoot at a boat? Yeah and the water came back, shoot right back Yeah. Yeah. So of course it never happened. Sure. Yeah. But what did happen was a complete horror story, um, which is that there was a right wing militia, Christian militia called the Falange. Um that in Tunisia? No, in Lebanon. Oh. In Lebanon. Yeah. Um and They had um you know suffered some kind of blow, uh I forgot exactly what, but one of their top leaders was assassinated and they blamed the Palestinians and so on. And they after the PLO fighters had left They went into two Palestinian refugee camps. The Christian group. The Christian militia. Yeah. Yeah. They went in and They massacred anywhere from a thousand to three thousand, depending on on who's counting, women and children, just essentially cut their throats. Um and the thing was, I don't know, was this like this horrible story, but The Israeli soldiers facilitated this by firing flares into the sky that made possible this nighttime operation. And the Israelis were really in control and they could have stopped this if they wanted to. And they basically abetted it. Well, this resulted in incredible protests and uh and a commission was formed inside of Israel that forced actually Sharon's resignation as defense minister and said he should never be allowed to become defence minister again. Then no one anticipated that he would become Prime Minister. Yeah, yeah. Um but uh and Begin, I don't know if this is a link to the story in and of itself. Uh, you know, Bacon Bacon died not too long afterwards and I felt that he was um he died in disgrace, kind of a broken man, because he he had a certain amount of decency to him. He was an old school, you know, liberal uh parliamentarian really with certain kinds of views on the on the conflict. So but it went down it was real really just I mean so horrible what what a horrible incident in the history of the Jewish people for this to occur. Any rate, five years later well here's what happened to me. Yeah so you have like so much information uh that uh you know that that you could like go you know the next four shows just kind of walking us through this history So keep us focused as we're going along here. Yeah, so uh in maybe like sixty to ninety seconds from that point to here, your involvement is then what? You establish the Jewish piece uh when this happened I said to a friend of mine We gotta do something. So this is how you got into it at the moment. Actually my friend said, let's talk to Mark Meaning Mark Raskin, who's the father of Congressman Jamie Raskin. Okay. We knew Mark when Jamie was like twenty or something or younger. Right, we went to Mark and the three of us sat down And Mark's it was Mark's idea. He said, Why don't we have a Jewish demonstration in front of the Israeli embassy? Yeah. And it seemed like a great idea. We created something called. And that's like the first time that Jewish people were were or uh what's the word, you know, demonstrating for the Palestinians or for just the Palestinians it was it was it wasn't it wasn't it? It was actually we called it Washing area Jews opposed to the Israeli invasion of Lebanon But the sense was that this was that this was a senseless uh war that had no justification and could not contribute to resolving the conflict We were never a pro-Palestinian group. And I've never I've never viewed myself as pro-Palestinian, except in the abstract sense of I'm pro-Israel, I'm pro-Palestinian, you know, in that sense. But not Palestinian solidarity person or organization. Anyway, you can almost see the prophet saying, you know, in the valley of Jezreel, you know, that that that the Lord is coming with justice. You know, you hear the prophetic voice saying that hey there's a problem here that needs to be dealt with the house of Jeh who has gone too far. You put your finger exactly on it. The issues of justice are at the heart of this conflict, and we can talk about what they are. But that you will never have a stable peace unless they're addressed. And they they they are not addressed. They're not addressed. And there's a sort of a bias in the so-called the the conventional wisdom of the peace processors that say things like, well, it's sort of pointless to talk about narrative. You've got your narrative. Well, narrative really is another word for Moral story. That's what narrative really is. Certainly, yeah. And if it does engage, you know, the questions of morality on this And you don't have policy that at least addresses the way it's seen by the other side, you'll never have a stable peace. uh twenty five, thirty years is that you've played a role thirty six. Thirty six years in promoting uh justice in in the Israeli interactions with the Palestinians in a way that that is trying to to to recognize that it's not an either or that there's there's some kind of a path in the middle that that the Israelis can do justice and at the same time uh find a way to to let the Palestinians you know, not be treated injustly, you know, to somehow walk that's a good thing. Broadly speaking, I would put it in line. I would put it this way. I've actually become in the thirty-six years, I've gone from a protester to actually I'm not claim I embarrassing the claim about myself. But I say I'm I'm actually on the cutting edge of of conflict resolution with respect to this conflict. Yeah. So like I ran a track two group a couple of years ago in which the members of the group on the Israeli side were two map two people. Former Deputy Prime Minister of Israel under Sharon And b and Netanyahu's former national security advisor. So I've gone from being, you know, thirty-six years ago a guy with a sign in front of the Israeli embassy to someone who made conflict resolution his life work and has sort of achieved a certain kind of um stature. So as Jesus said, Blessed are the peacemakers, they shall be called the sons of God. Basically you stepped in the role of peacemaker as a prophetic voice calling for uh there to be discussion instead of just uh violence and uh polarization. Yeah, and a lot more sophisticated than just discussion, but real pro I have alternative processes. Yeah, no, I get it. But yes, intensive process. Absolutely right. Yeah, yeah. So let me jump in here. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Um you can find us online at WFMD. com keyword faith. Jonathan Schweitzer, co-founder of the show. Uh on again this week and Mill East Expert uh and Maryland is senatorial candidate for U. S. Senate Dr. Jerry Siegel. Uh John, I'll start with you and you can chime in as well, Dr. Siegel. Uh we've got a you know a good feel, a flavor of what the conflict has felt like and looked like over the last handful of decades. Okay. Give me an even bigger picture. Go back in the Wayback Machine and and you know from way, way back, how if as you understand it, how have we gotten to where we are now? Uh you talking about uh the uh the end end of the eighteen hundreds, early nineteen hundreds. Uh so right, the problem at that time and you probably know this a lot better than I do is that uh that Great Britain uh had responsibility for the uh the mandate there in Israel and they were promising uh in the early nineteen hundreds to the Palestinians certain things about statehood and they were promising things to the Jewish uh the the new uh settlers, Zionists that were coming in uh at the time out of, you know, two sides of their mouth. And coming out of World War, you know, in the midst of World War Two, uh it looked to me like the Jewish people said, you know, we just we just need to go for it. The Israelis gave them the mandate, uh, the the the land and the Palestinians. Like I have friends uh who one of whom is the the president of the Bethlehem Bible College uh and other guys in the Nazareth region uh Andrew Abu Ghazali and a couple other guys who were driven off their land in nineteen forty eight at the point of a gun and they trace their lineage as Palestinian Christians all the way back to A D seventy when the Jews are driven out by the Romans. Right. And so, you know, do they have a right to the land? You know, if if anybody does, they they should have some But they they all grew up in uh refugee camps, you know, and and kinda coming back into Israel and they they've got rights they appreciate. what Israel represents in the land in terms of uh religious freedom, uh, but they they grew up and their parents grew up uh side by side with uh with Muslim uh populations and so you know they've got generations of of uh living in what they would say is is significant measures of peace together but then of course the Israelis came in and and from their perspective of course It it feels like uh the the Jewish uh I think they would describe it as uh you know, that that they are Um they're controlling the land, they they're occupying the land, that it's an occupation, and that there's no freedom for those that are in the West Bank. to do any kind of business, you know, to f to do anything. Uh there's actually one guy that we knew that that was in the Gaza Strip. And uh he was a evangelical Christian, but his friend was captured by Muslims, tortured all night long, and then killed the next morning. Right? And so like like they get it that that Th no nobody in the situation is without uh sin, without fault, but it's a it's a tangle, it's a difficult situation. Uh am I describing it accurately? Yeah. Um And I think that that in terms of the Jewish story, which I think is sort of in many ways the most one of the most revealing stories about who is mankind, um I started in a very different place. And um it's not so much that I believe in the literal truth of biblical history, um, but what we do know is that um There was a Jewish polity that existed with different degrees of c control over themselves or not control over themselves and so on. And they fell under like most of the Middle East, like most of the world actually, they fell under the control of a giant imperial power called Rome Which is the one of the biggest. Yes, but the but the Roman thing the Roman thing is is is decisive Okay. The other thing is is is the cis and and yes, and by the way what you just said about Persia and Babylon is is very, very relevant. In fact if you you know Um it's great to be on the show 'cause I can talk about things that nobody else is interested in that that I think are really important. Yeah, I mean hopefully we can help you with your uh run for the Senate somehow. But yeah, I love this. Hopefully the one person will tell you something interested too. which you guys probably know, which is that one of the differences between um the Hebrew Bible and what Christians call the Old Testament. Right. One of the important differences, I think, is that the books are ordered differently. Yeah. Okay. Now, if you take the Hebrew Bible, and it's not true with respect to the Old Testament But you take the Hebrew Bible and you open it up and you go to the last page of the Hebrew Bible and you look at the last paragraph in the Hebrew Bible. You know what it's about? It's not Malachi, it's No, no, it it it's Chronicles and it's the end of Chronicles. Wow. And what it is It's a judgment of God. It's a p listen, I'll tell you. Okay, tell me, please. This is good. It's about King Cyrus. It's about the Persians. What happens after the Persians defeat the Babylonians? Context is the Israelites, Judeans and so on are in the Babylonian captivity. Right. Right? They're in the captivity, and the Babylonians are defeated by the Persians under Cyrus. And in the last paragraph It tells you basically that Yahweh appears to Cyrus and Cyrus in response to this says to the Jews, Go back. Go back, you are free, and you're able to go back to where you came from to Jerusalem. And he actually uses the word Aliyah. Which we now talk about of Jews going to back to Israel. But that's very important. So you might not know this, but I have uh I I grew up in a uh high school here in uh Montgomery Village that had uh a a significant population of messianic Jewish guys. Uh and I went to seminary at a small seminary led by those guys uh and they all have made aliyah and live in uh Haifa and Nazareth and uh Jerusalem, you know, and and are active at various levels, you know, there. So the relevance the relevance of this is that Persia is Iran and Babylon is Iraq. Yeah, Iran, Iraq. And and what you have in Jewish consciousness in the last part of the the Bible and basically throughout most of the history, right is this tension between Iraq and Iran, Persia and Babylon. And what we've got today going on right now is actually the result of the Americans taking out Babylon. That is, we took out Saddam Hussein's regime. And in doing that, we undid a balance of power relationship that goes back to biblical times that basically made worked on the on the principle of Totally the force is out of balance and where's Buddha when you need 'em. The enemy of my enemy is my friend. Yeah. So basically You have that pattern in the Middle East a lot, but basically there was a natural alliance between Israel and Iran because you had Babylon In between them. And you had you had for instance. And we took it out of the way. died against Saddam Hussein's regime. Right? The Israelis during that war bombed the osteric reactor, the nuclear reactor in Iraq. Right? And they did it with cooperation from the Iranians, and the Iranians had tried to knock out that reactor unsuccessfully themselves. And so that and this is the Ayatollah's regime, who actually are much more pragmatic because basically they and Israel had this thing in common. Once again, there's the prophet saying uh because you went down and joined with Egypt You know, the Lord is against you. You know, th this this making uh alliances with the nations in ways that are unethical, I think, is is the way that you would say it. And ultimately uh end up backfiring in ways that uh that create more than a lot of people. But the the the the other the point that I want to make, going back to the Romans. Can you make a mental note because I don't want you to lose it? File away what your point is, because we're we're out of time in this segment. So we'll jump into it in the next one. So make sure you hang on to it because I'm going to come to you so you can do that. Okay. Uh that's Dr. Jerry Siegel. He's running for United States Senate against Ben Cardin in the Democratic primary in just a few weeks. Jonathan Schweitzer. Uh he's just started a new venture himself called Bridges. We'll learn more about that as the the shows unfold over time. I'm Troy Skinner. You've been listening to the Faith Debate on nine thirty WFMB. We're online at WFMB dot com keyword faith and one of the things that's striking all these years you've heard about you know the Jews and the Muslims and the Christians and you think it's a you know is it a religious conflict Yeah. Sort of. But it's also it's a political power conflict, it's a military conflict, it's economic po conflict, and you talk about the balance of power in the region. It's a human interest conflict. It's all of these things. That's why it's so darn complicated to figure out. But we'll solve it next week, one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours from now. Till then, God bless