Hi, I'm the DSQ of your first on the Pinkatown after Pinkatown. Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County, we're preaching with Impact. Like plowing pavement. People continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Face Debate sponsored by Footman Plumbing and Eating, how can we make you smile? Face Debate is online at WFMD. com keywordface. There you'll find links, the podcasts, news items, the face debate blog. My blog is your blog, so email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com, T-R-O-Y, S-K-I-N-N-E-R, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel, all one word, dot com. I will post whatever you send me. Include any curse words, I will remove those. Forty-five blog updates go up each week. That's nine per day each weekday. Why nine, you ask? Well, the way that our web guys have set up the website, uh there are You you can put uh as many updates as you want on there, but nine can show at a time on the the the main page for the show. So if I put a tenth you'd have to toggle through to another page and I wasn't sure if you'd be too interested in doing that. So we we go to the max Nine per day, Monday through Friday. So I encourage you to check in and see what other people are saying, even if you don't send me an email. On the faith debate today, well this is a special edition. The next several weeks actually will be a special edition because of scheduling conflicts and things like that and the show must go on. Uh, we're going to depart from the norm on this show. Uh one of the things I'm going to do to depart from the norm is right now out of the way I'm going to tell you a number of things I've been reading. If you've been listening to the show for a while, you know that uh each week I try to share some things that I'm reading. I I read ab about a book a week, thereabouts. Uh some you know, sometimes if it's a A a more dense book might take me a week and a half or two to finish it, but then there's some lighter books, I might finish two or three of those. Um, you know, you know In a sitting almost, but you know, sometimes four or five in a week if they're really small books, but on average about one book a week. And so Trying to encourage people to read. So I figure if you hear something that's interesting and a comment I have to say, like, oh, maybe I'll try to find that book, or maybe I'll try to find a better book to read. So you're gonna be hearing uh in these special editions some s some uh messages I've had a chance to share recently and in those messages uh uh there's s some specific uh highlight of of uh first and second Peter and So it's particularly First Peter. So I spent some time uh reading some stuff about the first epistle of Peter. And so some of the books I've been reading lately would include a book called, get this, First Peter. by Karen Jobs. I also read another book with the title of Get This, First Peter by Ramsey Michaels. I also read another book uh about with the title called Get This, The First Epistle of Peter by Peter H. Davids. Um it it's it's good to hear what other people, thoughtful scholars have to say about uh the things that you're studying. Not that they have the be all end all. A lot of times you read these things by commentators and theologians and experts, you end up disagreeing with them. Uh and you read other people who are experts and they disagree with you, try to, you know, grapple with uh the the deepest, most honest, truthful rendering and meaning of the of the t of the text. So Also been reading The Message of First Peter by Edmund Clowney. Ed Clowney is great. If you ever had a chance to read anything by Ed Clowney, I would uh strongly recommend it. So in addition to uh a bunch of stuff about First Peter, what else have I been reading? Well, uh a couple of things had nothing at all to do with religion. Blindsided, Why the Left Tackle is Overrated and Other Contrarian Football Thoughts by KC Joyner Absolutely nothing in there to do uh with religion. And uh also Monsters, the nineteen eighty-five Chicago Bears and the Wild Heart of Football by Rich Cohen. I am a Chicago Bears fan, grew up in Chicago and um I was at the peak of my fan interest as a as a young man, you know uh when uh y uh an old boy, young man, however you want to look at that, when the Bears won their Super Bowl in January of nineteen eighty six, the conclusion of nineteen eighty five season. So it was fun to reminisce and read uh the stories about that team. Um by the way, if you are a Bears fan and you're interested in reading about those sorts of things, I'm not necessarily recommending uh monsters for that reason. Monsters is kind of a history book. It covers the early Chicago Bears uh uh legacy and George Hallis and Mike Dithka as a player and it's not just focusing on nineteen eighty five and the Bears so That was a little bit surprising. I enjoyed it. I like the history, but if you're looking for just a book about the 1985 Chicago Bears, uh Monsters is not it. So you're going to hear a a handful of of messages. We're going to jump right into the first one here. I hope it's something that you end up uh getting something out of and something you enjoy and in a few weeks we'll be getting back to our regular routine here on the Frederick Faith Debate. Take a moment of unguarded honesty if you can, a moment to contemplate what you normally might be afraid to think about. Afraid to admit. Where's the guilt and the shame? Where is the unconfessed sin and the hurt that you caused others that now causes hurt and pain for you? Where are those thoughts about the hurt and pain that has been directly caused to you by others? Can you get to the place where you question God? Can you get to the place where doubt is a nagging reality? Deep in the depths. Deep, deep down. Can you get there? Maybe you don't need to dig so deep. Maybe you do. But whichever the case, right now you can't go there. What hurts? What pain are you burying? What doubts do you deny having? What is the cause of the tears that right now you're fighting on hold back or what's the cause of the coldness that right now has you being unable to be vulnerable even yourself our emotions they swirl when facing these doubts and we need assurance and people have always needed assurance, including the people of God 1900 years ago. And it's to these people, people like you, that the Apostle Peter writes a letter. It's a letter from God's loving heart. to the heart of his loved, faithful. Let's read a small portion together and consider what it means for us and our assurance. In 1 Peter chapter 2 verses 9 and 10. 1 Peter is in what we call the New Testament, last half of the Bible, and 1 Peter is toward the end of the New Testament. So it's toward the end of your Bible. So if you're flipping through and you find Hebrews, James are getting close. If you skip it, you're going to find yourself maybe a letter to John for a second, third John, maybe in Revelation. So back back up. Once you get there, you'll realize there are two letters for Peter and we are in the first one. First Peter, chapter two, verses nine and ten. Beginning with verse nine, which starts with you are chosen people, which could also be changed translated as nation or race. A royal priesthood, a holy nation, God's Special possession, that you may declare the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his wonderful light. Once you were not a people, but now you are the people of God. Once you had not received mercy But now you have received mercy. Let's pray for wisdom and understanding. Father, we come before you humbly, acknowledging your greatness as our God who has revealed himself to us in his word in the person of Jesus Christ. We ask that you help us. Help us to understand these words written so many years ago by the Apostle Peter and still so relevant to our lives today. We ask that through clearer minds and distracting thoughts help us stay focused on your truth for us that we might digest it and process it and own it. In Jesus Christ's name we pray. Amen. So here's what we're going to see today, among other things, as we consider what Peter has written in this letter. We're going to see that all people struggle. We're going to see that There is a people who can rejoice in the midst of this struggle, and we're going to see that this has always been true and there's a reason for it. It was true when Peter wrote this portion of the New Testament, it was true in the Old Testament, and it is true for this people today. It's true, right? of a struggle. Why it likes to lie? Why not you give up? Why try? Why is that fair? The ones who do their best are not the ones with an easy life. You do the right thing, you're punished for it. You ever feel that way? Cause you feel a little conflicted, confused, all mixed up inside, the world's upside down. You look around and what you see is death and destruction and division and deception. Bad things are happening to seemingly good people. Bad things are happening to you. The burns beat you down. And if you believe in God, you want to say, or maybe you have said, how much more of God? How much more? Where are you? Do you see me? Don't you love me? Do you even exist? Help me, God, to understand. The Apostle Peter helps us to understand. He opens this letter by identifying with his readers as those who are scattered as strangers in the world, those who have suffered grief with all kinds of trials It reminds us that all of us are like grass that withers, like flowers that fall. This will cause doubt in our minds. Or afraid, perhaps. Peter knew that of which he speaks. Peter knew struggle and doubt. Remember, this is the man who failed to walk on the water. This is the man publicly rebuked by the Apostle Paul This is the man who was rebuked by Jesus for cutting off the ear of a soldier. Another time killed by Jesus, get behind me, Satan! And a man who infamously denied Christ three times for fear of persecution. He knew struggle in doubt. But he would later go on to face intended persecution and imprisonment and even death for his faith. It's this more secure, mature Peter that writes this letter. And in the early portions, particularly, he encourages those who are like the younger version of himself, those who might have doubt about God and God's plan. When faced with a hard Hard stark realities of living life in this world. The hard stark realities that God's people can face And rejoice. In the midst of the struggle, Peter said that God's people rejoice, really rejoice. In chapter 1, he calls it being filled with inexpressible and glorious joy. In Suffering. Yes, the world's broken down and ramshackle condition because the builders have rejected the precious cornerstone Peter told us. Right before we get to this passage. And now they stumble and fall over this cornerstone, the chosen cornerstone who is Jesus Christ, chosen. In chapter 1 of 1 Peter, verse 20, Peter tells us that Christ was chosen before the creation of the world. In chapter 2, In verse 4 and also in verse 6, Christ was chosen by God, who is precious to him. And here in chapter 2, verse 9, Peter says the Christians are chosen. Just like he did at the very start when he addresses the Christian readers as God's chosen, God's elect, God's people who are. chosen by God and precious to God, and therefore they rejoice in a way that is inexpressible and glorious, because they're chosen. Maybe this idea of chosenness troubles you Maybe you don't consider yourself to be among the chosen. Or maybe there's someone that's very close to you you care about very deeply, and they don't appear to be among the chosen. So you're you're angry with God for this Maybe you're angry with me for bringing it up and talking about it right now. There's a bit of an irony in that, I think. I think you might agree, right? I mean can you see the certain lack of lack of integrity in being angry with God for having not chosen you and not chosen your loved one when you or your loved one quite clearly hasn't chosen God doesn't talk. But perhaps God has chosen you, just don't realize it yet. And if so You will have joy that is inexpressible and glorious. Because that is true for God's people. It has always been true for God's people, and Peter is not the originator of this idea He gets it straight out of the Hebrew scripture, what we call the Old Testament. In Deuteronomy chapter 7, verse 6, Moses tells the people, heading for the promised land, they are chosen by God. And hope. They are chosen. For what? We can see the answer in verse 9 of 1 Peter chapter 2. Chosen. Chosen as a people. Chosen as a nation. Chosen as a race. In Genesis chapter 12, God told Abraham that he would be made into a great nation. And so his name has changed a few chapters later. Abraham, father of many, God's people, those who have faith in him, they are his nation. If you're a Christian, do you feel like you're part of a nation? Or do you feel like you're part of a voluntary association? Christ's followers are not mere volunteers or associates. Christians are a people, a race, not some vague assortment of saved individuals. Right here we have the true solution to racism, international conflict, reason to rejoice There's a corporate nature to our relationship with God. This race, this nation, this people is made up of individuals, but it's not individualistic. Because all Christians are blood-related. by the blood of Christ. Like with the Israelites in the Old Testament, right? There was a guy named Israel, Abraham's grandson. But what's really important is the nation of Israel that would spring from it. The nation promised to Abraham. His grandfather. A nation is finding that finds its fulfillment in the perfect Israel, Jesus Christ. And again, this has always been true. Peter is purposely drawing our attention to this connection with language drawn straight from the Old Testament. He doesn't do this just with the words chosen people. He does it with the other descriptors as well. Let's take a look at royal priesthoods. Believers in Christ constitute a corporate priesthood. He said it in chapter 2, verse 5, and now he says again in chapter 2, verse 9. We don't find the phrase royal priesthood in any of the other New Testament letters. So where does Peter get it? He gets it from the Old Testament. Exodus 19, verses 5 and 6. Quote God saying, Now, if you obey me fully and keep my covenant, And out of all nations, you will be my treasure possession. Although the whole earth is mine, you will be for me a kingdom, a priests, and a holy nation. Sound familiar? King of Priest! Royal Priests, Holy Nation, just like 1 Peter. Here we see a nation that's set apart. Set apart and therefore holy in that sense. But also a kingdom within which God is present with his people. And so they're holy in that sense too. They serve in God's presence, so they are priests, and they serve in a kingdom under the world. They're king, and so they are royal priests. They are God's treasured possession, it says in Exodus. They are a people belonging to God, it says in first paper. In Exodus, God says, all of this in the context of having just rescued the people. The Egypt, in the darkness of bondage, headed for the wonderful life and living in the promised land. Exodus 19 is a chapter in meeting before of the chapter in which we're given the Ten Commandments The nation chosen by God was given a law to keep, and they didn't keep it, and we don't keep it either. Praise God there was one who would come and he did keep it. Jesus Christ. In an Old Testament Israel, God established the Levitical priesthood, which Aaron, Moses' brother, is the first one to mediate between. the people of God in this way. And the nation of Israel is to mediate between God and the people, be an example to the nations around them, to be a light in the darkness of the world. But Aaron wasn't perfect, and Israel wasn't perfect, to be sure. But again, praise God, there is one who is the perfect mediator and high priest, Jesus Christ. And God charges people with keeping a covenant, a blood covenant, that people fail to keep it. The bloody sacrifices that were offered by the Levitical priests weren't sufficient to make up for the failures of the people who were chosen. And so sacrifice after sacrifice, day after day was offered up, year after year until the one ultimate sacrifice was offered up to put an end to any need for further bloody sacrifice. And again we're talking about Jesus Christ. Why did God do this for us? Why did God offer up his son as a once-for-all bloody sacrifice? Why did Jesus, as God Himself, offer Himself up? Peter answers this question with an allusion to Isaiah 43, verses 20 and 21. There we read the first one. beginning with the last half of verse 20, I provide water in the wilderness and streams in the wastelands to give drink to my people, my chosen, the people I have formed for myself, that they may proclaim my praise. Why did God choose a people to belong to him? And they can be a nation that's chosen. Holy, royal priesthood. Why? Christian? Why, Christ's followers? Why did he do this for y'all? That you may declare the praises of him who calls you out of the darkness into his wonderful light. That's the end of verse 9 of 1 Peter chapter 2. God has called you, the corporate you as in y'all. is called y'all out of the darkness into his wonderful light. And y'all are to declare The praises of it. That's an interesting phrase. Declare the praises of it. To declare in this case means to proclaim by both word and deed. To declare, to proclaim God by what you say and what you do. What you're declaring in this way is the praises of him. Not merely praising him, you are declaring praises of him. You are Pointing people to the excellent character of God. How do we do that? By declaring his mighty words and acts, by declaring what God has said and done. Things like creation, the work of Christ, for example. Remember the Exodus 19 verse we just talked about a moment ago, talking about the king of priests. He's coming in the context of God having just saved people from intuitive slavery? Numerous miracles brought about that mighty. That's the context of Exodus nineteen. It's why Peter draws our attention there. And it's the reason that Peter draws our attention to Isaiah forty three too. It's a similar context. In Isaiah forty three, the context there is a chosen people, God's nation and the Babylonian exile. The return from this exile is another mighty saving act by God for his people. God delivered them from the darkness of exile and delivered them into the light of returning home to the promised land. Again, the Apostle Peter is purposely drawing our attention to this framework. He does this so that his readers will identify with the Old Testament promises of deliverance. Just as God has promised And has saved his people in the past. He saved them again in union with Christ. Only this time the salvation is permanent for his people. They are delivered from darkness, from sin and death, and delivered into the wonderful light of holiness and everlasting life that is the true promised land. You see this? Remember when reading scripture is always the big picture to keep in mind, because Peter didn't write just two verses. He wrote an entire letter. And God didn't just write a single letter, he wrote the entire Bible. And Peter totally gets this. It's what he references Exodus 19 and Isaiah 43 and the book of Hosea. Verse 10 In 1 Peter chapter 2, throwing straight from the book of Hosea. Let's review Hosea's story. Hosea is a prophet of God. He's told by God to marry an adulterous woman, Goma. Goma represents the adulterous heart. God can have kids. Three of these kids are given very symbolic names. I know it's conventional to name our kids in our society today after people in the Bible. These aren't names we choose. That's the unnamed massacre. Because the people will face a massacre, a cruel and wanton murder, or the rebellion against God. And a daughter is named No Mercy, and another son is named Not My People because the people have broken from God and so they deserve no mercy. God had chosen them, but the people did not honor the covenant relationship, and so they could no longer be considered God's people. They faced judgment. Peter wants you to see that this judgment, this punishment, has been inflicted. On Jesus Christ. No mercy was shown Jesus. And he was beaten and hung on the cross to die in his cruel and wanton murder. And Jesus felt the reality of the ultimate punishment when he experienced what it was to be not my people. And so he cried out, My God, my God, why? Have you forsaken me? But there's a note of hope in Hosea. In the midst of suffering we find rejoicing. In chapter 2, verse 23, for example, it says I will show love to the one I called, not my loved one. I will say to those called, not my people, you are my people. And they will say, You are my God. Peter's calling attention to something that had been written more than 700 years earlier. Why? Because 700 years earlier, God had said, I will show, I will say. And God has kept the promise. And so now no longer will God show and say, He does show and say because he has shown and said. As Peter writes in verse 10, once you were not a people, as we learn from Hosea, but now you are the people of God in Christ. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy in Christ This is the story of God's people. It's always been. Moses and Exodus, Isaiah and his prophetic ministry, Hosea and the lifelong object lesson of his marriage. They all tell us this story. Peter tells us this story. It's the story of Jesus Christ. And it's the story of those who place their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. You were deserving of bondage. You are. But Jesus took all of this upon himself for you. And he could. Because as a man, he is the represent the representative for the chosen people. And as God he can make the infinite sacrifice That is needed in a way that no other priests could. And so, because of Jesus, you're given the identity of a holy nation, Christians, belonging to God. And so the holy nation, the holy people, the holy race declare with words and actions, the mighty words and actions of God. What a wonderful story that Peter wants us to remember and call to make our own. It's true that life is hard. In this decades-long walk through a broken and sin-drilled world. But there's a lesson. Compared to the eternal, wonderful light. In Christ. The temporary dark struggles are placed in context. And there's great rejoicing when we stop placing our hopes in the temporary and therefore unsatisfying things of this world and in Sin surrenders to the fact that our only hope, the only hope for God's people was and is God Himself As we serve God and share in Christ's suffering. It's God's story. It's Christ's story. It is the story of God's chosen royal holy people as they then Go out having received mercy and proclaim the praises of God. That's the story. This is your story. Let's close with a word of prayer. Father in heaven, We thank you for hearing our prayer. We know that you hear it because the intercessor and the mediator Jesus Christ. We thank you for revealing yourself to us in your word and in the person of Jesus Christ. We thank you for the revelation of your story for us, for calling us to be a part of it. We pray that we help us to walk in it, in the way that we live our lives, in the words that we speak, that we would proclaim your praises to the world, that we would help this broken sinner world to know their only hope is in you. And we can trust in that hope because you have proven yourself over and over again by what you've said and what you have done. In the name of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ we pray. Amen. That message. Uh we'll have another special message next week. I think the audio will hopefully get a little bit better. I apologize for that. Want to thank our sponsor putting pulling a heating house. We make you smile again. I encourage you to visit us visit us online, WFMD. com keyword faith. Jonathan Sweitzer, my normal partner in crime, will be joining me again on this show in a couple of weeks ago back to our normal format of having a panel discussion about uh things about which we can disagree But do you disagree amicably? So one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours from now, be safe and God bless