The Warrington Declaration on Medical Mandates, Biblical Ethics. and authority seeks to equip local churches and their officers in providing transparency on where they stand and uh to assist uh individuals who are being mistreated in their churches with a well ordered summary of belief in this regard with a tendency to over attribute uh power and jurisdiction to the state. Oftentimes churches have defaulted So almost reflexively acquiescing to whatever government agency statements are made and the policies that they put in place. And as a result, rather than leading on these issues, pastors often become little more than mouthpieces for government. The rationale given is usually disjointed, unbalanced, and confused So says the preamble to the Warranton Declaration on Medical Mandates, Physical Ethics, and Authority. And that's what we're talking about today on the Faith Debate Good morning. Thanks for spending part of your Sunday morning to us if you're uh with us if you're listening to us on WFMD nine thirty AM on your radio dial or um Whatever day you're listening to this on podcast, good day to you. Again, I'm Troy Skinner, the uh host of this show and pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. You can find uh me online at Household of Faith. in Christ. com, connect to all my social media and all that sort of stuff. Joined this week, as has uh become a habit over these last couple of years by Daniel Forcy, who is uh also a pastor in the area. He's got a multi-location church in the Potomac region. Uh if you want to check out his church, get in touch with me. I'll put you in touch with him and he'll tell you where he's whacking a mole this week because they're the whack a mole church. You never know where they're going to pop up. And then Daniel Razby is with us as well. He's uh uh with a church in Thurmont. So if you're up that way and looking for a house church, uh or any church really, I guess, but uh particularly for a house church, let me know. I can hook you up with uh with Daniel and Imran and their church there and they've got a ministry that has a website as well, conqueredbylove. org. Conquered by Love Ministries is their entity that they created a number of years ago that helps focus on family and marriage matters and that sort of thing So the Warrant and Declaration on Medical Mandates, Biblical Ethics, and Authority came out in two thousand twenty-one, so it's not that long ago. Some of the statements we've done in this series of looking at Christian statements go all the way back to like almost fifty years ago, so uh forty plus years ago anyway. So this one's gonna feel rather current to us, I think, even though uh what it was addressing has kind of passed as far as the most intense form of it But it's still there and h who knows. We do record this show in advance by the time this airs. Who knows what might befall us? So I'm gonna read the declaration uh twenty five. What's that? COVID twenty five. Yeah, right. Uh the declaration, you know, section at a time here and we'll see what what we have to what we think about it as uh as a group of local pastors. So section one is on authority Roman numero one. We affirm that all authority in heaven and on earth has been bestowed upon God, the Son, Christ Jesus. And they've got some proof texts there I would agree with that wholeheartedly. Oh yes, without reservation. And they're starting there because that's going to be the foundation for the rest of their argument, right? It's not about what the government says or what the uh the the the elite experts have to say God and his son Jesus Christ, that's the authority. And I I think the uh the part that gets easily forgotten is the on earth. Mm. Part. Right. The in heaven, yes. Okay, we all readily affirm that as Christians, and what we tend to forget is that It's on earth. Yeah. Everything not just unseen, but also seen. Oh yeah, you have you can practice your religion as much as you want, you know. You worship whatever g I mean just as long as it doesn't affect me on earth. But you know, if you're gonna be here on earth, tell me what to do then. You you take the earth part out and you get Gnosticism. Yeah. Yeah. Right? It's just And on earth means it's a religion. It also means on lakes, rivers and oceans and seas and things like that. Just so we're clear. Delegated earthly authorities have been instituted by God as his servants to function as a blessing to those in their jurisdiction Thir both three very important words right there. Through their godly governance and rule according to God's law and in obedience, These may be civil authorities, ecclesiastical authorities, vocational authorities, familial authorities, and self-governing individuals. I feel like it's more sharply written than some of the other statements that we've been reading. Yeah. as his servants to function as a blessing to those who are in their jurisdiction, staying in their lanes, right? Through their godly governance and rule. Godly governance. According to God's law and obedience to Chr I mean, bang, bang, bang. This is like a machine gun coming at us right here. This is good stuff. That's my opinion. What do you guys think? Yeah, I think that's accurate. Uh there's a lot of proof text in here which I encourage you to go to the if the Warranton declaration for Warrington Decoration dot com and you'll see all the proof text there. Yeah, Psalms, Romans, uh Hebrews, uh a lot of them the ones you would expect, I guess. Romans thirteen for sure is uh in view here. So number three Uh by the way I didn't give you a chance to opine if you had anything to d throw in there, Davis. Number two. No, I mean just just kind of looking over it, right, just a r a reminder that uh at all uh I well one I I wonder if there are any authorities that are in place that are not Okay, they list some of them and there's like are are there any missing? Is that what you want? Right, right. Well uh are are can authority an authority exist that is not in some way God Place like it. Yeah, are these uh are these exhaustive categories here. Well civil, so we're talking about government there. Right. Ecclesiastical church authority, vocational like your boss at work. Right. Familial, you know. Dad, mom, they're they're in charge of the kids, right? And then whatever and then the authority. I can't think of anything others that could be missing, but Yeah. I mean unless there is a militaristic type thing, you know, which is sort of civil authorities but sometimes military is considered separate for civil government. Yeah. It might be that could be vocational as well, the chain of command, because it's your job to be a soldier depending on how you how you fit in, yeah. But I I mean I I think I I think the point that they're trying to I again going back to number one is it's all all authorities are Seen and unseen fall under the authority of Christ and are are supposed to be subservient to him. And the fact that they delineated them like this, they're setting things up like look, there are these lanes. Right. I think they're setting up their argument for later by making this point early. So we're gonna see how you know the uh the vocational authorities can't tell the government what to do, kind of thing. Um, should the government be telling the vocational authorities what to do? That's a more interesting question in today's day and age. But all right, so number number three, are we good for to go to number three? We affirm that to ascribe total jurisdiction to any human authority is idolatry, since this kind of unlimited authority is reserved only for Christ Jesus. This establishes limits to the jurisdictional authority of a subordinate Of all the subordinate offices that exist under the authority of Christ. And that human authority includes the Pope. Even though the Catholics would like you to think that the Pope is God's voice on earth. Yeah, oh yeah, I yeah, uh they would, but I would say uh they would add the caveat only when he is officially putting forward like a uh some sort of a papal edict, right? Like the Like when Pope Francis says something idiotic on a plane, he's not necessarily speaking as the vicar of Christ in that moment. They would they they would defend their tradition by saying, No, that's just him being a whack, they wouldn't say that, but uh but if he officially puts out a papal bull or something, then that's he's speaking for Christ. Like like like with uh the president unless it's a uh Unless it's a signed document. It doesn't it's not official, really. Whatever he may say, in whatever circumstances Whatever he may say. Right. In whatever circumstances. You're so politically correct. It's not a it's not official unless it's signed, I guess Yeah, I'm beginning to wonder if our current sitting president is uh is is charismatic because he seems to be speaking in tongues a lot lately. Wow. All right, anyway. Number four, right in the uh is there anything well, I I guess I didn't give Danny all the time but moving on so quickly. No, I uh I I think that's that's correct. Okay. I mean I I I feel like this is gonna focus primarily on civil civil authorities, but I think it's I think we can m make the point, right? Like this uh to uh ascribe total jurisdiction, say to uh one govern you know right self governing right to say that I have total jurisdiction over myself to make whatever choices and decisions and determinations, right, is is idolatry. Which yes. So so I I it's so so if you if you start there with idolatry, I'm not It's not going to be surprising to see idolatry in every single one of these areas in our society. So I think these first three are really just laying the foundation because now number four. We deny that the existing civil authorities have unlimited jurisdiction. Bah boom. So they're setting the all the first three were setting up number four. Yep. Civil authorities are not God. And that's Almost heresy in today's world. Right. Right? We live in a secular humanist uh the state, the total state, this you know, is Some some logical secular humanists would say, Well, they do have limits. We have a constitution, and you can't violate the constitution. Except when they choose to. Well, there's that, but uh but they would say I mean I mean a a a constitutionalist would say that oh yeah sure a secular civil government has limits, but they're replaced by the people who also Yeah. Uh the re and that that would be the uh kind of the old school traditional American conservative view. The problem of course now is that old school view is not the current reality So really the only limits that the civil authorities um will ascribe themselves to are self-imposed. And it's usually in my in my view it's because of timing issues. Like the public's not ready for this yet. Let's let's let's control the narrative a little longer so that we can then do what we want. I don't think they feel constrained by the Constitution. They don't feel constrained by the teachings of the church. They don't feel constrained by Like anything is how it feels. And I think that's why this was written, because they're like, hey, I think that's what the government feels like and we're gonna tell them no, feel again. You know? You're not feeling what you think you feel. Feel again. So all right, so number five is might be the longest darn statement or uh s uh what are what are these little bullet points called? Paragraphs. Paragraphs, sections? The longest one in the whole thing, I think Taking a deep breath. We affirm that the scriptural jurisdictional limits of delegated human authority are also established by good and necessary consequence. Given that various offices are said in Scripture to be required to be obeyed in everything. Then there's some proof text The sense in which in everything is used in these verses cannot mean that obedience is obligatory for all commands, regardless of their morality. Since Scripture also teaches Christian disobedience to sinful or abusive commands, and that's a proof text. In everything also cannot mean that obedience is obligatory for all non-sinful commands, and Scripture also establishes multiple offices of human authority. And there's some proof text and that's a really important part of this Paragraph. These offices may at times conflict, thus requiring Christians to consider which authority is acting within their rightful jurisdiction to determine if obedience is required. Hmm, loving that. Thus, commands to obey in everything must refer to the obligation of Christians to obey all non-sinful commands of true authorities which are also within the proper jurisdiction of the authority giving the command. But their language choice here is uh par excellence, right? I mean if I were editing this, I wouldn't know what to change. I mean Well there is a typo in on O. Okay, yeah, Obe is just they spelled Obey as like Obe Christians. So there's a typo. But other but other than that. I mean I mean really well written. So carefully crafted. I wonder who the primary like who the Thomas Jefferson of this is Because it's really, really done well. So far, so so very good. So other than my c my my uh fanboying over the uh the quality of uh of the writing and the arg the style of the argument, what do you guys think about the content I think that's that the the most important uh section here which a lot of times Christians don't spend enough time considering. is that second half. Because the first half, you know, we must obey God rather than men. That's one of the proof texts they linked there, right? Oh yeah, obviously if the government tells you to do something that God commands you not to do, like Let's take an obvious one. Bow down and worship this idol, this false god. Bow down to Baal. Well no, you should be killed rather than do that. Right? Everybody agrees. If you're a Christian, you understand, at least don't uh blatantly worship a false god because the government commanded you to do so. So we got that out of the way, and then there's various degrees to which you could say that you're obeying God rather than men. But that's not really the the most interesting part I think of this because most Christians forget that there are multiple spheres of dur and and jurisdiction with which w we we're all under several sets of authority and they may conflict at times. And then how do you resolve those conflicts? The way and and they accurately say here, I think, the way that you resolve the conflict is you determine first which of them is acting within their own jurisdictional authority um because there should be no conflict. God is the one that created those fears of authority. And so God gave us a way to resolve those conflicts, which is well, everybody's gotta stay in their lane, right? And so how do you determine who is acting within their authority? And I think um maybe they'll get to the how and the why, but that's that's an important point. Most people don't even stop to think about that. Yeah, I think this paragraph might be talking to like the Todd Freels of the world. Todd Friel a few years back, you know, uh infamously in my view, said that, hey, if the government told me to put spinning pinwheels on the sides of my heads before I could go out of my house then that's I'd wear spinning pinwheels on the side of my head. And it ignores the point like does it is that within the jurisdiction of the government's authority that may be more of a self governance issue than a civil governments issue? So I think there that kind of argumentation is part of what I would I I would uh I I would go one level higher. I'd probably say that with that's the familial jurisdiction because I think m what you wear, such as spinning pinwheels on the sides of your head, that speaks to the honor of your family and h how you portray yourself as a skinner. Your last name is Skinner. You're the family skinner and when you go out in public You need to represent what a skinner looks like and it needs to not be shameful, it needs to be honorable. Right. And I think people have lost that in our culture. This oh no, I can dress how I want. This is just about me. I this is comfortable I feel like going out in ratty jeans and and a t shirt just all day long to the ball. No, you're not representing your family in appro appropriately, so I think that's not so much of a d individual thing In to your for your specific off the cup, but yeah, yours is a more pointed and better. And uh I mean what you wear also I think falls under Uh under God's jurisdiction. Well sure, there are sinful things you can be wearing. I I agree I think we all agree with that. But has God made you male or female? And are you not true? You should there is a verse that speaks to that. It says do not wear the clothing of the opposite gender. It's very specific. Um Are you are you owning the Right. So so yeah. And that's that's male, if we're talking to you, but it's also Um forcey. Yeah. Oh yeah. Rather made you part of your family and so part of the way you carry yourself in public, not just the way you wear, but the uh thing but how you act and and and carry yourself. You know, or uh you know, if you uh and it's interesting how this one example, uh, of of what you wear can at different times and in different ways fall under various jurisdictions, right? So if you are going to work at a certain place, then you are going to submit to their dress code. Right. Right. And so then that falls under vocational authority. Although school death codes were just uh struck down by the Supreme Court basically. Um you understand what I'm saying, but you know at what You know, there yeah, so then what do you do? So it's it's kind of a playful example because it was it was meant as an obtuse example by Todd Friel. By the way, for the record, Todd Freel with wretched ministries, wretched radio, wretched TV, he's got all these different things. What he calls this thing wretched. He's very solid almost all the time. He's really good on a l I I agree with him on most I think he's really solid biblical. He's a really good guy. He's a he's a wonderful street evangelist. Uh he knows how to connect with the m the younger elements of the culture better than somebody like me. Uh he used to be a stand-up comic years ago and he uses some of those skill sets to to help him communicate. He he's very solid I'm not sure I agree with him on his eschatology, and I definitely don't agree with him on this. Because what do you do if the government, the civil government, says, David Forcy, you must wear spinning tin wheels on your head And your boss says, David, if you show up to work with spinning wheels pinwheels on your head, you're fired. Then what do you do? Right. Or if your church says, David, it's a sin to wear spinning ch spin wheels, uh pinwheels on your head Well then that's easier, but they say, well, it's probably not the wisest thing 'cause you might be disrespecting your family. What does your wife think? What do you do? Yeah, all these different spheres, like you said, this one little example, it touches on on all these areas and we gotta navigate that biblically and not just have this 'cause for years growing up. It wasn't until the whole uh COV uh ID. I'm trying to avoid any sort of uh you know, tech monster uh uh problems later on with uh the podcast version of this. It wasn't until then that things began to change of what you heard pastors saying. Up until a few years ago, RC sprawl. One of the great heroes of the faith, in my opinion, over the last generation, he was on record saying, you know, whatever the government tells you to do, if it's not a sin, you do it That was R. C. Sproul. Right. And I thought like that for a long time, and now I'm realizing R. C. Sproul had a blind spot because we were living in a sweet spot in in world history. Where the government wasn't telling us to do ridiculous things or horrible things. Or i i exactly. It was like you could you could kind of wink and nod at things or whatever. Yeah, because when I was a kid it was it was a common phrase. You would hear all the time. Well it's a free country, ain't it You don't hear that so much anymore. And so R. C. Sprow was speaking in the context of well, it's a free country. I I think your your view is different on that anyway. You have anything else to say on number five, by the way? No, I I I would like to see where they go with how do you determine which sphere is is acting in their proper j jurisdiction. Okay. Well we will s yeah, we'll see. Um We've got about four-ish minutes maybe left in this. So let's see if we can get through number six at least for today. We deny the biblical commands to obey authorities, whether civil, ecclesiastical, familial, or vocational in everything. can be construed to negate the roles of their respective jurisdictions which scripture also teaches. We were kind of talking about this already. If if one area can then supersede in other areas of we're talking like if your if your boss says, I don't care what the government says, this is what you're doing right, like that that's kind of what this is getting at, isn't it? If one can over ov override the respective jurisdiction of somebody else to negate their role? Do you know what they're saying there? It's all I'm understanding it anyway. Right. We can't override somebody else's if they have more authority in that area. Uh yeah, are they saying if they have more authority in that area or are they saying that there is no overlap actually? I think the people here are making the case that there is no overlap. I'm not so sure that there isn't an overlap. I mean just take the ru the what the uh clothing for example, right? There's overlap 'cause God tells you not to wear women's clothing, but then your boss tells you to wear the company uniform and then your wife tells you she doesn't like the color. Like there's a lot of different All of which may be very legitimate uh um things. Obviously God's uh first command to not wear woman's clothing is i is takes precedence. So if your work commands you to wear a dress, then you're not going to Um and then you have to balance your ability to provide for your family based on how it makes your wife feel, I guess. I don't know, but it's maybe her her Um desire should be more uh prominent. How how did you know that my wife does not like the color of this shirt, Daniel I'm colorblind, so let the record request that I have no idea what color yesterday is. Nice. Well uh we've got a couple of minutes left. I want to add this. Well I I think um well so I again like I d I don't think I I I don't think those necessarily overlap. So um because all the things we do can be done in different spheres, right? So I can I wear different clothes to different events, right, and different places, right? All all as appropriate for that thing. So I I don't know that that means that there's an an overlap in authority because it that's more time based than it is but there are there are things that that are time less like the command to not wear a dress, for example. Yeah. Well God isn't one of the right God is over all of these, right? Right, that's true. So that in that sense, right, like he is he overlaps everything and is determining where the spheres are. That's true. All right, we're gonna begin to draw to a close, but I wanted to follow up on something Daniel said a couple minutes ago and I asked you, David, if you had to talk with your son or your sons or your daughters and said, Hey Forces don't do that. Have you had that? Did that ever tell you that? Maybe maybe not that Daniel? Razveys don't do that. That's not what Razdys are about. You ever had that conversation? I I Uh we we can talk about it some more. I I think my approach is a little different. Oh, interesting. Okay. That might be part of the bonus coverage in between episodes. I don't know if you're watching it on the on the screen. Uh um not not the audio portion, but the video portion. say subscribe to us on Patreon or something. Yeah exactly. Exactly. We don't have a Patreon. We don't have a Patreon. No, we're not savvy enough to figure out how to make money on this. There's a bonus episode. Yeah, we're following the Dorian principle on this. We're not trying to make money on sharing the truth of God's word and the gospel I guess. But anyway. So we're going to wrap up here. This is the faith debate. Thank you, uh Daniel Razby, uh David Force, the I'm Troy Skinner, find me online at Household of Faith in Christ You can find, of course, this show in the radio station at WFMD. com. Thanks so much for listening today. We'll be back next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless.