This is the Frederick Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Tom Weill, a pastor with Church of God. We are sponsored by the show is Hilo Auto. sales and tire pros of uh Frederick. And I want to talk about something that's been on my mind for a while. I've actually had opportunity to uh to preach in the area recently and I preached on this topic and I saw some Sunday school on this topic and now I'm bringing it onto the show. Maybe you've heard of the Shack. It was a incredibly successful movie, about ten years uh m um book rather about ten years ago. To date has sold about twenty-two million copies. Twenty-two million copies. That's Uh incredible. So obviously the book did so well. It made a movie. Movie came out earlier this year. It didn't do as well as the book, but it did well enough. And it's now doubt out on uh DVD and it's gonna be a huge item in uh Christmas stockings, I'm sure, this year. So I wanted to talk about equip you to uh to to think about the shack um in ways that are important. And here's why. If you read the back of the book, if you read the comments from the author, if you if you try to get a sense of what's the purpose of this book, is it just a neat story? Sometimes you hear people say, ah, it's just a story. It's just a movie, it's just a novel. Why are you so worried about it The author and those who uh did the the supportive blurbs about the book in the back of the book make a stronger claim than that. It's not just a story, it's not just a novel This is a book that is intended by the author to help you to learn about God, to know God better, to know what God is like, how God is. So there are theological claims rooted in this book. So what's the story? Well, big picture, there's a little girl who's the the daughter of a man named Mac Mackenzie, but his n his shorter name in the book throughout the book is Mac. And they're out camping and she gets abducted. And she's taken uh by a serial killer to the uh deep into the woods to this dilapidated shack where she is brutally murdered. And as you can imagine, this totally upsets Max world. He's inside out and upside down with grief His marriage is affected, his relationship with other people in his life, including his other kids, is affected, his relationship with God is affected. And he already had a kind of a shaky understanding with God anyway, because he was abused as a child, and so he doesn't have a real good um easy connection with God as Father. And so that's part of the setup in all of this. And uh and then he receives a note in the mailbox that says it's from Papa. His wife refers to God the Father as Papa, and so does his now uh deceased young daughter had referred to uh God the Father as Papa, following after her mom And so he's thinking maybe this letter's from God. But he also wonders, maybe this is a horrible, wicked joke played by one of my friends or neighbors, or maybe this is the killer himself trying to set me up because the note is inviting Mac to the shack deep in the woods. And so he heads out there and then the story unfolds from there. Now before I go any any further uh on thought, I'm gonna let full disclosure I think there are a lot of good aspects to the shack, the book and the movie. The idea that God is a personal God, is a caring and loving God, uh graceful, uh uh forgiving a caring God. This is a good, approachable God. These are good things for Christians to understand about God. So there's a v strong upside. This is a good thing for non Christians to understand what a relationship with God can be. And they bring that across really strong, don't you think? I do, and but there are some concerns that I have which we'll get into uh you know maybe one at a time or or through you know go go through some different thoughts. But your overall take uh y you recently saw the movie. Yes. Um your overall take on the movie. Awesome. Awesome. I mean Personally, I feel relationship is what the world is about. You can have good, bad, or indifferent relationships, but God tells us, he says, you will seek me and find me when you seek me with all your heart. You can find that in Jeremiah. It's one of my favorite pieces of scripture And if you want that relationship with God, God will love it. And this movie really shows that Uh Mac goes through a lot of heartache. He goes through a lot of internal pain. But he hasn't given up on his daughter. And he thinks that the killer is inviting him back to the shack. So he's getting his borrowing his friend's SUV because he doesn't have one and up in the mountains it's all snow. So he his neighbor says, yeah, I'll let you use it, but I'm going with you So they get together, they load up a truck, and Mac gets his neighbor to go back across the street to get his fishing pole, and Mac jumps in the truck and heads out, leaves his friend behind, but took his friend's gun. So it sort of leads you to believe he's got some ulterior motives if he finds this guy. Uh for any defensive purposes of bringing the gun. He might not have been going there to kill the murderer necessarily. No, it doesn't, not necessarily, but the implication is there. Right. So uh there goes Mac off up into the woods to the shack and it's snowing and the snow is deep And that's where it starts. He goes inside the shack, he sees a spot on the floor where his daughter's blood was, and he just freaks out into a rage and he's throwing things left and right, breaking up chairs. and goes outside, he hears somebody coming, so he hides behind a tree. He's gonna surprise him. He's gonna wait till he gets up close and then bang he's gonna jump out and get the guy. Well, that's where the story really begins. Right. And in the book, I'm gonna kinda stay on a positive note and then start to drift into where questions started popping up. Because while I'll give you take you into my life Well, I read a lot, and when I read, I usually have a p you know the book in one hand, a pencil in another. Except when I'm reading a novel. I don't typically have a pencil in one hand when reading a novel. I just enjoy the novel. So I picked up the shack uh had heard a lot about it, uh had heard some s controversy about it, but I wasn't really reading it with the idea that I was gonna be searching for controversy. But within the just a couple of pages I hmm I'm gonna look at my pencil. And so if you look at my copy of the shack, you're gonna see a whole bunch of notes like throughout the book. Uh in some places just question marks like I'm going to circle back and look at this again later, see if where's the author going with this kind of thing. Now here's a positive from the shack. And it goes deep into the book on page 202. Paul Young's the author of the Shack, by the way. And he, in my opinion, accurately makes the point. Uh he says that only Jesus has successfully lived a life fully obedient to the law. I agree with that. And that we are dependent on him, Jesus. And the quote here is that's why Jesus fulfilled all of it, the law, for you. So I mean you're you're a a preacher, you're a pastor. Expand upon that for a minute if you would. Jesus fulfilled the law for you. Oh here we go. Uh Jesus fulfills everything. the Old Testament prophesied about. Jesus was the Messiah, is the Messiah. Not what the Hebrews were looking for. They were looking for a warrior king coming in. But Jesus did it all for us. He knew there was no way we could be forgiven for all of our sin and our sin nature and everything that we went through. So here God sends his only begotten son. And that's our life saving Moment of time for all of us. And I love how you've said all of that, and I think that there's a part of me that wants to say this is what Paul Young is meaning to say in his book. He was. But having to read uh so many other things that raise questions, part of me started to wonder, is he talking about the you know the fulfillment of this law for those who are trusting in Jesus Or is he talking about a m a broader definition of the word you, that Jesus was the relevant for you, meaning all of you, me which would then be a form of universalism. Is he talking about Mac specifically in the book? Is he talking about believers more broadly, or is he talking hyper broadly in a universalist sense? And if he's talking universalist, I would have some some Absolutely. The question is, is that where he's going with the book or not? And uh we we'll get more into that as as we go. Another unit positive Page one hundred eighty, a few pages earlier from the other point. Uh it says that Jesus wants to be Max's friend. Well that's good. Absolutely. Right? But in the book, it seems like that's it. Jesus is looking to merely be his friend. Now, is this what Christians should think about their relationship with Christ? No. Christ is more than just a friend. Christ is our Savior. And in the movie More of that is brought out. The relationship in three persons is brought to focus and We are shown, yes, for Mac, because he happens to be the character, but Mac represents us And we may not have a child that has been murdered, but maybe we have a relationship that's rocky. Maybe we have uh different issues going on in our life What the movie was trying to show us and show Mac was that Jesus is there for him and us. In addition, I would I would agree with what you've said and I would expand upon it and say Jesus is not merely our friend, he's not, but he's also not merely our savior. He's also our Lord, our King. He's our perfect priest. He's the perfect prophet. He's the perfect Israel. He's the perfect man. He's he's so many things to to just say he's Just our Frannin and lose thee I feel like the the kingship aspect is absent from the shack completely. I don't think there's any sense of glorification of of Christ in the book or in the movie. And that's one of the concerns I have is could leave a lopsided, one-sided view if we're not careful. Um here's something else that was troubling to me. I'm kind of bouncing around, but I got a billion notes, and we're just kind of riffing here. Page 186 The Papa character says, but we were all in him, meaning Jesus. We were all in Jesus. Papa says this. And the Holy Spirit character in the book is Sarayu. So your Papa, Sarayu, and Jesus, the Jesus character in the shack is also the name of Jesus. So your Papa, Sarayu, and Jesus were all in Jesus. So the Shack teaches that the entire Trinity became man. Now, what might you want to say about the Trinity and the humanity of Christ in this context? Well, as we all know, the Holy Spirit is God. Jesus is God, and God the Father is God. So it's three and one. It's something that uh most Christians know. Uh It is confusing to those who aren't believers, uh, and maybe a little bit difficult to understand. But the movie did show that. Uh The Jesus uh the person that played the Jesus character uh showed a episode from the Bible with Peter uh about walking on water. If you remember in the Bible, uh Peter steps out of the boat uh to walk with Jesus, then had his doubts and started to sink. Well this guy, Mac had his doubts before he stepped out of the boat, but then once he stepped out of the boat, he realized This is Jesus. And with jesus was walking with him on the water. And what's really humorous about this is later on when they were going back across this lake Max started out and thought he could still walk on the water and he couldn't. He'd walk in and he's looks at himself, he's get Hey, I'm getting wet. And the Jesus character looks at him and says, It only works when you walk with me. And I thought that was such an awesome picture right there, uh, that And this is one of the reasons I like that you're on the show today. By the way, this is Tom Weil, he's a pastor with the uh Church of God. I am uh Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. And one of the reasons I love that you're on the show uh talking about this is you have a very generous spirit And you're and you're looking for all the the the positive angles to play on these things. And so everything you've said I would agree with. And and yet again I have this cautionary voice in the back of my mind Uh for example, uh similar theme, on page one ninety-two, just six pages after this quote about we were all in him, Papa again says, We are now fully human. Again, talking about all three persons of the Trinity being fully human. We And just a few pages after that, Papa says, I am truly human in Jesus. What do you think about that quote? I have problems. I'll give you my thoughts on that quote. I have serious problems with quotes like that The Bible is very clear, yes, the Father, the Son, the Holy Spirit, all God. But they're all three persons. So one God, three persons, and the person of the Son is the one who becomes human. The Father does not become human. The Holy Spirit does not become human. But they do. The Son becomes human. They become human in Jesus, through Jesus. When when God sends his only begotten son to earth, all right, that's God. Yes, it's God, but it's not the Father. That's right. It's uh It's God in Jesus. And you know, you gotta remember one thing though. There's one thing you left out. Yeah. This is Hollywood. So they're gonna take a little bit of a a stretch here. Yeah, but the book's not Hollywood. The book is was a is a book that's the claiming to teach us about God and it and in the book I didn't notice this in the in uh the the second thing I'm gonna say I didn't notice in the book. But in the book, Papa, the father character, the father of you know, God the Father character, has scars on Papa's wrist wrists. And in the movie the that the two and also Sarah you, the Holy Spirit character, has scars on her wrists in the movie. Well the Father and the Holy Spirit were not hanging on the cross. The Son was hanging on the cross. So we get into a problem where, again, I use big theological words, but if you listen to this show for the last thirteen years, you're used to some occasional big words. Sabellianism, modalism, these are denounced Christian heresies that fall outside the pale of orthodoxy. And if you look at Acts chapter 10, verse 43, or Acts 8, or Luke 12, or Matthew 25, you see indications there that the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit are distinct persons of the Godhead. They're all God, but they're all distinct persons. Three in one. So hanging on the cross was God the Son. Hanging on a cross was not God the Father or God the Holy Spirit. It was God the Son hanging on the cross. Otherwise Who is Jesus crying out to when he says, Father, why you have for forsaken me if the Father's hanging on the cross too? That makes no sense. That's true. So th those sorts of things I don't think we should take it lightly. I think I think it can uh disrupt and disturb our understanding of of Scripture if we're not careful. That's true. We do have to look at it uh uh you know with a discerning eye, but uh the main message, the main thoughts that they're trying to come across Is God is real. God is alive and God cares. God loves. I agree, but then the question is which God? Whose God? All God So the Hindu. But if somebody has a misconception of who God is, are they worshiping the true right God? You know, the hint a Hindu would say that they're worshiping the same God as the Christian, but a Orthodox, b Bible-believing Christian would say, Oh, no, you're not worshiping the same God. That's the biblical God. Right? Well, I have to agree with you there. Anyway, let I'm gonna shift gears because there's so many different areas. And then uh yeah, we have time I think to talk about some of this. And you might agree with me more on this. And I don't know if it's that apparent in the movie, and if you haven't read the book in a while, uh y you might not remember all of this, but there are wide swaths within the book that are anti-church. Um or at least take shots at the church. Um now sometimes the church deserves these shots. We don't behave as the church like the bride of Christ should behave. And so There's some I'll give some I'll feed some ground to Paul Young, the author. Um But the Jesus character in the book says uh Mac is concerned about says some things about the church and to the Jesus character responds You're only seeing the man-made system. That's not what I came to build. Not buildings and programs. It's all about relationships and simply sharing life. Isn't that beautiful? And that's what I said from the from the get-go. It's relationships. That's what Jesus wants to build. Now when somebody's critical of the church and say you're only seeing man-made system and it's not what he came to build, not buildings and programs, period, everything bef uh up until that point a hundred percent agree. It's all about relationships and simply sharing life is too small. Life is large. But it's not just about sharing it. You see what I'm saying? It's it's a s it's a it's a paint by numbers, simplified, watered down Kind of a thing. Again, that's not the biggest concern, but it's the kind of thing this is the kind of thing when I would see it that I would wanted to grab my pencil and say, okay, what is he trying to say? in the book. What is the point that he's trying to make? Maybe it's oversimplification for the least knowledgeable to try to understand. Maybe he's trying to get that message across to uh in the simplest of terms, in the simplest of ways It's uh really difficult to say sometimes, but uh when you have somebody as yourself that's uh more read, more knowledgeable, more schooled, then Well let me tell you why I guess I kinda go there. I think the church in America has some real problems And I think it's bought into some of this kind of thinking too much. So yes, you're absolutely right. I agree with you a hundred and twelve percent, if there's such a thing. I don't know. You know, Paul Young He's got something really good here. We we do well to recognize that Christ's church is not a building and is not programs and relationships are huge. Absolutely huge, Tom. Huge. Amen, brother But responsibilities come with those relationships. What Christ instituted is much it's about much more than simply sharing life. I mean should we eliminate all teachers? Is learning not a part of what we should be doing? Should we get rid of preachers, elders, deacons, even worship services? If all we need to do is share life, do we ever need to come together and worship and glorify God? So much more than simply sharing life If somebody reads this and they take it a certain way, they've just been getting a given a get out of jail free card. They don't I don't have to go to s worship service on Sunday mornings. I don't have to be obedient to God's call on my life. I just to share life. That's all I have to do No, it's not all it's it's not that simple. Well and that's and we both know that. Right. And that's my point is I feel like consistently recruit if this is the only place in the book If that was happening, I'd be like, okay, whatever. But in the book recurringly, there's this reinforcement, this recircling back to um it is this simple. It's simple, simple, simple. Simple sign in religion. It makes me nervous that that's what people will process as, oh, this is how we should understand the church and God, as opposed to diving in what the Bible has to say. And we're running out of time, so I'm going to wrap up. We'll you can do another show with me next week, right, Tom? Hey, absolutely. We'll continue this conversation on the shack. We may began to make some headway. There's so much more that could be said. Again, this is the Faith Debate. We're online at WFMD. com Our sponsors are High Low Auto Sales, Entire Wor um Tire Pros of Frederick. And my guest this week, Tom Wilde, pastor with the Church of God. And uh did I say my name? Oh no, just in case I'm Troy Skinner, you can email me if you want at Troy Skinner at iHeart Media. Dot com till next week 167. 5 hours from now. Like what?