The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. It was five years ago, yesterday, if you could believe it. Now maybe somebody in news media or somewhere has mentioned it so you're like, Yeah, I can believe it. But I wonder if they will be because it's one of those stories that was horrific when it happened. You figure it's gonna be one of those events that will be remembered and talked about forever. And then it got like deep six. Got eighty six. It like just disappeared. Nobody talks about it anymore. What am I mentioning? The uh horrible shooting that took place at the country concert uh in Las Vegas. Five years ago yesterday, I believe sixty people died as a result of their injuries that night, and uh four hundred plus other people were injured. One of the worst massacres uh in American history And um a few weeks ago I mentioned uh the show, the Faithface show that aired on Sunday, September 11th, 2022, was obviously the anniversary of 9-11, 2001. Uh and I was mentioning to the guys who are on the panel here who I'll int introduce in just a second how you know other horrible things happen. Hurricanes hit the the Gulf Coast and people die. uh the horrible tsunami that hit the Philippines a number of years ago. Uh these horrible atrocities happened, natural disasters, man's inhumanity to man, these sorts of things. And at times like this, it's not unusual For people to say, Where's God? Is there a God? What does this mean So here to answer that question today, definitively and once and for all, uh the the great faith debate panel has assembled. I am Troy Skinner, I'm the pastor of a church called House Household of Faith in Christ. We have a website. You can find us online at Household of FaithInChrist. com. And the other three men joining me for the show here today are also pastors or an elder uh role with uh house churches uh in the region. Uh Imran Rasvi, his church meets in the the the northern area of Frederick County, up in the Thurmont area. David Forcy, I don't know where he meets anymore. I think it's mostly on the south side of Frederick County, but I think I think they try to change things up on occasion to uh to confuse and throw me off the scent. Uh anyway, David Force is uh Uh been doing his house church now for about I guess three ish years, something like that. Uh Well Clark and Ron's been doing his for I don't know quite a while now. Ten plus years. And then Steve Jurger uh is um he's involved with a a a group of families that rotate the houses they meet at in Adams County, uh Pennsylvania have been doing that for, if I remember correctly, seven years. Um so altogether that's uh we we got 25 plus years of house church experience. And if you add other pastoral experience that we might have in the room, I'm sure we're well over well, we've got to be well over thirty, might be somewhere around forty years plus experience of pastoral experience in the room to talk about this issue. Some people, you know, that's the problem of evil. Right? That that's that's that's kind of the big umbrella issue. Uh but not just any old uh evil. I'm talking about like the evil that captures your notice. Nobody could mistake the evil that took place on Tuesday morning, September eleventh, two thousand one. You know, when those buildings came down, the Pentagon got hit, the plane crashed in Pennsylvania. Um there's no mistaking that. The what happened Uh five years ago yesterday, there's no mistaking that evil. What's going on there? What do what do you say to somebody when they come to you and say, Man, was God like taking a nap? Is this evidence there is no God? Is this evidence that we have an impotent God? Is this evidence that God doesn't care that much? You know, what do you Christians say about this? What do we say about this? I think one of the you know, if we're if we're gonna sort of wrestle with it, you know, at an at an intellectual level, right? People are if someone's asking questions or trying to analyze their um you know and and uh that's the way that a lot of people try and manage their feelings. Um But I I think I think one of the first questions to to ask, you know, just really is to say well who um Who does who does God say that He is? Um you know, there uh it it seems to me like a lot of times when people are asking Asking this question they're um they're thinking about who they who they maybe want God to be or um you know some idea that they have that they you know, they hope God is, rather than considering that that God is is who he is. And um Yeah, and and so yeah, you know, uh uh it's almost like people ask that question trying to decide whether they w whether they want there to be a God or want to believe in God or not. Um which I you know it's not is not the not the right approach. Yeah, well and I'll s before I uh go to the other guys on the panel, I just want to say that uh if there's not a God then your answers to what that horrific evil is all about, like though there either is no answer or there's no good answer. The only good answer comes with the idea that there really is a God. And so if the rest of well Do I even want there to be a God? You when it comes to dealing with evil, you want there to be a God. Anyway. Yeah, I would like to just say that The real challenge is to help this person or this wave of questions that come to you is what God is not. And there needs to be um it's it's a very difficult process, but to sit there and painfully go through and listen and see where this person is coming from because it comes accusatory because they don't understand. Um they don't understand the dynamic of the kingdom of darkness and the kingdom of light. They don't understand uh the legal grounds that uh the enemy has in this world. And so to try to unpack that in a very emotional st uh charged moment uh takes real uh prayer being led by the Spirit of God and to prayerfully be able to take this individual from a a crisis and trying to figure out who God is and, you know, bring it to a place where they're able to come to Jesus. And that uh takes um some some real wisdom and understanding from above and that's something that needs to be tackled because we have all experienced where people just come and make these blanket statements and say a particular scripture and just broad brush everything and it it really can do much more harm than good. The first voice you heard on today's uh show other than mine was David Forcy's. That last voice you just heard was uh Steve Jurger's and uh now we're gonna hear from Imran Razby and uh Steve mentioned like the highly emotionally charged situation and what I mentioned to you guys before we started this show that you know, what the topic was gonna be uh you shared an emotionally charged situation where somebody turned completely away from God because of his personal so it wasn't uh nine eleven event, it wasn't a Las Vegas shooting event, it was a more personal event with somebody lost a pet. You you know you can if you want to weave that into what you're gonna say here, that might be good. Sure. I mean I had a friend um in college Uh he had a very uh traumatic experience when he was young, probably seven or eight years old. He w his pet just died and he asked his pastor or his parents' pastor, um, will my dog go to heaven? Sweet little kid wanted an answer, wanted uh some reassurance. 'Cause when we're hurting we want reassurance. That's what we're looking for. We're looking for somebody to pat our back, to hold us, to hug us, to have uh have some solid solid ground under our feet. And this pastor said, No, the Bible doesn't say anything about uh dog going to heaven, so your dog's not going to heaven Well that turned him completely away and didn't he had no desire or interest to even hurt read the Bible, hear about the Bible or God or anything else for the rest of his life. He uh he died an atheist and uh you know, it was very sad but he would not even have the conversation. Um what we wanted to say is that these times of stress, uh tragedy, they're actually you can think of that as a blessing. Because when are we most open to hearing is when there is stress. If everything's hunky dory, everything's perfect, you've got all your needs met and you don't need to depend on on God, you depend on yourself. then you are basically walking away from God all the time 'cause you're ta taking care of yourself. And that that that's where the the love of money is the root of all evil because if you love money so much you're depending on your own money and your own things and you have no reason to depend on God. So when nine eleven happened, um they said there's uh it it brought more people to church than any other time in history. And that was uh probably the best thing that ever happened for the Muslim world. Why, you might ask. I mean we went and fought the the West went and fought against the Muslim world, but what happened was Many, many people dropped to their knees and prayed for the Muslim world and there were dreams and visions and Christ working in many amazing ways in the Muslim world, bringing people to Christ and bringing h you know, th th the the knowledge and wisdom of the true God there. That's what tragedy does. Tragedy opens up a pathway from the spiritual world to this world. It opens up our hearts to be receiving at least some comfort from somewhere 'cause we're seeking comfort When there is no tragedy, why do we need comfort? Yeah, I I I uh I agree with the the spirit of what you said and some of those uh specific examples that you that you use, you mean there's no speaking against the experience that those people had, but as a general rule I think that what happens when there's some traumatic experience that happens in the world or in our lives directly We're looking for the comfort, looking for reassurance. And so we're looking for answers. And so when the church responds in a biblical way, And they pray for people, and they pray with people, and they proclaim the truth of the gospel and the need for Jesus and and the and what is the reality about God and how He works in the world and and and all of those sorts of things, then good things happen. But if the church doesn't do its job and we've seen this the last couple of years, I mean there's been all sorts of tumult in the world. And we don't see peop people flooding to the churches. And those who are going to the churches, they're not getting what I just said. They're not getting biblical truth consistently enough from most of the churches. I would like to think that the four churches that are represented in this room right now are exceptions and I and I have every reason to believe that you know I I'm not seeing what you guys do every week, but I'm have every reason to believe that you are exceptions and I like to count myself among the exceptions. But we're small potatoes compared to what passes for the church these days. And so the church has to have the right response. Otherwise, people are going to find their answers in lies, or they're going to think they found answers in lies, and they're going to live with that lie for a period of time, maybe until their grave. So we have to have the right answers. I think part of the issue is what has happened with the pandemic in the last two years. A lot of people were told to stay away from church. They went virtual. They got comfortable in that virtuality. Their own pastors told them to stay away from church. Let's be clear about this. Okay. So in that reality, home church seems to be the alternative or the response from the Holy Spirit to really bring people back together because the current system And the way it is set up is actually failing. And maybe God allowed this to happen so that that would be a a reality. Because the Bible clearly says, Forsake not the assembling of yourselves. And boy, we were told exactly the opposite of that. And when bad things happen, people get fearful and we reinforced that. We basically said, yep, you're afraid to die. You should be afraid to die. Don't come to church. That's not the message. of the gospel. So again, reinforcing what the what the right thing. Let's use the uh uh the answer I I mean I don't want to make it about pets necessarily but Let's use that as an example, a tangible example. You got a young child who's had a dear pet die and they ask you, Is my is my pet gonna be in heaven? You know, what are some better ways to explain the tragedy that's happened with the loss of his pet and and and how you would handle 'Cause I don't know what you guys believe about Pets in Heaven or not. Um to be honest, I'm not a hundred percent sure what I believe about Pets in Heaven. So how do we, uh how do we pastorally handle that in the mind of the seven year old, the evil that has happened? How do we answer that? I think uh I think it's good to ask ask questions of people who are trying to wrestle with some sort of difficulty. Um because they they may not entirely be aware of what they're what they're wrestling with that's inside of them. They just know that that something is has has disturbed them and uh so there's there's probably a a a deeper issue going on, you know? What uh You know, and so so it's hard hard for sometimes for people to say, okay, what what is it that I want? Why why am I asking these questions? What am I trying to get to here? I think what I might uh put myself on the spot, because I'm reading the body language in the room and nobody's exactly leaning into the mic, so I'm gonna I'm gonna uh jump in here for a second. I think what I might say, uh I mean everything's an opportunity to try to share the gospel and what an open invitation you have. So you have a chance to say, you know, that's a that's a really good question, Johnny. You know, are pets in heaven? And the Bible doesn't say a whole lot about that, although I do have reason to believe that there are animals uh in the renewed creation. I I I I I have reason to believe expect that that would be part of our expectation. And will our pets be among those animals? I think that's possible. I'm not wise enough to know for sure, but you know who is? God. Because God made everything. And he knows the answer to that question. And whatever the answer to that question is, it's the right answer because he's a good God. He made you In his image, he loves you, he cares for you, he made all the animals, he made your pet, and whatever's best for you, whatever's best for that pet is w that's what's gonna happen. And if you want to hold in your heart the idea that well that means I'm gonna be re reunited with uh you know with uh Rufus my my my pet beagle um I d I don't think there's any harm in that. But you know You might be wondering also, why did Rufus die at all? That's because we live in a broken world. You know, we're made in God's image, but we we we we make bad decisions and so we don't live up to that image. Like, Johnny, you've made mistakes, right? Yeah, you you've you've disobeyed your mom. You've you've taken a piece of candy that you shouldn't have taken or whatever. You've you've Rip the toy out of a friend's hand because you wanted it more, you know, then you want to be a good friend. Those are bad things, right? Well that's called sin And that has to be dealt with and uh and it is uh and so that's why your mom has and your dad they have to correct you and and and teach you the right way, but uh that doesn't make everything just go away and be good and so it has to be it has to be taken care of by God in a permanent, perfect kind of a way. And that's why we teach you about Jesus and the importance of what Jesus did and the perfect life lived and how he ended up dying on the cross and and that and that's uh to pay the punishment that we all deserve. And then out of gratitude we want to live a a a life of obedience and uh where we're where we try to be good people, to honor God. Uh, because everything's to be for God's glory and eventually we'll join him forever in glory. And you know what, Johnny, that's really what it's all about. And this is what I was getting to, by the way, guys, at the beginning, where we need to have uh God to answer evil. Everything is ultimately for God's glory. So even the evil that God allows to happen or in some cases, you know, would cause to happen as far as, you know, sending judgment upon a nation or something like that. All of those things that we would call as evil, these bad things that are happening, none of them happen without a purpose. And all of them ultimately have the purpose of glorifying God, a glory that He chooses to share with His people forever. right, because we're co-heirs with Christ. And so we might not understand, but God understands and we're like, why did this happen? Why did the building topple over and kill the family? Did he sin? Did his parents sin? Like what's going on there? It happened because God was going to use it for his glory. You know, the story of Joseph in the latter chapters of Genesis, and his brothers are horribly mean to him, they're going to kill him, they ended up selling him into slavery. And then years later they reconnect and he has this wonderful picture of forgiveness for the family, but it's not just forgiveness, a wonderful picture of understanding who God is and what's really what time it is, what's going on. He says, Look, I know brothers You intended this for evil. And you know what? It was evil. You intended it for evil, it was evil. But God intended it for good. He's using that for his glory. He's using that in this moment even to demonstrate forgiveness. He used it to position me to be able to feed you because there's a famine coming. So we don't understand all these things. If you don't have God, you don't have a reason for the evil. meaningless evil. You don't even have a grounds actually for calling it evil, for that matter, without God. So there's that issue. But but by our own standards, yeah, that's bad. That that person shouldn't have raped that woman. You know what? That person should not have raped that woman. And somehow, some way, while that rapist intended it for horrible, horrible, deep, dark evil, in some way, somehow God is using that, intending that for good And it's difficult for us to understand how that is, but there is an ultimate kind of a purpose involved. And so yeah, we're we're rebellious against God all the time. But God is good and gracious and perfect in his understanding and his knowledge. And if we don't have him, all we have is we're just a bunch of disconnected molecules. Where's the meaning in any of that evil? There's no meaning in good, there's no meaning in evil, there's no meaning in anything. And that's kind of the world we are living in right now, very nihilistic, where there's everything's meaninglessness. So anyway, interesting you you say that because there was a man that was born blind from birth. And you know, there's a quite a conversation going on in the scriptures. But ultimately the end of that conversation is that that blind man would bring glory to God. And how Jesus exemplified uh a time and a place to heal that man at a particular moment that brought glory to God. So God uses all things and God does not rejoice at the death or the punishment of the wicked. But yet justice, you know, it says foundation, uh, the uh righteous and tr in truth are the foundation of his throne. So he's God and we submit to that. And it doesn't mean that what happened five years ago yesterday uh was good because it's going to glorify God. God's a useless one. It's still it's evil. what happened, but God can use it for uh for good. Does use it for good. And yeah, many times those type of situations brings a bring a lot of people to the saving grace of Christ. They've they are open enough to actually search out and and be open to hearing what God has for them. Um, we had a little girl one time ask, Well did God make a mistake when he created the devil? Think about it. Right? From a little girl's point of view, did he make a mistake? Well no, God does not make mistakes. But to truly understand good, you must see evil. You can't understand it otherwise. Same thing with the Old Testament and the New Testament. You can't understand love if you don't know the fear of God. The wisdom begins with the fear of God. If you don't have the fear of God, there is nothing to show your love. What is love without the fear? So the whole Bible is very important to to go to and to learn from and and so forth, and there is lots of evil all throughout. But those are the times where people search out and are open to a connection with God and having a relationship, which ultimately saves them from eternity of hell. Yeah, I think uh yeah um theologically I'm not sure I could a hundred percent agree with how that was said. I understand the the point being made though, because you know the the the the bad, the evil, the darkness provides the relief, the backdrop. It's like when you go to the jewelry store and they they drop the uh the diamond on the on the counter, they don't just put it on like a a white background, they put it on like a black velvet background because that black background really helps the brilliance of the diamond to to to shine and reflect the lights in the ceiling kind of thing better. So it can help us to see the good and the beautiful better. But I don't think it's necessary because theologically before the creation of the world, you know, we have an eternal existent triune God, the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit perfectly no good. And they know what good is, but there was no evil within the Godhead. And so I don't think you have to have evil to know the good, but it certainly does help us from our perspective to understand the need for the good at the very least, and that and what the and what not good looks like in comparison. I don't know if that's a a nuance you guys agree or disagree with, but in that perfection when Lucifer says iniquity was found in thee. Somehow in that perfection and that goodness. Something happened and there was a choice to go down that that real dark road. And we know the history. We know what that caused. We know the whole temptation with Adam and Eve and that whole process. And it can be a very deep rabbit hole dive down, but there are a lot of questions out there. People are going, why? Why does it exist? Why did it happen? But ultimately we know that Jesus came, died on the cross, that redemption, that bloodshed, so that we could be reconciled to Him. Which is a very important aspect to our redemption. And in a very personal kind of way, you might be going through your own personal tragedy right now and you have these kinds of questions and we haven't answered them sufficiently on this show. Feel free to reach out to me, go to my website, Household of Faith. in Christ dot com. Find my contact information. You can talk to me or Imran or David or Steve's up to it. Steve, he's not part of the regular panel here, but uh he might be open to talking to you too. Any of us will be glad to talk you through it. Till next week, hundred and sixty seven and a half hours from right now. God bless