This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith, our host, host is me, Troy Skinner, our sponsor is what I meant to say, a little punch drunk, a little early morning to be punch drunk, um, are Hilo Auto Sales and Tire Pros of Frederick. And on again this week is Tom Weil, who's a pastor with Church of God. And last week we began a discussion on the book and movie The Shack and if you want to get the detail of kind of what the narrative of the movies and the s and the storyline is of the book and all that sort of thing, listen to the podcast from last week. We're not gonna waste a lot of time going through that again. Um suffice it to say that there's a little girl who gets killed and the guy goes out into the shack where she was kills and uh meets with uh what is purported to be the godhead, the father, who is known as Papa in the story. uh the son who is known as Jesus, go figure that one up in the story, and the uh Holy Spirit who is known as Sarayu in the story. And so we've been talking about the good and the bad in in the book and and Thomas made it easy uh for me to not have to spend a lot of my time talking about the good aspects of the book because he's been he's been a generous reader and generous viewer of uh of the movies. So he's he's highlighting, accentuating most of the positives, which is good, I'm glad. And I agree with all those positives. And I've been pointing out some of the reasons to have concern. And I only hit upon a few of them. I have dozens, but hit upon a few of them. Last week we hit on a few more maybe this week. So for example, page one hundred seventy nine of the book, the Jesus character, by the way, hello Tom. Hey, good to have you back. Good morning. Yeah. I'm rare to go jumping right back in. The Jesus character says, An awful lot of what is done in my name has nothing to do with me and is often, even if unintentional, very contrary to my purposes. Let's talk about this. Whoa. Okay. Uh I would agree, right? I would agree. This is true. You agree with it? I agree with this. Of course. A lot of stuff that is said and done in Jesus' name has nothing to do with Jesus. Westboro Baptist Church comes to mine, for example. Uh the irony to me though is I think that the author of The Shack, Paul Young, and makers of the movie The Shack, they're intending to do something for Christ, kind of almost in Christ's name, this idea. They're trying to advance the idea of who God is, advanced the gospel one would say, if they're Christians. Uh and I think that they missed the mark in some significant ways repeatedly, uh particularly in the book. The movie is not quite as egregious because you have to really be looking for things in the movie. The book, you don't have to be looking for them, they smack you upside the head and because it's it's the the nature of the media that you're the medium that you're using. Uh but I think the it's true that what's done in Jesus' name isn't always good, and I think sadly it might be true of the book In the movie. Well let's talk about some of 'em. So let's see. This is um Jesus again, like I said this is a quote of the Jesus character. Like I said, I don't create institutions. That's an occupation for those who want to play God. What's your reaction? Jesus says, I don't create institutions. You know, sadly, a lot of our churches today go down that road. And uh That's a bit unfortunate. But Jesus isn't about buildings. Jesus is about people. And his relationship with people is what this movie is about. A relationship with God, a personal loving relationship with God to show us that God is always there. In fact it kind of reminds me of of that footprint. You know, you see the footprints in the sand and the guy says, well, you know, where were you? Well those are my footprints. I was carrying you. And the movie hits on along the same lines. Yeah, but again, uh maybe I I'm splitting way too many hairs, I don't know. However I I don't think I am, but I wanna at least hold open the possibility and examine my own thinking on this. I think the church is an institution And God has founded that. I think marriage is an institution. And God has founded that. I think government is an institution. And God has founded that. I think family is an institution. And God has founded that. So For him to say I didn't create institutions, that's an occupation for those who want to play God Well, wait a minute. If God hasn't created institutions, then how is creating institutions playing God? So we have a logical non sequitur there. But It it's like saying I don't place people under arrest, that's something for people pretending to be police officers to do. But police officers do place people under arrest. I don't throw baseballs, that's for something for people pretending to be pitchers in baseball to do. But that's what pitchers actually do So he either either God does create institutions, which makes the first part of what the Jesus character says here wrong, or God Does. Well maybe that character was talking in limited terms. Uh not meaning every institution, but just certain institutions, uh certainly not uh government. Uh the people do that. The people come up with these uh ideas and do some of them play God Well, I'm not gonna name names, but uh some certainly try. Well, I don't know. I th I think that uh you know the New Testament tells us we should pray for our leaders. Yes. Yeah, that the power of the sword has been given to the government. Yes. I don't know. I mean I again I don't make cakes, that's something for people pretending to be bakers. You know, well if if I uh i Pa Pauline I was trying to have it both ways, so there's a logical problem there. Anyway This is related to this. The Papa character in the book says, nothing is ritual. Says it twice, by the way. Says it on page 207 and page 220. Nothing is ritual. I don't know. Can you think of any biblical rituals? Well, sure. Lord's Supper? Yeah. Yeah. Well not according to the Shack, because nothing is ritual according to the Shack. The book's not perfect. And uh thank goodness we we recognize that. Uh the movie is uh Not quite as definitive as as the book. Right. It it it leaves a lot of that stuff out. Well we just agreed that the the Lord's Supper would be a ritual. Absolutely. One among several that we could probably identify now. Well on page two thirty-six the Shack says W this is a quote Without any ritual, without any ceremony, they savored the warm bread and shared the wine So according to the Shack, the Lord's Supper is not a ritual. Ritual and ceremony are apparently bad things in the author's view. So what do they call the Last Supper? It's just people getting together, sharing life. Having a meal, sharing life together. And it's more than that. It's a it's a instituted ritual. Well, who made it the instituted ritual? Well Jesus did. Yes. He said to do this in remembrance of me. But when he did When they had that first last supper, then uh that was the first time it happened. And That was about family together. And that first Last Supper was a Passover meal. Yes. Which was another ritual. So yes. You know? Anyway. Mac in the book says that he likes Jesus. I like that he likes Jesus. Yeah. But he doesn't like Papa. And Papa, in defense of himself, herself, because Papa is presented as a woman through a majority of the book and the movie. Papa blames, quote, religious folk for creating a stern God, who is the Father, and a comforting God, who is Jesus. So you have this father figure who's stern, the idea being this Old Testament God is stern, and the New Testament God, Jesus, is comforting. But, you know, I what would you say to somebody who says that there's these two different gods? There's a Old Testament God and a New Testament God. Well, I have to show them where God in the Old Testament is loving and and and kind and caring. I mean, it wasn't Moses that uh brought him out of captivity. It was God. Right. That's a classic straw man argument that Paul is postulating in his book there. We've talked a lot about uh last week and this week about what Papa says, what the Jesus character in the book says. Sarayu, the Holy Spirit. says, and if you're playing at home, page 235, Saryou says, if anything matters, then everything matters. Now this phrase is repeated uh about thirteen pages later, I think, on page two forty eight, which is the final page of the story. If anything matters, then everything matters. Now to me it sounds like a bumper sticker. Well, how do you respond? I like bumper speakers. And uh everything does matter because it all falls into uh one end or the other of relationships. Um does everything matter? when you see somebody being hurt on the streets, you see the protests that have been going on uh we see 'em every night on T V it seems Does that matter? Of course it does. Sure. Absolutely. So I agree. And then when you see the part about Houston with all the flooding they had, did you see any protests? Did you see any war? Did you see any battles going on? No! You had people from all over the country coming together to help those people. So does that matter? Yes. Now the question then becomes, I agree with you, but the question then becomes, in what way does it matter? And so how is the shack trying to make the point of how it matters, what matters, and in what in in what way do things matter? And here's an insight into that. A light bulb really goes on for the Mac character the main character of the book. Lightbowl goes on, he finally understands, according to the Shack, that quote, everything was about him, Mac. Everything's about the human race Now my problem with that, and I'm not sure how familiar you listening to this show are with Max Lacato. Max Lacato is a very popular, successful author in his own right, and he's sold millions of copies of books himself. He's a pastor in Texas. Speaking of flood area. Oh, he's more in the Dallas area or the Waco area. I'm not sure if he was affected by the flood or not. But anyway I don't think so. Anyway, Max Licato is sometimes, in my opinion, unfairly dismissed as being a uh a not very deep theologian. Um I I don't think that's fair but sometimes the broad brush with which he's a wonderful storyteller. But even if you wanted to say that he's not a very deep theologian. Even the title of one of Max's books does a better job than Paul Young does on this kind of a point. The the the book that I have in mind from uh Max Locato is It's Not About Me. That's the title of a Max Lacato book. It's not about me. And he's right. Max says he's finally gets to the light bulb, goes, everything's about me. And I would say, no, it's Not. Well, you know, again I'm gonna look at the bright side of this and I think when everything about Mac, I think the lesson there was all of Mac's preconceived judgments. That's what it was about. Um Mac judged everything himself and when they put him in the position to judge and the and the two people he was judging was his son and his older daughter All of a sudden, Mac didn't want to be all about me because he didn't want to have to judge which one of those two were going to go to hell. And that's where Mac learned the lesson. It wasn't about him, it was all about Jesus. Hmm. One of the good points, I'm gonna uh s put on my white hat here for a minute. One of the good points about the book is and the movie, it goes out of its way to have a a a multi-ethnic uh identity. you know, for a God, showing that God is the God of all people. So you have uh Papa is I mentioned uh a little while ago is is a is a woman throughout most of the story of a b uh uh black woman uh African American I suppose, but uh only blacks in America are African American. So blacks uh internationally represented by Papa in the book. Uh Jesus is uh looks like a Middle Easterner Uh Seriu looks like an Asian woman. And then wisdom is portrayed uh in the book looking like a and in the in the movie too, I think, uh looking Hispanic. And of course Mac, the main character in the book, is a Caucasian guy. So you kind of have all of the and then uh Papa uh is a male later in the story and is Native American. uh in in ethnicity. And so you've kind of got the the scope of of uh of of the of the human uh identity wrapped up and I think it does a good job there. Anyway, wisdom says in the book So many believe that it is love that grows, but it is the knowing that grows, and the love simply expands to contain it. Love is just the skin of knowing. That's awesome. Ooh, I don't know. Well, you know, that love trouble grows as knowledge Uh as you gain knowledge, the more you know let me give you a good example. Uh and by the way, that white hat does look good on you. Uh the more you know about Jesus The more you're gonna love him. Yeah, but to say that love is just the skin of knowing, to me, it sounds like Gnosticism, which really is a problem in my mind. And I'm I'm I'm reminded of uh 1 Corinthians 13, 8 We're talking about the things that will pass away. Knowledge will pass away. Love remains. So if love is just the skin of knowing, but knowledge goes away, then what do you got? You got this deflated little skin just all Like a throw of prune somewhere? No, no. The skin is what holds everything everything together. But all that something held together goes away. It's love that remains. Yes. Right? Yes. I agree with that. But in love I know you're trying hard to to be positive on the book and I appreciate that so much. Makes my job easier. Yeah. Well I don't want to make it easier. Uh I I enjoy some of the challenges you're throwing out here But I believe that reason love remains because God is love No, he's Tom Weill. He is he he's a pastor with uh Church of God. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on WFMD, and I'm gonna challenge you to maybe you might want to take your white hat off on this one and put your black hat on. We'll see. Maybe not. On page one hundred seventy two of the Shack, Mac dreams uh Max uh it it's said to us as the reader that Max dreams and imagination are more real than God's Word in the Bible, and more real than the illumination of the Holy Spirit, and more real than the historical physical universe So what would you say to Mac if he were your friend sitting in this room doing this show with us and he were to say, you know what? I had a vision and a dream and you know I have kind of an active imagination and all of that is more real to me than God's word than history, then Well Mac, you know, are you uh isn't it possible that uh Satan is giving you that dream to m to take you uh or actually try to keep you in that mood you're in that you don't like God because you think it was God's fault that Your little girl died. And I would look at it that way. I would look at it that way. Once Mac realizes And he does later on, once he realizes that God has not abandoned him, then He throws that dream away. But now what if Mac were to respond and say, okay, that all sounds good, you know, intellectually. However, I disagree with you because I don't think that this earthly existence is Real. It's the unreal world. Only the heavenly is the real world. Because that's a point made in the book, by the way, on page two thirty seven. You've got all the pages marked. I'm telling you, every there's all other uh that's not true. Probably eighty percent of the pages of my copy of the Shack have writing on them. Well that's good. You won't sell that book to anybody, but I mean that's good. No, I think uh He it's not only heaven that's real. I mean heaven is real, but it's not only heaven that's real, right? Absolutely. So that's a problem. It's a good problem. See any of these little things I'm pointing out, by themselves not a huge issue. But the fact that there are so many and they're so recurring really gives me angst about this. You know, let's break it down. Let's take it one at a time. I I certainly don't want you to, you know, go home and not be able to get to sleep tonight and and be thinking about this all night long. Uh uh break it down and and and look at it piece by piece by piece because eventually even Mac gets it. So I know you're gonna get it. I hope so. Well I don't know we'll see because on the second or last page of the shack Uh s m i it said, you know, perhaps some of it's not actually true in one sense. This is Mac getting it, I guess. Perhaps some of the story that we've just read, some of it's maybe is not actually true in one sense. It is still true nonetheless, if you know what I mean, it says. Uh this sort of a statement And I'll get your take on it. Uh I had to ask myself, why is this sort of a statement included in the Shaq? And part of me thinks it's a cop out statement. It's a CYA. It's uh you can make this book mean whatever you want. Now I've made some wild as the author of the shack, I've made some wild theological claims, but if you want to think it means something else, then you can let me off the hook. You can make this book mean what you want it to me. I feel like it's uh he makes big bold proclamations about who God is and then says, Yeah, but maybe it's not really true. Well you know, you won't let him off the hook. Me, I'm gonna send him a fruit basket and thank him because I think the book is terrific I think it brings out a lot of good points. It uh it certainly takes a man from thoughts about uh suicide. It showed that in one point. Uh to an enlightenment where his family is back together and united and Well then here here's we've got time maybe I think for one more thought. And I'm I'm sorry we're kind of hodgepodge and jumping all over the place, but I mean there's so much in this book and there's no easy way to organize this. Trust me having done a Sunday school class and a couple of sermons on this trying to organize all this is a a real challenge. So in the shack the main character Mac is told by one of the God characters Quote, you are a glorious, destructive mess, Mackenzie, but you are not here to repent. What would you say to a statement like that? That's profound. Uh I I really believe that when the Papa is telling Mac, you're not here to repent. He's not. He's looking for answers He's very mad at God, blaming God for everything in the beginning, and once his relationship starts to build with God He becomes more clear in his own mind about whose fault this really was And it wasn't God's fault. And it wasn't his fault. But the true relationship with God s begins with the repentance. Of course it does. Of course it does. But this part they're not talking about that. He already ha he had a relationship with God. He felt that that was abandoned. He he felt God abandoned him. And that's not so, because we all know God doesn't abandon us. He's the same yesterday, today, and tomorrow. He had to find out, and I think in the end he did. Okay. Like I said uh several times, the fact that you have a a generous spirit about this is really important and I and I by me pointing out the negatives, uh That's kind of my role in this dialogue. I don't want to give the impression that uh there isn't anything good in the shack and that we should try to look for every wrong thing in what we're reading. We should be generous readers and generous hearers and give the benefit of the doubt. The reason I started to have concerns with the shack is that I was giving him the author of William Paul Young, was giving him the benefit of the doubt on page one, and then kind of being forced to give him the benefit of the doubt on page two. And after like seventy-five pages of benefit of the doubt, I said I said, okay, maybe I need to not give the benefit of the doubt quite so much because it's like every page after page after page, maybe I need to start to look and see, okay, maybe he maybe he's not deserving Maybe he's saying what I'm afraid he's saying, but don't want to go there. And by the end of the book, I was pretty persuaded that he is saying what he is saying, which is a pretty universalist salvation message, which is a pretty uh uh uh god is warm and squishy, love and fuzzy, and uh not a god of righteousness and justice and wrath, and there's n there really is no hell for anybody, and those sorts of things. And and if that's what you're left with after reading the book I think you have a horribly one-sided view, a non-scriptural view of the Bible, and that could lead you astray. You're absolutely right. I I I agree with what you're saying there. But not being as critical on the prose of this book, I don't believe you're left with that message. I wasn't. And I wasn't. And you know what, in fairness, my wife would agree with you. She read the book and wasn't left with that impression either. Well see I know Dean is very smart. He's he's Tom Wilde, Pastor of Church of God. I'm Froy Skin. This is the Faith Debate Online at WFMD. com. Keyword faith, our sponsor, high low autosales and tire pros of Frederick, thanks for listening till next week. God bless.