This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gap fest. With the Mixed Master as the Master of Ceremonies and the notorious Treble Bee, the Big Bridge Builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can is a free-for-all for faith community leaders wrestle over the truth. In less than 30 minutes, learn more about what really matters. Than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble. Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a more on here. Is that it? And in this corner, weighing in is a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. Oh, mama. The notorious big bridge builder John Soister. Now I'm just getting longed up. Critical race theory, white privilege, systemic racism, social justice warrior, cultural Marxism, intersectionality And a whole bunch of other new terms have been added to the American popular lexicon this year with the rapid ascendancy of the Black Lives Matter slogan organization and movement. What do these new terms mean? And from whence did they come? Are they even new? Is it a political divide, a religious divide, a worldview divide, a cultural divide, all of the above? What are faithful Bible-believing followers of Christ supposed to do and think? For many years now, Adam A. D. Robliss has been all over this issue like a tick on a sweet-blooded deer, and he is back. with the Faith Debate over the phone for a fourth go round in this four-part series of shows. And we appreciate you being on the show, Adam, to talk about these things that I know you love talking about. And I know that the the time we spent together is probably the equivalent of about, I don't know, maybe two of your videos. So I really appreciate you spending the time. Um I want to take a minute. I I um These these phrases and words. And let's real quick some of them I think we've talked about already the previous uh shows we've done with you and other shows we've had with previous guests on this topic in in recent months. But so I think I think maybe we know what critical race theory is, but do I want to take that for granted? Probably not. So um in you know, in 38 words or less, you know, how would you how would you define critical race theory for people, A D? Yeah, it's a it's a it's a system, it's an ideology that uh seeks to divide um people into different power groups. And in America that would be Um white people as the main group and black people as the minority has none of the power. They're the oppressed group. And so critical theory always does that, divides it between oppressor and oppressed And for race theory, it's along racial lines. Yeah, and uh that's that's where white privilege comes from, right? 'Cause the white people have all the power and the privilege. Yeah, that's right. That would be part and parcel of critical race theory. White privilege is part of the oppressor powerful class. And I think systemic racism people are kind of understanding what that is. So social justice warrior, that's an interesting one because I know some people that wear that like a badge I had somebody on social media, you know, come at me and say, Well, uh I I it my and it's it what's really funny about this sort of thing is I put a post up and it was you know, it had to do with uh with religion. I can't remember exactly what it was, but it had nothing to do with politics, had nothing to do with this debate that we're having uh with you on the show right now. It was innocuous. It was basically something like Jesus loves you. Okay, I mean it wasn't that, but it was something Like and the person jumped on to say, Yeah, and he was a social justice warrior too. Like, yeah And I was like, Okay, so is it a good thing or a bad thing? And I know some people use it as as a as a pejorative so If somebody if you call somebody a social justice warrior, are you slapping them on the back like, hey, good job, or are you punching them in the nose? I'm laughing because there's really no answer to that question. But but it I I don't know the whole history of it, but it definitely was a term that people that held that perspective use of themselves. They they were proud of it being a social justice warrior. Somewhere along the way it became a pejorative Um and people are very sensitive about being called the social justice warrior. But uh depends on who you're talking to, I think. It started uh as a as a term of endearment, I think. And so if you it's shorthand now because everything in in in Twitter sphere is shorthand. So SJW that would be a social justice warrior. Speaking of pejoratives, I think it's an academic label that is helpful to move along uh highbrow discussion on the issues. But if you're not careful, you're talking to people who don't want to have a highbrow discussion on the issues, they think it's a pejorative. Cultural Marxism, which I've noticed we haven't mentioned now. We've done three full shows. We're now on our fourth show and I don't know, do you do you carefully avoid cultural Marxism as a as a label and word? Yeah, I don't I don't t I I I I would say that I I don't necessarily avoid it, but I don't use the term very often. Uh and the only reason I don't is is is just because um I find that the terms critical theory and uh are just they they communicate what I'm trying to talk about better. But Um yes, it's dependent on who you talk to. Some people think cultural Marxism doesn't even exist. Other people think it's the biggest problem since sliced bread. Um so I don't use the term. Um but I don't have a problem necessarily with it. I just feel like people get kind of lost in the weeds a little bit. Now I have a tendency in my own thinking to to use or or think about cultural Marxism and critical theory as Not exactly synonymous, but pretty darn close. So i i am I missing something when I do that? No. I mean uh in my opinion that that that's how I use it and I'm sure that technically that's not accurate, but But uh for for my purposes, I'm talking to people in the pew. I think I said that in one of the previous uh conversations. Um it you know, I use it as a placeholder for the same means the same thing. All right, now my favorite word to say is intersectionality. That's so much it's so much fun to say intersectionality. So what what does uh what does that mean? What does intersectionality mean? Yeah, so this is like um y an easy way to describe it is like the opp the oppression Olympics. So um you decide who's the most oppressed based on uh a variety of different factors and and people that have the most intersections of oppression are are the most oppressed. So for example Um, I'm Puerto Rican, so I've got a certain level of oppression assigned to me, but I'm a man, so because I'm not a woman, I'm not as oppressed as I could be And because I'm not um handicapped, for example, I'm not as oppressed as I could be. Because I'm straight, I'm not I'm not a homosexual, I could be more oppressed if I had more intersection. So if I was a homosexual Puerto Rican woman who was also transgendered, that I would win the oppression Olympics at that point. So the the intersectionality is talking about the various intersections of oppression and how they interact with each other. There's diff there's a difference between being a black person and being a black woman who's also LGBT That's what the that's what intersectionality is in a nutshell. Hmm. I wonder what I would have to do to win the Olympics. So I would have to identify as what A dozen or or two dozen different things, I guess. It feels to me like the people in the body of Christ whose testimonies, right, uh have the most uh are not people like me. Right. Like when I give my testimony, I grew up in a Christian family. My dad was a pastor. Right. You know, I'm a white guy. Uh I ended up going to a Christian school, you know, and uh was going on mission trips, you know, uh right after high school. You know, like like there's just nothing uh what's the word um that feels powerful about that testimony Right. But the guy who came out of drugs and a broken family and immigrant and poverty, you know, and you know, all these intersectionalities as it were that you just described. Now that person's testimony seems like everybody wants to hear it, uh, and it ends up being like promoted as, man, did you see what God did? And so um so anyways, it's interesting to me that uh that there's some truth there to the real to this intersectionality that that there's a power there's a strength to that testimony. I don't know if I agree. The testimony has strength because th those really powerful testimonies where somebody came from the dregs of sinful behaviors and they were s lost in their sin, a deep dark sin that n Many haven't traveled down and God, through the blood of Jesus Christ, can rescue even that level of sin is is profound and it strikes people. But It's darker skin or to be a woman or to be Puerto Rican. So it's a totally different thing in my feelings. Yeah, no, you're right. I mean there's two aspects to that. And the question is is it is it the case Yeah. And some of those intersectionality um uh categories are categories that we would say are sin categories that leave people having hurt themselves. Others of those categories are categories that uh people couldn't control. Uh right, though some of them that they couldn't control in a way that's that's more that really just made life more difficult for them as opposed to others, you know, less so. And so my point is that yeah, not all of intersectionality uh categories uh fit that but the route is some of them do. I think it's different enough though, and this is why I have a c uh as big a concern on this particular question as I do, uh is It can present itself as a different gospel. And if it's a different gospel and Christians are speaking that worldview, then they're and if they're in leadership, they're leading synagogues of Satan, aren't they? I mean they're they're they're they're lost. They're wolves in sheep's clothing at some point. They cross the line. I'm not I'm not sure that I'm firm on figuring out exactly where that line gets crossed But I feel like people are beginning to cross it. Right. And so I I've grappled for a long time with liberation theology. One uh way back I which is tied to all of this. Yeah. Totally, you know, at the at its heart. Uh in the United States We liberated ourselves from England way back when and arguably it was our churches that were that were uh you know preaching uh coming out of the Great Awakenings and and and preaching from their pulpits about righteousness that that inflamed our sense of there's something wrong here Right. And so you and I have talked often about the difference between the French Revolution and the American Revolution. You know, one was extreme secularism, the other one was not. You know, that's just one of many, you know, key differentiations. And so my point is is um is that this question of power, I was gonna share the story, uh the Vietnam War, like why is it that so many people were against that? Well, I think it's because um uh I'm not gonna be able to share it in a in a short way here, so I'm not gonna go into it fully, but but to keep it short, uh there was people who supported um Catholics and religious people that supported Naziism in World War Two before they realized how bad Hitler was that when they saw the guy in power in Vietnam, they were like, man, we are not letting that happen again. Right. And so in their mindset, the Nazi uh guy, they weren't gonna support him. Instead this time they were gonna support the communist guy. Right? And so it's this whole question of okay who is the injust uh pressure. Was it King George? Was it, you know, some, you know, Pano down in Venezuela And we should probably do a whole slate of shows on that question of whether or not the the this would be really controversial on a station like OFMD, but get somebody brave enough to come on and and question whether or not the uh the the American Patriots were on the side of of God. the thought of righteousness in breaking away, right? I'm just saying it would be a really fun and interesting debate. And systemic racism for those that are the most steeped in critical theory, they go back to the fact that when the colonialists left Europe from Portugal and from France and from from Great Britain to go out around the world. They went out with this impression that they were going to win the world for Christ, that the rest of the world was impoverished. and weak precisely because they used and so missionaries were on the same boats as as conquistadors and I think it's very important for all Christians to ask ourselves this question historically whether or not the gospel ended up being um corrupted in all those environments in in legitimate significant ways and what are the implications uh of that, you know, for the world. And we have talked about that on the show in the past with you know with with the idea of Christendom, which I don't think which I don't think is biblical at all. So there you go. There's my opinion. One thing before I slide back uh into asking uh AD's uh a question here Uh we've talked about power and one of the problems with the the the critical theory idea in this oppressed oppressor thing is that those with power that they're always in the wrong place. But who's more powerful than Jesus? Right. So he's got a huge problem there when we're proclaiming the gospel. Of course he went to the cross. And so that's precisely the point though. He willingly gave those things up, right? Anyway, this is the Faith Debate. I'm Froy Skinner, John Swaitzer from Cross Bridges, uh on the show, of course, as usual. And uh Adam A. D. Robles, he's a a YouTuber. I'm not sure I mean, is that a good label? Do you like that? Is there a better uh a more uh I don't know uh highfalutin way to It it's so funny that you asked me that question because literally today I just used the comment YouTuber to disparage uh somebody else. Uh he was like a y I said he's just a YouTube atheist. And as I said it I was thinking to myself What does that mean about me? You're just a YouTube Christian. So we we've got a few minutes, like ten minutes left thereabouts before we we wrap this all up. And and I don't know I don't know if if it's ten or not enough time to a to answer this question. In your opinion, I mean you've been following this a lot closer than most people that I know. Where is this going? I I want to almost but I know it doesn't really ever end until Christ's return. Uh but where where is this going? We we were a couple of weeks away from an election uh and we're probably a a few months after that from knowing the the outcome of that election. And uh well we're probably several several decades after that from knowing what the real implications of the election were. But w where you know what w what are the next steps? What does it look like? What should we be doing to prepare and uh Yeah. Well what's interesting about that question is is well the answer is of course I don't know. But um Oh okay, well then I don't know why I had you on the show. Yeah, yeah. I I I don't know, but but but I but I do know that that that this this whole idea of social justice um fractures every community that it it's ever it's ever it's ever attempted to get into. And I I was thinking about this just recently. One of the very first instances of social justice kind of entering a community and destroying it that I knew about was the atheist community. They had this thing called Atheism Plus. If you ever want to go into a rabbit hole, Google Atheism Plus. And the plus was about social justice. So it was going to be atheism plus social justice. And um it was it was vicious in in atheism. Now I I have a lot of faith in the church, um, because of their savior. I uh the Lord of of glory is is very powerful and he will keep his people and things like that But at the end of the day, I I think that what we're going to see is um is is is we're gonna see fractures um within the church and we're gonna see people that are gonna be taking sides. uh and things like that. And I don't think that's all bad. Um, you know, th Paul talks about some divisions are good so that we see who's true and things of that nature. And I'm not saying everyone's gonna necessarily, you know, fracture along lines of agreement here, but there's gonna come a point when we're gonna have to r And um there are certain people that I think are gonna be like, well I I just can't because of white privilege, yada yada yada and I just can't do it And it's going to become patently obvious that they've went out from us because they were not of us, and that's just the way it's going to be. So there's a lot of, in my opinion, there's a lot of pain ahead for any organization that allows us to fester at all Um, do I know how it's gonna all end up? Some people talk about civil war and things of that nature. I don't know about that kind of stuff. I think it'll fizzle out most likely. But in the meantime, there's going to be a lot of um difficult conversations and and and and a lot of pain, to be honest, because churches breaking up and splitting up and denominations splitting up That's painful. Now we have a very American centered focus, uh, because we're Americans. Yeah. Yeah. But is is uh you uh and you probably mostly are paying attention to the the uh big em big evangelical leadership in America, but what's your sense? Is this a completely worldwide thing that's affecting the church in on every continent? Yeah, um well so um I I don't pay attention to every area, but I I do know that this is very advan this is an advanced stage crisis in Europe Um and things like that. So I think pretty much everywhere in the Western world is dealing with this at some level. Um I've I've heard stories of brothers from Africa and brothers from Asia and stuff like that that just have no idea what we're talking about when we talk about this stuff and don't get it. Um so hope I'm hopeful that it's really not there uh and things of that nature. It's not being exported, if you will Um but I don't know for a fact. But I but I do know that in the Western world this is just everywhere. And arguably it was there in Venezuela and it's there in North Korea and China. You know, there's there's plenty of places where it's way worse there than it is here because of the nature of those countries uh buying into a anti-God, you know, total Marxist communist, socialist kind of worldview. You you said social justice inherently fractures and destroys community. And um Like I was trying to ask myself which part dis destroys like the best of these friends of mine that I talk about that that live in the democratic world and in the language that is there, they um when they talk about social justice, they they go right to the scriptures, you know, and so, you know, right out of the prophets, Amos and and uh uh Isaiah and uh and then of course you know James and and various places uh you know in scripture, Jesus himself, you know, Matthew 25. And and so those aspects of caring for one another, caring for justice. you know, and caring for those that that uh are hurting and and broken. Like that's not the part that destroys. What's the part of social justice you're saying that destroys Yeah I'm using social justice as a synonym with critical theory. So you you're 100% right. If you're applying social justice And you really are y doing it in a thoroughly biblical way where you're not showing partiality, whether they're black or white, things of that nature, and you're and you're and strictly following God's law. But you're calling this for whatever reason. Um I don't think it's a very smart idea, but if that's that's fine, then of course that won't that won't destroy a community. Um but if you are allowing the categories of critical theory the categories of whiteness and blackness for your your fellowship, your congregation, and to have different sets of rules, you know, white people can be racist, black people can't for your congregation. If if that's what you're doing and you're and you're buying into critical theory that inherently divides the unity that we have in Christ. So good good catch. Uh yeah, i if if you're doing it in a biblical way, of course, that's not going to divide the community. But of course if you're not, then it just inherently does. Yeah, well said. Well uh we we've got just a couple of uh of minutes left. Uh and by the way, real quickly, it seems to me that one of the problems is it's self-defeating because uh Yeah. You're never gonna have a flat universe. And so whoever is the oppressed, if they gain power, they're gonna become the oppressor. And so they just keep cannibalizing themselves in an endless cycle of That's right. You know, Troy, uh, you and I have talked a couple of times about the generations that uh that show up in Psalm thirty. Uh there's four different generations that uh that are identified there that seem to be like uh repeating generations, you know, swinging around uh the um plumb line that is Christ. And um The one that has always confused me is the one that says their teeth are sharpened like swords to devour the poor. And it occurs to me that nobody's done that worse than those that claim to speak for the poor through Marxism. that that in all of the places where Marxism has been um been applied, they do it in the name of the poor and yet they end up devouring. the very people that they claim to be speaking for. And it it it feels to me like we're in, you know, a generation that's headed in that direction that will come back out the other end, you know, uh, but that there's a um there's a it's It it's one of the ways that society goes on occasion when we're stuck in sin. It's systemic sin. Well, because we're all sinners, so that be every part of the system is Uh I I've I've been promoting only your YouTube channel and shame on me, I guess. Is there anything else, uh AD, that you would prefer or or or like to in addition ha draw attention to, something that another platform you're involved with? Yeah, thanks for asking. You know, the YouTube channel is the main thing, um, but I also do have a newsletter and um often I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll uh send out emails that include links to old videos that maybe you missed, things like that. And you can and but also I'll do you know written stuff as well. And you can find that at adrobles r-ob-l-s dot com. Okay, cool. And and John, we don't do this very often, but uh your organization, Cross Bridges, it's just crossbridges. com. com or dot org. Dot com dot com crossbridges dot com. Had another successful uh Frederick Goes Purple uh this year. Yeah, so congratulations on that Uh you can find us at WFMD. com. Um find the Faith Abate page there. You can you can get a see a picture of uh of A D uh Lee up there. Uh of course you can see him in live animated uh fashion on his YouTube channel as well. Um and we tease what's coming up in the coming week and then we have quick easy access to uh podcasts that have aired most recently. If you want to catch the old ones, you go to the audio vault section of the WFMD website and you can find uh I don't know hundreds and hundreds of podcasts back there. It's endless delight if you uh find yourself stumbling into that. Thanks so much for listening. I'm Troy Skinner. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right about now. God bless