This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. We're Faith Community Leaders. Wrestle over the truth. Ya ba do in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Let's get ready to rumble Let's get ready to rumble. Out. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the fate-to-bate master of ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. Is that it? And in this corner. Weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. Oh, mama, the notorious big bridge builder, John Soister. No, I'm just getting long done. Thomism. Or do you prefer Thomism? What is it? Is it only Hetty stuff or theological scholars, or can we all get a grasp of it? Does Thomas Aquinas help us to philosophically prove the existence of God? Well ready to dive in and learn about form and matter, form without matter, act potency, pure act Four causes of material, formal, efficient, and final. Oh boy. Sounds fun. That is crazy. Here to talk about this carnival of juicy topics, our John Schweitzer We just heard his voice a second ago. He's the founder of Bridges, Connecting Needs and Resources in Frederick County. And Hayden Booth. He's never heard the show before, which explains why he showed up today. He's a layman of the Roman Catholic Church, a uh Thomist or Thomist. Well we're not going to talk about that. So let's start. We're gonna talk about who you know Thomas Aquinas and who he is and all but let's start with you know his name You know, tomato tomato, potato, potato, all that sort of thing. Um I've I've usually heard it as Thomas Aquinas and I've heard it as Thomism. But right before the show you mentioned that some people don't say Aquinas. They say what'd you say Aquinius? Uh you could say Aquinas, you could say Aquinas. Aquinas? And the reason why is because he grew up where you just told us this a second ago? Aquino, Italy. Uh Kino, Italy. Italy. Yeah. So uh it's it's actually not his surname, it's just Back in the day you used to Thomas of Aquino. Correct. So we shouldn't call him Aquinas because It's like Li Leonardo is not to be called Da Vinci because he's Leonardo, you know Da Vinci's not a s is not a is not his name, it's just where he's from. Uh Vinci. They'd be like calling Jesus Nazareth. Right? Would they do call him the Nazarene? Right? But we could call you Frederick, Troy, a Frederick So you're gonna call me Frederick now? Yeah. That's better than what you usually call me, so I'll take it. Alright, and that the the the Thomism, Thomism. Uh I uh I heard you right before you went on. You you said Thomism, but I've always heard it as Thomism, so is that just a matter of preference too? Or have I been saying it wrong and hanging out with a bunch of lugheads all these years. I wonder is that like a Protestant Catholic distinction possibly? I have only ever heard Thomas, but I think the both could probably be And you've only you've only ever heard it as Thomism? Because I've ever only heard Thomism, but I don't know that I've had extensive uh you know experience of just grappling with Thomasm and so uh that could be a uh you know just not having enough opportunity to be with it. Thomas Yes. Tommy to his friends. Tommy. Yeah. So for some reason we've got a bit of a a hum in one of the microphones. So dear listener, I apologize. I'll do my best to try to ride gain a little bit so that uh when uh Hayden is not speaking, I'll pull his mic down a little bit so that hum's not quite so prominent. I'm not sure what's going on with that. There's a short. We only have the very best equipment here at the face to face studios, let me tell you If you only know what they pay me for doing this show. Alright, so yeah Yeah, John's trying to uh be Mr. Fix It. I know we're getting off to a kind of a rambling start here, but uh we answered the question how many guys did it take to to change a light bulb earlier. It took two. Well or four. There were four people there, right? There was but were I mean There was one, you, putting the light bulb in. Yeah. There was me help hoping to hold the little screws. that go into place pointing out they need to change the light bulb. So we we had critical roles in this. But we had Hayden there as a witness. We were totally distracted this morning. And then Laura who sometimes you hear do news here on WFMD. Uh she was uh there uh as the foreman And what did you say? Moral support or emotional support? Yeah. Yeah, so it took four. It took four. So how many uh of us does it take to uh describe Thomism. Yeah, well I'm thinking that Hayden might know a little bit more about this than I do. So why don't you wait, can can we just describe Hayden like like somewhere along the way you and I were talking about this is like a little bit of a Catholic Protestant thing between he and I. Uh Hayden hasn't always been Catholic, though his mom was Catholic. Now I'm telling your story. Sorry. Uh but Uh as we had the discussion, uh he and I have grappled with like the role of Scripture uh and uh how trustworthy is Scripture as opposed to human reason. And in the context of those discussions which were always uh I felt and uh you know, you'll have to answer for yourself, but I always felt like they were really rigorous between us. Like we We dig into some some uh really challenging, you know, one another's perspectives and what was right or not. And so after college You started reading this book by Faser. Tell us a little bit about like like how'd you get connected to the book? Sure. Um so I was I I was initially brought back into but brought back into Christian faith through C. S. Lewis as as so many people are in mere Christianity. And um that that tickled my my my intellectual sense for for a little bit and um it kinda kind of tapered off once you once you you know get accustomed to the argument and y y you're yearning for something more and I was I was turned on the thought of of Thomas Aquinas and I heard about this guy, Edward Faver Fazer, who had uh Written this uh this this book, it's uh basically Aquinas for beginners. Uh started reading it, fell in love with with uh with Aquinas Thought And that's pretty much all she wrote. And what was it about Aquinas thought that you're like, wow, that's really amazing. There is, I think, a tendency, especially for people in my generation, to um I think the Christians are sort of anti-intellectual or there's there's you know we just are subject to the God of the Gaps and we just have to constantly be shrinking back and just relying on just faith alone to get us to uh some kind of understanding of God and it it it felt good to know that our reason could get us there. At least, you know. Yeah, and so it was the fact that he he didn't just have answers, but he had like robust answers that that could speak to a lot of the Uh well, this uses gaps differently. You just talked about God of the gaps, but there's kind of a atheism of the gaps, or there's gaps in atheistic philosophy that are that are pretty perennial in philosophers of the day in terms of not being able to find a reason, you know, to to live at the end of the day and uh struggling to to you know, just common sense put put A plus B equals C, you know, into a logical construct. And so that those gaps in a lot of atheistic philosophy seemed to be addressed by Aquinous thoughts a thousand years ago, right? Absolutely. Which is crazy. I think the other thing that's so appealing about Aquinas is he doesn't shy away from his opponent's best arguments. He will present an argument and then he will present the best arguments that he could conceivably come up with contrary to his argument. And these are things you you read the arguments and you go, Oh man, I don't know how he's gonna deal with this one. This seems uh Seems like it's kind of a kind of a killer here. So you started with this Phaser's book on Aquinas Thought. But now I say Aquinas all the time, sorry. It's because of you, you realize that. Like I mean it was about a year ago that we had this discussion or s or somewhere in there. And so ever since then I've said Aquinous instead of Aquinas and so I've been like a c Catholicized or something, you know, in the meantime. But um Uh you fell in love with Faser Faser's description, so you've gone back and spent some time reading his Summa Theologica and his his his masterpieces Yeah, so the uh the Suma is is is is very tough to read and I think that's why uh Faeser's so appealing to a lot of people is he he kinda brings it down into Lehman's terms and he he he describes it in the way that's it's a lot of it's a lot of people. describe Phaser as Layman's terms. Phaser definitely uh makes makes a aquinas uh more accessible but Phaser is still like a pretty uh advanced level of, you know, discussion, even though he's just an introduction to Aquinas, which It says a lot about, you know, where Aquinas goes when he goes there for sure. I would say that um you have to you have to read especially Aquinas' thought and you know, commentators on Aquinas like Ballister McIntyre, Edward Faser, you have to read them a little bit differently than you would read, you know, b really anybody else. You have to There there were pages that I spent a week, two weeks on just sitting there and like, okay, man, I'm not sure. I get to define that word And you realize at the end of the day that that that page is like half of the definition of one of the words. You know, like like it it really slows down and they're getting at very fine uh nuances between, you know, or shades of meaning between uh what it is that they're discussing. And so, all right, so can you summarize Aquinas do thought for us? No. And that's the end of the show. Basic introduction to Thomism. It's uh it the thing is it's not just it's it's not one thought, it's not uh one argument specifically. The Suma is it's it's probably Let me reframe it a little bit. When you first read the the book that was kind of a prim or an introduction to Thomas Aquinas. Uh and you said it really kind of drew you into his thought and stuff. So this beginner's guide, what were I one or two or three of the things that kind of struck you that made you interested? Like, huh? I didn't realize that Thomas Aquinas was responsible for that line of thinking in the church or huh, I never knew that. Yeah. Um I think the biggest one was it It's something that I'd always kind of kind of know in the back of my head, but that truth was truth no matter where it came from. Um for Aquinas, he he people say he baptized Aristotle into the Christian faith. He brought Aristotle's thought into the Christian faith. Uh in much the same way that uh Augustine brought in uh Platonic thought from Plato and Socrates. Uh much the same way that Alistair McIntyre and Pierre Taladri Chardin brought in Marx into Christian thought Uh Thomas Merton later on brings Chong Zhu, the the the Taoist philosopher, into a little bit of Christian thought. And um there was something there was something a little bit liberating, knowing that truth was truth. And that's where you're saying that even your your return to Christ was uh led there by C. S. Lewis kind of kind of uh shoring that up. on your behalf. And so then this study of of Aquinas, uh Aquinas was was uh kind of along those same lines that truth is truth. And this whole uh the this part of uh Aqu Aquinas' thought. Now I'm going back the other way. I I can't even I I don't even know how to say Aquinas, Aquinas. Uh that that he really brought Aristotle kinda into, you know, church and church thinking is pretty important to kind of what he represents and I think arguably is uh part of the reason why many of the uh reformers in the Protestant world uh uh had problems you know, kind of with who he w was and where uh you know, like what he represents in the church. But I but I think we're planning to get to that You know, in a couple of shows, so I don't want to like jump the gun on that. Yeah, well uh by the way, this is the Faith Debate on nine thirty WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. The voice you heard right before mine is Jonathan Schweitzer and the other voice you're hearing and again my apologies with a little bit of buzz every time you hear him speak uh Hayden Booth. We'll see if we can't get that uh fixed at some point. Um maybe it's not as bad to you the listeners it is to me or my headphones. I don't know, but Um let's see if we can't place just because we're trying to lay the foundation of groundwork and give a basic introduction to who Thomas Aquinas is and and what impact his thought has had on the church. Um so let's look at a kind of historical arc. For the by the way, I think go way way back in the like way back machine. Pretend we have a DeLorean and we're gonna go back several thousand uh you know years There are those that argue that um Plato and Aristotle and all those ancient Greek philosophers that have uh strongly influenced uh Western thinking, that they themselves were influenced by uh the people of God uh and that uh that's how they came to these philosophical understandings of truth is they were exposed to the truth from the people who God had exposed the truth to. So it's kind of interesting. If that's true, I don't know how we would trace that out. That's a theory, right? That's not a There is there are books and people that try to make scholarly attempts to to line that line that up and say this connects to that, connects to that, and then they try to make a case. I don't think it's definitive I mean there's no extant paperwork from back then, right? There's nothing in existence that would help us. But it is interesting to me if that's true. Is it like the lost tribes of Israel or something somehow interacted with them or like Yeah the yeah I I don't know uh some of the So now you've thrown it out there and I'm just gonna have to let it go. You have to look it up, Google it. Yeah I'll Google it. You'll find the truth on Google. There's nothing wrong with with a Google search. So uh but if that's true, let's just say for the sake of arguments, it's it's kind of an interesting thing because you have this the this uh Grecian thought right in uh introduced into the Christian thinking. But if What I just said is true, then you're just reintroducing into Christian thinking what was already there from the beginning but maybe had been deemphasized or or ignored for a while or whatever. So it's just interesting. So if Aristotle had the truth, he got it from God somehow, right? Either a direct revelation or from God's people somehow. So it's I think it's uh it's an interesting thing. Um could it be argued that that uh that Aquinas is like the the beginning of the Renaissance, like like the beginning of the return to the classical thinkers. And that's actually what I wanted to ask. Do we are you capable of can of lining it up historically? You know, there's the early let's start with the early church. There's the early church, right? And then there's the persecution period and we're all in hiding uh huge growth though and then Constantine comes along, makes it legal. The church uh is is is a um arguably a preferred religion uh for the Roman Empire. That's right. And uh and then the history picks up uh rapidly. Like there's not as there's not a whole lot of Christian history those first three, four hundred days. Ambrose and then Augustine. But then there's a bunch of history that happens. Now are you able to kind of trace out where uh Aquinas kind of fits? I think I could, but I'm not sure I would do it as well as you could. Sure, I c I do my best shot. I'm not a historian, but I can absolutely try. Um so, you know, we start out with uh with the early church thinkers. We have Origin, we have um Augustine in the uh three hundreds. Uh moving forward. Uh Augustine was four hundredths, five hundredths? Because the three hundredths was Constantine, right? Sorry, I just totally corrected the right. So And I'm not trying to get the dates so much. I'm trying to get the a feel for the arc. The flow. Exactly. Yeah. So moving up from from Augustine we have um Correct me if I'm wrong, Justin Martyr was a maybe. Justin Martyr was back with the early church fathers, and so he was right after Origin. Um and Eusebius, those guys were all back then So after Aug Augustine, seems like there was a couple monastic guys in between there before uh Aquinas. What are Aquinas' dates? Uh thirteen hundreds. Yeah. So you have uh almost a thousand years from, you know, Constantine and uh and a couple of hundred years after that it would be um um Uh was it confessions, is that what uh City of God and confession. City of God and confessions. Augustine, yeah. Yeah, or Augustine Yeah, there you go, messing with my vowels again. Aquinas, Augustine, Aquinas, Augustine. And and so now we have some serious longstanding uh uh thinking going on and and so I think you have like some intellectualizing entering the church at that point, right? I think that that's a That's a momentous happening. Reason. It's like the return of reason. But then there's all this fighting that takes place. And so you have the Orthodox Church splits off from the Roman Church. Uh and there's all this. That was about a thousand ABC. That's about three hundred years exactly. So then there's this split that takes place and you have the Orthodox who become a little bit more uh attuned to like spiritual mystical understanding of the scriptures and they don't want to have the debates. Uh and though the Western church, the Roman church is a little bit more getting into the nitty-gritty details of well what do we mean by that? How are we defining our terms? You have all these All these little uh they they booked a lot of rooms at the uh area uh conference center uh and they had these little confabs and they'd get together and they'd figure out what they thought you know, they thought about things. Yeah. These councils is what I'm referring to. Yeah. They'd have these councils. And and then you go into an area where Um the people aren't maybe learning what they should, not hearing what they should be hearing from the pulpit. Um and so we enter in kind of a dark period of of understanding and of uh intellectual understanding and biblical understanding. Uh and so then we uh ultimately end up entering into the scholastic period Yeah. Which is almost like a hyper intellectualizing and uh I think has its negatives. And I think Aquinas fits somewhere in that, right? Is he like a transitional figure for that? He right? More than I would say most people would think of him as probably the foremost scholastic thinker. Right. And so people that are critical of scholasticism are critical of Aquinas. Generate generally. For a lot of the same reasons, aren't they? Yeah. So that that that that critique would sort of come in the form of, you know, Dunskodis a little bit later on Occam. would be kind of a critique of the thing. Luther nails his ninety-five pieces. Right? That's fifteen, sixteen, seventeen. That's like within seventy years of the rise of the uh the printing press, Gutenberg's printing press. And so Aquinas was actually right during the in the time frame that was the bubonic plague time frame. 'Cause the bubonic plague was in the mid thirteen hundreds when uh when that came through. And then, you know, that gave that gave rise to the the uh Gutenberg printing press and then the the Protestant Reformation was was uh strengthened by the ability to print everything that he said and send it all over Europe. And the reason I want to go through that history, I don't know if it's helpful or instructive or not, but uh if anybody's paying close attention and taking notes, uh though it will be a quiz afterwards. I think it is helpful because I'm trying to try to figure out where does Aquinas fit in the argumentation that takes place? And so he's uh late enough that he's not embraced by everybody in the church because there's already the split with the Orthodox Church Um so he doesn't have some advantage with the earlier church fathers, for example. Right. Um and he's close enough to the uh to the Reformation, which happened just a couple of hundred years later, that he's maybe more closely aligned with not just classicism. but also aligned with um uh Roman Catholicism. And so the Protestants maybe don't give him uh as much weight Right. Is that fair? Sure. I I would say that um uh there's definitely been something of a revival in mystic thought, uh and especially my church, Roman Catholic Church, but um I would say you absolutely don't have to be a Catholic to you know, respect Aquinas and even agree with what he has to say. I mean I know plenty of Protestants who are very big readers of Aquinas, uh love his work. Yeah, so I agree with that. Uh uh Francis Schaeffer I think is is a famous one uh in the last century that that argued that that Aquinas like like he summarized it that Aquinas was the one that said, Okay, there's the book of Revelation But then there's the book of the world and that you can find truth in both of those places. And so f uh Schaeffer kind of looks back to um Aquinas as as a key point where uh where there is an allowed competition, I I think is the way that Schaefer would put it for truth, that in Aquinas was was a profound unity. Like like he he synthesized those things very effectively, but that it was the guys that came after Aquinas that uh didn't do as good a job at uh at synthesizing them. And so then the result was that people that cared about the Bible uh over the next like four hundred years or so split off from those that cared about the book of creation, the book of science. And so so that was kind of the birth of of these two competing uh approaches to discovering the truth. And like you're saying Yes, it's true that there's truth in uh in science and and things to discover, but that's where Things got muddled and where most of the the Protestants' discomfort with it arose is that they felt like there was a need to return to the Bible And so the the Catholic uh um uh what's the word, intention or um commitment to to not uh shut down the study of reason and the use of reason, uh kind of kept uh that alive in those circles. Is that accurate? Well we'll find out if it's accurate next week This is a faith debate. Not a whole lot of debating going on this week 'cause we're laying the groundwork, but there'll maybe be some debating on next week's show. By the way, uh happy belated Thanksgiving to our Canadian friends and uh and a happy belated Columbus Day to uh all of our American friends. Yeah, yeah. We're allowed to celebrate that still? Uh not really. Sorry, so now we get into it too. I apologize. I just offended, you know, a whole bunch of people's. Uh anyway, Jonathan Sweiteson, he uh the founder of Bridges. Um you have a Facebook page and website. and stuff now, right? I think so you can go online, Google Bridges, Frederick, John Schweitzer, and you'll see what's going on with that. And uh Hayden Booth, a uh layman of the Roman Catholic Church and a uh Thomist or Thomist will uh we'll we'll hash that out between this week and next week. I'm Troy Skinner. You can visit us online at wfmd. com keyword faith. You'll see a rundown of all the shows that are coming up in coming weeks and uh and be able to link the podcast of this show and other shows uh if you care to do so. Till next week. Thanks so much for listening. God bless.