This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table grab bag with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the good doctor. Is there a doctor in the house? Do you think Jesus would go to church? Um yeah, he probably would. I would think he would live. He created the church, didn't he? Sure. Yeah, I agree that Jesus would um go to church. But documentally. The faith debate is on the world wide web at WFMD dot com keyword faith, sponsored by high low auto sales and tire pros of Frederick. Jesus would lead a church on a hill. I don't think he'd be in a building. I tend to think churches can be a bit like a social club these days. But often people go for all the wrong reasons. It's become uh either a habit or a thing to do. without the reverence that should be there, in my opinion. In this corner, weighing in with a master of divinity from Reform Theological Seminary Mix, Master Troy Skinner. In this corner, weighing in with a PA. HD from Westminster Theological Seminary, the good Doctor James Broadhurst. I don't think to be devout one has to go to church. The church means the people, it doesn't mean the building. So I think he wants truly in the spirit. I tend to think he could probably praise his praise anywhere. But can you praise while you're listening to the radio? 930 WFMD. Welcome to the Faith Debate. I am your Mick Master apparently Troy Skinner And the good doctor Jase Broadhurst. Hey, how are you? He is the pastor of Poolsville Baptist in Poolsville, Maryland, and we are joined this week by Dr. Peter Della Santina. Hi there. And uh you are a doctor From uh where'd you go? Bethel seminary. Bethel. Bethel and Celeste. Bethlehem Bethel. Bethel. Bethel. I didn't study Hebrew like like uh. There it is. Yeah, Fuller Uh by way of Fuller out in California and then uh time in Minnesota, fantastic. Let's take a little Minnesota accent from here. Oh yeah, I saw you and all if you never know if you need to get some uh Okay, we can't be friends anymore. Hey You pick it up after nine years in Minnesota you have to be part of the culture, so now you might have noticed at the beginning there were some uh clips from people on the street talking about the church, and so that kind of sets the scene for us a little bit. If if Jesus were running the church I heard a rumor that he might be. If he if he is. If he were running the church, what kind of church would he run? What does the what is the church supposed to look like? Do you even need to even go to church? And if you do go to church, what should you expect to find there? So what we're hoping to tackle this week on the Faith Debate is um how you would know a Christian church when you saw one and how you might recognize a non-Christian church if you're not seeing one. So which one of the good doctors would uh like to take a stab at a couple of things, two, three things maybe that So what what are the marks? I wonder what these would be. Yeah, because I mean every Right w there's lots of different marks of the church. Um Mark Dever has made famous nine marks of the church. Is he one of them? I don't think he's one of the marks, no, but he's just working talking about it. And we we enjoy those, you know, and Calvin has two or Let's at least get the top three. Number one. Number one is the rightly preached word. That's right. And um as you said earlier, uh rightly preached and rightly received by the people. Yeah. You can have a preacher preaching his heart out on one floor. So that's uh that was one of Calvin's big ones, right? Sacraments. Now of course what the word rightly means is going to depend on whether we're talking about it. And we're talking about two sacraments, the Lord's Supper and Baptism. Okay, although we'll swing back to the state. Again, not the Protestant thing. Yeah. So there's a lot of things. And then church discipline would be another one, right? Yeah. Yeah. Let me let me back up. Oh we added that. Yeah, to John Calvin's view on the marks. Yeah. But I think arguably rightfully so. But we'll get there later. So preaching the word rightly So what is preaching the word rightly? What does that sound like? What does that feel like? What does that look like? Does that mean that uh it's expository, or does it mean it's topical? Does that mean that it's uh A long sermon or a short sermon? Does it mean it's kind of traditional or kind of hip and young and the the uh you know the the the preacher has a soul patch and and and holes in his jeans? Um does it mean they use a PowerPoint or don't? You know, wha what what is rightly preached. Great question. Well it the the preaching of God's word has to uh namely glorify God and direct people to Jesus Christ. So all the trappings, the things you're saying, PowerPoint, all those things, we can cover those things, but first and foremost it needs to be the explicit, clear gospel message. uh taught throughout scripture both old and new testament and pointing people to Christ our Lord and Savior. So the style points really don't Amount to much? So if if the whole s so what I'm hearing If I go to a church and they talk about, you know, eight ways to have a better marriage, six ways to financial freedom, uh, seventeen tips on better parenting, and that's what I walk away with and that wasn't a rightly preached sermon, is that what I'm understanding? Well, I haven't heard that sermon. Is that your is that what you're pushing on? Yeah, Fool's Will Baptist anytime. Uh seventeen tips for financial freedom. Yeah, I I mean I don't necessarily uh I mean I think that's a great sermon title because it because it brings people, they want to hear that kind of thing. Um but yeah, if you're just giving them interesting points that are helpful in life, then you haven't preached. Um preach, you know, preach carusso proclamation. It's to proclaim Christ. So when you said the gospel, I of course want to define that, what that means, but something in the area of Jesus is king. Um So that has to come out. It's not a lesson. It's not a it's not story time, although it includes a lesson and storytime, but it should be it should be proclamation. It should be uh designed for you to encounter God because um heaven and earth have met somehow. And we encounter God in his revealed word. That's where preaching starts. It has to start with the Word of God. It doesn't start with the pastor's opinion or what's on the front page of the Washington Post or fitting in a sermon series because it seems like that will be hip or interesting. It has to begin with God's reveal word. And at Nealsville Presbyterian Church, Chairmantown Maryland. They're a shameless flag? Well, wait, shame on me because I didn't mention that in my intro. I should have so founded eighteen forty five. I got hung up on the Bethel Bethel question and forgot to mention the name of your church. So I think we agree. Expository preaching. looking at the Word of God, understanding it, helping your people to understand the Word in its context, in that time. For that audience, where it points to Christ and then application for today, how it's relevant in our lives today as disciples of Christ if we're Christian, if we're if we're born again, or by way of evangelism. That's our bread and butter. That's what we do. See I would I guess I would I as much as I agree with you, expository preaching is what we're talking about here, I'm not sure that expository preaching is the definition of a church. So I I would I would have a difficult time saying that some of these great pastors out there who don't do preaching that's expository aren't preaching. Like there's no church there. So I don't think that's what you're saying. That's not what yeah. Right. But I want to jump in just real quick it's what I'm hearing so far in the faith debate this episode is bait and switch is alive and well. Because Jay says, you know, that's good for a sermon titled Seventeen Steps of Financial Freedom, but then once I've suckered you in, I can catch you with the Word of God. Oh, is that how is that how it is? And you can even have seventeen points if you want to, yes. But if it's not If it's not aiming towards deep. Yeah, that's right. There's a lot of that going around though. The you know, throwing out titles or styles that are just gonna draw folks in and you see that with with cookbooks these days. Have you heard this thing where they use uh swear words and name uh you know to make it edgy. I do that in my sermons. Is that a problem? We've got a coin jar here. He's putting dollar bills every time I can't keep taping them. But seriously I do want to follow up on one of the big words that came up. Yeah, this is our word of the week. Uh years ago Isadua featured Word of the Week. I remember that. Uh but I'm getting back to it this week. Expository. What in the world does that mean? I thought you liked the Caruso better, but alright. Exposure, go ahead. Yes. Caruso Proclamation. Alright. Expository. Well, I'm trying to use different words in the way you do it. But to take from scripture, to start in scripture and to move through scripture and And clearly and plainly, what is it what does it teach? What is it saying? Right. So you're not just hitting a topic that happens to be cool in the news and then discussing it and then throwing in a verse here and there. that helps you I'll tell you what you would do it anyway. We're walking through the book of Exodus for in Exodus twenty nine this past week. Great book. Yeah. Fantastic. Terrible book Are there any things you want to say that was about the ordination of the priest, which we'll probably speak a little bit about just that but and I'll tell you that is the That is a difficult passage. A passage I've never heard read in on Sunday and talking about three different kinds of sacrifices and what to do with the blood suffer. But there's insight in there, not only for what it meant to ancient Israel, but what it means about our relationship to Christ and and him being the the the atoning sacrifice for our sin and then how that relates to us today. I love that. I love Hearing from folks after church, wow, we were talking about Exodus and then you related that to the book of Hebrews or the Gospel of John and and And made it relevant. At least that's what I'm aiming for. Yeah. I I I think I think my only concern with the people who are always talking about expository preaching, they have to do expository preaching, is because they have what I would consider this false understanding of And again, let me just remind you, I this is how I preach, so if you want to come to Pulseville Baptist, it's expository. But they have this goes on and on Yeah, it's really long expository. That We're going to get the right message from the text. If we do it this way, this is the way that we get God's message. As if as if that's Just by using a particular method of research or a particular method of preaching, we get God's message. That's why we we said w the right the right preaching. It includes the pastor's heart, which has to be humble. You're coming to this with a great degree of humility and uncertainty and and and in that there's boldness, but the uncertainty of Lord I pray these words, you know, are are your words through me. So I think that you're right. So when when we taught we bat that term around, sometimes it's used sort of to to to put others down. And that's not That's not the way it ought to be. And there are some incredible storytellers which I'm not great I don't have a lot of great stories. I think I ran through all of my great illustrations within the first few months of being in the pulpit. I sort of ran through that and I was sort of tapped out. Some people are fantastic with using expensive uh telling jokes. I can't do that, but humor and interest yeah. Looks funny to me. Well I have a face for radio, so That's why I'm here, right? Exactly. This is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. We are joined this week by Dr. Peter Delicentina, who is fr uh the pastor at Nealsville Presbyterian Church. And where is it located again? Germantown, Maryland, two zero seven zero one. Frederick Road. Come on down. Services at 930 eleven. And the good doctor, Jaith Rodhurst from Foolsville Baptist Church. And um I want to shift gears a little bit here in a second to talk about sacraments, but before I do, uh I I don't want to unfairly put you uh leave people with the impression that you guys said something you didn't mean to say. Uh and and uh and I don't mean to say you said something sloppily. I just want to give a chance to say. I want to give you a chance to say more about it. Right. That doesn't mean that you're not trying to speak in a way that is relevant and touching on the concerns of our contemporary life, right? I mean, uh absolutely Yeah, so you do the research, you do your work in scripture, I hope, and but then you see what is this what is this trying to answer? What is this how will this be helpful? And then you You're obviously going to think about what your church, your congregation is going through, or what a larger congregation is, you know, or the town or something like that. So yeah, you're gonna bring those things in. I hope that you would be relevant. The word is not the best word, but uh yeah. And there's some really hip pastors out there and we s we we're let's God bless them for for what they're able to communicate. I think that's the work that you do in your study, for the hours you put into studying God's Word and those resources, but also as a pastor, you have to be out with your people. What are the concerns that they have? What's happening in their lives? And you can tell if a pastor is just uh working on a sermon and delivering it without any connection to the congregation, it I think it I think it rings through. But really being impacted by the f by the people in your life, by the concerns and and by the joys and and celebrations, all you bring all of that to this conversation. So if you go to a church and visit or if you're at a church regularly but you've never thought about these things before and now you're now you've heard this show, you're on your way to church right now. Right. And you walk in and you're gonna good for you. Way to go. Go to church. You're going to uh begin to tell that it is a true church of Jesus Christ, that is a Christian church because the pastor is up there demonstrating his a heart for the God's people, and that in his preaching he's bringing people to the person of Jesus Christ. Like that's That's kind of the shorthand version of what the first ten, fifteen minutes of this show has been. Is that a pretty fair encapsulation? I think that's pretty good. I I would like to emphasize uh a little piece because we talked a lot about expository preaching, like the method. And that's not the mark of the church. I mean that might be that me might be other people's marks, and I think that's wonderful. Um but it's it's what you just said, it's that that they're pointing to Christ. And I've heard and still hear quite a lot of sermons. So as a professor, I also hear tons of people give their sermons and they practice them and they try and it's funny how Jesus doesn't show up in a sermon. Or he gets tagged on at the end with part of the sinner's prayer. You know, like here's a whole good story about Exodus fourteen and, you know, you're going across the Red Sea. You might remember that passage because he just preached through it. Um but it it never ends up going to Christ. So for me, even if it's a five-minute sermon, a forty-five-minute sermon doesn't make any difference if you are ending with Christ in s in some way Even if you've done it sloppily, I I sometimes I think, like 'cause not all people are equally gifted in communicating the word. If they end in Jesus, Jesus is King I I don't uh I don't wanna say, well that's good enough, don't worry. Do the rest good too, but that might be it. Yeah Well, take it a step further maybe and see if you agree that it's not not just Jesus, like mentioning the name of Jesus somehow validates everything that the pastor said. Right, Jesus at the cross, n the necessity of his atoning sacrifice and how that applies to us and how we have a need for his perfect obedience to the Father because we fall short. Why doesn't that that's the gospel? Right. We're condemned without and without the cross we're and with the cross You know, because of the cross, Christians are saved. I mean, i doesn't that have to be a part of it too? That that has to be uh part of it, of course. And in fact that has to inform the whole service. So if I'm going to a church, is this a church, Lord, that you want me to go to, it's not only what's heard from the pulpit, it's the entire uh service. Now, sometimes we hedge, we can go to a church where we go, we need to have an altar call every Sunday. I don't know that we need that every single Sunday where every sermon has to be the best you've ever heard. The difficulty is that we're all uh able to reach out to the best preaching or or at least what we each have our own interests kind of sermons that we want to hear online just with the click of a button. But you're a prefecture pastor, right? Yeah. How could you ever do an altar call? You don't have an altar. We don't. We have a communion table. I have to tell our our Catholic brothers and sisters that that sorry coming to Nielsen is not An altar it is a table. That's right. That's right. That's part of the second mark, Troy. Yeah, okay, so let's transition Segway. of uh of a of a true church, as Calvin would say, would be the right administration of the sacraments, that is the Lord's Supper and and baptism. Now in fairness to uh Christian brothers and sisters who aren't in the room, there are those that would argue for at least five additional. And I say at least because our Orthodox brothers and sisters say that there are seven major sacraments and some other lesser mysteries uh and sacraments as well. So but they would include marriage or matrimony, uh um Uh last rights, right, or holy unction. Um I'm going trying to just up top my head. Uh holy orders Um I'm missing two. You're looking at me. I can't help you. I got two. I got two for you, Troy. I know there there are a lot of Anointing of the Sick and Confirmation Good job. Right? So they would include those. Protestants don't. Protestants have two, some have three. So let's talk about that. Yeah. Right, there's baptism. There's the Eucharist, the Lord's Supper, the Holy Communion, the whatever you want to call that. And uh foot washing. Some traditions would hold that as a sacrament. Really? Or or an ordinance. What's the difference between a sacrament and ordinance? The Baptist Brothers. Yeah, well I mean whenever we get into this discussion with Calvin, since Calvin's the one who brought it up, he's the one who uh kind of found this middle ground between, for instance, like Luther's understanding and So uh sa sacrament ha I mean for me it's something hidden, uh something mysterious. So i I think it's kinda like the word apostle. You know, there's only certain apostles, but there's tons of apostles. Like apostles just means the sent ones. So e y I mean if you want to call yourself an apostle, that's fine. But you're not an apostle, you're not the apostle. You know, so Same with sacraments. Like I I always consider the preached word a sacrament. Like there's something mysterious that goes on when the word is preached, something different than when it's taught uh at a McDonald's or just you know had a conversation over the phone. There's something something I think that God uses, that the Holy Spirit comes alongside and and does something. So that's sacramental. That's sacramental. That's right. So I I don't know I I mean maybe I'm not a very good uh Protestant. I'm not sure I put too much stock in these particular two things. Although we do both of them. You know, we do baptism and we do the Lord's Supper, whether it's rightly administered, I'm not sure if Calvin, Luther and Le would all fight with me on that one. fuzzed that up completely. But let's let's use our context because I'll sort of full disclosure, the three of us on the show today are all Protestants. And the three of us on the show will be most comfortable saying that there are two quote unquote sacraments. Right. Uh so let's just live there for now. Um baptism. We could do a series of shows on baptism. Does it matter just Presbyterians are wrong. Let's just say that. Does it matter? Does it matter exactly what words uh you say when you do it. Does it matter if it's uh uh an adult believer or you know a grown person a believer or can it be You know Well this is going to turn into a battle royale if we talk about the Bastis and the President. No it's not. Because actually at Nielsville, um in the past seven years I've had the privilege of baptizing more what would be believer baptisms in the seven years I've been there than I think we've done in the past previous thirty. There have been so many uh adult conversions experiences which is a beautiful, amazing thing. Myself, I was baptized when I was eighteen. The youth pastor says, anyone else ready to be baptized? So that idea of coming forward and making decision for Christ, dying to our old self, being raised to new life in Christ, and being immersed uh in the waters and coming up to new life. It's such a powerful, powerful symbol. But for our expressed purposes on this show Um if you walk into a church and your whole life you've thought that believers only baptism is the way to go, but you walk into a Presbyterian church that believes in infant baptism by sprinkling. Is that a mark against that church? Like this isn't a true church of Jesus Christ because they don't do baptism the right way. They don't get the sacraments right. Or can true churches disagree a little bit in how like how firmly do we have to hold on to that stuff. Gosh, I hope we can disagree a little bit. I I you all just want to leave it there. I think that there's wonderful uh expressions that and Jason and I have had this conversation before about baptism, believer baptism and infant baptism. And the church unfortunately has been divided and has fought over this for centuries. I think that we've come to a place where So the exact mode, the way the mode of it is expressed, there's some room to navigate within that But what so then what is important? The fact that a church believes that one, however it's done, needs to be baptized, that once you be become a believer, it's incumbent upon you as a now proclaimed follower of Christ to Be baptized if you haven't. And if you bel if you're in a tradition where your church baptizes infants, once you have a baby that's at a certain age where the your tradition, your denomination, your church would hold that it's time that that there's a aspect of obedience that they should be held to to be baptized. Is that what we're talking about when we're recognizing the marks of a true church? We're we're talking about the we're talking about the very first thing that Jesus commands uh disciples of his church that he is the founder and the head of. And actually I'm not doing a very good job paying c attention to the clock, so it's almost a cliffhanger question. So we'll pick back up on next week's show on this. We've only got about 15 seconds left. So thank you so much. Chase Broadhurst and uh Peter Della Santina. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. Thanks so much for listening. Until next week, God bless. Oh, and our sponsors Hilo Auto Sales and Tyre Proza Frederick.