This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table grab bag with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the good doctor. Is there a doctor in the house? Jesus taught that there's no greater love. And the love a man has when he lays his life down for his own brother. The faith debate is on the World Wide Web at WFMD. com keyword faith, sponsored by high low auto sales and tire pros of Frederick. And Jesus was telling Jews to love your own brother, not hate each other. Then let there be a racial unity among the Jewish people. Well this is what Jesus Intended for white people to do too. In this corner, weighing in with a Master of Divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, mix Master Toy Skinner. In this corner, weighing in with a PhD from Westminster Theological Seminary. Seminary, the good doctor Chase Broadhurst. Yes, this is the Faith Debate. I am Froy Skinner. He's the good doctor, Chase Broadhurst. Hello. Yes, sir. Hey. And we're joined this week by, again, from last week, Dr. Peter Gellison. Tina from the uh Nielsville Church, uh Presbyterian Church, and the Jason's Church in the Foolsville Baptist Church. So that guy's nuts. In the world, where do you find these people? Uh we see y'all two weeks ago. No, you can find anything on the internet, I'm telling you. Good and bad, indifferent, whatever, it's up there. Uh we started a kind of this arc of shows. Last week we were talking about uh the beginning to talk about the marks of a true Christian church, and we're continuing that conversation on this week's show. And so clearly you're looking for racial purity in your church. And if you find racial purity, you know you found a true church. Is that that's what that guy was saying? That's not what any of us believe, right? I'm just not convinced that's what he was saying either. What show are we on? You don't think that's what he's saying? Really? No, I don't. No, we've got to go back and listen to that clip. I think I think you gotta hear it from. You are a gracious hearer of the case. Oh gracious. So last week we started talking about the uh we decided we were going to focus on three marks of the church. Some would argue that there are more, but we're focusing on three for our purposes on the faith debate. And the first one we kind of exhausted, right? Exhausted There is nothing more. The first more ink could be spilt, no more words could be spilled. We have we have settled this definitively. The definitive answer on the word rightly preached. There it is. If you want to know, listen to last week's show on the podcast. You can do that by going to WFMD dot com. Keyword Faith takes you to the Faith Debate blog page. There you'll find a a a running list of recent shows described the the guests, the topics that we're covered, that sort of thing, along with a hyperlink to the audio vault section of the website, which is where you can access uh all or as many as our webmaster could figure out how to put up on the website. But the current shows definitely uh are supposed to be up there. So give if you go up there Like within ten minutes of the conclusion of today's show, which by the way today is uh Palm Sunday. If that sounded really like That was right off the time. uh n I don't have a lot of reference in that. Whatever. Whatever. Wow. So I apologize. Apologize to you are a listener and to my Lord and Savior for my flippancy on on that Um what was I just saying now? I totally lost my train of thought. We were talking about the second mark we started to talk about the second mark last week, which uh is the the sacraments rightly administered and we were focusing uh and we Talk about how there are more than just two or three that people will focus on. But everybody on the panel for this show, all three of us, come from a Protestant point of view, and so there are two sacraments in our world. And so we're focusing on scripture. The purpose we're having is not a conversation. So we're focusing on two. Only two, yes. And we started to talk about baptism And we're going to continue to talk about baptism uh to finish that up. Again, exhaustively uh here. Oh that's what I was going. So if you want to have the definitive answer on uh the word rightly preached, go back and listen to the podcast because that's all you ever need to hear. Um don't read anymore anything. up talking about baptism as much as we can on this show and then we're going to transition in this show talking about the uh what I most often call the Lord's Supper, other people call other things Eucharist, Holy Communion, whatever. So we had a cliffhanger last week. And last week uh it was um the other good doctor, Pete, was in the middle of a thought and said, Oh my goodness, the show is over. We have to stop So Yeah and and probably a good thing that we stop because I think you're going down a track that was gonna get you in a lot of trouble. I heard about from my Presbyterian Peeps. Pete, what are you doing? You sound like a Baptist. I talked about When I uh was saved and baptized at 18, uh dramatically coming forward by youth pastor asked who else is ready to be baptized, and then I stepped into that pool and I was baptized and But I want to do a shout-out for being a Presbyterian, because that's what I am, and that we baptize uh children and and the children of believing parents. Uh we see this in Scripture. As children of the covenant being welcomed into the covenant community of faith of God, that that these children are covered by by that faith. The their parents have put faith in in Christ. We see this ch child growing up in the church. raised in the church to one day stand before the congregation to make their own proclamation of faith. Baptism doesn't save you, but it is a means of entering in and that ceiling by the Holy Spirit. Very nice. It's very clear and obvious exactly the way it's a good idea. So anyone who disagrees is clearly not No, no, no, no. Okay, let me let me let's back up. We're obviously not a Christian. The church I serve is made up of folks from man, many different faith backgrounds, myself included. I came to Presbyterianism late in life. We have folks coming from many different nations and many different backgrounds, including Baptist backgrounds, Roman Catholic, Lutheran, Methodist, Episcopal, you name it. And so talking about the meaning and significance of baptism and what I showed last week was we've had quite a few uh bleeding uh believer baptisms of of students and uh and young adults and adults coming for the first time to be baptized. But there are things that we can all agree on, I think. I'm looking at Jason, he's saying, Nod. That we we baptize in the triune name of God, the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And that um we would teach that there's one baptism. For the remission since we don't baptize multiple times at a Presbyterian church. We dunk lots of times, like every other week, because you get resaved. I I I'm totally with you on on all of that stuff. I I went but that's not so my background's a little bit different, so I remember going to a Presbyterian church when I was younger. for one week and I remember my parents pulling me out of there pretty quickly because everything seemed really good except for they baptized babies and that is that is just not biblical in any way. And then I went to RTS, Reformed Theological So then in Westminster. So, you know, basically Presbyterian trainers all the way through. And now I'm in a Baptist church. And so I have this I have this tension constantly, like in my thinking, and then you know, I also want to represent the Baptist Church well. I don't want to um I I don't want to go too far in one direction or the other. But we're we're filled with people that, you know, are ex Presbyterians, ex f uh all these same things that you are. So we're as a least Baptist church of Baptist that you would find Um but I I just I kinda wanna emphasize to them there's there's just great freedom in this. And not freedom to do anything. I mean I don't like people doing you know, dives into the baptismal pool or things like that. Um, it's a serious thing. It's a sacrament. You are being set apart for something. You're being cleansed in a way. There is a a sense in which and I don't mean this too theological, but your sins are are being washed away. That's that's what's being represented there. And you're being born again, absolutely. That's all of that. So if you're being set apart for this for that in in a repentant fashion, uh you know I'm I would I would welcome Presbyterians at our church. I would welcome any. Absolutely. Well and that got to your your opening comment about the names of our churches. Both of our churches have the name Baptist Presbyterian. Right. And I think people can define the church by those titles not knowing more of what's happening in the life of the church. Sometimes with more meaning to those definitions than you would care to mean that there's baggage sometimes those labels. You know the frozen chosen of the Presbyterians. Wait, are we holy rollers? We get that Baptists? But anyway, they We'll take the legalist and yeah fundamentalists someone. I can't help, I have this meme in my head now from that story when you your parents accidentally took you to a Presbyterian church apparently. And they ran out. My picture of the meme is like, Oh the baby, the baby And it's like, what were they dashing them against rocks? No, they were sprinkling water on them. The New Testament at all, we see believer baptisms, we see families connected in that. But I think most of the history of the church we'd all agree uh the the idea of paedobaptism or or baptizing the whole family has been true. But there's this instinctive sense of pulling back from for Protestants does this seem too Catholic and even less about that, more about are we being true to what it means to be a disciple. that we've truly made uh a a a decision for Christ receiving Christ as a commitment. And if a child makes makes if we make that commitment for a child Does that really count? I think there's the there's a there's some real important questions in that. And you mentioned the word Catholic, I'm gonna use that as a pivot point. Uh you meant Roman Catholic uh in that context. That's right. Not meaning the universal church, but the Roman Catholic Church. People understand. And use it a pivot point because there's a point of difference that's outside of this room that we can uh talk about a little bit when it comes to celebrating the supper. you know, the Eucharist, the Holy Communion. Uh right there there's distinctions. What each tradition has their favorite way of calling it, and if you don't call it that, then that's a dead giveaway that you don't belong to their tradition kind of thing. So um but the Roman Catholic view uh on the uh on the meal is that the the bread and the wine actually become the body and blood of Jesus Christ. You just can't see it with your physical senses. It's the the the uh tr uh transubstantiation. Then you have the Lutheran view that well i it it it it does become the body and blood, but it also still is the the the bread and the wine, uh consubstantiation. And then you've got the the Calvinist view, which is uh spiritually it becomes the the body and blood of wine. There's no physical change that takes place in the way that a Lutheran or Roman Catholic would feel comfortable about it. Uh there is a a name for that, but um I forget what the uh the technical name. Maybe it'll come to me in a minute. Something is happening. Something spiritually is really happening. Uh full disclosure, I'm a fan of Calvin's view. I think this is Kelvin is most brilliant uh uh on this particular issue. I don't think he's better anywhere than he is on this question, in my opinion. And then you've got the the memorialists. See, it's a it's a symbol. You know, it's it's just a memorial, it's just uh a representation of it's doesn't not it's not really anything uh it certainly doesn't become the body the literal body and blood and it's it and it's not necessarily even a heightened spiritual thing per se, it's just a memorial observance. Well, those are pretty dramatic changes. Because if you believe that the bread and the wine you're holding in your hand is actually the body and blood of Jesus Christ, you're going to think about that differently than somebody who thinks it's merely a token of of of remembrance. So is that a strike against a church if you're looking for somebody again, we're talking about the marks of a true Christian church. So if they disagree with me on something as important as that, because that's pretty important Can I uh can I uh embrace them as a fellow Christian or say that No Heretics Colt you guys are crazy go away So how do we navig it's fuzzy. I I w same thing with the baptism question. If one church will baptize infants and other church won't, who's right? Which one has the right mark of the church? How do we figure the average person who hasn't gone to Westminster or um or uh Bethel you know, or Fuller. Or Fuller or Reform Theological Seminary. If how is the average person supposed to know if they're going to a real church? Where does the rubber meet the road in other words on this? Very good question. And I asked that question four or five different ways and it elongated it, giving you guys plenty of time. to think through how you might answer it. And you still don't answer. Well well one thing to back up the that I want to say about both the Lord's Supper and Baptism that I think the I didn't mention. It's something done within the community of of God, within the family of God. It's not something we do privately, it's for corporate worship. And there are many different traditions where where they're celebrated. Um we as Presbyterians uh welcome those that are baptized of any tradition. If they're baptized in the in the name of Jesus, the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. uh that baptism is is is one. And when we come to the Lord's table, we invite uh brothers and sisters of any denomination, if you have put your faith And Jesus Christ is your Lord and Savior. The table, they would say being fenced, the table is not fenced, come forward, come to this table uh to receive. And so there's a real open welcoming to a table at at Neil's still I'm sure it would be the same at at Poolsville. Yeah, that's right. But a Roman Catholic would disagree because they would fence their title table pretty tightly fencing. Meaning they're protecting what's going on there pretty tightly and say if you're not Roman Catholic Sorry. So they would say that you guys don't demonstrate a proper mark of the church because you don't do that sacrament correctly, right? Is that is that fair? Am I overstating that? Um you're not overstating that according to the catechism. I think you're probably overstating that according to most Catholics even Catholic priests. In fact, I talk too. Yeah. So they would be a lot more um generous in their understanding of that. And and the reason because we've jumped pa like We don't we don't talk in those categories anymore. We don't talk about substance and accidents, right? These are these are element these are philosophical language things that we don't have any It's been a while since you've had infants in the house, right? There's lots of substances and lots of acid. Yes, not the exact thing. Right. We don't speak of the you know the accidents of a pen or the substance of a pen being different things. What makes this a pen? What makes this Well that might be the case ago. Maybe we just don't Maybe we just realize that, you know, where the Bible says this is my body It's not quite so clear as Luther, you know, bang I don't know if that really happened or not, but you know, banging his he hand against the In case you don't know, there's this legendary story that I think it was Zwingli and Luther were meeting together trying to have a meeting of the minds. And uh Luther was and Zwingli advocating for the idea that it's it's just a memorial, it's just a token of remembrance. And Luther saying, No, it actually becomes the the actual uh body and blood of Christ, along with still being bread and wine, and he's pounding his fist so the story goes, uh uh I guess it was uh with emphasis on every word, right? This This is my body. Bang, bang, bang. And basically kicked Swingley out or something, right? I mean Yeah, that was yeah could be no unity. And these are you know these are two brothers in the faith and that just uh You know, I've I've I've had folks ask me the question. I've actually had the opportunity to to go to a mass, a Catholic Mass, uh for a funeral or or an event. Should you partake of the Eucharist? And my recommendation to a Protestant would be, no, do not partake of that because of the teachings of the church. It is prohibited. In the same way though, the a Catholic coming to a Protestant church and wants to partake uh can they? Absolutely. And yet scripture does say If you do something that uh you're uncertain of that might you think that is uh uh against God's word, then you shouldn't do it because it will become sin to you. Right. So you're not saying that you wouldn't you you wouldn't uh advise participation uh because they're not a Christian church, but out of respect for some uh wasn't gonna sound pejorative, but kind of a weaker brother kind of idea. They they see things different. I'm gonna respect their difference on that and not make waves unnecessarily. That's right. And and in both ways. So we have we have members of our of our uh church that grew up Roman Catholic and it took them time to feel comfortable uh in all the aspects of our worship and that's okay. There should be place and space for that. But at the end of the day, the Lord's Supper or Eucharist or whatever we call it, we're going to go to First Corinthians eleven to see how the Apostle Paul instructs the church in Corinth that was doing all kinds of crazy things that none of us would come close to having to worry about. On any given funny that we're celebrating this beautiful gift from the Lord, he cuts right to the chase, this is how it's to be done, and it's how it's been done uh for two thousand years. Okay, so I'm still not sure that I'm clear in how like in an elevator speech like right how I would help someone to navigate in very simple English. American Ease English. Right. Okay, the word rightly preached, we decided uh that the simple way to talk about that was if the sermon is demonstrating that the pastor has a heart for God's people. and is pointing people to the work of Jesus Christ at the cross, that that was a pretty good indication that that's the word rightly preached. And now on the baptism question, I guess what I'm feeling like I'm hearing is if however it's handled, sprinkling, infants, adults, immersion, whatever, if it's done in the triune name of God uh and it is expressed that is representing a a a uh a a death to sin and a raising to a newness of life in Christ. If that idea is part of what's going on and it's in the triune name of God. then that is for our purposes in this show, that is the mark of a good Christian church. That is the sacraments rightly administered. Is that a s is that am I right or is am I missing something important? I I'm pretty happy with what you're saying. Yeah, it's very okay. I feel I yeah. Good with that. Oh. Maybe I'll be a good doctor one day. Maybe. Can you prescribe your own medicines? It's funny that elevator speech you just gave that's exactly the one I had just last week going up, exactly how you said that. So that was very well done. So I just played it back. The third mark we're not going to have a whole lot of time to get into because we've got about uh two and a half minutes left. Oh, by the way, um uh receptionism was the technical uh word I was looking for before for Calvin's view. Oh, really? I've never even heard of that. So See, I think that's a good idea. And in fairness, our Orthodox brothers and sisters probably wouldn't be comfortable with any of those labels we threw out. They're kinda anti-label and Everything's a mystery and they kinda think of the supper as a divine mystery and they probably fit something within the Lutheran Roman Catholic vein, but I don't think they would call it that and they wouldn't spent a whole lot of time arguing the point, I don't think. So but I wanna you know do a shout out to our our Orthodox uh friends. Uh we've got a couple at work here. Actually. And this week, just to to point this out there, Monday, Thursday, the mandate that Jesus gives to his disciples to love one another and the inauguration of the Lord's Supper. But what are we going to talk about next week? Next week we're gonna focus on Well, question for you. Because the third mark we want to talk about is discipline. So we want to do discipline next week or do we want to shift gears and save discipline? I mean it might make sense to talk about discipline next and uh and see where that takes us. Does that make sense to you? I like it. I'm game. So hey, what will be a good sermon title for that? Oh we're gonna focus on discipline. Keep it clean, Jay. Not gonna stay clean. Alright, so that's next week. So we've um I guess we'll put a wrap. I've got about a a minute or so left. So I want to again thank the Reverend Doctor how do you feel? Quick aside. How do you feel about the word reverend? That's always bothered me. What's wrong with reverend? It always feels like we know you. Yeah, exactly. And not just you, I mean anybody who I mean it just feels like Reverend is such a real pretentious. I revere somebody who is respected. I think that's a good thing. Pastor Pete. Pastor Pete. I like it. Well, Pastor Pete Delacentina, he is the uh pastor at Nielsville Presbyterian Church. Uh Doctor Jace Broadhurst is the pastor at Poolsville Baptist Church. I am Troy Skinner, our sponsors Hilo autos sales and tire pros of Frederick, we thank them. It's harder for us to do this show without people like that helping to put the bill for the time that we're on the air. So thank you for listening. Again, an encouragement to you to go to the website, WFMD. com, keyword. Faith takes you to the Faith Debate page. There you'll find the blog, which is basically just a a running score sheet of uh past episodes of and and actually some teasers for upcoming episodes. And you'll find a link there two podcasts. And if you wait a couple of days, the podcast to this show will be available. Usually by Tuesday or Wednesday, the podcast is up. Usually. Be patient. Be gracious with us. Okay? Till next week. God bless