If ye were of the world, the world would love his own, but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world he is you. That's an appropriate scripture for Easter Sunday, but Jesus. is laying down his life. And it's appropriate for us on the faith debate, by the way with another good doctor in the house with us in addition to uh Jace Roger Say hello so you can get your voice there, Jace. Hello everyone. I'm Troy Skinner and we are joined this week by Doctor Peter Delacentina. the pastor at Mealsville Presbyterian Church and Jason's the pastor at Fulbright Baptist Church. Oh you guys have been doing that for a while. Yeah no that's always cool. I always feel like that's cool. So I always wonder when an outsider who's never been to a like a Sunday service on Resurrection Sunday before and they hear that, they're like, Wait, what what was that? I didn't know my cue. I didn't know. Well we do it three times and then Oh by the way they figured out by the third time. By the end they've got to figure out smart. You are a smart guy. He's gonna learn something for you every single time. Yeah. Unbelievable. I'm here for you, J. Uh so anyway, the reason that the laying down your life, I think, that theme fits is because we're talking about the last two weeks and now this week, we're continuing on identifying what the true marks of a Christian church are We spent the majority of of the first of these three shows talking about the first of those three marks, the Word of God rightly preached. And then last week we spent a majority of the time talking about um probably all the time almost, talking about um uh the sacraments rightly uh administered and uh finished up our uh some talk about baptism and also talked about the Lord's Supper Um and we came to realize in that discussion that we talk about it in general terms, we can come to an agreement of what that should mean in the marks of the church, but at some point we have to agree to kind of die to ourselves. Lay down our lives, our theological thinking on things and be humble and gracious and say, you know, okay they They do baptism a little bit differently or they view the Lord's Supper a little bit differently than than my tradition does, but they're still a good church. Maybe it's not what I'm comfortable with because of my understanding of scripture and my training and background or whatever. Um so we do need to kind of lay down and be gracious. However There are times when people won't lay down in the way that they're supposed to. And so then People like Jace and Pastor Pete have to come along with the other elders in their church and say, we have to enforce some church discipline on you. And people don't like discipline. Mostly because it gets a bad rap. People think of discipline as like, you know, a swat on the tush with a fly swatter or a belt or something like that. Fly swatter. Your parents were nice. Yeah. No, my grandmother started with a fly swatter and then she uh worked up to the belt and uh the belt whoa man that left welts. So I'm not sure how nice she really was. Um But d discipline rightly understood doesn't necessarily mean that, right? So if you're you guys are pastors, what is discipline supposed to mean? Not that I think that a belt is necessarily negative. Um I think there's a good reason for that kind of punishment, perhaps With me particularly, right? With you particularly. But discipline is I mean the word you know, from discipleship. So we're just talking about discipling someone. That's a very positive term. That's walking alongside someone and instructing them and mentoring them and and guiding and uh trying to be uh something that they see uh and live like this, why a model for them. So Yes, sometimes you're walking down the sidewalk, you want to stay on the path, sometimes people step off the path a little bit. And of course that's going to you know, how much they're off the path is going to depend on what church they're in as to what their boxes are that they consider part of on the path. But I think there are some things that probably most of us would agree. You know, this is you you're pro you're falling away a little bit. You're not following you're not thinking about this rightly. And so an older, hopefully, um at least older in the faith person would come alongside. And again, it's not pastor elder necessarily, but anyone in the church would do this. You know, they'd put their arms around them and they say, Hey, why why don't we walk a little bit over here? Why don't we just move a little closer to the sidewalk? And that's for me just discipline, discipleship. And sometimes you need to kind of pull them a little bit harder, and sometimes you need to push them, perhaps. But it's you know, there's a whole method. You know, Matthew eighteen I'm sure we can get into there it's not just Oh, you've done something wrong. Now you get in trouble. That's not a that's not at all what this means, I hope. So that we don't fall off the path, so we can stay on the the path of righteousness and and yet it's done so poorly in the church so often because people are involved and people are messy And and and people are are hurting and they're in their own uh issues that they bring to it. So the ideas that you were just explaining, if it was only that simple, the discipline is expressed in a way that is Edifying and encouraging with a purpose of correction that draws us closer to Christ and helps not only the individual but but uh the whole church family. And yet so often there's examples of of people being hurt uh by the church in this or or part of the hurt, just to mention, it not happening at all. And that can also be very destructive when there's zero discipline expressed. And that would be a mark of a church. If there's no discipline, you don't have a church. There there are plenty of Christian scholars though would say that that kind of discipline is just simply that's outdated, it's not good. Um so I I interviewed um ten, twelve years ago before I was at this church at a particular very big name seminary college that I won't name, but that Pete knows well. Um and one you know, they asked a ton of questions. It's a peer review. There's thirty some odd professors there. And one of the questions they asked was, What do you think about discipline in the church? And I said, Well I I'm all for it. I you know, I tried to be very gentle and careful with it, just saying, you know, I I would follow some basic principles to bring someone back on. But there was enough people in there that you know, I heard afterwards I did not get the job. This was the last interview out of like twenty five different interviews that were concerned with that. They you know, they were very concerned that I thought there was anything that should be and and I've had many disc discussions with uh, you know, very well known pastor friends of mine, Solomon's Porch, Marcel, these kinds of places that They they wonder, you know, can we not just be free and let people kind of discipline themselves and let them you know, they they can commit to as much as they want. And as much as they want to commit to, that's what we will We'll let them do. So there's really no accountability in there at all. And that just kinda concerns me that that the church would think that no accountability is necessary. I mean Well how do you die to yourself? That's how you started this off, Troy, right? How how do you die to yourself if you make all the rules? If you can't say I mean I'm in a Baptist church and sometimes I feel like I'm the pastor and I don't even agree with everything that uh you know, that our our church says. And I and I but I feel like I have to submit to somebody. That's part of what being a Christian is. Yeah. And and living this life together, growing with one another, all the one another's statements They they all have some aspect of discipline within them. Though we're the instinct may be pulled away, I'm going to be a solo Christian Lone Ranger because I just can't put up with all that messiness. And and right there you're missing the very thing Jesus wants. He wants all Christians to be part of a part of a church. Let me let me jump to something from the internet. That's always fun. These are ten things. It's gotta be true. Ten things you should know about church discipline. All right, I'm ready. According to this guy. And I don't see his name on here. It's from Crossway. So it's not fake news. No crossway. Crosswalk? Okay. Whatever. Crossway. I I guess it would be strange. It's the internet. So number one, Jesus and Paul Both command churches to practice church discipline. Now if that's true, then why would this seminary not want you to They they disagree with Jesus and and Paul too. And you touched on it, you you very quickly you mentioned uh kind of the classic uh passage is Matthew eighteen Um so I don't know how you get around that. Um First Corinthians chapter five I think is another place people go. I'm trying to think of places people go, but um um well Second Timothy 3. 5, Galatians 1, 7 to 9. Different distinctions we have to have. Discipline, if there's not discipline to remove yourself. But so I'm not sure why they would reject you, Jace, for that. I don't know. I cried a lot. Maybe use the wrong words, because number two on this list of the internet is church discipline, quote unquote, goes by different names. So maybe you could have said, I'm not so sure what I think about church discipline, but uh I do feel that there's room for formative corrective measures. I I actually like that. Yeah. I have no problem with that. See, and then you would have gotten the job. I wish I had nuanced it a little bit better. It says here that nearly every funny, nearly every organization practices discipline. Which ones don't? Is there a context where there's absolutely one hundred percent anarchy? Is there any environment like that? Well yeah, I mean where anarchy is allowed, but we're you know, I think a lot of people think of the church as a place that they go and they worship and then they leave. It would be like going to the grocery store, getting what you need, and then coming back next week when you need more groceries. I need more of the word. Go ahead and give it to me. And you know, I I might have a membership to the local grocery store or the big, you know, box stores, but I'm not expecting them to hold me accountable to anything. Like, you haven't been here in a week, what's going on? Get back over to Costco right now I th and that I think that's how people think of the church, right? There's nothing they haven't made any kind of commitment. So I mean the commitment level of people in regard to the church And I want to soften this in a minute, maybe after you do so. But Crossload's an example, they have discipline. You can't go in there and shop without one of those little cards that says you're a member. Right. They expect you to follow that rule. That's true. Sorry, you're not buying this food today and you have to learn your lesson. You are disciplined by Costco. On the other hand, the other grocery stores don't have that rule, so you know, some do, some don't. But my my point is though that that people's commitment level to the church I think is misunderstood. They I at this point people think, oh well it's I'm committed to the church if I come once or twice a month and I just sit there and have a and that's that's more of a A program and not a And that's not good enough because point four says that churches should practice discipline for the sake of love Yeah. And if if they're not coming to church and they're not helping to provide what they provide to the other members of the church by showing up regularly much less what they're gonna get from being there, the training and the and the uh encouragement and things that they need. Then you're not very loving of Oh, you want to come to church, you know, once or twice a year, once or twice a month, yeah, whatever, that's fine. You love as pastors, this is I'm not unfairly putting words in your mouth, am I? Your desire is that they would come and drink from the trough more often because you love them, right? Yeah. Well part of it is defining defining the community that you're you're within and what is it that that draws us together? What what's central to what draws us together? And are there things on the outside of that that that aren't essential, that are not essential? So for instance The way someone dresses, the status of their their their family life. And all these things can be uh means of someone passing judgment or or or some kind of correction over someone. But what are the things that are most important in scripture that we're to to focus on for discipline for the sake of love and encouragement? in our discipleship of being a follower of Jesus. And that's where we miss the work all too often. That's the voice of a pastor, doctor Peter Della Santina, also on the show this week. The good doctor, Chase Broadhurst from Poolsville Baptist, uh Pastor Pete's Church's Nielsville Presbyterian. I am Torskinner, this is the Faith Debate on five uh nine thirty. Almost an old radio station I worked at years ago. 930 WFMD. Um This is interesting. I think we're kind of almost hinting at there's there's a change of foot. Pe don't think about discipline the same way that they once might have in the church, because point five on this internet list, church discipline was a common practice among churches until the twentieth century. So something happened in the last century that altered our view of discipline. There there there used to be a time when the pastor or or the elders would go house to house and check in on the discipleship of the family and then they would receive some type of token, right, if they if they pass mustard to be able to come and receive communion that Sunday. Wow. I I don't know. I mean I do know they used to go around to the churches and disciple the families, but I didn't know about that. That's kinda cool. I've heard about uh I've I've heard about this or peace shooters, you know, if someone's falling asleep in a three hour service. No I use that You have to my sermons are really long. Really long. Number six down here is a failure to practice church discipline undermines the preaching, the discipling, and the evangelism ministry of a church. So I guess that's a practical reason why if the church is going to function as the church, if the if the body of Christ is going to go about the business of being the body, they have to work together, live together by the same sets of rules and expectations. Rules sounds really kind of mean, but that's in our context in today's culture. Rules Badges. We don't need those stinking badges. Same same set, but I think there are there are higher standards for those in leadership. So we've been sort of talking as you're getting us into the subject of discipline about members of the church or and in concentric circles, members of the church, those that are attending or visiting church But I think those that are in leadership are held to the highest standard. James 3. 1 says, Not many of you should become teachers, my brothers, for you know that you who teach will be judged with with greater strictness. And um so that's the other the other side of this. We maybe we need to put the attention on on let's put it on Jace. Okay. Um How does discipline function in your church towards you? Do you have elders who keep you accountable? I do, yeah. We have uh so we're one of those weird Baptist churches that looks more like a Presbyterian church, I guess, in that area. What? I know. Um so yeah, we have elders and their job is to hold each other accountable. I don't like uh sometimes the terminology is really bad, but th they we they serve kind of as um as mentors, as guides, as as pe as the wiser men of the church. that um that try to show the most love to people. Their job is kind of to to go to those co those people in the congregation and to love them. And sometimes you love people by wrapping your arms around them and sometimes you've got to pull them back you know back onto the sidewalk. There's different ways that j just as parents do for children. You know, as the children are stepping into the streets. Something needs to happen when they're two years old. Right? When they're ten years old, maybe you can give them a little more flexibility, they're a little bit more mature, they're not quite so prone to just jump in the middle of traffic. Um but that takes time to disciple people in those areas. So I think the parents, I think Troy you said this at the beginning, it's it's loving people, right? The parents of the church or the elders of the church. the elders or the parents and everyone else's little tiny children. That's not what I mean. I'm just trying to give an analogy for, you know, how do you love your children? And if you love them, you're gonna want them to walk the path that uh that they've been called to walk through through scripture. Now a lot of people when they think when they think about discipline at all in a church context, which is probably almost never for most people, but when they think about it, a lot of people will think about it in terms of kicking those kids, the parents, kicking their kids out of the house. But so far we haven't me bringing it up right now, here we are, you know, almost twenty minutes into this show, it's the first time that's come up. So church discipline can Part of church discipline can lead to or can incorporate an eventual arrival at excommunication, but there's so much more to it before that. Yeah. So what's the thing? So what does that mean? So what does if you're disciplining somebody who's um They're not doing what they should be doing. They're not attending the way they should. They're not serving the way they should. They're not uh loving their spouse the way they should, and you come To find out about it, what does discipline look like other than kicking them out of the church for their own good Yeah, so uh let's say um let's use your last one, because that's a pretty common one, unfortunately. Uh husband is leaving his wife or not treating her as he should or something like that. You know, our our first step in our church would be, if we found out about it, to go and talk to him to find out if we have all the information that we have, just to question and figure out what's going on, and then hopefully to call him to repentance if he is saying, No, I I definitely am not coming back to my wife and I don't want to, I want to have have the fun that I never had, or whatever he wants to say, yeah, we call him to repentance. And then more people would come and call him to repentance. And eventually you know Matthew eighteen can be interpreted in lots of different ways, but in our particular church, the elders would go and that's how they would they would they would call it repentance. Before we get there, we have to talk about the relationship that we're sharing with one another. I in the context of discipleship, it's a relationship of care and we forget We're brothers and sisters in Christ. We're doing life together. We we're worshiping together. We're growing spiritually in Bible study. or or in in Sunday school, we're going out to serve in the community, we're coming back, we're celebrating, transformed lives, and we're we're involved in one another's life. And so along the way when there are bumps in the road That's a that's m much more than that. That's a careening off the cliff kind of a situation. But there's already built in trust and encouragement. I'm coming to you not as a stranger, not as someone you only see on Sunday, but someone who knows you, knows your family, cares about you, has expressed all those things, has shared uh with you part of my life. And unfortunately I've also had a number of experiences of of the very thing you just mentioned, Jace. going into those most difficult kinds of conversations. And and I'll tell you I've I I don't always come with a a meek and mild and humble tone. I've I've been pretty angry at times, maybe that's not pastoral, but someone that I know and love and respect who's treating their beloved in a disrespectful manner. I come with who I am and hope that the relationship that we have can can see through that and unfortunately, but rarely, uh it has led to a to uh someone leaving a church. But thankfully most of the time it's been correction uh repair years and years of work at that to see uh to see that work of the Holy Spirit bring together not only this this couple and this family but also lending uh that which is broken in the church. And with the focus on the relationship, the whole point of the discipline is to bring restoration to to faltering or broken relationships. uh to always do it in love, which means that you're not gonna be abusing uh your your position and of of authority in the church. And again I know people take these words the Jace was nervous a little bit about, oh, um elders are parents and the you know We're the parents, we're the authorities, we're the ones in charge. Well, yeah, actually, in a sense, I mean God has called, has ordained certain individuals for certain roles within his body and there's a reason for that, but we we we allow too many pejorative l uh hooks to get their you know their fangs into these words and they start to take on a a meaning that you know it's unhelpful because then what what words do you use? If you're not an authority, if you're not a metaphorical parent. If you're not at some level in charge, then okay, what are you? What are you doing? Who are you? You know, it's like what label do we put on that? You're just some guy that talks for forty-five minutes every week. And I wish you'd shut up already. Right? But we but we come into that situation as a humble, redeemed fellow sinner saved by the grace of God. Right. And we come with that seeking God's healing as ambassadors of reconciliation and grace. And so putting a bow on this as a mark of the church, just like with the word rightly preached, just like with the sacraments rightly administered and just like discipline uh rightly uh enacted, uh if you don't have those things in place, if those leave the church Then Christ leaves the church with it. It's kind of an old cliche, I think, probably. I don't think it's an original thought, but uh it's kind of the idea, right? That's right. So thank you so much. Uh It's always a delight to have these kinds of conversations. This was serious stuff, and if you were listening uh for the whole time, I applaud you. Now go to church. It's Easter Sunday for crying out loud. Here we go. Christ is risen. He is risen indeed. Christ is risen. He is risen indeed. Christ is risen. He is risen indeed. And um by the wad I must slap myself. Just hear that You actually did it. Wow. Discipline yourself. Yeah, exactly. Talk about discipline. I like to refer to it as Resurrection Sunday, not Easter, but that's just me. Anyway, thanks to Hilo Auto Sales and uh Tyre Froza Frederick and thank you for listening. God bless.