Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. You can find me online at HouseholdofInChrist dot com. Of course you can find the show at WFMB dot com. Just look for the Faith of Eight page. In fact, you can find the Faith Debate at Household of Faith in Christ dot com as well. And if you're listening live on the radio, thank you very much for making some space available for us in your And if you haven't listened on podcast if you'd like to know where or how there's a bunch of places. Again, if you go to the website, Household of FaithinCrist. com, they'll connect a whole bunch of different resources and get you in touch with the show. But uh if you want to kind of go hunt heck for it on your own, I would suggest you go to sermonaudio. com or odyssey. com or the Christian podcast community dot com Uh that's a really good place to go for the uh what's called the RSS feed of all of the shows. Uh I've been uploading and updating shows as we go and we're up to, I don't know, lots and lots of shows. So anyway, we're going to continue our conversation with Ray Fava of Evangelical Dark Web. We are talking about Sermon Gate Edlitton, JD G Greer. Last week focused a little bit on expository and topical preaching and uh the docent research group and that sort of thing. We're gonna continue now our discussion on the industrialization of preaching here on the face faith debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. uh to go off schedule. Like for example, go back twenty years ago. Uh whatever you were planning to uh say uh would have been probably the let me do this. I think it would have been the sixteenth. Whatever you had planned to preach on September sixteenth, two thousand one needed to be scrapped because it was five days after September eleventh, two thousand one. And if you didn't go off schedule and say, you know what, we just had a couple of air carriers crash into buildings in New York City and the Pentagon get crashed and a bunch of other people die in Pennsylvania and the world stopped spinning. uh for a while. People they want to hear from their pastor. What does what does God's word help us to understand about this? What's going on? If you didn't do that, Iran was derelict in duty. So you had to do a topical sermon in that case. Uh and I think more dramatic uh less dramatically you can have times when a big national crisis happens or some big thing is in the news and Now I went off schedule uh last year, uh last summer when uh the whole world was talking about Black Lives Matter from critical race theory and intersectionality and people are like, what are what are all these terms I don't know what they are. So I went off schedule to try to, you know, edify my people and build them up to understand what the cultural dialogue was all about and what the biblical perspective on these things is and try to get ahead of it. So I went off schedule there because I was in the middle of a of a sermon series on the epistles of John and we took a pause actually for I think two weeks. to uh to talk about these other issues before getting back on track with our our uh epistles of john series. And by the way, you mentioned Revelation That's a really good example for the point you were making because the images and uh and and uh the ideas that are introduced early in Revelation in chapters one and two and three. They recur over and over again through the rest of the book of Revelation. So if you pick up on the importance of those themes, you understand what those uh what those visions mean it really helps you later on to understand what's happening in chapters four to the conclusion. So that's a really good example you used. Yeah, and there's some insider knowledge on that, I suppose. Um now yeah, I I'll float to the audience if they have any questions to ask. But Yeah, just going back to um yeah, i the issue of sermon prep. So what does sermon prep look like for you on a weekly basis? You s mentioned that you prepare weeks in advance now. Um so just go into that. What exactly is the work that goes into a sermon so that people may not know? Well I'll start broad and I'll drill down. So the broadest thing is my sermon prep in a very generic sense is more than weeks in advance. I'm already right now thinking about what am I going to be preaching in the year 2022? Like where should we go next? What what do we spend our time preaching through and learning about in 2020, what are we working on now in 2021? And what would be a a good logical progression based on uh the Bible and the meta narrative of the Bible what would be good for us and our people to be focusing on and twenty and I'm making I'm not making firm commitments on that yet, but I'm already beginning to make plans for what is likely to happen. I've Pretty much I could be persuaded to change my mind by something, but for the most part I've pretty much narrowed my options to probably two or three possibilities for what I'm going to be doing next year. Uh what we're um but what we're focusing on now obviously is where I'm more interested in focusing my uh and this is what you're probably really asking is week to week, what am I doing? So the first thing I do is I'm working through a book. So when I make a decision, like I mentioned the Epistles of John. So when I was starting my work on the Epistles of John, I'm grappling with the entire book and I spend a couple of weeks we're familiarizing myself with the outline, the structure, and first John, by the way, is really hard to outline. Uh so I'm trying to figure out what John's saying, how he's going about saying it, and what those keep and then breaking it out into uh preaching passages which seminary students are taught to call paricatives. They are the they are the sections of the text that uh are kind of intended as not standalone per se because they're all interwoven and connected, but they preach on their own. There's and and there's there are clues and and and uh and and uh and words and things within the text that give you an indicator of where those shifts in the in the lessons being taught in the book happen. So you identify what where those moments are and you say, okay. So in some cases versus one and two is its own pericope. In other cases versus one through thirty-four are pericope. So it can it can be longer or shorter. And and then I wrestle with that pericope and I and I spend Uh I'll read it multiple times, meditate on it, try to pray through it. Uh sometimes different scripture m uh passages will be called to mind and I'm like, oh this reminds me of something that Paul wrote. Or this reminds me of something in in Leviticus or whatever and I want to check myself see if I'm right and I'll bounce Yeah, okay, that's interesting. That's a connection. And And I just try to work through it and then I'll have a loose outline. And then I'm kinda done for that day. And the next day I go back and I re read it again and I revisit my loose outline. I say, okay, was I on to something here? or does it do I still agree that this is kind of the the loose outline? And I and I firm it up and I say, okay, now this loose outline has become my outline. And then I start to uh draft the message. I start to think about, oh, for this point that's being made, I have a personal experience from my life 30 years ago that really helps to drive this point home. Or this is cultural reference from a movie or a song or a TV show or my next door neighbor tells a story or whatever or things you just know to be commonly true about the average person's life and the kinds of stories that are true for all of us collectively. And I start to assign illustrations to certain points and then I flesh it out. And I don't fully write it, but it's Basically it's all but written, if not on the page, in my mind. And then at that point, I then start to interact and interface with the um uh with the various commentaries and stuff that are out there to to see if how I've understood the the passage and the pericope uh falls within what the church historically has thought to be true. And I don't want to do that because it's going to necessarily change my mind. But if I've come up with oh this passage means this like I'm thinking obtuse example. Oh, this passage says we should go kill our next door neighbor. Oh, I'm going to preach on that. And then I read, you know, commentary after commentary that says, This passage is about saving the life of your neighbor. And I'm like, Yeah, I thought it was about killing your neighbor. It's about saving the life of my neighbor. Really? Huh, maybe I got this wrong. Maybe I need to re examine Uh and there have been a couple of times when, you know, my take on something is it's not unique, but it's in the minority view. And so sometimes the first two, three, four, five, six commentaries I'm interacting with are basically disagreeing with me and like, wow I I think I I possibly have this wrong and if I do, I mean that blows my mind because I'm so off base. I But I I I spent time a day and a half interacting with it and feeling like I got it. So I'm I'm still wanting to trust myself and I w and by the way that first day I'm not just reading English translations and various English translations, but I'm I'm using my logos uh tools to uh because my uh Greek and Hebrew isn't as strong as it should be Uh as I'm using my my lawless tools to help me interact with the original language to really come to grips. And so I'm pretty firm that I'm right And so I keep studying until I can find some other respected good commentators and and find a few examples of people who also agree with me. And then I'm like, okay, I'm in the minority, but I'm not a heretic But usually what happens is the commentaries do kind of echo what I'm saying. It gives me that much more confidence that okay, what I figured out on my own is right and true. And so my illustrations are going to be good and I can put this forward with confidence. And in the process of interacting with the com uh with the commentaries on occasion Somebody will uh draw a connection to a quote from, you know, Dramas Edwards or whoever, and I'm like, oh, that's a really good quote. Maybe I'll use that. In that sense, maybe I'm stealing somebody's work, right? But because they gave me the idea to use Jonathan Edwards' quote. But I'm not going to say I was reading a commentary by Ray Fava who then quoted Jonathan Edwards, so now I'm going to share that Jonathan Edwards quote with you. I'm not going to go so far as to do that. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. Well you miss one hundred percent of the shots you don't take. Wayne Gretzky, Michael Scott. So that's kind of what my work way week looks like. So then I will flesh it out uh firmly. And uh and then I'm kind of done and then the week before 'cause I prepare it several weeks in advance, the week that I'm gonna be sharing it The days leading up to that, I'll pull out the notes and the and the ideas for that message and I'll spend some time reviewing it for, you know I don't know, an hour every day, if I say three or four days leading up to, just to make sure it stays fresh in my mind because when I stand up and preach in the pulpit I want it to be top of mind so that it's coming from that place to my hearer's ears. It's coming from that place that I was when the idea hit me. So it has a freshness still because that's the risk with doing things my way is six, eight weeks later or even four weeks later it can almost start to grow a little bit stale in the refrigerator and so you gotta warm it up a little bit. And so I want to make sure I get there. That by the way is one of the problems with stealing somebody's work. Yeah. When I was first becoming a preacher, uh one of my most trusted mentors in my life, um he was you know, I was going to seminary training to be a pastor, and he said, you know, you can be taught a lot of things and Oh, this could be good, I'm sure. But the three things, if you can remember three things from me, when you get in the pulpit, these are the three things I want you to remember. And I was like, Oh good, I'm gonna take notes, you know. And uh and he said, first thing is every sermon you take the people to the cross. Every sermon. Take him to the c cross, because if you don't take him to the cross, you haven't preached the gospel. That's what he's saying. Preach the gospel. Your need for Christ, your need for what he did at the cross. That has to be there. If you haven't shared that message, you haven't preached, you've lectured. If it's not the gospel, it's not a sermon It might be a interesting teaching, but it's not it's not a gospel proclamation, it's not preaching by an aspect. So that's number one. Number two, he said, and this is really good and important for a guy like me, he said, don't try to say everything in every message. You know, you're gonna do a lot of study and prep and you're gonna know so much about that passage. You could preach for ten hours if you wanted to. You gotta figure out what's most applicable, most relevant to your people in the moment and and in the series you're teaching or whatever Don't try to say everything. Pick the things that need to be said for that week and say those things and only those things. And then the third thing, and this is the point I'm kind of leading up to. The third thing is be yourself. Find your voice as a pastor and be faithful to being you in the pulpit because people o if not immediately over time, they will sniff out a fraud. They will recognize something that's not authentic. They will recognize that you're trying to be something you're not. And in the case of stealing somebody else's work You're being something you're not. That's not authentic. You're not being yourself. You're not preaching in your voice. You're preaching in somebody else's voice. And that right there applies everywhere. Like, you know, you you said you worked in radio earlier and that certainly applies if you're gonna go live on the air, you can't just try to impersonate someone else like me doing what I I'm doing here, I cannot just be someone else. Like I can't do my impersonation of what people want to hear. I just have to be myself. during this and you know it works the same way as a pastor because people will smell the in authentic inauthenticity. Yeah I'm gonna share with you something. This is gonna be uh free. I won't even charge you for it Uh when I was in the radio business for a long time, a period of my s of my career was on the programming side and I was part a big part of my responsibility was coaching the talent on the air. And uh it was a talk station that I was working at, and so it's very applicable to what you're doing. You're kinda doing a radio show on the internet right now with food with some you know, some video uh component added. But we're just talking heads, it's basically a a radio show with with uh with pictures. And what I would try to figure out with my my on air talent, I would it was like counseling sessions. My my coaching sessions, a lot of the time was spent trying to help them figure out who they are. And the reason I wanted them and they needed to figure out who they are is because on the air these successful talk show hosts Now it's the same for the DJs too for that matter. Those who are successful on the air, um people can have some success not doing this as well as they might, but the really successful ones at this They figure out who they are and they figure out how to consistently put the best version of themselves on the air every day. So the trick first is figure out who you are, and then the second thing is to figure out how to cultivate your skill and your talent in a way so that you're putting the best version of yourself. It's the same for pastors. Pastors figure out who you are, what's your voice And then so over time you you you develop a voice, you find your voice, you cra you you more well uh uh and consistently form what your voice is, and then you bring that voice into the pulpit And that's when you start to connect with the people. That's when you start hearing comments from the congregants like, wow, I felt like that sermon was preached just for me. It's like I was the only one in the room hearing you. Well, that happens because you found that spot and you it's it's impossible, you know, in today's world to to live there perfectly, but as often as you can you want to get there. And you can't do that when you're using somebody else's work. You just can't Now, you know, one of the things that came to mind was I believe it was like either back in twenty twenty or twenty nineteen Andy Stanley kind of famously claim that, you know, if you're preaching expository messages, you know, you're cheating. Basically calling it easy. You're taking the easy way out. I I believe Stanley said something like that. In my case, I was gonna ask your thoughts on that. No, like I said before, I have had I mean most of my sermons end up being expository. Uh but I've had occasion to preach some topical sermons and the topical sermons are way easier. What time? When I said, you know, the time it takes me to do a sermon, I could prepare a topical sermon I don't even know. I I probably could throw together throw together. I I think I could put together a pretty compelling, engaging, uh relevant, and even gospel centered topical message. I don't know, in six or eight hours. I can't do it that fast expository. The the the labor, the time commitment is so much more. expository. Because the expository sermon gives this the part that I didn't say because I didn't want to get bogged down the weeds. I'm not just wrestling with the text if you're what the words on the page say. I'm surrounding I'm saying I'm paying attention to the surrounding text too because I want to know what the literary context is. But then I'm also, when I start engaging with the commentaries and I start doing and I engage it with my with my uh my history books and stuff, I want to know what the the historical context is. I want to know what the geographical context is. I want to know what moment in history was happening. What were what were the crises uh taking place in the uh in AD fifties uh in the Mediterranean region versus what was happening in the AD 90s in the Mediterranean region or whatever. These things are important to know and it takes time. A topical message, I don't even know any of that Because I'm just talking about what's happening right now in the here and now and how it's going to speak to you. Because topical messages I mean maybe I'm being too trite about this, but topical messages are typically How to be a better steward of your money. How to have a better marriage. How to be a more biblical parent. Uh how to uh honor God in your work. Uh Yeah, it's not through those. You know, we th those are the topical messages and they just recycle. It's the same thing over and over again. You know, twelve steps to this, eight steps to that. Um or something. Usually it's three in a good sermon. It's usually three points. Or oftentimes you'll have somebody that will do a book of the Bible, but it ends up practically becoming a topical sermon because what they end up doing is they take a book of the Bible. But let's take the book of Revelation, which has come up already. I've heard series on um Revelation that were like six weeks long How do you do a series on the book of Revelation in six weeks? It's like it's impossible unless you're going to take these gigantic chunks, find a theme within that chunk, and just do a topical sermon on that theme. And say, yeah, I just covered uh I just covered Revelation chapter one through three in one message. And now I'm going to do Revelation chapter four through seven in one message. And I'm just gonna pick a theme and do a topical message on that theme. And that's fine as far as it goes. My concern is that's not going far enough. And people aren't learning the nitty-gritty and we end up getting way off the rails and we have a Biblically illiterate congregation because maybe we've got some biblically illiterate pastors who aren't doing the heavy lifting to do the learning they need to do on their own. I don't know. Uh I want to get your take on our reader comment because I'm not sure. Um maybe there miss there's a misunderstanding here, but uh I'll read it out loud. I think you were conflating exposition with preaching in a series. It's not common It's not common in the circles I move in to preach through a series, but the sermons still expound the text chosen by the preacher. I think I don't think that these ideas are mutually exclusive. I just think you're describing your process of preaching sermons. Just they so happen to be in series? I'd have to go back and listen to exactly how I might have blended ideas So yeah, to be clear, and I wasn't very clear, to be clear, expository uh messages, I think you can just define it very simply. An expository message is a message that is explaining the truth of the text. Period full stop. So if I decide one week to do a sermon on Genesis chapter four uh and do an exposition of that, and then the very next week do a message on John chapter 8 and then the very next week do a message on Acts chapter 2. Those could all be expository because I'm explaining the truth of that particular text without going through a series But in addition to that, I was trying to explain that I like to work through uh books of the Bible in an expositional way. as a series so that by the end of and the shorter books take less time. You can do a short book in a handful of weeks, you can do a long book in a year. But by the end of that time Mm the people that are sitting under my teaching and preaching are uh they're gonna have a really good understanding of what that particular book of the Bible really is saying 'cause the wheel grappled with the full text. And I will say this, if you're bouncing around Um there's a reason that a lot of expos not all, there are clearly there's I think there's a significant minority of people that preach expositionally that uh that don't preach through books of the Bible Uh I think the major m in my experience anyway, maybe have a limited experience, but in my experience, the majority of expositional preachers tend to favor working through books of the Bible. And Part of that is I think a a guardrail. Because if you're not doing that, if you're bouncing around, you run into the same risk you run with uh the topical preachers run into. If I'm gonna bounce around and do expositional uh sermons on various parts of the Bible, boy, how easy is it to avoid the parts of the Bible I don't want to preach on. Oh, I don't want to talk about uh homosexuality 'cause that's the third rail of politics right now. Or or I don't want to go on this road because uh and talk about this past because that's a hard one. Like People are confused and there's a lot of debate within the church. So I'm just going to avoid the debate completely. That is so easy to do. But working through the books of the Bible, it forces you to deal seriously expositionally with every text in the Bible over the course of a career. So yeah, I'm not trying to say that expositional uh preaching automatically must be working through book of the Bible. I'm just saying that working through Book of the Bible, it's hard to work through a book of the Bible and uh and do a topical message consistently. Uh well maybe not. I guess and we're sinful, we're creative. We'll find creative ways to to do things. I don't So I don't I I appreciate that comment and it gave me a chance for clarification. I don't know if I clarified or added more muddledness to it, but I I think that was a good clarification. Now another um Oh, let's uh get this comment in here. Because it mentions John MacArthur, so you know, gotta comment on that, I guess. Yeah, that's another advantage, avoiding difficult topics that aren't politically correct. That's why MacArthur stays in trouble with the world. I don't listen to too many of his sermons, so I can't say this. You know, I'm uh I I'm not a uh MacArthur default. Uh but you know, uh in a general sense I would say I'm a fan. Uh I I I think MacArthur does a lot of really good things and I have high respect for him. There's a couple of things that, you know, this isn't about that, but since MacArthur's name came up and, you know, I think I think we live in a spirit, in a uh a spirit of the age where it's important to uh to not only talk in generalities but to use specific examples and you know not to be calling people out unnecessarily but to name names. And MacArthur's a big enough name that I think it's uh he what he teaches and stands for is is pretty pretty well known by most uh in evangelical circles uh in this country. So I'll use him as an example. MacArthur does so many things well I mean he he he has expositional approach. He works through for the most part books of the Bible. Uh he he works really hard to stay faithful to the text. He understands historical setting. He does a lot of things great. But definitely he's perfect. So we won't we don't wanna make uh idols of our favorite pastors either, 'cause in my opinion, as great as I think MacArthur is, I think he's wrong and badly wrong in a couple of ways. One is persistent. I'll get myself in trouble with those who agree with him on this, but his uh animus towards the charismatic movement um I don't disagree with his theology, but the meanness of spirit towards people that I would count as brothers in Christ and sisters in Christ who happen to have a charismatic view. I argue with them. I have a radio show where I debate these issues and I will argue these issues with them, but it's not something that makes them not Christian. I think that they're I think that they're wrong, but they think I'm wrong. We can hash it out And the spirit behind a lot of what MacArthur has to say to the con to the conserv uh to the conservative, to the uh charismatic movement I I I don't think it's uh it's it's conducive to uh the body of Christ living in a wholeness. I I I wish he wasn't Didn't have so much animus there, so I don't like that. And I will say this, this time last year or it was round this time last year And I'm gonna have to cut myself off there and uh pick up the the thought uh in next week's show. We're running very short on time, trying to make this This uh long conversation that I had with Ray Fava and many years ago fit in the context of four short form shows because we have a much shorter form show, the Faith Debate. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I am Troy Skinner who just interrupted myself. Uh I want to thank you again for listening today. We're going to wrap up the conversation that I had with Ray Fava of Evangelical Dark Web. Uh he had me on his show. Now I'm having him on Mine, I suppose, is a way of looking at that. Well we're going to uh pick up the conversation and wrap up the conversation uh about one week from now. That would be let me see. Yeah, one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours from now. Until then, God bless.