This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn. learn in a week. The faith debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com keyword faith sponsored by hilo auto sales entire pros of Frederick. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in mids corner, weighing in with a master of divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Troy Skinner. Our final episode of a four-part series has arrived. Pastor Neela Champong of Covenant Family Chapel, which is soon to be in Woodsboro, and Pastor Clement Mbouy of International Tree of Life Church in Frederick Now we've talked about uh how and why they became pastors a little bit. We talked about how and why their churches came to be located where they are, uh even to some degree, how and why their ministries have taken the shape that they have. Uh something we haven't talked very much about are the challenges of cultural obstacles. There's a distinct ethnic vibe as you might have noticed if you've listened these last uh few weeks. And if you didn't listen the last few weeks, well shame on you. But uh you're about to notice here in a minute. What's it like attempting to reach people who view life from very differing vantage points? How how do your neighbors receive you and the members of a congregation when they're very different from uh what they're used to saying. Do different cultural backgrounds profoundly change the way ministry is done? That's a question I want to focus on this week. And so uh Clement, I want to begin uh maybe by turning to you this week How do you feel that your church fits into the Frederick landscape? And is it even important to be concerned with how well a church fits into the cultural landscape around it? I I mean I'm I'm making an assumption. I haven't been to your church. I've been to Neil's church and his church has a distinct African flavor. Uh I don't know if everybody there is is uh d is directly from Africa, but a high percentage are directly from A they were born in Africa. They're not African American in the typical way we think about it. They you know they're first generation uh Americans. Um and um your church probably has some of that same flavor, I'm assuming. Yes. My uh church also have uh We have most people there from uh were born in Africa and different countries in Africa. So we have uh very much uh different uh ethni, people coming from different parts of the world in Africa. We have some people from uh Jamaica or Haiti. but mostly uh Africans. And actually let me back up for half a second and ask you guys. Um, you know, the typical, you know, dumb American, if somebody talks about North America If you're talking about a Canadian and an American, not a whole lot of difference there really, right? Uh but if you're talking about a Canadian or an American and a Mexican, there's a lot of cultural differences there. So Uh there's a lot of countries in Africa. A lot of countries in Africa. Fifty two. Fifty two, goodness. So and probably what Three hundred languages or something. Oh even more than they are. Even more tomorrow. Because just in my country alone in Ghana All right. There are 23 languages, 103 dialects. Twenty-three languages, 103 dialects in one country. Yes. And so even if let's say even if my entire congregation were all people from my country, you're still gonna have an issue because you're dealing with people from different backgrounds. So again, the you know the dumb American kind of thing. So I I'm not so dumb that I can't notice. There's some sort of an African vibe going on here. The way that the way that the people dress uh the way that they uh that uh that they demonstrate their passion when they sing. Uh s certain mannerisms are are not are not the typical kind of American mannerisms you can tell But how it's not probably not fair to just write to say, oh, it's African. There's so many different kinds of African culture and African vibe So are your ch have you visited each other's churches on a Sunday? Have have you had a chance to do that? Is the vibe similar? I have visited his church a couple of actually I was there to preach, so I wouldn't say visiting. What the difference I saw was that um you guys um would speak a little bit of French, which is not very difficult with us because most of the Africans within our church community speak English. So then we tend to focus more on doing everything in English. Um, even though we tend to sing songs that run across the entire continent. So that it it appeals to Which country is most most uh well represented in your congregation? But people from my country. Okay. But people from Ghana are more well represented. Okay. And how about yours? Uh in our church we have uh there's not typically people uh the majority from one country. It's kind of mixed so we have uh Uh most people like me for example, I do most of my sermon in English, but we have uh people who from the part where they speak French. And the reason why sometimes we translate because we have uh People who just knew in the country just join the church. They speak French, they're learning English. So we kind of try to mix You know, even in with the songs I mean they're Christians, they get along at that level, but is there are there cultural rivalries or cultural obstacles between uh somebody from Ghana and uh uh Nigeria. Nigeria or Kenya or Ivory Coast or th those things are there. And then when you come into the house of God, people tend to sometime maybe downplay it. But every now and then it's gonna show it's hurt some way somehow. For example, um it was a funny story. Somebody had mentioned to a church member of mine that oh, I heard that um there is this pastor here in Frederick and he's from Nigeria and he started his church in the basement and they moved to a hotel, then in the storefront and then the But a building downtown how they bought a building in old Nigerians are very forceful. Not like other um Africans. So they're talking about you? Yeah. And they were talking about you're not Nigerian. And I'm not. Right. So this brother he's talking to said Wait a minute, what is the name of the church? So he mentions the name and he said, No, that's my pastor. He's not from Nigeria. Right? That's a typical example. Yeah. Because people from my side of the world are a little bit layback. They're quiet. They often won't talk. Um they will be in a society like this and wouldn't want to get uh into anything. They would rather want to stay in their corner. So I'm expecting characteristics of some other parts of it's because I've traveled for far too long, so I don't seem to carry the same characteristics back home. So that kind of challenge is there. What we tend to do is to let people understand that when we come to Christ Even though our unique cultures cannot be buried, there is one culture we have to adhere to, and that is what the Word of God teaches us. And so Um for example if I'm going to name a baby, the way it's done in Ghana is different from the way it's done in Nigeria, is it different from the way it's done in Ivory Coast is is different from the way and it's the same continent. So sometimes I will walk into homes. For example, the other day I was going to dedicate a baby who um the parents were from Cameron, right? And they were from the French speaking side. So I realized that they have something entirely different from what I know. And I had to actually sit them down and ask them In your culture, if you were doing this, what would it what would you do? And literally had to make phone calls to other pastors that I knew were from that country. to learn how they went about it and then sometimes say, okay, yeah, culturally this may be relevant, but this part of it is against scripture and I'm not gonna hold on to it. So then I would set that family down and talk them through that this is what we're gonna do. When I get to this I am not gonna follow it. And there are cases where people would say, Oh, if you're not doing that, then we're not coming to church anymore And sometimes I'll say, Okay, I'm sorry to hear that, but that part is not scriptural so I'm not gonna hold to it. So even though it's people most of my congregation, I think about eighty percent is from Africa. It's different. Congolese and Cameroon, Tanzania, somebody from Zambia, uh from South Africa. So you have a very wide range from east to west, north to south. And when you are dealing with that kind of diverse kind of culture is not that simple. What country is your family heritage from? Oh, I'm originally from Congo. Okay. And my wife she's from Averkus. Okay. And does Congo speak French? Is that what I think? Ivory Coast, I know they speak French. They speak French too as well. Okay. So you have a lot of French speakers in your congregation? Yeah. Me personally preaching French nah much. Except if I travel in a French country I would preach Now I know that Neil, your church, you have people that will drive from Montgomery County or, you know, sometimes they'll travel forty minutes to get to your church or maybe maybe more, I don't know. Uh same with you? Yeah, we have uh some families that come from Germantown and Gettysburg and we also have some family that come from uh Aggestown. Yeah, and it's not surprising that they would come from a a larger footprint because you know it's not like there are heavy pockets of of uh African communities in Frederick County. So that's kind of the the issue I was intending that I thought we would talk about a little bit You guys uh are uh not Frederick's good old boys. So what is that like navigating? How do you feel like the the the county generally speaking? receives you, interacts with you, uh is it is it somehow easier uh to be so different than what they're used to that they give you more benefit of the doubt than they might otherwise, or is it harder I would put it this way. Um I believe that I've had the best of receptions that a foreigner should have in somebody else's country. And I would always be grateful and respectful of that. Uh to have a radio uh program on WFMD, which I believe is listened to predominantly by uh Americans and to have a listening audience in thousands, to me it what else uh are you expecting from Now, maybe I'm looking at the other options and saying, oh, when am I going to get them to come and sit in church? Until one day I began to do uh a little bit of um exit surveys for people who had come to stay with us for a few months and then they left and then I talked to some people and so Pastor you all sing in English but you don't sound American And it was a very nice way that the person was just trying to relate to me. Oh, I love listening to you because of the way you teach God's word, but the music is not relevant to me. and some other things are not. And I said, okay, so if we relocated to her a different place and I started an entire uh service that was tailored say um this is a funny idea I have that I'll call it ATS one, ATS two, American Traditional Service and then African traditional service. So uh ATS one is African Traditional Service, ATS two is American tradition. So if you walked in there Um then I wanted to have ETS three where the young people would just come and have a high time of real high impact energy music then we still teach them the word of God. So I began to learn that culture was relevant. So ATS angry teen service. And that if we were able we were going to be able to reach every single one, which I believe you cannot uh is to have to make sure that there are pockets of services that would always reach out to people within the the um the concepts of like the the way the sing, the way the church culture actually is. I remember organizing um uh Easter services and I invited Jesse Antar uh Frederick City to come over. Right. And then some people came, they they hanged out with us and then we have a f a fine service. Literal and I made phone calls to a few people and there was an elderly couple who traveled all the way I think from outside Frederick City because they got the information and they came over. And after that they said, Oh, we were so blessed, we've been listening to you over the radio and that's how We came over and then I said, Any advice for me? And they told me, young man, we love you. We hope you will continue to stay here. But there's one thing you need to understand. Easter services for us is called Easter Sand Right. It has to be six AM. Right? Nine PM is not our thing. And I said sure, sir. I have learned it and next time I have one It's gonna be as fixed a. m. I kept a relationship with them and every now and then they wanted to know how I was doing and how things were going. So it's also a learning curve for me to find out if I'm gonna be able to race beyond these cultures, I will have to start learning to have services that is tailored to them. In order to be able to be able to do that. And I can hear that's a goal and a focus at least in part of your mind. Do you have a similar goal that you're hoping that someday you'll have a bunch of uh Frederick Good Old Boys showing up for Sunday service at your church? Yeah, I think one point that it you touch on was uh I think as far as music, you know, we have a a way we praise and worship in Africa. It may not sound typically Americans, but We try we try it. We we try to you know, kinda to But it's not easy, you know, especially where we my suggestion would be this. I hired um uh an African American guy and a white guy to help us with our music so we can start changing. Some of it. And actually we are now using most of our young people that were born and raised here. So that because they understand the music here, they are into the modern thing. and so on. So if you if you're still gonna use the musicians who are still from back home, you will not be able to make that transition. Th those are some of the investments we are trying to make to make that kind of shift to happen. Yeah. Uh Neela Champong, pastor of Covenant Family Chapel, and Clement Mbui is the pastor of International Tree of Life Church. Both churches are in Frederick for the moment. Uh, Woodsboro is about to be become the home for Yeah. Sunday, October sixth is the first Sunday. And I uh Saturday, October fifth you have something going on as well. We have in the grand opening the dedication of the property and the new sanctuary. There will be government officials there. And then in the afternoon there's gonna be Um cookout, it's gonna be food, all kinds of things. What time is that happening on that? That will start at two PM and will end at six PM. See now, we've been talking about the cultural differences uh as much as Frederick County isn't all that diverse, most of the diversity you find is in the city. Woodsboro, I don't know what the diversity is there off the top of my head. But it's not diverse maybe at all. It's actually not ninety percent. Uh white, uh four percent, Hispanics, three point five blacks, and then I think Asians is about one point some. So however, if you look at the entire population of Woodsboro is about eleven hundred. Alright? It's not that much. I am more futuristic in my thinking because of putting the church there, I am not looking just at Woodsboro as a city. I am looking at Walkersville. I am looking at uh Union Bridge. I'm looking at Terman. I'm looking at all the other places. This is why one of the greatest focus we have once we move in there is because we want to have a service, ATS two, to start reaching out to people from here. If the musicians will be there, the only thing that will be different in the service would be me preaching. Everything else will be Frederick Old Boyce doing the thing. Now I uh the the handful of times I've been there, it seems like there is at least one white guy that shows up pretty regular. Yes. And um He's still there. Okay. And so if if somebody else were to join in with him, you'd have two. I'm not sure what the critical mass is. One's probably not quite enough. If you c could get three or four or half a dozen or or a a family of eight that happens to be white to to worship regularly, that could be the kind of thing 'Cause it's human nature. You walk into a room and if nobody looks anything at all like you, you feel like, oh, this this isn't my place. And it works uh I would imagine more often it works in the reverse where somebody who has darker skin walks into a white environment and fact I think you had something like that happen to you once. When I was in Chicago um There was this church I think is on the north side and um the entire congregation was white. The north side of Chicago is pretty wide. And that was the congregation I wanted to be in. And the first Sunday I got there, no nobody shook hands with me. And most of them didn't even know I was a pastor. So I just sat back there and I listened to the pastor and at the close of service the pastor shook hands with me And then we talked and we smiled and said, Young man, are you gonna come back? I said, Sure I will, sir, I will be here again. And then the following Sunday I went for about a month or two. We closed church up out from pastoring His wife wouldn't even shake hands. And uh I would just laugh and I'll go back. Until I started reaching out to uh the prostitutes across the street. I will go and tell to s some of them about the word of God and I think one of the evenings after service I realized there was one girl who was I think pushed down by someone. And uh those days I was not afraid of guns because I did not know there were guns around. Else I would have been I would have kept myself away. So I go in and I talk to her and then he says, Let me alone I said, No, it looks like you need help And I said, Do you need money so you can go home? She said, Yes. And I said, Sure, here's money. And I said, Do you want to walk with Jesus? He said, I'm hungry. And I get I got a food to eat Long story short, um, she's Julie. I won't give you her last name, but Julie came to receive Jesus and I took her with church with me Guess what? The clothes that she wore is just the uh those kinds of clothes. And we go to church and she said in Miami And nobody shakes hands with me and nobody shook hands with her too. Were they shaking hands with each other? Is that? Yeah, they're shaking hands with everybody. And and they didn't deal with the two of us So she looked at me and said, Has anybody shaken hands with you ever since you came here? I said, Julie, that's not an issue. We came here to serve God and let's just do that and go. Right. So after service I introduced her to the pastor. I said, Pastor, I met her um somewhere on the streets and she wanted to serve Jesus so I brought her in today. Long story short, one of the dates I think about when Julie was a month and I would have been three or four months in the church Pastor was sick. For whatever reason, everybody came to church. Pastor wasn't there, his wife wasn't there. Few of the leaders were not present and nobody was doing anything. So they were all sitting there quietly Hm. And um I looked to Julie and I said, Julie, you know how to sing, don't you? He said yes. And I said, I can play the piano by it's only key C If you can sing, Kesia, I'll get on that piano and play it and then you sing. Can you do that? Now, can you go tell some of them we can help? So she stands up, talk to a couple of people and then they raise they shroud their shoulders as if all right, so you wanna do it, just do it. So the two of us got in there. And then she sang so powerfully. Right. And there was only one song, Look What the Lord Has Done. And she sang so powerfully. And after the worship I opened my Bible and I shared God's word with him. And at the close of service, they all rallied around me because they realized, oh, the guy we've been ignoring there's something else in him. And the day I told them I was leaving ch Chicago to come back, they all kept saying, Don't go, don't go, don't go and this is what I tell people that you may go into a church where there are people of different colors. Just be patient because it's human nature not to gravitate And if you're gonna be patient with people, you will see that there's something better in them that maybe you might be misjudging. That's true. I haven't had a similar experience, but I I preached before in a church where typically everybody were white, so They pretty much loved me at that place. So but you know, but you encounter some experience here and there, but uh I think what we need to understand is in Jesus there is no colour, there is no You know, no matter where we're from, we are here for Jesus. So, you know, I believe that uh And for the record, um it's not so much about what white people would do to black people but it's also what black people would because I've preached um I think the last time I preached in the Raxberry Prison Jail. I was more received by the white inmates than I was received by the black inmates. Why do you think that is? I don't know. Some of them even carried my Bible with me and walked with me whilst While as I was going towards the security gates to check out and go and I kept relationship with most of them, some I had to go to their families to talk to them, Hey, this one will be out this week and I wouldn't mind going to pick them up and bring them home. And I would ask some of the blacks and they wouldn't even want to Deal with me. So I think that it's more something i it's more in people and that whatever we find ourselves we need to learn to mix up. But if people don't mix up, let's not make too much of it. And I don't want to go so far as to say everybody's a racist. I mean a lot of people are racist unfortunately and everybody maybe has moments where they have some racist tendency that they have to check their spirit and their heart on. But everybody has a prejudice, you know, because we've been grown up that, you know, if somebody's wearing baggy pants and long hair and and and has lots of tattoos or whatever, you're like, ooh, that That person's been represented in movies is a bad guy, you know. Or whatever. You have these pictures. And so I think that, you know, that's part of it. You know, it it it self self-protection takes over. Uh I can't think of his name now, but he travels the country as a tenorant preacher, and he lays down uh by the church door wearing like bum's clothes. Oh yeah. And then he walks into the service and then he gets up during the middle of the service and walks up towards the the the pulpit The pastor's in on it. Very in the congregation is like, Oh my gosh, the hobo's gonna he's he's bum rushing our pastor. What are we gonna do? And the pastor no no no it's okay, let's let's let him speak. Let's let's let's let's hear him out, let's let hear him speak And the guy starts to speak and as he's speaking he starts to take off his hobo clothes and he's wearing a suit underneath and all the people feel convicted because they wouldn't even give him the time of day when they walk in. So Anyway, Clement and Bowie, the pastor of International Tree of Life Church and Frederick on the show. Neil La Champong, Pastor of Covenant Family Chapel on the show. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. We're online at WFMD. com. And we're just a couple of weeks away. Copper Mine Road, Woodsboro, ten o'clock, October sixth. Be there. Sure. 10307 Copper Mine Road. Calvin and Family Chapel welcomes everybody. Come dance with us. Come here Goss Word. And I believe that your life will never be the same. There you go. Till next week, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from right now. God bless