Good morning, Julia. Thanks for spending part of your Sunday mornings with us here on WFMD News Radio 930 WFMD. Um I'm Troy Skinner, Faith of the Faith Faith of the Faith Debate, host uh I promise you, I haven't even started drinking yet. That's like in a couple more hours. I don't know what's going on in the face of the faith debate. The host of the faith debate Maybe you should drink some water. That's right, that doesn't work either. Yeah. Daniel Rasby and David Forcey trying to help me out of this hole I've dug, and there's just there's just no digging out of this one. So let's start over. Take two. I'm Troy Skinner, host of the Faith Debate. Thank you for listening to the show. You've already heard uh David Forcy and Daniel Rasby's voices. They're pastors in the area. You can find Daniel and uh his church and their ministry online at concordbylove. org. And we are plea and you you can connect with David through my website, uh Household of Faith in Christ dot com. He doesn't have a website. He's a Luddite. I would say we spent a long long time last time spelling his name over and over again to get the website. You could also go to Amazon and you just type in the head covering Josiah. And 'cause there's a few head covering books, but if you put Josiah 'cause that's easier to remember and spell. The book. And you have anticipated who I was and who I was going to be introducing next. Josiah Bone uh Giovanni. Bon Bone Giovanni. I think it's right. Bone Giowani. Uh yeah, his book is the head covering. Um he's been on the show the last two weeks. He's on again This week and he's gonna keep coming back and 'cause uh I I haven't hit him that hard yet. I'm gonna start bludgeoning him, see if he wants to come back or I'm just kidding. Um some of the shows do get bludgeoning, but all in good fun. Uh we haven't we haven't gone there yet Uh because uh as I mentioned on the very first show on this topic a couple of weeks ago, I don't have a well formed opinion on this Um so it's not that uh I'm looking to try to persuade somebody that I'm right. Uh I'm not even sure that I understand exactly what it would take to persuade me to go in a particular direction. I'm just I'm I'm kind of like jello uh kind of wobbly. Uh which is a rare thing for me because I'm pretty strident and s opinionated on on most issues. You're like jello, you're you're moldable? Yes. But in this case I'm like jello that's been in the fridge far too long and now you it's like a rock. Uh so anyway, that's kinda where I am on on the head covering issue. But we read I think it was um towards the end of the show two weeks ago. I read from First Corinthians chapter eleven Um verses two through sixteen are the is a relevant passage that we are focusing on. And in reading that passage, uh it talks about Um, you know, women praying and prophesying and that sort of a thing. And we talked about these last couple of shows about how women, particularly in the in the context of worship, uh where praying and prophesying might take place, that they should have their heads covered And in between shows, David Forcy was kind of picking at that question a little bit like so yeah I I I think it's just very interesting that in the the churches that typically still practice head covering, they will not They don't speak in church. Let the women be silent in the churches. Do not it is a shame for women to speak in church basically. But he it's also Paul saying that it's also Paul saying that and and so how do they're not they're not inconsistent with each other. Well exce except that he says th they women should wear the head covering if they are praying or prophesying in the first Corinthians eleven passage. So how do you how do you reconcile those two? You can pray silently. Can you prophesy silently? I think it uh there is definitely passages in scripture talking about teaching of other women, uh and that would be an example of speaking, but not necessarily in in i i with all the men present, but they're teaching women. So it's only when the women are with the women and they're praying or prophesying. out loud that they should then wear the head covering. Right. That's that's the that's the logic that I see though. See what do you have an answer to that? Well I we can do what you can to set this man David Forcy straight. Yes, I will try, thank you. So I would take a little different of an opinion than Daniel, and this is actually one of the reasons I like your opinion already, by the way. The Bible says whenever a woman prays or prophesies So prayer and prophecy, it never says anything about in church. It just says prayer or prophesy. So I would take that as in church, out of church, anywhere. So the simple solution to this is a woman is not allowed to prophesy in church, according to Paul. In first Corinthians chapter fourteen he he mentions no speaking at all. Um Not even asking questions for the sake of understanding what's going on in the sermon, but which is a harsh thing to say nowadays, but if a woman's not allowed to prophesy in church Then obviously when he says that she's to cover her head when praying or prophesying, that can't be something that's happening only in church. But to David's point, uh he mentioned this Uh I think it was last week's show and it might have been in between shows as well, so I'm not sure how much of it made it into the radio edition of w this. But uh I don't forgive me if I'm speaking for you, but I'm just trying to clarify and synthesize in my own mind some of the issues now that are that are arising. I think that David's question is what's different about these particular moments from all the time in the Christian life? So whatever's present in these particular moments should be present in all of life. If it's supposed to be a symbol for headship and submission to authority and uh uh um respecting your husband and respecting the leadership of the church, you should be doing that in all of your life. And if it's only when there's praying, and you like Daniel said a couple of times now, you can pray silently. Well yeah, we're we are told in scripture to pray without ceasing. So if we're going to pray without ceasing, then women should have their head covered twenty four seven. And if right? And if prophecy is something that could happen at any time. Right, then a woman whose head is uncovered at any time is not ready to prophesy. So le let's let's flip that back around. You as we're recording this, you're wearing a hat. Yes. Would you take the hat off to pray? Maybe. Maybe. Not necessarily. Yeah. I mean I'm I'm borrowing like it's cold outside and you're gonna get frostbite or whatever. But if you had the opportunity if I said, Hey David, will you lead us in prayer right now? You'd likely take your hat off. Likely. Likely. So why is that? Is it only cultural or does it not have nothing to do with scripture that p Bible commands do not pray while having your head covered? And so if If that's the case, then why wouldn't it be that same reason for women? You pray pr presumably twenty four seven ish as i i if if you have a good walk with God you're gonna be constantly talking to him throughout the day. Right. Not necessarily taking your hat off every time you do that. There are specific times you say, I'm gonna pray now. Bless the food. I'm taking my hat off. Right That's that's a you're you're kind of in a different mentality. Other it's a little different, like you know, federal on the roof type of mentality, oh dear Lord this and oh God do you th this for me, whatever. He just has a running conversation with God the whole the whole time, right? And uh presumably a a strong Christian will also have this kind of running conversation with God in your head all day. So so where that's different from a I am praying now. Now I would say and this is where Josiah and I differ, he he's he's he gets around the whole they can't speak in church and he gets grounded very elegantly by saying, Well, it's not just about church. It's any time I w I would still say that I I have the the the the the opinion that there is this passage is specifically dealing with corporate worship. So I don't know where the prophecy fits in because I don't have a format in our church service for women to be prophesying, nor do I really have men prophesying that much in church either. So i it you know, that's the prophesying part I'm not entirely sure. But there are women that they're praying and I don't really have a problem necessarily with w women praying, especially to leave others in prayer, uh w other women, but praying together a as a group, we're all now praying. You don't have to lead, it doesn't say whoever's leading in prayer, it just says praying. So that's that's what I would say. I don't know if that helps or not, but I think you have to answer both the men and the women, not just can't just be about women. But if you're also gonna take your hat off to pray, then you gotta find out why are you doing it only at certain times. Right. So otherwise you can never wear a hat. If the Praying Without Ceasing takes a Troy to your point. Yeah. Then you can't ever wear a hat if the Prayden Without Ceasing. I don't know if I've ever seen Troy wear a hat. Yeah. When I'm feeling particularly sinful. Okay. Uh so I I'm I'm curious I just picked a verse from the chapter so I could look at a whole bunch of translations at once. So this is 1 Corinthians chapter 11, verse 4. All right. So like the amplified says, every man who prays or prophesies with something on his head dishonors his head and the one who is his head. That's the amp that's it that last part's it bracketed, by the way. Uh let's see if I can find one that's uh a little bit different from that. We're getting some insight into how Troy The C E B every man who prays or prophesies with his head covered shames his head. The Darby translation says every man praying or prophesying having anything on his head puts his head to shame. Um there's there's two meanings of head in this verse, am I wrong? Yeah, well well head can mean as relating to like uh um Well it c it can ha I'm not sure in this in this verse or in this passage. Right. But head can mean source of, like the headwaters, the source of Could also have to do with the uh the first in in priority, the the the head first in class, the top the most the one with the most authority Uh head can also be a a physical, you know, body part. So there's at least three different ways that head could be understood. Well I would say You you have to take it as the the little head, like with the two eyes and nose and mouth and hair and all that because because in the same passage he's using hair as an example. I'm not gonna argue strenuously, but I am gonna ask a a a question at least about that because it says here Good point, Daniel. It says that uh now this is verse 3 of chapter 11 of 1 Corinthians. I want you to realize that the head of every man is Christ. So Christ is the physical head with eyes, nose, and mouth? No, uh uh sh sure, there's like like David said before, there is a spiritual purpose to this, right? This is to show what the s the spiritual. So I obviously in verse three he's talking about uh the uh um the head in the spiritual sense. I think we we all agree on that that's the point you're making so then you're gonna say well why is it not that in other parts Yeah, and I think that that's actually the that that's w probably the point, uh, theologically and grappling with the scriptures that David's coming at this from as I'm thinking about it now, kind of on the fly for the first time ever in my life, probably. I've I've spent Uh over the last several weeks of shows now I've spent more time talking about this than all the rest of my life probably combined till now. I've just it's not an issue I spent a lot I just have not spent a lot of time on it. So I'm doing this on the fly. But what would be the argument for saying that, okay, verse three, and w give me by the way, I know m you guys aren't a fan of the NIV. Give me a translation that you like. I like the New King James version. I could read you a verse on that if you want. Well is is New King James okay with others in this room? Yeah. Okay, let me pull up the New King James 1 Corinthians chapter 11, and I'm going to pick back up in the same place. So verse 3. Now I want you to know, or but I want you to know, that the head of every man is Christ. Spiritual, right? The head of woman is man. Spiritual, positional, right? The head of Christ is God, still, right? Very next phrase, every man praying or prophesying, having his head covered, dishonors his head. So we've had the word head used five times in two verses. The first three are clearly spiritual, positional kinds of things. Now am I to understand that the very next phrase, the next two uses of head, are completely different from those first three uses? I would argue yes along with Daniel and that's And the ground for that position would be what? 'Cause that seems The ground is verse five. Because obviously it was talking about spiritual heads bef before. And that's the what the whole symbolism of this is. But in verse five it says, Every woman who prays or prophesies with her head uncovered dishonors her head. So it repeats the same thing in verse four except for the woman. But what kind of head is she talking about? It says, For that is one and the same as if her head were shaved. Now that That uh comparison there would make no sense if he was talking about spiritual head because suddenly he's talking about yeah, you can't s shave a spiritual head, so he's obviously talking about A physical head with hair. Right, that's getting the point that David was making last week's show that he he's saying there's a spiritual thing. So there's this there's a there's a physical reality of some sort. And that spiritual reality of some sort is a picture of or is picture the physical reality is a picture of the spiritual reality. And so there is a blending of ideas here, right? You're I think David's agreeing with me on that. And he's saying, I think, if I'm understanding it correctly, that whatever that reality is would be in place all the time because Right? The the head of Christ is God all the time. The head of woman is man is true all the time. The head of every man is Christ. all the time. So whatever this symbol is talking about covering, shaving, uncovering heads would be a symbol that would refer to those all the time realities. unless I'm misunderstanding the context here, which I might be because like I said, I'm grappling with this specific question. And I was exaggerating a little bit. I'm sure I've spent more than an an hour and a half of my life on this question. But my point is I've never done a a real studied things. So you're getting kind of and I would love to do this in the Greek right now, but I I'm not able to do that on the fly. So I would say that you really have to Be willing to say that a man may never wear a hat ever if you're going to say that woman must cover her head all the time Um but the you know, uh again David's gonna say well it doesn't have to be a hat, it can be some other symbol. Correct. And I wanna know where you get that 'cause I don't see other symbols in this passage as being acceptable. What why why can it why is it What else could it be besides a hat or covering of head? What do you have an example of what else it could be? That would be acceptable in i and you f you if you like you're fulfilling this passage and obeying the command. Um No, I don't think I have like a a specific physical outward No, I I do think there needs to be one. So there needs to be one, but you can't think of one that wouldn't be a head covering. Uh you would advocate for head coverings then. I I would advocate for a I uh I th I think it clearly has to do with uh like a there there should be like a a visible Distinction. But the only visible distinction that is coming to mind would be some kind of covering on the head, right? Or is there some other way that you could fulfill this passage? Um, I mean I think it's uh well, uh I think looking in in context of you know, even talking about like the the whole the whole speaking issue. Um, right in other things that we see in the New Testament, it should be the way that men and women uh present themselves, carry themselves, interact with other people. Like that that should all be distinctive. Right. Well I would agree with that. I just don't I I don't know that how that's specifically relevant to this passage. It's just that generally men and women should be distinct. Right. And a man cannot become a woman, a woman cannot become a man. So Correct If a man comes into your congregation and says he's a woman, first of all, don't accept that what he says. Also, he shouldn't be wearing head coverings. Well praying. Can I also try to put you in a tight spot, David? Um I'm just curious, so let's say uh somebody in your congregation, a woman comes to you and says, I just read First Corinthians eleven and it says that women are supposed to wear head coverings and Um she's like, what do I do first of all? And if if you told her, let's just say you told her, well, you just need to wear some symbol that sets you apart as a woman, and she's like, please give me an example, something that would fit this passage so I can know how to do it right now. Um I I guess that's maybe the same question repeated, just maybe now you're under pressure from your congregants. What do you tell her? Right, right. Uh I I I would say I would say don't don't worry about like a a very specific But wouldn't that be disobeying the scriptures in the meantime? Like shouldn't she at least Until she can think of something else that can replace the biblical symbol, shouldn't she obey the scriptures at least in the meantime? figure out how she is going to uh display that symbol. I would not give her guidance that is some specific outward physical uh right some specific sort of rule to follow, right? Even though there is d is a kind of a specific rule here in scripture? Uh it's but it but it's not very specific. This chapter is one of the most um difficult to find agreement among Christian brothers in all of Scripture. Only only very recently. Only very recently. As far as history is concerned. And only in the Western um cultures because like I mentioned um in a previous episode, I was over in Moldova and Romania for some time. And over in in the eastern cultures Christians obey the scripture. So actually I would say we're in the minority in the West, but over in the West it's debated. Well would you say to those who say that those who and I'm not Sure that I would say this. I the day might come that I would, by the way, but I'm not there now. But I'm trying to anticipate what people who disagree If somebody because right now on uh David's pushing back a little bit asking for some clarification, he's generally in agreement. He's just on the in some of the specific um atomistic almost uh applications is where the disagreement is. But a a full-throated disagreement, there's nobody on the panel right now to do that. So I'm trying to think, what would that person be asking? And I think that there would be a concern from some who would say that those who are advocating you know uh Josiah and Daniel's positions uh are guilty of a sin of legalism. that you're putting upon the woman a requirement that's actually not biblical because you're misunderstanding First Corinthians chapter eleven. So so I I would say that le it illegalism would be following a a rule or commandment because it i i you for the sake of the commandment itself, not because of what you love with the colour. Which is why I would not prescribe But there were things there would be things that you would prescribe. There are commands in scripture such as Man should not lie with man and if somebody came to you to ask ask you to expound on that, can you give me some specific examples? You'd probably be able to come up with some well, don't marry another man according you'll get a marriage license on another man, don't be in a homosexual relation. You you can think of some specific examples. That's an obvious one, which we talked about on the show, and I I know your opinion on that one. So uh what uh how do you determine, you know, well this command we sh we can be very strong on having specific examples and and and I can coach you on exactly how to follow it. But this other command you have to figure it out for yourself and and I'm not gonna give you any guidance on it. Why is one Aside from okay, now this is a sexual immorality sin I want to big. I think I think I think it falls very much into the same sort of thing of like okay, like how do we take communion? Right. Like what are the right things? Well what I mean, what sort what what do we eat, what do we drink, right? Is that culturally dependent upon What's around us, what's available, what's seen to represent these things. Right. So so in the same way, like I think you should eat unleavened bread and and uh drink uh water. Yeah, and and you think women should wear head coverings during uh prayer and prophecy. Uh so well I I'm saying you're you're consistent, right? And I and I think I'm consistent too in that, and then I would say that that like the the Lord's Supper, uh that There are principles that uh that you you want symbolized and that are commanded to be symbolized there, but the way that those principles, those truths, are symbolized Uh it it's okay if that's done in different ways, but you should still seek to display those. Do you have any scripture to back up why y you c it's okay to symbolize things in different ways? Than what it than the examples that are given in Scripture? Is there some other passage of Scripture where where it says you need to do this, but if you choose to do it in a different way, that's okay also? As long as the the the spirit is followed, not the not the letter. I I think when you have commands where there is not w which is a lot of the time, where there's not uh extreme, you know, uh precision, right, in how it's laid out that it should be followed. There is We have that in in the Old Testament, right? When there's a a tabernacle that is made with specific measurements, specific materials, right? All of those things. Mm-hmm. Right? And so then there's sp very exact particular specific ways to do things, clothing to wear, how to wear it, what it should look like, all of that, right? So so I see that there. And then I see in the in the New Testament when uh when we have now right to be God's part of God's people you're not called to come and do this very specific thing, but rather we're going out and this this this thing, this following Jesus and walking in obedience to him, right, is is going to manifest itself. And it it's it's going to look different in different places. Right? There are going to be different sorts of buildings that people worship in. Right. There's going to be different sorts of songs that are sung in praise to him. Right. And so I I think that that that is the framework that I'm I'm looking at this through as well. Um do you mind if I go back to your your question for a moment, Troy? Um going back to legalism a little bit. I was thinking you definitely hit the nail on the head, like that is one of the big arguments that I've heard since I come from the Mennonite church where women practice head covering. It's one of the big things people say, like, I don't want to practice it because that would make me a legalist, or if you know, and I don't want to advocate it because that would make other people legalists. And to me, the word legalist, first of all, is not generally understood when you ask a person for a definition, it's Sometimes they'll have to sit there and think for a while. They don't know what it means. It's kind of like the word racist nowadays, where you just throw it around anybody who has a different opinion You'd call them a racist in in in political sense, but in Christian terms, if especially Protestants, that's their word that replaces racists. It's like you're a legalist if you believe differently. So I've heard it I I had a um a fellow teammate when I was on missions and the the teacher was like, I want to talk about legalism today. So like first of all I want to give you an example of what it is. He's like, It's that girl over there in the audience who's wearing a head covering. And he said that and I was in a bit of shock. I was very upset. I didn't even know what to say at the moment. But um I was like, how dare he use her as an example of legalism? But I think it's because he doesn't know what it means. And if I were to give a definition of I've looked at looked high and low and tried to connect what people say about it, I think the definition is Working your way to heaven, like seeing commandments as a way to get to heaven if you like if I do this, this and this, I'll get to heaven, as opposed to it being a free f gift of God. And that's why I asked you the question before if it was a sin and it was an excommunicable offense. And so a person in order to be right with God and right with the church and make it into heaven would have to wear the head covering or they'd be kicked out of the church. That's why I asked that question. So so actually it does fit 'cause I do understand how legalism is is a term that gets mis interpreted, I I think you've actually run right into the definition of legalism. If you're gonna kick somebody out of the church over it, it's a law that must be followed. Or you're because the church representing on earth what the what God would say is like you're in danger of hellfire. It's for for your own good. We're kicking you out of the church so you'll come to your senses so you can actually be in heaven. I I think that is the definition. And when you seem to continue this next week show we got like fifteen seconds left. That was the voice of uh of Josiah. Uh Bone Jawani, the author of the head covering, uh Daniel Razby and uh David Forcey also on the show. I'm Troy Skinner. Find us online at wfmd. com at household of faith in Christ dot com. Till next week, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from now. God bless