This is the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930. WFMB brought to us by Putman Plummick and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week again by Vivian Weinstein from Beth Shalom and Jonathan Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel. Um want to encourage you to visit us online at WFMB. com. keyword faith and there you will find a daily weekday anyway updated blog so I encourage you to email me Troy at WFMD. com because if you email me then I might post it on the website because my blog Is your vlog. What have I been reading? Sacred Marriage by Gary Thomas. You ever read that one, Jonathan? I have not Oh the you should you would uh you should read it. Sacred marriage. Sacred marriage. And you should encourage everybody you know who's thinking about getting married or who is already married to read the book. All right. Sacred marriage. So I'll give that not only one thumb up But watch this. There it goes. Second thumb. Thumbs up. Very good. All right. One of the best. Sacred marriage. Sacred marriage. All right. Do they do they talk about um um marriage of two men or two women or you know anything like that. Oh yeah, you want to go there? They probably don't. I I have to admit in the or in the Orthodox religions uh even in Judaism i it's it is not um as much acceptance of certain things. Although e even in the Orthodox, uh I don't know if officially I can't speak, you know, for the Orthodox really. But um I know that in most synagogues we have um you know, gay parishioners and they and they are in congregants and and and they're very well accepted. Um, just as women rabbis are accepted, women cantors are accepted and all of this but not in the Orthodox or the ultra orthodox. So, you know, um, you know, because um I I live through you know, I I've always um you know, I I always felt very strong as a woman. I I remember my one ex one not so good experience with Christianity being sat down and told that I had to sit in silence and submission. Uh that was in the Bible. Is that you recognize that one? I I never saw it. I I looked through, I couldn't never find it in the Bible. Couldn't never find it. So uh It's in Corinthians. It's in Corinthians. That's that's in the New Testament, right? Yeah, yeah, it's in the world. However they used it out of context. They used it out of context. Well I'm glad I'm really glad to know that now. But it was a very good point for me to know, hey, wait a minute, to find it to know who I was. And I and you know, I've lived through, you know, um women's struggles and the women's movement in the seventies And that was a big learning experience 'cause I was fairly young. You know. And so there were a lot of Jewish women in there. And at that time one of the significant things that happened among Jewish women was that they were finding themselves as women and they were educated and why can't they you know um why do they have to sit on one side of the machisa which is a dividing Yeah. You know, from the men. And why can't they get up and do in a room in the synagogue with men and women present and and read from the Torah? Why can't they um you know and all this Um and this is when it started to happen around the in the seventies and the eighties and by that time we were starting to see women rabbis and women cantors and I think that was also maybe part of the reason why I felt more comfortable going back into my own religion. You know? Because I why should I go back into why should I go back into something that's going to restrict me more? Sure, sure. You know? Why? You know, I there was no reason to do that. You know, I did that already in a marriage, so I don't want to do it again, you know. So I mean, because there's a certain sense you get of yourself and that's important. And um Um actually I should say that the women's movement of the seventies was like your you know, another women's movement 'cause there have been multiple women's movements. It has risen and and quieted down you know, and and um I did some work on the in the early um before the First World War and there were some um, you know, wonderful women, uh, not only with the right vo you know, fighting for the right to vote and the right to um uh was it um and it and also against the war, but they were also women who, you know, at that time they just you know, considering today, they they were just developing methods of birth control And abortion, there were doctors that would be willing to do an abortion in a clean safe procedure and they were all doing had to do it in secret because that's existed for thousands of years. And if we don't recognize it, like the people today don't want to recognize that women use you know, contraceptives and, you know, because that's why we don't see families of ten or eleven or twelve anymore, unless it's your choice, you know, at least that's a choice. And I don't see anybody in this whole discussion forcing anybody to have large families if they either don't want them or don't feel it's safe or whatever. It's just a matter of that you have a choice. And so this discussion was going to be a little bit more than a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a Interesting cause there's so many of those issues that I think with with other guests I'd be inclined to to dive in and and uh and debate a little bit more but I just enjoy hearing uh your perspective on this and because there's several of these that I th that that I think I would come down on uh in a different place from where you're at. Um but um hearing it from just the the the distinctive uh you know Jewish background and understanding um how uh how it fits the narrative of your history is something that I feel like is um It it's educating me, it's giving me a perspective that I feel like Well I'm one whole person and all of these pieces are are part of the puzzle that makes m makes up me, you know. But it makes up other women as well, not just me. Sure. And like my twin sister, for example. We started out by talking about her and she became she has become a mohalit. that's accepted in in in the um in all the Jewish uh different what does that word mean? Mohale. She's a female, a woman, moil. A moil is the Um the man, uh it doesn't have to be a rabbi, but he is the man who performs the circumcision or the Britney La and um he says the prayers and you know carries through that um mitzvah and does the um the the what you would call the ritual. Yeah, does the ritual. So when a woman a woman is called Mahalit and that is what she is that she has train been trained to do up until like the nineteen seventies that was always done by a man. Well it at least for for a long time. I I have a suspicion that that in earlier history, like in our earlier history going back to the the ancients and and all that they that it was done by women in Egypt and stuff like that. Yeah going back further that um that it wa that it might have been done by women actually But after Moses Moses is the one that said it had to be done by the priest, is that right? You don't know for sure. I I I can't speak on that. I don't know. But I don't think there is any law, at least Um and I won't s I won't say this officially, but uh for myself and there shouldn't be a law. My sister is a marvelous midwife She's an excellent muhelet. And if there's any problem with the baby t given today today's scientific knowledge, you know, why why deny science? That's another thing that's happening today. And and you don't see that so much among Jewish women. We don't deny science. Sure. You know, we accept it and we we we we you know, if we have question, we question things. So you know, Jeho you don't question God, you know. If you can question God, why Why can't we question, you know, other things here on earth? That's what we're we're here to do, and then try to seek the answers. But but there's a sense of you're saying that we do question God, you're saying W J as Jews, we we've we've questioned God. I say we've you know I don't necessarily Abraham questioned them whether or not he should uh destroy Sodom and Gomorrah. Moses questioned him about whether or not he should destroy the Israelites and uh and several other points. There's certainly a uh rich history of There there's many going to God with your questions as opposed to being afraid to ever ask you. But but the thing is that that it it's i it's it's okay, you know, but It's also you also have to be ready to do it. Yeah, but you have to be ready to listen. But you have a rob robust discussion. You don't be afraid to ask the hard questions because they are incapable of handling those questions. Is that what Aaron said? I don't know. Didn't say that. But you know, but there's a long history of that. And and certainly in the in the modern in the modern Jewish era, you know, there is. And And we we discuss questions and and and you know we s have the same problems we have to discuss. Are we gonna accept uh birth control? Are we gonna accept uh you know Is that you in terms of defining who you are, my understanding was always that that that definition kind of arose out of uh your scriptures, you know, and in in the you know, m Moses and that sort of thing, but but you've kind of defined your defined kind of the two roots, as it were, of of what Judaism has brought to you is is education and action. And and so some of that may include studying scripture and being educated about about the Torah, but but it more has applied to just life in general, education and action. Yeah. Okay. Um I guess the central question, one of the central questions is we ask ourselves like that our purpose here on earth. Yeah. What is our purpose in this earth, in this universe? And we all ask that question. So Jews ask the question, I'm gonna say I as if you ask that question. And we we come to a thing called tikkunolam. Make the world A better place to make the world a better place. Okay, so it basically to me it means we come on this earth to make this world a better place. Okay, so this is where we're gonna get my my Jewish and my by my both religious and my um secular views coming together. Okay. You know, um we're gonna get to the Helping with the poor. Okay, so we we have Tikunulam. We we we study, we try to understand, we learn, we try to be make ourselves more godly. We can't just do it sitting in an ivory tower. We also do deeds deeds um or commandments. More commandments than deeds. By law. So what you mean? This is what I said at the meeting. I said you don't give to the poor just out of charity because that you feel like it today and you feel good to do it today but tomorrow I don't feel so good so I won't give it You know, I don't feel so good about it. And I don't like you, so I won't give you and I won't give it a more a a law. It's more a law living A law. A law that says how we are to live as human beings on this earth to make it a better place. Should we all live like animals? Should we all I mean the Nazis live like animals. They they they they dealt with people like animals. There are many other s examples But should we live like animals? Should we live like beasts? Should we kill each other? Should we Should we steal from each other? No laws that we've made over thousands of years that say how what is a good way to live? Maybe not the only way, but the but a good way to live Do not commit murder, do not lie, do not basic things. It says why do we do them? Because the law says because the law says this is a way that human beings have to live so we can live together on this earth to to take care of the earth? And that's what God said to them. Is that they would they would live by the law and that and living by the law that that the world would see that the God that they serve is a just God and that he is he is a he is a I want to use the word righteous God, but but earlier we used that word righteous to be comfortable with that word righteous God. But you can explain it In in a in a kind of secular way too. In a non-very ritual, in both. Because because I I'm between two worlds. Sure. I'm between the world of my grandmother, you know, who brings tears to my eyes, who brought me that day to the synagogue and made me kiss The mezuzah. What is the mezuzah for those listening and then what's the other one? Okay, so it's like and it's a holiness. To me it's a tiny bit of holiness. Holiness. And when you kiss kiss it, you say uh it's like a love. How do you define holiness? I define holiness as as what what you do with your fine china. You don't take it outside and throw it around, but when something is set apart as holy, you only use it for the best possible purposes. So when God is holy, it means that when he interacts with us, he only interacts with us according to the best possible most right way to interact with people at all times. So if I'm holy in my interaction with you, I will treat you with dignity, I'll treat you with respect, and I'll never treat you in an unrighteous manner. I'll always do what's what's right by you. And so holiness is that I've been I've been called to be holy like he is holy, so that I will treat you the way that God has taught me that we're supposed to treat that. And you will treat me that way whether I'm black. Whether I'm an Iranian, whether I'm an Iraqi, whether I am a Afghani, whether I am poor, whether I'm ignorant, whether I am you know, violent whatever I am. Uh you know, that you know, you somewhere in there we'll find a way, you know, to And this is h to me how uh I So you like that definition of holiness. Yeah. But it's very earthy Right. It's both. It's very earthy. Earthy though doesn't mean that I treat you as less than human. It means that I treat you in our everyday interactions. It means like we can share a meal together and it might be uh uh you know w we would have this meal and we could laugh and we could enjoy it and we know it's it's it's a meal and it's a very basic and almost animalistic human function. but it becomes elevated when we bless it. When we when we bless it, we when we we do it together and even alone and we bless it to this God, as we put it, that is the most pure, most holy thing. So it could be a chicken or a crumb. Yeah. Okay? But it's But it makes it holy. It starts with something just animalistic, you know, you gotta eat to live, right? And this is the idea for me, like why we we can trust God because He is always holy. And he never stops being holy in his interactions with us, so we can trust him to treat us according to his holiness. And so then when we are in his presence, like in the Old Testament, when they when they would eat the uh the sacrifice together uh with the Lord and the priests in the tabernacle, you know, right there by the tabernacle. They would be in fellowship and so it was made holy. Why? Because they were being brought into this reminder that their whole lives were supposed to be that way. In fact, that was the great discussion between Korah who rebelled against Moses and Moses. Remember this this story? And the point was that Korah was was uh was one of the Levites. Uh was one of the Levites who wasn't allowed to go into the Holy of Holies. And all they were responsible to do was to carry the uh the elements of the tabernacle from one place to another, but there was another part of their clan that was responsible to go into the Holy of Holies, and only Aaron And his sons were allowed to go in. And so he said he said, but Moses were all supposed to be holy. And and it's true that everybody was supposed to be holy, but God still had a special role for Moses and Aaron to go into the tabernacle that he didn't have for Korah and and and the rest because for some reason God's holiness still required some protection from us not being holy in his presence and somehow defiling and corrupting that. How do you view all that? Because that's That's that's a tough scenario, right? Yeah. I mean God apparently, according to the the Torah, opened up the ground and swallowed them. Okay You know, I had a hard time imagining God outside myself. When you speak a lot, I feel like it's a little bit outside of you and you're bringing him in. Sure. And I keep trying to understand it as something in there that I'm trying to find. Sure. And you know. So it is you know, it's just uh a concept of how we look at it. I think um in the past in in in those history Um, it was like a b big thing, just very bigger than us, and maybe that's because, you know, um the world was not very understandable. So now we have a lot of technology and we think we have a better understanding. We do have a better understanding of the world. And yet we're just as violent as we ever were. Right. Our science has made no difference in terms of our moral Because I believe that man has free will. I mean This is a believer in free absolutely So man has free will, so man can be just as Uh and I hate to say this against animals. I really do because I'm a very big animal lover. But you know, become become very animalistic Or or stick to that and not ever pass out of that stage. That's the term that Daniel uses to describe those those groups of people that were not living by good law that they were beasts. You know, he used the language they're they're acting like beasts. You know, and and we never we can never get out of the stage of living even even At all beyond that level. You know, I think more that that animalistic level. We all have it. It's not a bad thing. I mean it keeps you alive, it makes you want to eat. You're supposed to eat to live. You do believe in life But somehow humanity is supposed to be more than just that. and with holiness that that animals don't necessarily have. I mean if you're lying you're just gonna eat. I think we can feel holiness in in you know um I I'm not sure how to explain it but You know, because I uh you know no expert on this. Sure. And and we each kind of feel got in a different way. And that's why study and learning is so important to try to To understand it because it 'cause it does go beyond whether we have technology or not, or whether we still don't know what the lightning bolt is and it comes out of the sky, we just don't understand that because we're a very primitive tribe. And you know, it i it does it really does go beyond that. But So when you go to to to say, okay, you know what, God, I want to understand you more Like what I think is I'm gonna go study scripture. I'm gonna go study the Bible, you know, and see how God acted back there with Moses and with David and You know, all the different ones. And then of course I add the New Testament, what did Jesus do? And and and what did Paul and the Apostles do? And I and I look at all that and I say I say, wow, w w how amazing you are, God. You know, and and and I feel like it it grants to me a uh uh um it it brings into my heart an enlarged sense of of God and his holiness and how he wants me to live. But I don't quite get the sense that you like when you think to yourself, I want to learn more about God, like how how do you go back to the I think I mean I think the things is historic And I have to struggle to go beyond to find the deeper meaning beyond just, you know, the historic evidence, you know, like Reading read it more as a history, I mean I know uh it's hard for me to think that the the Bible was just You know, instantly created I as very hard that's a very hard struggle. Instantly created. Yeah, you know, like No, but but orthodoxy, you know, just accepts the Bible as written. We we know it was put together, but different books left out and different put in. And so, you know, so I I I mean I'm realistic in this way, but so I it gives me more trouble I I sometimes pray, God, why can't I be like people brought up in a very orthodox home and take faith just you know you would learn it day by day by road and you would just you know and you know that one day I'd like to do it. Um we got into some of this with Jace uh Broadhurst recently that that some of it was written by the by these people, other parts were written by this person, and then later on somebody down the road, you know, went through and did some editing to it. You know, and that sort of thing. And so that perspective for you brings you to a place that you're not sure how much of it should be read as authoritative about God. Is that true? Um I I guess, you know, that that's a hard it's a very hard thing for me to say, you know, uh that you know, um that it wasn't done by man. But that that that this was maybe an expression, you know, and it has very deep meanings of what very maybe holy men were were putting down, you know, and that they were very influenced by the godliness in them. So you didn't think that's the thing that's a good thing. It's not just a matter of you know I used to think it was just, you know, some people just everything by face, everything and I couldn't do that. I couldn't do that. So You know, then I heard one day the word means really faithfulness. The Hebrew word really means faithfulness. My dad used to say that. And that that changed the picture a little bit. Another thing I'll tell you, it changed the picture for me. Okay One day, um I I couldn't pray. I just could not pray. I just didn't understand it. It doesn't matter, there were words there. It just now oh, I was well into my adulthood. Okay. Could not pray didn't make sense and I needed to. And um I opened a book and part of this book it was a by uh a person who was a recovering alcoholic and somewhere in that book I was reading this page and it said You don't have to know how a tree grows in order to build a house. Okay. And you can use the wood. From that time I I I I said okay, I can pray. That made the difference. Everything. Everything. Because my searching had gotten. Because up until that point you were trying to figure out, okay, where does God come from? Who is he? You know, blah blah blah. And so then you couldn't pray, but all of a sudden you're like, well I don't know where he comes from. But I can take from what he has and and I can let that be a part of building my life. Exactly. That was that was the best thing I ever read as an adult. And you know it has seen me through so many times because I'm I'm such a surgery that I can I can never stop and so sometimes I have a need and and and many people do and they need to pray or they they need this and But they can understand everything. But you don't have to understand everything in order to pray. That's right. And you know what's always worked for me? I don't have Don't have to know how to build the transmitter to talk on the radio. Right? So so can can we do one more show? Can I ask that of you? I'm I'm just enjoying the conversation. You're you're but we might need to get home and get some rest. I have to get some rest. Believe it or not, I have to go to Baltimore tomorrow. Sure. To the dentist. Yeah, yeah, to the dentist. Yeah. Realism. I there's only two tiny points in my mouth that you can do. You can pray before you go to the dentist now. Um we're so grateful to have you on the show. Yeah. Jonathan Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner with WFMD. Check us out on WFMD. com Keyword Faith. There you'll find again that daily blog. Where uh my blog really is your blog. I I don't even write anything in it anymore. I just take what you email me at Troy at WFMD. com and post it there. And only in the rarest of instances now am I even commenting on it. So really my blog is your blog. It it sounds really altruistic and all, but really it's just me being lazy. Want to thank our sponsor, Putmin Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Again, thank you to Vivian and Jonathan being on this show. It's uh fascinating to just listen in like a fly on the wall in that conversation. We'll be back next week, uh, one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours from now. Until then, God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?