Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host, Troy Skinner, and encouraging you to check us out online as well. You can go to WFMB. com, find the Faith Debate page there, or you can go to to Household of Faithinchrist. com. The Faith Debate has a page dedicated to it there as well. And you can listen to the podcast version as as well as listening on the radio. Podcasts are found all over the place, including sermon audio. Odyssey and the Christian podcast community. You can check all of those out. You can link to all of those most easily and readily by just going to household of faith in Christ. com. Now last week we heard the first portion of a conversation that I had uh quite some time ago with a young man named uh Ray Fava and Uh Ray is uh has a uh um an entity, I guess, that he calls Evangelical Dark Web. We were talking about what uh some were calling back in the day SermonGate, uh Ed Lytton, a rather prominent Southern Baptist preacher uh got exposed for using other people's work and passing it off as his own and we're in the midst of talking all about that and so we're going to continue that conversation now. So this is uh Pard De of uh of what is probably gonna end up being a four-part series, I believe. So anyway, I thank you for taking time out of your valuable day today. to uh to listen along and see what we might have to say. And as I've I've mentioned uh you know last week I'll mention it again this week just because I appeared on Ray's show or now I have Ray's you know, appearing on this show doesn't mean that he or I would necessarily endorse everything that we uh we have to say about things. Um years ago we were very close to one another on some uh theological and ideological matters Uh we've drifted in different directions uh since that time. And so uh maybe he and I will reconnect at some point to hash some of those things out either on his show or mine. But for now We've got this one to listen to on the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Yeah, and I was looking at one of those websites where you can buy and sell sermon or buy sermons and sell sermons and you know you see a lot of names on there and you know I'm sure Ed Litton was one of the customers but you know you know who one of the sellers was? Who? Mike Stone, who Ed Litton defeated in the second round of the SBC presidential race. You could buy his sermons for I believe five ninety nine. Yeah, so that raises I mean we don't I don't want to go down the rabbit trail on this there, but that raises the question, right? If it's wrong for somebody to use somebody else's sermon, is it wrong for somebody else to provide uh a sermon so people can play hooky from their responsibilities, maybe? Now look, I get it. Um it could be tempting. Yeah. Imagine the l you know, a lot of people they have this idea that all the pastor does is they show up for an hour and a half on Sunday morning and that's their job. And they don't understand the leadership meetings they're involved with, the phone calls they deal with, the emails they have to answer, the the counseling sessions they have to go through, the the wedding ceremonies perform, the funerals that they have to officiate. uh the oversight for the Sunday school curriculum and the youth group activities and and uh being involved in the in the larger community. Maybe that's not in the political sphere to have relationships with the local mayor and other political entities and their th their plate is full and to do the kind of preaching that I like to do do. And not everybody does things the way I do. They there's there's shorter ways to do it. But I'm a a huge fan of working my way systematically through particular books of the Bible in the order the verses are given to us. and to do it in an expository fashion. And to do a good job of that takes, I would say, for me anyway, um uh a short week of Sermon Prep would probably be in the in the twelve to fifteen hour range and a long week might be in the twenty, twenty-two hour range. Um, not every pastor is gonna have fifteen, twenty hours a week to spend. Um, and so it's hard. It's and so they're looking for help. And I have a measure of compassion for that and that I can at least understand the temptation if they're doing something they shouldn't do. And stealing somebody's work stealing would be wrong, but buying it Yeah, I'm not so sure it's the best idea. Uh I would put that in the category of buying somebody else's sermon and using it. Probably not sin. Uh, but not everything that's lawful is beneficial. And I would probably put it in that category because so much is lost. Uh if somebody spent the week uh down with the flu or in our environment, I guess, down with COVID. Uh and they just have but they're but they're better on Sunday. They can actually preach, but they didn't they were just too out of it and and weak to do the kind of sermon prep they might want to do then they need to do something. Uh as a one off, if they call a friend and say, Hey I'm preaching my way through the book of Revelation on chapter four. You know, have you ever preached on that? Yeah, I preached on it two years ago. Hey, cool. Can you send me your outline or your notes or even your your your manuscript just so I can get a sense of of what to do here on Sunday morning having a time doing my prep. As a one off, uh you know, I'd have some grace probably, but if it's a steady habit The problem is, um, it's the same with a Christian uh just a regular Christian. If you're not spending time in the Word, wrestling with God's Word, You're not growing. And so if the pastor is not doing the hard work, laboring to figure out what the passage means and how to convey that truth to the congreg congregation. He's robbing himself of growth and by extension he's robbing his congregation of growth. That's a huge issue. And I wanna take one of the uh viewer comments and kind of adapted them to more of a question form. If a pastor is not able to find time to do sermon prep, on his own like you're suggesting, what are the odds that they are also doing regular Bible study apart from that? Yeah, well it does it beds the question, doesn't it? And I will say this, the way I get around that problem, I'm a little bit more of a compartmentalized organizational in Lower Ten of sometimes kind of a personality. And I don't want to get caught short on that. So I'm working on my sermons in advance. So I'm working on a sermon this week that won't be preached for, you know, six or eight weeks. So the sermon that I'm going to be preaching this coming weekend is a sermon that uh I might v as I review it in the mom in the you know couple of days leading up to the message, I might add a couple of tweaks, I might decide to rephrase something at the last minute. But 98% of the message that's going to be shared this coming Saturday was prepared a month and a half ago. So that buys me the space that if I have a family crisis, if I get ill, if I'm out of commission for even two or three weeks. I can recover from that and not and and I have to hustle on the back end to get back to the place where I'm, you know, six, eight weeks ahead. 'Cause now it would only maybe be, you know, four weeks ahead and that's maybe a little more nerve wracking. Uh, I think that's a way I know some pastors that they worked like six months in advance. The problem with that is it's so unfresh in your mind that I think it's hard then to deliver it in a fresh way to the congregation. So I have experience in a church Um, that was you know, they did their sermon series models and I would probably reckon to guess that they were one of these people that paid for a lot of the sermon prep to be done for them. I wouldn't uh put that past them. But the point is that they had they blocked out sermon series like, perhaps at least a year out in advance because that's you know, and these weren't the sh longest sermon series, like Uh you know, like uh Ed Lytton's Roman series went on for several sermons. I believe forty six sermons is what he said he did, which doesn't sound, you know, like a terrible uh uh indulgence but yeah no it is I mean for for a a for Romans, yeah it sounds pretty right. But I think as big and as important as the Book of Romans, yeah, you're gonna spend a year on that. I could see that very easily. But uh point being, that's not what they were doing. They weren't spending all this time in one book. It was very topical. So that trying begs the comparison between topical and expository preaching. But before um we dive more into that, you know, one of the things that has more come out is that, you know, JD Greer isn't exactly prepping his own sermons either. And so Ed Litton is using a lot of the same messaging as J. D. Greer. And I think Ed Litton's straight up copying J. D. Greer, but J. D. Greer is kinda like you know, he's very much in the industry of Big Eva. And, you know, one of the You know, they have firms that do this for you, and one of the prominent firms that's really coming out in a lot of this is Docent Research Group. I don't know if you've ever heard of them. Them I do not know. But you know, uh Tim Keller has endorsed them and a few other p pastors between Presbytery Presbyterian Church in America and uh uh SBC have probably endorsed them as well. you know, multi uh pastor staff, uh it's a team approach. You know a lot of the sermons get written by a time, you know, they they meet together, they compare thoughts, they outline it together, they share illustration ideas. And there might be two, three, four, six pastors involved in preparing that sermon. When the but when the sir but when the pastor who's designated to preach on that particular uh worship service gets up there and shares the message Are they going out of the way? By the way, this illustration I'm about to share with you came from Pastor Bob. This isn't my illustration. So is that plagiarism? Is it because he's not a good thing? No, I wouldn't say so because like if you're you know, doing prep, if you're collaborating, you know, that's you know, that's an internal meeting on helping you out. Like I don't think that's wrong at all. But you think that someone could effectively write and study for his sermons if they have a committee of nine people as Ed Litton's claims that he does. Do you think that that's an effective approach? You know, that begs all sorts of questions there about what's going on with that church. If that's true, and we'll take him at his word that it's true. They've got, you know, a dozen people working on the sermons. Okay, then why are you preaching JD's work? What are those dozen people doing? Is everybody derelict in their duties? Like that's a much larger and I think even a more even an additionally problematic, if not more problematic issue for them to figure out. It's a mess. What they have going on is a mess. I don't envy their situation. Sounds like they did it to themselves. And it's got to get figured out because people are going to lose confidence in um People will respond to the truth no matter who the deliverer is, but if the deliverer is clearly flawed in uh in ways that are perceived at least as being unrepentant, that truth has a harder time connecting because they're distracted by how can I trust this guy? He's not being honest over here, he's not being truthful over there, how do I know he's being honest and truthful of what he's telling me right now in this moment? That's a real issue So you by by way we were you were alluding to the exit uh expository and topical. I didn't want to get sidetracked. Um so if you want me to comment on that a little bit, I certainly can. Well we'll touch more on this because you know the idea that you know going back to that you know sermon writing by committee, like to me, like there's only so many so large a group before something becomes very ineffective. Like, you know, if you have a group project You know, it's not effective to have more than four people on a group project. Well, I think that one of the experience in schooling board That'd be the good thing to have as well. Yeah, a sounding board I think is different than having like a collaboration team like your Taylor Swift trying to write a uh I don't know, a kindergarten level pop song. Uh Shake Shake Shake It Off. So and I think that is one of the uh but uh just while we touch back on the issue of like this industrialization of sermon prep because I think that begs a or that opens the door to a lot of uh bad issues. Um okay, uh David Morrell wanted to comment. He's like, yes, Brewer Lytton both preached against double punishment in one sermon, then preached Christ dying for the whole world in another. And I believe uh that is who I actually made or picked up the one observ observation on Romans eight from whereas whereas I noted that in the Romans one sermon. So just to clarify. So just to touch up on the um industry of people who provide sermons, if those people are corrupt then the stream or the flow of sermons flowing down, you know, that has a huge impact. And I think we're seeing the fruits of that because we have a lot of people that are very squishy in the pews. Um, you know, the evangelical fish. concept and we got a lot of sermons preaching very milktoast messaging that's trying to be palatable to the whole world. And this is a huge issue. Yeah, and even and even if it's not part of that industrial complex of sermon prep even if it's more uh uh happenstance and accidental than if somebody's going to s a church's website where sometimes the churches they don't only f they don't merely provide the audio, but sometimes they provide the transcript. to the you know, the the manuscript for the sermon as well. And if somebody goes to a church that they think is a good church and they download that that manuscript and they try to pass it off as their own Uh that's not part of the industrial conflict. That's a you know, that's a petty theft crime that plays itself out in the pulpits of a church. But even in that case, the problem I mean, has anybody been paying attention to what's going on in the Western church these days? We have a we are in the midst of one of the more critical crisis moments in church history with what's been happening with false teaching and and uh and uh paganists uh idolatrous viewpoints. So most of what you might go out there and steal is garbage. Th I mean most of the sermons that get preached today in this country are are horrible. So the odd the uh if you were just to do a random sampling, oh I'm gonna steal a random sermon and preach as my own, the odds are very high that you're gonna preach a you're gonna be stealing a message that's gonna be quote unquote preaching some sort of this anti-gospel or another gospel, as as the Apostle Paul would put it. So why would you want to steal somebody else's garbage, knowing that the odds of running into a lot of garbage in today's world is really high? I I wouldn't I wouldn't trust it Well I think, you know, part of the issue stems uh, you know, why do people start churches and a lot of people are planting churches so they can create their own mega church. And, you know, part of creating your own mega church is having a squeaky clean, uh, palatable message. And, you know, the a lot of these sermon uh providers like Dyson Research Group and all that, they provide a you know, a pipeline so you can grow your church and put butts in seats. And I think that's the goal of many churches. too because you know, one of the things that's a weakness, if you're gonna steal somebody else's sermon and pass it off as your own, is you know, when that sermon was originally written, if the if it was a good pastor preparing it He had a particular context in mind. He understands what's going on in his community. He knows what's going on in the life of his congregation. He knows what kinds of questions are going to be raised in Bible studies, the kinds of uh error they might be exposed to he's gonna go out of his way to point to and and and and expose and teach against and all those sorts of things. And that gets lost when you apply it in a totally different context, so they're not wrestling with those same issues. But in a megachurch where you've got a thousand people, five thousand people, forty thousand people You're not contextualizing that to individual pockets within the the the body of Christ. It has to be a mass appeal message. And so if you're stealing messages from those kinds of sources, you can kind of get away with it because you're stealing a mass appeal message and applying it to your s maybe smaller context, but it's it's going to kind of work. But it's not gonna be feeding the sheep the kind of food that they're needing. It's not gonna give them the balanced diet that they're requiring because we're all a little bit out of balance. And part of the pastor's job is to figure out where are we as our smaller expression of Christ's church, where are we out of balance and how do I begin to nudge us in the right place so we have a healthy balance? And that's not gonna happen if you're part of this industrialized complex as you put it of the sermon prep. Yeah, and well said. So now I think we can dive into more of the uh you know what sermon prep kind of looks like. and the issues of topical versus expository preaching. Um but first I just wanna uh start off by asking, do you think that Topical preaching is more ripe for this kind of plagiarism or sermons stealing in industrialized sermons than expository preaching. Well uh yes, but not a full throated yes. Um I said my my first instinct is to say yes generally speaking because topical sermons have a tendency to be either one-offs or short. Like somebody's doing a topical sermon series where for the next six or eight weeks we're gonna talk about this issue And so you could steal, you know, one or six messages rather easier than if you're gonna be committed to uh the exposition of entire books of the Bible. You'd have to make a commitment, like the example you use, of forty-six sermons from the Book of Romans, you'd have to make a commitment to stealing forty-six sermons. Uh that so that's less likely. Maybe we should explain uh and define our terms here too for for somebody who's listening and doesn't maybe uh know what all of these terms exactly mean. They've heard these terms tossed around and bandied about, but they're like, yeah, I don't really understand exactly the difference. And and maybe uh and it means my understanding as good as I think it is would be different than even yours, as good as yours might be. So just so we're on the same page. For me, an expository message is merely it's a message that is explaining the truth of the text. And yet then you illustrate through cultural uh references and you illustrate through life application examples and that sort of stuff. But the main thing is to explain the truth of the text. And topical messages, they seem to they tend to be more about explaining the truth of the culture and the truth of our life experience and then relate these sorts of things to various biblical texts. Now, this has the advantage of uh of having a built-in relevance to to people's lives and a relatability to people's lives, which is why a lot of pastors today lean in a topical uh sermon direction because they want to be relevant. Uh but a good expository message will be relevant too. You just have to build your your illustrations and your life application examples into the relevant life of your congregation. That's why sermon stealing or borrowing or paying for somebody else's sermon becomes a problem because You can't apply the exposition directly to them as easily because the illustration that one pastor uses for his church really wouldn't it would miss the mark. You wouldn't connect with a a pastor in another church. So for those reasons I think Topical sermons I think lend themselves be being more uh readily and easily uh uh repurposed by someone else. uh and being able to get away with it uh more easily. But uh I'm I'm an expository I have preached some topical sermons. Um most often when I've done that it's when I've been uh invited to guest preach somewhere else, the pastor's on sabbatical or wants to you know have somebody else preach for a week for whatever reason, and they're in the middle of a series and hey, we're talking about this. You know, like one example pops to my mind the last time I had to do this was a pastor said, Hey, you know, I I would like you to do a message on greed. It's like, okay, so I had to do a one-off uh topical message about greed and so I I picked a central passage where the a main theme within that passage like if I were working my way through a book of the Bible and stembled in that passage, I would have ended up preaching primarily about greed anyway, because that's what the passage is about. I picked one of those and I did kind of an expository sermon, but it was topical. Um What are the benefits to doing expository and this is tied to some of the weaknesses we've talked about before? If you do an expository message You have the advantage, the benefit of helping people to work through how to truly understand Scripture because you're wrestling with the truth of the text. What does the truth text uh what does the text truly say? And how do we know that it truly says this and how do we properly process these words on the page. So we're training up our people in their own individual personal devotions, in their own individual personal Bible study. And that's harder to do in a topical message because what happens in a topical message is it's kind of like playing hide and seek. You're going on a proof text hunt Like, oh, the passage is about humility. So let me let me find a bunch of passages that have to do see to be about humility and build a message around that. The problem is oftentimes you're ripping those those verses completely out of context and you're making them fit your topical needs. And it's not that what you're teaching is wrong, and I don't want to you know, we're not talking about Beth Moore, but one of my criticisms of Beth Moore throughout for years, up until more recent criticisms as she's uh gotten a little bit more, in my opinion, bizarre in what she's advocating for over the last year to two years. But even before that, one of my big problems with Beth Moore is she does a lot of topical type of messages And oftentimes whatever she was teaching, I would find myself saying, Yeah, I I I agree with where you ended up But I have no idea how you got there. I I can't agree with the method of of how you process through the texts to make a biblical case. Yeah, you told the truth But it felt like it happened by accident. And that's what can happen with a lot of topical message, and it's less likely to happen with an expository message. Now a risk with an ap expository message is they can come across very academic, uh more like a lecture and not a a a heralding and a proclamation of the gospel truth. So you gotta be careful about that. Topical messages lend themselves to being a little more emotive oftentimes and you can really get into a proclaiming mode. And you can really preach, brother, preach. You know, you can get there a little easier sometimes with topical. So I can understand the allure. But I think if you're disciplined, you can accomplish those same things at least as well, if not better, uh expositionally as you can topically. That was pretty well said and uh I think that covered a lot of the uh uh strengths and weaknesses of pr both approaches. I find expository preaching to be a little bit more rewarding. And I guess the way to explain that would be to compare it to like a a comedy show. Like I don't know, just pick a show that's really funny to you and that has continuity. And because of that continuity, there's those running jokes, there's those um uh running gags that make the show more rewarding to watch as you progress through those series. And expository preaching I think is kinda like that where because you're, say, in Revelations one and you're running through two, chapter three, chapter four, it becomes more rewarding because you have a more fulfilling understanding of the book and of the text. And I think that is m you know, probably why I think expository preaching in general is probably superior on a Sunday to Sunday basis. Now I do think that there are there's a time for topical preaching to address a certain topic, um, a certain event. But as far as trying to learn the text and understand scripture, I think expository is superior in that regard. And I'm going to jump in there and that's going to be the uh wrap-up for this episode of the Faith Debate. But I ended up having a conversation with Ray Fava that lasted more than an hour and a half. And so we're going to end up probably having four faith debate episodes because his show is long form most of the time. Ours is much shorter form. The show is always less than a half hour long. It's used to be between twenty-five and twenty-seven minutes, something along those lines, I think. So anyway, uh I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD and on your favorite Christian podcast platform or even non-Christian podcast platform, but uh as far as Christian podcast platforms go, make sure you check out the Christian podcast. community. You can find the Faith Debate all over the place. The easiest way to access it maybe is either go to wfmd. com and find the Faith Debate page there. Or if you want to get a fuller orbed view of everything involved with the show and things that I'm involved with, go to householdfaithinchrist. com. That's household of faithinchrist. com So we're going to continue with this conversation about the uh industrialization of preaching. This show talked a lot about uh expository versus topical sermons. Last week we focused on more of the uh the controversy of the sermon gate with Ed Litton and J. D. Greer and all of that. And we're gonna continue along these lines on next week's show as well. So until then, may God bless you uh over the next one hundred sixty-seven and a half Hours. See them godless