All right, we're starting with a disclaimer. The show has not yet begun. We're broadcasting from the police. State that is Frederick City and the gridlock that is Frederick County, just outside the capital of the former Republic of the United States of America. The show now begins. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating How can we make you smile? You can find us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. There you'll find all sorts of religious links, including links to podcasts of previous faith debate shows, and you'll find the Faith Debate blog on the right-hand side of that page. So email me, Troy SkinnerClearchannel. com because my blog is your blog. Whatever you send to me, I copy and paste right onto the webpage. Um pretty much anything you send me. Nine fresh blog postings uploaded every weekday, Monday through Friday as Forty-five blog postings per week. Even if you don't send me something, go check it out. That's WFMD. com keyword faith and see what people are sending me. All right, some of it's actually pretty darn good stuff I gotta say. I uh it's gotten better over the years since we started doing it. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer is on the show today again, he is the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel And Neil Achampong on the show again from the last couple of weeks, he's on for round three. Um and they said it wouldn't last more than two rounds Muhammad Ali called it in two rounds, he was wrong. Uh he's the uh senior past or not senior pastor, so he doesn't like that. He's the pastor at Covenant Family. And family uh just struck me now by the way, we're talking about reaching the kids and the importance of the family, and it's right there in the name of the church. in Cov Covenant family. It's definitive for his approach to ministry there in downtown Frederick. Uh we're talking about uh Well, more broadly we were talking about how to reach the kids, but then we realized that really we're talking about reaching the families, uh, and and and the kids are obviously an important part of that family. And Uh Jonathan was itching to say something. Do you have something that you or should I get You mean right now? Yeah were you gonna make poke fun at me or something? I was I was gonna pay when you open the show you should say something like the atheist, you know, county of uh Frederick, Maryland. Or yeah It cause it's a faith show or you should say the multi-religious, you know, Frederick County or you know All right, how about from the county within which proclaiming the gospels like plowing pavement. How about that Is it that bad? It is bad. I don't think so. The gospel is effective. But our t believe it or not, because I you know I I travel throughout the region a little bit. Um and we have a reputation. Did you know that? The faith debate. No well yeah. It's that sort of re reputation. But the uh Frederick County has a reputation. Uh spiritual reputation and it's not a good one. It's a reputation of being what? That it's a a a very dark hard spiritual climate in which to try to share the gospel comparative to other communities not that far from us. Compared to Montgomery County? Yeah, compared you compared even to Montgomery County. Yeah. So and Neil's shaking his head yes. He looks like one of those like big pigs. I think so. I think so. Baltimore County and I can't say anything for Baltimore County because I'm not really familiar with Baltimore County. But with Montgomery County I'm very familiar with Montgomery County and there were more open in Montgomery County than there are in Frederick. Very open. Uh very open. I think here people are just um their own corners. Um they've got to be a good thing. It's interesting because Frederick is considered conservative. In Montgomery County's not considered conservative. Sometimes those that are closest to the truth are hardest to reach. Mm-hmm. Mm. You know? They don't think they've got a problem. They gotta figure it out. I think that's very interesting. That could be a show and another. So we're talking about these kids and the parents and all that sort of stuff. And so I I wanted to blend those two here at the start of this week's show. Kids and the parents. Last week we were talking about approaches to reach the kids uh and things that were not reaching kids so much as uh in our approaches, reaching the kids where they need to be reached. And you talked about the need to mentor them and to help them become m uh more logical thinkers, better speakers, you know, more articulate uh that are able to uh to carry their weight in a discussion like a round table discussion like this for example, to give public testimony. You know, those plus of course know their Bible, learn about Jesus, their need for a savior, all of that sort of stuff, which you're doing in the church for everybody. uh but not necessarily uh just for the kids. And so I'm wondering how do you come up with a list like that? You say, you know what, I just have this sense of the sixty eight kids in my church and what they need or do you Talk to the parents and say, Hey, your little kid Joey and your other little kid uh you know, Linda Joey and Linda, what should we as a church, what should the leadership of this church be focusing on in reaching Joey and Linda? How should we mentor that or is it just your gut is telling you? Um I have always believed that a pastor should never operate with his head. You need to operate with directions from God. It would sound a bit oddful to some people, but that's my belief. There's hope for me yet. The more I've never been known to operate with my head, that's for sure. The more the more you pray and seek God about people, the more God reveals people to you. And when he reveals people to you, like Jesus said that he knew what was a man, and so he did not have to put his own. And analytical. So you're not going to the parents and interviewing them, what do we need to do for your kids? It's your heart Anytime I interview a parent is because I already know some things and I just want to be sure. Mm-hmm. Very often services over, shake hands with a few adults. I normally would make my way down to where the kids are. Because I'm still struggling with why are there so many? Why are there so many? God wouldn't give me thus many kids just for the sake of it. There's gotta be something I'm supposed to be doing. And so I just run around. Hey, what did you learn today? And then they all come around Pastor Can we go and eat today somewhere? I said, all right, I would have loved to, but Pastor doesn't have money today. But any other day have money, we'll go. And then just sit somewhere on the floor in my suit and they will all come around and we will talk and we'll chat. Now because of that it's interesting how sometimes some of the kids will call and say, Can you talk to my daddy about this? Because then they have found somebody they can just talk to freely. Right. Right. And so apart from prayer and God revealing, I also make myself available for the young ones to talk to me. Now let me uh I'll give you, Jonathan, a chance to answer that initial question if you want, but also if you would, uh talk about how often in your experience as a pastor, you've been a pastor for a while now. Uh Neil just said, you know, the kids sometimes come to him and say, Would you go talk to my parents about this? How often do parents come to you and say, John? I I I could really use a little extra help here from the church. Could you go talk to my kids or could you help me learn how to talk to my kids better? How often does that happen where the where the parents are coming to the leadership of the church and asking for the wisdom of those those elders in the church, the leaders of the church. Well like we did a parenting seminar uh recently because we just had a lot of people with kids And uh there was a sense of need in the parents that um they needing help to know how to discipline their kids, how to raise their kids. And the parents were asking for it and asking for help. Well, how do I do this? How do I do that? And so we we brought in some outside speakers for a series of weeks to train specifically on, you know, how do you parent in a biblical manner? What does it look like, you know, what what do you not do? What do you do? Uh what are the ins and outs of it? Where does where do the struggles show up? And it was very fruitful for us. And so um There it's only in in what I would call crisis situations where the parents come and say, Would you speak to my child? And um it's not often I think we're where a parent has come to me and said, you know, hey, you know, could you help my child work through this issue? You know, unless there was some kind of a Of a crisis. Realizing that I'm I'm guilty as charged of you know the implication behind the question, I'm guilty. You know, my daughter is right now uh you know thinking about what school she's going to go to for college. And I have not gone to the leadership of my church and say, Would you help me to pray through this and think through this and you know, ask the right questions and consider the right schools? What should we be looking for? Which schools should we be looking at specifically which schools might we want to think about staying away from and why. I haven't called upon the uh the church to help you. But you are generally you are generally asking the church to be praying for you as a parent, praying for you as a husband, you know, like there's a general sense. The point is is I I think like you were saying for the last couple of shows that the primary responsibility for those decisions is on the parent. And if it's not happening then then maybe the church would it would step in with a mentoring program. Right, but the parents don't have to make those decisions at the alone. Is that maybe they shouldn't, particularly life changing, right? Well the college you choose is pretty impactful decision, right? Yeah. Um If you're gonna date somebody seriously, like you're thinking, I'm gonna court this person, I think this could be the one and I want to get to know them better and I think we're leading towards an eventual engagement period and then getting married. This is how often people come to you at that stage as a pastor and say, I'm thinking about seriously courting this young lady or this or allowing this young man to court me. Does that ever happen? Has that ever happened to you? No, I mean one time. Yeah, only only if you're already in that depth of relationship with somebody and you know, and so it kinda comes up more as a as a mentor friend than so much as like a pastor. You know, for the most part I get the sense that they're interacting, they have people in their lives that they're closely interacting with. Like for example when in this kid that you're describing, you're you're mentoring him You know, i w w when he comes at that age, it's likely that you're that that he's gonna be asking those kinds of questions. Right? But I mean you don't ask those questions I don't think of a of somebody that you look to in a professional uh uh role. You look you you look to people at that point, people that are in a relationship with you that is more intimate. I I think Which church should be too I think we also need to open the doors for for parents to come. 'Cause very often par parents would only come to a pastor like um Uh pastor suggested that it's only when there's a problem. And I always encourage my church members that hey on Wednesdays pastor is out of the office. I'm not reading the Bible, I'm not doing anything, I'm just sitting there Just walking. And um if you just want to talk and then you just want somebody to listen, I'll have a listening ear for you. Yeah. It's interesting how people have just walked in and I don't say anything. I just listen to whatever they have to say. And then um when they're done I said, is there anything else you would like me to do? Then they said, Pastor, I just wanted to hear me out. I said, Thank you. And then I just pray for them and I leave them alone. And then I write their name down somewhere and then maybe after a month or two I'll just call and say, Hey, uh is anything changing about it Wow. The care of the flock is is very difficult. And sometimes when people need help, they don't want to go for the help. Well it seems like it's hard for men to do what you said that you'd do, you know, which is to not try to offer a solution to fix it. And you act you don't jump in with a solution. You're like, is there anything you want me to do? And if they say, No, I just wanted you to listen Okay. And that's not my instinct. It's my okay, they wanted to share this because they must want to solve it and I'm gonna help them solve it. And that's probably not always the right thing to do. quicker. Because I remember the case of um a couple uh with another pastor friend of mine who they had gone to see and then they talked about the marriage and think how things were working. And the pastor just went up front and said, You know what Don't get married. This is not gonna work. And uh they were not happy with it. Yet they wanted a pastor. And so um they decided they were just gonna do uh either sue him Because he for all kinds of reasons some crazy So the pastor was sharing with me and he says, What did I do wrong? I said, My brother, as much as we've been called by God to do his work. We must understand that we live in a world where there are laws. And very often presidents are not able to do whatever they're supposed to do because We have many people who are in church. Sometimes they're not there for the right reasons. And they're not coming to you because so I have adopted this policy. I will sit there even if it's two hours, I'll listen to you I'll just listen to you. When you're done, I'll ask you specifically. What do you need me to do for you? And you stayed in clear times. What do you want? And then based on that I'll tell you for this I can help you. For that I cannot help you. However, I believe that there are other things you could do. Think through it if you want it, come back and we will start. In that case, I put you on hold that you are the one who asked for it so that I can get myself off the Lego hook. And then after that we can just walk you through some scriptures. Sometimes people need to be helped and As pastors we need to draw them out. But with our busy schedules, it's difficult to do that. Yeah, yeah. You know. That's the voice of Neil Champong. He's the um pastor at Covenant Family Church in Frederick, Jonathan Sweitzer, on the show again this week, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. The Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Last week we ran through a number of things. I think I alluded to in the beginning of this week's show. about the kinds of things that you mentor and teach and focus on with the kids. And it struck me it didn't strike me then, but it struck me in a another answer you gave to a different question in today's show that on that list was nowhere to be found the issue of sex Is that something that the church should be talking to the kids about? Or is that something that the church should be equipping the parents to talk to the kids about or or how do you mix those? We we have general sessions with the youth and not with the ki with the much smaller ones. My understanding is they start talking to this kids very early at school on sex. And when I was growing up, one of the things I found out was Anything that became truth to you was the first thing that was said to you. And when the second thing is being said, you always challenge it in your head. to see if it's true before you drop the first one. So when the teachers become the first ones to tell the kids about sex, it becomes truth to them. When we become the second people saying it, they tend to challenge what we are saying. And so my approach is this Very often I can I have sessions where I sit with the kids, we we eat um popcorn and then I said it's time we passed her. Or maybe having shorts and a t shirt and then I said all of you feel free. Let's talk about anything you want to talk about. Yeah. And let's have fun. Now whilst we're sitting there and then some of them are jumping, we're drinking water, doing all kinds of things and then do start acting. But even though I'm in that scenario and trying to play with them, I know I'm there to answer questions and I'm going to give the right answers. And have to And what age are you dealing with at that point? Um we're looking at teenagers at this point. Yeah. Because I'm also cautious that some things are simply just not Yeah. Right. However, if I found out that a child already knows, then we'll have to do something about it, ASAP. We don't want them to wander around With that stuff in your head. So s uh Jonathan, you agree the church should be involved in helping the kids understand the biblical idea of sexuality Yeah. I I mean I ultimately uh I'm gonna go back to it's a parents' responsibility to be having those discussions and s and so it's the church's responsibility to remind the parents uh the parents of the responsibility so that they can be having those discussions, help them to have resources that that uh that help them to uh to have those discussions if they need to. Are there any issues that you guys think are not fair game for the church to deal directly with the kids without the parents necessarily present or involved in the decision making of tackling like would you go to the parents of the kids and say, by the way This coming Sunday we're going to be talking with the kids uh uh you know about some sexual issues. Just wanted to give you a heads up, or do you go to the parents and say, Hey, we're thinking about talking about the kids about sexual issues. Do we have your permission? Like do you just you give them a heads up you're gonna do it? Or do you ask for permission to do it? Um I think that the best thing to do is like what Pastor said. Parents are primarily responsible. Then when they express some misgivings that all right we need some help in this era. But just with sex, but not necessarily with public speaking or other issues. Like w which are the issues that we treat differently? When it comes to sex I treat it differently. Because of the nature of it. Alright. I would want to be very careful. Uh for example if we have sessions on sex and then we separate the kids. I don't make the boys and the girls together. And I'm I'm not the one doing the talk with the girls. It's my wife doing the talk with the girls. Because I want them to get it from a female perspective. When they say something they'll have to believe it that it's a girl who said it and she meant it. Because she's been there Similar similar crossroads, Valley Chapel? Yeah, very similar. Yeah, and I think that's kind of the normal approach, right? Yeah. Are there any other issues besides sex that we need to be that sensitive about, or is that kind of the one? I think that the um The thing that we ought to be very sensitive about is how this generation learns. Yeah, how we communicate and how we break through into their world, how we you know enter into the mind of an eight-year-old. Okay, but before we go there, uh you're asking the question, are there any other areas? It seems like marriage and family. You know, sex is a is a part of that, but when you when you start getting into um dealing with issues of homosexuality, when you get into dealing with issues of um abortion uh or issues of uh divorce and broken families. I think it's important to give parents a heads up because there's a lot of broken families out of there out there and there's a lot of uh those that deal with you know, they maybe have the cousins that are that are homosexual or, you know, there's there's various uh elements of that that I think it's wise you know, when you're dealing with those hot topics to give a heads up, you know, about what you're gonna be dealing with and the implications of it. So that's all marriage family is is the broader category there. Um I try as much as I can not to do stuff like that on a Sunday morning. I try that any time I'm dealing with issues of that nature that we're bringing people together. Um in a more covenant kind of a way. Yeah. Um I was sharing with you that we have small groups we call family of twelve. Uh you they grow up to twelve, they break up and then form another group. And sometimes I design lessons to be studied in those groups. which has to do with issues of this nature. Um so that some things are not addressed in the presence of the kids, but it still has to be addressed one way or the other. So that the parents can have a candid um um discussion on issues of that nature. However, I still believe that uh when as past us we we observe that there are young people and they are going to certain lengths that we bring parents attention to it. 'Cause I have seen parents who are in denial that their kids are having sex and I knew their kids were having sex. Yeah, I just said in the post today that uh fifty percent the C D C just came out saying fifty percent of high school kids have had sex. So I don't know, is that a low number? And ninety-eight percent of high school parents don't think their kids have had sex, probably. Right. Yeah. Yeah, probably. And um so I I I sat a few a couple of parents down and I said, listen, I need you guys to uh sit your daughter down and do something about it. The first thing was, Pastor, what's wrong with our daughter? I said, uh I'm on Facebook And the only reason for which I'm there is just so I can be part of the alive. So when I was growing up, if my parents wanted to know what I was doing, they have to come into my room. Today if you want to know what they're doing, you go on your Facebook page. Right. And you were about to talk about how we reach things. So you gotta reach these kids through Facebook, through Twitter, through things like that. At what point, Troy, would did you allow your kids to be on Facebook and Twitter and that kind of thing? By themselves, meaning like their own account. Um I don't even think they allow you to have your own account until you're at least twelve or thirteen. My daughter is is now seventeen and I think that she's been Uh, I think she's been on Facebook probably the last three years and the first year and a half of those three years was very heavily regulated and I'd say the last year and a half it's been She's pretty much on her own. We keep loose tabs, but to be honest, very infrequent. I feel like she's entering into adulthood and we're trying to loosen the reins and You know, so we were late to the game and she was pressuring us big time to go on Facebook. You know, m far earlier than when we let her Uh we we we wrestled against that for two or three years, you know, successfully. I think we we didn't damage the relationship too badly and we found another. Yeah, I think we were just trying to set up a an account for our son recently and Uh yeah, the age you can get in. Yeah, I think he's gotta be older yet. It's so past anyway now. No. Twitter's the future for the next f four or five years. And uh to finish that story, I I asked the parents to sit in my office, turn round and face my computer monitor. Yeah. And then I entered into Facebook and then whilst I was on there I brought their daughter's page and then they saw the pictures of her on Facebook. I said, this is forever And I said, can you tell me why your doctor your daughter will have to take and the father just broke down and wept. Pastor I never taught my I said, listen Uh it's time for us to understand things the way they look at things. And it's not just keeping tabs, but it's also being able to enter in their world and communicate with them and that sort of thing, right? But like most of the kids in my church, they're not worried a pastor is our Facebook friend. Because I don't say don't do this on there. No, I'm not there. I'm just there. When they bring up discussions that I know is not going right, I'll start posing questions. I don't tell them what to do And then I keep posing more questions and the questions is what bothers them. Then one of them would call me over the phone, Pastor the question you posed sounds like what we're doing is wrong. I said, I just asked you a question. Would you answer that question? And then the more I keep precking their conscience, then they would say, okay, hey, uh based on the last question we haven't we can't keep doing So you're using the social media, the modern day social media to get into their world and And to get into their head and ultimately to get into their heart. So how much time do you spend But not to keep them there, but you're drawing them out of that. You're you're going there to draw them out of it. Yes. Because They are there for a reason and they're there to meet friends and they are there to take advice. You see I talked about how they learn. Once they are on there they're gonna learn a lot of things. They are posting videos, they are posting stuff. I don't mind sitting back at my computer and record something and post it on there. And is it an answer to something they are raising? Do they comment on your Facebook page? Oh yeah they do. So you're not just visiting their page, they're visiting yours. Yes. And how how much time are you spending on Facebook? Uh like maybe like about thirty minutes. Yeah but I'm not doing it Monday through Friday. Are you on Facebook? I'm not on Facebook. I didn't think so, because you just asked the question. The way that Facebook works is that everybody that's your friend, their whatever they've said shows up on your your page. So you don't have to go to their page. Yeah. It all shows up on your page because they're already your friends. So you just scroll down your page and you see what's there. And um we set one up on the You dated yourself for that one, yeah. We set one up also for all the youth in the church. So it's like a forum where we discuss stuff together and the youth leaders post stuff about on there. What'd you think about what happened in Florida? Then they are chip and eight. So it's a way of okay, now let's start talking about some balance and how to look at it and how to stay away from it. So you utilize that medium because they d they're gonna be there. Do any of your kids Twitter My kids are little boys. Yeah, I mean uh kids in your youth groups and such. Um I've seen uh the adults follow me but not the youth yet. Yeah the teenagers are are and are migrating from Facebook to Twitter big time. That's big daughter. Yeah, there's definitely a shift that's been taking place over the last six months. But you're not seeing it nine months. Oh yeah. It's big time. All her friends are migrating. Facebook is not the deal anymore. But anyway. Did I mention I was reading The Deliberate Church by Mark Deaver and Paul Alexander last week? Uh very good book, I would recommend that. And uh also uh a classic, Martin Luther, on Christian liberty. If you haven't read it in a while, reread it. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, thank you. Thank you. Neil Achampong, the pastor of Covenant Family in Frederick, thank you. Thank you. Thank you to our Sponsor Putman Flaming Heating, how can we make you smile? This is the Frederick Faith Debate. I'm Freud Skinner, and I want to encourage you to go to our website, wfmd. com, keyword faith. Uh send me some information if you want. Email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. Until one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from now. God bless. Faith and hope, words that walk hand in hand through the lives of everyone touched by breast cancer. Footman Plumbing honors the courageous battle being fought by the special women in your life By donating ten dollars from every October service call. Look for our technicians wearing pink bow ties, putlandplumbing dot com