Good morning, welcome to the Fate Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Thanks for coming on the spending part of your day with us here on News Radio nine thirty WFMD. I say that not as often as I should, but you know, the the way that uh listeners the listenership is recorded by the uh you know the companies that do that sort of thing. You write down the call letters you Write down the name of the show, and the collitors are the most important thing, and so it's about memory recall. So in case you missed it the first couple of times, it's News Radio 930 WFMD. You're listening on Sunday morning, 9 a. m. to 930 to the Faith Debate on What's That Station again? News Radio, 930 WFMD. You really need to remind the listeners of what time it is? We all have cost in our heart. Well it's also it's uh it's also um um recall about what time you were listening. Uh so I I want our show to get credit Right? I don't want them to write down they were listening from 830 to 9, although that's fine. Whatever show is on before they they can get credit too. But I want our credit to belong to us. Right? So you're listening from 9 to 930 on AM 930 News radio nine thirty. WFMD. Alright, I think I've got the I was noticing as I was uh doing some quality control and Uploading podcasts and that sort of thing, listening to shows, and I've noticed that some shows I do a good job of mentioning what station, other times not so much, and trying to fix that. Anyway, I'm Froy Skinner. Pastor of Household of Faith in Christ online at Household of FaithInChrist. com. You also heard Daniel Razby already chime in. He's one of the pastors at the church that meets at Imran's house. And joining him, seated to his right My left is Imran Razvi, known as Raz to his friends. You can find him online. They have a ministry called Conquered by Love Ministries. Their website is conqueredbylove. org. And uh, if you were listening to the show not too long ago, uh you're going to hear a voice here in a little bit that might sound a little bit familiar. He's the author of the book, uh, The Head Covering. uh Josiah Bonjourney and we were talking about head coverings last time and I don't know if it was during the show or or or after the show when we were you know uh eating green MMs and that sort of thing. Um that the the subject of Calvinism and Arminianism and the tulip uh came up and people in the room got a little excited about us us tackling that and it's been a while since we've tackled that subject on this show And to be honest, the last time I can remember us talking about it, um I didn't have as well a formed an idea about what to think about such things. Because this is I I it's I I'll bet you it's fifteen years since we've in a significant way tackled uh the topic of the doctrines of grace as some people call them. So we're gonna go through these in order and the goal is to try to cover one letter in the acronym TULIP at a time. It's T-U-L-I-P. So there's Uh total depravity, unconditional election, limited atonement, irresistible grace, and perseverance of the saints and those that I'm going through this fast because then we're going through them again. And they have different uh names that screws up the uh acronym. Um but we're focusing on total depravity today. And and and these were n uh these what's usually talked about as the Calvinists five points, but They weren't Calvin is Calvin himself didn't really write these down in that way and and they weren't even generally talked about points in Calvinism or in Protestant theology until Arminius wrote his five points And these five points were then ag agreed on by a number of church leaders as the reputation of Arminius. So uh maybe in fairness we should we should uh read Arminius's five points as well. And which I have if you want. Sure we c yeah we can do uh uh and by the way, n uh John Calvin not only didn't write victim in this way. He wasn't even alive when this happened. This is the next generation after Calvin. So anyway, cause uh th this uh uh the the two up to be written down. It would be human free will, which states that though m though man is fallen he is not incapacitated by sinful nature and can freely choose God. His will is not restricted and enslaved by simple nature. And then conditional election. God chose people for salvation based on his foreknowledge, where God looks into the future to see who would respond to the gospel message. And so the response is a condition. And then universal atonement This the position that Jesus did bear bear the sin of everyone who ever lived, it's just not everybody will uh it won't it won't work for everybody because not everybody does accept that. And then resistible grace, the teaching that grace of God can be resisted and finally beaten so as to reject salvation in Christ. Um and then fall from grace, the teaching that a person can fall from grace and lose his salvation. Um and it's I think it's important to these are general five points and then the two up is another general five points. Not all congregations really uh hold fast in the same way to all five points very equally. Some people are are a little more weak on one than the others and and they s uh so there's there's nuance in all of that, but I know you today you want to go through the first one. Yeah, and as we work through these, I uh um the one we're focusing on today probably isn't the one that people inside of the church tend to fight about the most. They fight about it, but there are others on this list of five that get thought up thought about more. But when you're talking to somebody outside of the church, this one really bothers people Uh part of it I think is just semantics to be honest with you, but uh you, sir, you, madame, are depraved. Nobody likes hearing that, right? Nobody wants to hear that they're depraved. Much less totally depraved. What do you mean? And so d does anybody want to take a stab at what we mean by total uh depravity, or sometimes called radical depravity I mean to me i it total depravity just means that man in his natural state cannot come to God. God has to do the initiation. And you may remember a time that you were saved and came to God, but God was working in your heart to prepare your heart for that. You didn't just wake up one day and say, Oh, I'd like to be saved and you know, this sounds good and b if God didn't do any work in your heart So God has to be the one that starts that. Now that's how far uh I I think you you there's there's a point at which you can Very carefully parse your words and get both Armenians and Calvinists to gr Calvinists to agree on a lot of these things because uh a lot of Arminians Armenians Armenians? Armenianists Arminians. Arminians, a lot of Arminians. God starts the process. And y it's just that you get to accept or you get to uh uh choose Christ but God has to open your eyes first 'cause if your eyes are closed then they're not they're not gonna be there. So um but then there's there's certainly a more m uh ex uh extremes the wrong way And it occurs to me, uh it has nothing to do with the the nation of people groupy are are Armenians Yes. It's not it has nothing to do with a European subculture group or something. It's one of the most overlooked genocides in history. Go look it up. The Arminian genocide, a real thing that happened. Yeah, it's it's called Arminianism because it's named after uh uh a a very prominent theologian from uh nearly five hundred years ago, four hundred plus years ago, uh who disagreed with uh some of the teachings of John Calvin. So that's where the name comes from. I think it needs to be said because the the word total in front of depravity, depravity is hard enough, but the word total that gets misunderstood, which is why a lot of people have substituted total for radical. So what's not being said by those who subscribe to uh the tulip, to the doctrines of grace. What they're not saying is that you are totally pro depraved in the sense that you are as depraved as you could possibly be. You are 100% depraved in any and all actions, behaviors, thoughts, motives, whatever. Like there's nothing at all good about you. Everything you do is as evil as it could possibly be. That is not what totally depraved means. Totally depraved means that the totality of the individual suffers from the fall uh into sin, so suffers from the the consequences. So our our will is depraved, our mind is depraved, our emotional center is depraved, our heart is every aspect of who we are is affected by the fall. So the totality of who we are is is depraved, is dead in sin and therefore unable to react to the gospel the call of the gospel without God m uh calling and dragging people to himself is the idea. So it's not that totally depraved people can't do good things. We do some good things, but even those would be clouded by some level of sin, but we're not all as absolutely evil as we could possibly be. That's not what total depravity teaches. Centre, are you trying to say maybe that uh it's more of you're totally condemned, you're dead in sin. You are condemned and you can't get out of that condemnation without God. Correct. And what they were responding to, if I remember my church history well here, uh what the the Calvinists uh of the day or the Reformed theologians of the day were responding to was the idea that, yeah, we're all sinners But our will is unaffected or there's some aspect of our intellect perhaps is unaffected there's some part of us that's unaffected so that we can make the choice. And the reformed theologians of the day and of today too would say, No, there's no part of the human being that's not affected by sin and therefore unable on their own to respond positively to the call of the gospel. So just to clarify, because that's I think a huge source of argumentation, needless argumentation, because it's a misunderstanding. It's not It's not arguing over what's really being said, it's uh arguing over what people think is being said. Looks like Josiah's uh leaning in a little bit. Yeah, I was I was thinking um I'm glad you clarified there about um the ex how it clouds over every action that a person does. And I found some very interesting descriptions of total depravity in a in a book called Systematic Theology by Charles Finney, which surprisingly, even though he did not take a Calvinist point of view, this is one point he did mostly agree with and I tend to also mostly agree with the idea of total depravity. Um there are some nuances we could mention later, but He mentioned even an action like um giving some money to a beggar on the side of the street, um if it's done by a non-Christian, is actually clouded with sin or selfishness, which is the root of sin, um to some degree because If you weren't moved by certain emotions that make you feel better about yourself for doing an action like that, those same people who aren't Christians wouldn't perform those actions. But as Christians It's our belief since we have the love of God, which is something that's p far far stronger than emotions, that we would actually do those good actions, even if the emotions weren't stirring us to do so. Well there's that that passage in Isaiah that says uh righteousness is as filthy rags. Mm-hmm. And I think that's kind of what That's probably why and and that's that's the teaching. I think Paul even talked about some of that, but basically if if you're not saved then then there's nothing that's good about you Mm-hmm. At all. Even the good works and and I I have heard that preached uh uh from the pulpit before. Uh pastors I've heard pastors say that You know, any good work that you might think that you have done, if you were not saved, it was not a good work. It was an evil work. Mm-hmm. Which if that I think rubs a lot of people, especially unbelievers, the wrong way. Oh, you're saying I I didn't even not only are you saying I'm a I'm a bad person, but even the good things that I did you're saying are bad. And that's that m that makes it uh i difficult to get get that. And and and and I think a way to think about this yes, I I would agree Insofar as the way we've articulated it so far. But that doesn't mean that non-followers of Christ don't do some things that even we, as Christians, would look at and label Uh accurately as that was good. Or they got it and used for good. Yeah, that was a good thing they did. The point is that w it's not perfectly good. That was the cloud. Maybe they are clouded by the U. There's something clouded there. But that and and that's I think helpful and clarifying of what's being talked about here, but that's not even the main point that the Calvinists or that they were responding to from the Armenian side, uh, because they're focusing on the free will to choose God. And they were saying we can't nobody uh because of the fall, uh and and this gets into the doctrine of original sin, which um you know not everybody in the the Christian camp subscribes to. But if everybody is guilty in Adam and is affected b by that sin of Adam, then we are conceived in sin. We are born as sinners. And so we're s and therefore What is the penalty of sin? Death. So we are dead in our sin. And it's spiritual death. It's not saying, oh, dead, so you can't even like host a radio show. No, you c you can do things in a f in the physical world. You could even do things in the in a spiritual sense, but you can't do perfectly sinless things in the spiritual world because you're spiritually dead. And because you're dead you can't respond um to the call of the gospel. You need God to do that for you. That's what they're really getting at there. And that gets to original sin. Exactly. Which uh and there are there are uh uh believers that I've met that don't believe in original sin either. I'd be one of those, by the way. Yeah, okay. Well that's good. So I was gonna say I'm not sure what they would do with certain passages, so Um some key texts that come up in in the discussion about original sin. Um David writes in Psalm fifty-one that he was brought forth in iniquity. In sin his mother conceived him. That would seem to indicate that from the moment of conception he was in sin. So do you understand that verse differently? Well, I've ha I'm kind of double minded about that verse. I have a few different explanations and I'm not actually sure which one is true at this point. But one thought I have had Is it doesn't say I was born with sin, it says I was born in sin. So that could mean a surround you're surrounded by sin. Just like a fish is in water But it's not necessarily maybe a fish is a a bad example because water could be in the fish too. But you could jump in some water, but that doesn't mean that you're full of water. You're just right. But we we and I'm I appreciate that answer because I'm not a big fan of like proof casting and taking one little verse out of context and this proves my point. But you start stacking them, so there are layers. So later in the Psalm, just a few chapters later in Psalm fifty eight, verse three, the wicked are estranged from the womb. Those who speak falsehood wander in error from birth. So some would argue well it's not original sin, it's you know, they when they're two years old they sass their mother and then they sinned for the first time and now they're sinful. But Psalm fifty-eight says that they wander in error from birth, they're estranged from the womb. Um Ephesians 2 it talks about being uh uh dead in your sins, and by nature are children of wrath, our very nature So what would be what would be some from proof text that you would use decide just to to kind of have the the theology that original sin does not exist that you're born as innocent, as not not a sinful person? Well, first of all, I would just I would point out, on the other hand, Jesus speaks of little children as being pure and innocent, as if they would go to heaven if they died, whereas if they were actually we're we know we're all sinners at some point in our life, so if you say the wicked are estranged from the womb and you take that 100% literally, that would mean that everybody who dies as an infant would go straight to hell I'm glad God chooses to cover their sins. Right. But to switch things around, Jesus says on the other hand, and this is a ver very familiar verse, but suffer the little children to come unto me and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of God. So why would he say, Of such is the kingdom of God, if little children were sinful from birth? He's he's um implying that they're actually innocent and pure from birth And the same thing in Matthew 18, 3, except ye be converted and become as little children, as little children. Again, he's pointing to the innocence and purity of little children. But is the of such speaking about the children, or is the of such speaking of those who are seeking to come to Christ? I I I kind of feel like the whole the point of that passage is the faith of a little child, meaning somebody that believes without needing to see all the proof and evidence, just wanting to believe anyway. And little children are more easily able to believe in things because they're not jaded by the realities of a harsh world and so what you tell them they generally believe. That's why so many kids believe in Santa Claus. Even though it's preposterous that Santa Claus could exist. uh, you know, no Virginia, there is no Santa Claus. Um but but but they agree very easily what somebody tells them because they don't have any reason not to. Right? So say I think that's kind of what Jesus was getting at. Trust what I say. It's the right thing for you. It is true. Just do it. And I I that's what I get out of that pass. It's not really I I don't really get a a s sin doctrine of any kind out of that passage. It's more like little children have a different uh a different way of going about faith than adults do. Adults want to see proof and evidence and signs and wonders and miracles 'cause we w w we are thinkologically and critically But but children have that, you know, wide eyed uh imagination and and and they wanna they want to believe things. But faith itself is actually a Christian virtue. So if you were perfectly sinful from birth, total depravity from birth, that would mean that even that faith wasn't really faith. So that unless God has implied unless God has first opened your heart. I'm gonna make a note of because I have a follow-up question on it, but I want to reset. Um the the person I'm gonna follow up with here in a second is Josiah Bonjoani. Uh you've also been hearing Daniel Razve. Not a whole lot of Imron just yet, but he's got uh like some text I think he's getting ready to throw at us in a second. We'll be hearing from Imran in a moment. And I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. We have a look at the totality of the scriptures. And so I can see f if we look at the pa the couple of passages you mentioned so far and say, okay, so see, this seems to indicate but then we have to throw into the mix and consider those passages with other passages like in Proverbs where it says folly is bound up in the heart of a child. So are they innocent or are they filled with folly? You know, so um in Genesis chapter eight it says man's heart is evil from his youth. So children's hearts are evil and yet the innocence of a child so I think the context and and what's being said there, uh I don't think there's enough there to overcome the uh the idea of being estranged from the womb and being conceived in s in sin and other I mean if you read Ephesians particularly chapter two Uh that's it's not just a verse, that's an entire section that seems to talk about the the the need, the necessity, the the lostness of people on their own and the necessity of God to do it for them. I I want to get Nimron and you have something you wanted to add by the way? It looked like you were getting ready to say something. I'm sorry. Th th the original sin i there's really not uh a way to get around that. I I mean, it's more of our us saying, Well And a kid especially coming from a Muslim background, right? Muslims don't believe in original sin. Believe b but children are born innocent and they learn to sin as they grow older. And when I came to Christ, that was a uh a hard point for me to get over. But then if you think about it, why is a just God allow all this evil to happen to children? If he's just then there if there's no sin, if there's if they're not born in sin, if they're not sinful, if they're not in the original sin, then a just God would not allow all this evil to happen to children. To me that was a big turning point f as a m as a Muslim coming to Christ that okay, there has to be original sin. Otherwise, you know, how can I call God just An and I think there there one there's one passage that comes to mind I think which is very relevant to about the salvation of children specifically. Um and there this passage that P Paul talks about where uh uh you know, your children i if if one the unbelieving spouse or or the believing spouse sanctifies the children of the unbelieving spouse speaking of stay together if one of you gets saved don't don't just divorce or separate because your children are now um uh sanctified otherwise they would be unholy, which I take as the implication being that they may if if neither spouse is believing that those children are not necessarily God can choose to save whoever he wants to save But d hold that thought for a minute. The Eastern culture of honor and shame is a much better way to explain the original sin than what the West generally does. Because I actually agree with Josiah that when a child is born, they have not sinned. They are innocent in a sense, but they are in a position of shame. Think of the case system in India or think of the class system i you know in uh and and different classes in in many cultures around the world where you if you're born into this strata of society, you cannot. I mean the American dream is unique in that, right? You can move up in in classes. But most countries, most parts of the world, that's not really possible. Wherever you're born, that's where you are. Right? You can't move up to a different level. And we're born as children of Adam and the world is all affected by Adam's sins. So we are in a position of shame from birth and as such it is impossible for us to get to God unless He brings us out Only somebody that is more honorable than yourself can lift you out of a position of shame, whether or not you've personally done any of those sins, and that's why I don't think see it's a contradiction when the Bible says that God visits the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and fourth generation, but then he says also the children should not be put to death. for the sins of the fathers and the fathers should not be put to yes for the sins of the children. Right? So they yes, I speak so fast. But but that's th I think that's that uh meshing of those two. Yes the children are innocent because they haven't personally sinned yet. Um a but but they are born in a position of shame. So that's where I would say I agree with the doctrine of original. I think they I think they're born in a position of shame though because they stand guilty with Adam. As a group, all of us are in Adam and Adam is guilty's our what a theological term for that is federal headship. He's the federal head of the entire group of of humanity. He's guilty as our representative, we're guilty with him. And it's it's and that's the and it's important to the gospel because that's what Christ does for the those who are born again. So those who are born in Adam are born in guilt and shame because they're born in sin. So I I would disagree. Well, you're disagreeing with Romans chapter five. No, they are born in shame, but I would say shame specifically and not guilt. You have individual guilt for your own sins and you have collective shame for from Adam's. That's what he's talking about there. Sin entered into the world and death through sin. Yes. And so death spread to all men because all sinned. All do sin, yes. But if the penalty of sin is death and newborn babies die sadly every day, some of them mur murdered in the womb, every many of them every day They died without having sinned, without being a sinner, without being guilty of sin. So they were in a position of shame and God may save them or not. I don't know what is in the mind of God, but they were entered a world of death It's just what the passage is speaking of. Yeah. So I i that's that's why I was saying they they have not had time to be guilty of their own sins But they do you're right, they do bear a responsibility for Adam's sin. Right. Yeah. No, they have yeah, they haven't committed a particular job. I don't disagree with you in that. I just it's more of a s it may sound more more semantics, but I i really am trying to make a distinction between shame and guilt. Those are two different things. And they're both biblical concepts. And I think too often we we confuse the two and they there is some distinction. Yeah, and this has come up a few times on the show and I would say this. I I do appreciate that there is a uh There is a distinction to be made, but the two cannot be separated. We have shame because of our guilt. If we if we are guiltless I mean, Christ bore our shame because he took on our sin. Right? You know what I'm saying? He took on the guilt of the world, and in that he's taking shame upon himself. Uh I I don't there's there's no need to be a ashamed. Imagine you're not guilty. If you're in the Hatfield of the McCoy family, right, and you've been feuding for generations and you're born and you're a Hatfield. Well you're always gonna be a Hatfield, you're never gonna be McCoy. You can't Become of a Koi, you can't stop fighting the choice, you already are. Whether you personally ever fired a bullet doesn't matter, because your great-great-grandfather shot somebody in the McCoy. Right. That's like an argument for federal headship, by the way. Right. Well that's but I and I'm s that's what I'm saying. I think I think we we are saying the same thing, but I I'm making a very distinct difference between saying 'cause we are Uh in in my example, I haven't ever fired a shot at anybody in the McCoy family, but I'm still responsible for all my family's actions and I can never become Somebody else unless there's a marriage, unless there's there's somebody that that brings brings up. We're gonna have to draw this to a close in a second, but uh uh a a cuty little phrase that's been used for years is uh people aren't sinners because they sin. They sin because they're sinners. So I was conceived in sin sin and people want to argue and say, no you weren't and I say, well, have you seen my life? The the the the the tree is known by its fruit. The fruit of my life is in fill of all sorts of sin. So I'm the kind of tree that is a sinful tree and the fruit When you're a little baby, it's not as obvious, but give it enough time and every baby will prove that they are a sinner because they go on to sin. Anyway, that's a A cutesy little thing, a little memory hook, maybe. Maybe I'd pick up on Philadelphia a little bit, or maybe we'll dovetail it into our uh our conversation of unconditional election, which is next. Uh Daniel Razby Josiah Bonjowani, I'm Troy Skinner, Imron Razby, also on the show. Thank you for listening, spending part of your day with us here on News Radio 930 WFMD. Find us online at household of faith in Christ. com and WFMD. com. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from I say, oh, right about now. God bless