Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930. WFMD. I'm your host, Troy Skinner. Nothing to moderate today because it's a special edition, a it's kind of a three-pack. You listened to the last two weeks and you know what's going on this week. Um I was invited to speak and share from the pulpit. uh not too long ago and uh it wasn't an utter complete disaster so they invited me back a few months later uh to to speak again with a follow up message. So The first message was focusing on the very first few verses of first John found in the New Testament, and my follow-up was um focusing on the next section of John, although If you're listening last week, you know this already. If you're listening to the podcast, and I'm repeating myself particularly for you right now. Um or not for you right now for everybody, but for others right now. But anyway, um Even though the p the the the message you're about to hear is primarily rooted in the early part of First John, there's not a whole lot of time spent in First John. It's more picking up the theme that John is writing about and going from there. So it's a little awkward to jump in because we're about Two about a third of the way with two thirds of the message left to go. But I think it's standalone enough that you'll be okay and you'll figure it out. Um by the way, thanks to our Sponsors, Putman Plumbing Heating, have to make you smile, and Deer Valley Heartscape, Landscape, and Masonry. And I encourage you to visit us online at WFMB. com Keyword Faith. Alright. Without further ado, here is the remainder of the message we started last week called Transparency by Trust. God tells us in 2 Timothy 3, verses 14 through 17. But as for you Continue what you have learned and become convinced of, because you know those from whom you have learned it, and how from infancy you have known the Holy Scriptures, which are able to make you wise for salvation. Through faith in Christ Jesus. All Scripture is God-free and is useful for teaching, rebuking, correcting, and training in righteousness, so that the man of God may be thoroughly equipped for every good work. Oh my goodness, I gotta turn this off before I do that, huh? Now I imagine that so far I haven't said much that's very earth shattering or shocking to you, except for maybe that cough. I purposely sought a a a common ground from which to begin because before this is all said and done y you will be challenged. We as Christians will be challenged by what John writes in the early part of his first epistle. But this common ground that I've started from, I mean, these are things that are familiar, should be very familiar to you, right? Over and over again, these things have been taught in the church throughout the years. And if you're a member of this church Then you've given assurance that you confess Jesus as your personal Lord and Savior, and that you fully believe that He raised Himself from the dead. In victory, so that we might share in that victory and have eternal glory with him. Well, I trust that you also have some implication. Some sense of the implication of what this means for your belief. As believers, we are a new creation in Christ. The second epistle to Corinthians says so, in chapter six, verse seventeen. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has gone, the new has come. The Holy Spirit now lives in us. 2 Corinthians 2. 15 says that we are to God the aroma We are united to Christ. In Ephesians chapter 2, verse 10, it tells us that we are God's workmanship created in Christ Jesus to do good works which God prepared in advance. for us to do. The entire New Testament is really all about this amazing truth. We're not merely saved from the eternal condemnation and damnation that's due to us for our sins. But we're actually in Christ. We share in his inheritance. We're adopted. Not because we deserve it, but because God has seen fit to make it so. We are desperate sinners, all of us. If you believe in Christ, you've been saved from your own sins. But more than being saved from your sins, Christians, we share in the exaltation of Jesus Christ. Earlier I said, let's pause and reflect on the truth that the word is God. Let's pause and reflect on this. As a Christian, you share in the exaltation of Jesus Christ. Is that sinking in? We are so unworthy of such We whose righteousness is as filthy rags are made to share in the inheritance of Christ Jesus, our Savior, who allowed himself to be humiliated for us. In fact, God not only allowed himself to be humbled and humiliated for us, he caused himself to be humbled and humiliated for us. Sounds like a cliche, but the truth is we can't begin to fathom the depth and the breadth of God's sacrificial love for us. The impact of this truth, seriously, it often brings tears to my eyes when I contemplate it. It's powerful. So what do we do with such a powerful truth? In the first two verses of Colossians chapter 3 The Apostle Paul wrote to the church there, the Christians in Colossae, that since then you have been raised with Christ, set your hearts on things above. Where Christ is seated at the right hand of God, set your minds on things above, not on earthly things. What are some of these earthly things? Well, we're told a few verses later, verses five through ten Put to death, therefore, whatever belongs to your earthly nature, sexual immorality, impurity, lust, evil desires, and greed, which is idolatry. Because of these, the wrath of God is coming. You used to walk in these ways in the life you once lived, but now you must rid yourselves of all such things as these anger, rage, malice, slander, and filthy language from your lips. Do not lie to each other, since you have taken off your old self with its practices and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge in the image of its Creator. These are the things that should be eliminated from our lives in Christ. And then we're immediately told in this passage What we're to do to replace these negative behaviors. In Colossians chapter 3, verses 12, 13, and 14. Therefore As God's chosen people, holy and dearly loved, clothe yourselves with compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness. And patience. Bear with each other and forgive whatever grievances you may have against one another. Forgive as the Lord forgave you. And over all these virtues put on love, which binds them together in perfect unity. So does this mean that the Christian doesn't ever sin? Absolutely not. Sad to report. Even the Apostle Paul says about himself in Romans chapter seven. I do not understand what I do. For what I want to do, I do not do. But what I hate, I do. I know that nothing good lives in me, that is in my sinful nature, for I have the desire to do what is good, but I cannot carry it out. For what I do is not the good I want to do. No, the evil I do not want to do. This I keep on doing. Paul admits to continued sin, but note a critically important thing about his sin. Paul's sin is something that he does not understand. It is something that he hates. He attributes his sinfulness to his sinful nature, meaning his old self rather than his new self in Christ. He does not do the good that he wants to do But instead does the evil he does not want to do. He's telling us he wants to do the right thing. He desires to please God. He wishes to be obedient. He is sorrowful over his sin. This is the picture of a man at war within himself against sin. This is the picture of every Christian. You call yourself a Christian, this is your picture. Is it your picture? Believers in Christ are called to fight against the sin in their lives. Non-Christians are, to be sure, sinners. Christians, to be sure, are also sinners. But the difference is that the Christian has been rescued from the condemnation due for our sin. Once a person is saved by God, that person is forever saved. I'm firmly convinced that that is true. Popular catchphrase puts it, once saved, always saved. The idea often falls under the heading of eternal security or perseverance of the saints or preservation of the saints, and it can often mean different things to different people. In fact, there are some Who would say that a person once they're saved can lose their salvation by committing something called a mortal sin, which is described somehow as being different from other sins. And I don't want to venture too far down that path of discussion because The focus this morning is not on the loss of salvation, but is rather on the proper and loving and commanded response to the gift of salvation. But just so that we're clear, let's quickly touch on what the Bible teaches on this. We'll turn it back to the Jesus uh words of Jesus himself In John's Gospel, chapter 6, verses 37 through 40, it quotes Jesus saying, All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me, I will never drive away. For I have come down from heaven not to do my will, but to do the will of him who sent me. And this is the will of him who sent me, that I shall lose none of all that he has given me, but raise them up at the last day For my Father's will is that everyone who looks to the Son and believes in Him shall have eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day. And then in John chapter 10, verses 27 through 29, Jesus says, My sheep listen to my voice. I know them and they follow me. I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish. No one can snatch them out of my hand. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one can snatch them out of my Father's hand. These two verses and others like them should give us comfort. Once we're saved, we're always saved. Or the issue at hand for us. Is whether or not we have been once saved Jesus' brother James tells us in the first chapter of his epistle that Christian believers are blessed and yet will face many trials and temptations. But because we're blessed, We are to persevere, and that through our perseverance we'll add to our blessing. And then James brings it all home. Sure, the Christian is saved purely by faith. And not by works, so that no one may boast. But James asks a critical question for us to consider in James 2, verse 14. What good is it, my brothers, if a man claims to have faith, but has no deeds? Can such a faith save him? In other words, what James is saying here, if someone professes to be a Christian, but does not enter the struggle against sin, the struggle to do the right thing. As Paul wrote about in chapter 7 we read just a moment ago. Is that person truly a Christian? In answering this question, James says, three and four verses later, faith by itself, if it is not accompanied by action, is dead. Show me your faith without deeds, and I will show you my faith by what I do, James writes. While we are saved by faith, James is saying the proof of our faith Lies in our deeds. Are we fighting against sin? Is it your primary goal to please God? Do we trust him and his laws and his ways and his plan? Or do we turn our back on God and his law In pursuit of someone else's ways in our own plan. If we as professing Christians continue in a life of wicked deeds, then we are not truly wicked Christian. And if we're not truly Christian, then we're not truly saved. And if we're not truly saved, then we are truly damned. James is making it clear that our words and our actions demonstrate the true condition of our heart. Merely saying that you trust God is not the same as actually trusting God. James 2, 19 through 22 has harsh words for those who wish to ignore this truth. You believe that there is one God. Good. Even demons believe that and shudder. You foolish man, do you want evidence that faith without deeds is useless? Was not our ancestor Abraham considered righteous for what he did when he offered his son Isaac on the altar? You see that his faith and his actions were working together, and his faith was made complete by what he did. James states plainly in verse 24 that a person is justified by what he does and not by faith alone. Because faith without the effort to please God is evidence of a faith that is in fact dead. If our faith is dead, then we're not alive in Christ. But we're dead in sin, because the weight of the sin is death. Now, to be clear, please hear me. We do not earn salvation by going to war against the sin in our lives. However, by warring against the sin in our lives, we give evidence of our salvation. Where there is no evidence, there is reason to believe there is no faith. Sometimes an analogy can be helpful, so I'm going to share one with you. Someone is not married by virtue of wearing a ring on their left hand. But a ring on the left hand is evidence that the person might be married You're not necessarily happy by wearing a smile, but if you see somebody wearing a smile, hey, after having a s they're probably happy Now, analogies always fall a little bit short, and they, you know, they're not perfect, but hopefully that'll help you to understand a little bit what Paul and James in tandem here are teaching us. And it's important that you get this because, as you know, the picture of eternity is not pretty, to put it extremely mildly, for those who don't have faith. But I want to encourage you. For right now you're scratching your head saying, wow, I don't know. Have I been one saved? Do I really have faith? I'm not sure. You can be encouraged. In Luke chapter 15, we have the story of the prodigal son, and then the story of the thief on the cross, who at the last moment of his life. turns and trusts in Jesus. It's never too late. That's in Luke 23, if you want to look that up later, the story of Stephen the Cross. It's never too late in this lifetime. To turn back to Jesus Christ. Those are just two examples. There are other examples, but those are two good ones in the Bible. But once you've turned back to Jesus Must wage war against sin. Because all of us, the Christian too, all of us will stand before God's judgment seat. All of us will have to give an account for what we have said and what we have done. In 2 Corinthians 5, verses 9 and 10, Paul writes So, we make it our goal to please him, whether we are at home in the body or away from it. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that each one may receive what is due him for the things done while in the body, whether good or bad. If our faith is not true, we face God's eternal wrath and judgment. Just as we cannot fully appreciate the grace and the goodness of our Almighty God. So too we cannot fully appreciate the sting and the vengeance of our Almighty God. We need to take seriously the message that God gives us in Hebrews chapter 10 verses 26 through 31. If we deliberately keep on sinning after we have received the knowledge of the truth, no sacrifice for sins is left. But only a fearful expectation of judgment and of raging fire that will consume the enemies of God. Anyone who rejected the law of Moses died without mercy on the testimony of two or three witnesses. How much more severely do you think a man deserves to be punished who has trampled the son of God underfoot? Who is treated as an unholy thing, the blood of the covenant that sanctified him, and who has insulted the spirit of grace. For we know him who said, It is mine to avenge, I will repay. And again the Lord will judge his people. It is a dreadful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. Believers whose faith is true Do not face this horrible condemnation. That is the good news. Believers, God tells us in His Word, are to live lives that will demonstrate to the world that Christ dwells within us. Believers. Are to die to themselves and to live in Christ. If we were somehow able To do this perfectly through a perfect trust in God, then it seems to me that people would see right through us And see only Christ shining through. So we should ask ourselves, Self? When I look in the mirror, Who do I see? Do I see myself, my old self, looking back at me? Or do I see Christ shining through so that I can see only Him? How wonderful it would be to live such transparent lives. And this must be the aim of every believer. This is why in the New Testament, in 2 Corinthians 13, 5, it says, Examine yourselves to see whether you are in the faith. Test yourselves. Do you not realize that Christ Jesus is within you? Unless, of course, you fail the test? This is why in the Old Testament, in 2 Chronicles 7. 14, it says, If my people who are called by my name will humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways. Then I will hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and will heal their land. You are loved. God loves you. Please don't ignore what God says about how to live your life. Listen to him. Please listen to him. Don't do it for your family. Don't do it even for yourself or trust in yourself. Do it for God and trust Him. In response to what he has already done for you. Do it to his glory. Always to God's glory. Let's pray. Lord God, we worship you. We are so unworthy even to do this properly. Our worship falls so utterly short of what you deserve. Thank you, Father, for loving us, for cleansing us, for clothing us in the righteousness of your Son. We yearn to know how to love you, and we pray that you would show us by your Spirit and your word what we are to do in response. In the name of our glorious Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Amen. And there we have the end of a message titled Transparency by Trust. Thank you for indulging me these last few weeks as we uh listen to me. I always like listening to me. I hope you don't mind it so much. Uh I anticipate that next week we'll be back to a somewhat familiar uh format on this show, although who knows what the future holds, only God knows for sure Uh Jonathan Schweitzer, my uh partner in crime, I expect that he'll be back and uh we'll be talking about some deep important detail of of theological imports, I'm sure. Wanna thank our sponsors Deer Valley hardscape, landscape and masonry and putman uh plumbing and heating. How can we make you smile? I ask that you visit us online, please. Uh every day you'll find an updated uh blog Which is made possible by your emails. Email me with SimpleENoughTroy-T-R-O-Y at WFMD. com So send me something of that's on your mind and sah hopefully it's related to religion and if so that's best. But I get stuff that are jokes and politics or whatever and I post it up on the website. Just go to WFMB. com keyword faith There you'll find a link to the audio vault. We can listen to this show or other shows via podcast, and you can get a link to Jonathan Sweitzer's blog as well. Again, until next week, thanks for listening. God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, and Honest answers an amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Put and plumbing, how can we make you smile