He's back in the shadow again. I'm back in the shadow again. Where the long horse can't be download again and me I'm back in the battle again We're getting Lieutenant Yar and Councillor Troy are completely qualified. You're very generous with your praise. Help yourself to me. Help yourself to me. Help yourself to me. Inform them that you will remain here with me. All gather round, friends. Why hurry? We'll all stay a little longer. Broadcasting for the West Side of Big Brothers city in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com keywordfaith. There you'll find links, podcasts, and news items, and the Faith Debate Blog. Our blog is your blog. So email me Troiskinner at clearchannel. com. That's Troy T-R-O-Y Skinner S-K-I-N-N-E-R at clearchannel. com. I post what you send me 18 times a day, Monday through Friday, there's 90 postings a week. You don't have to read them all, but if you check it out every day, you're bound to find something that's interesting to you. Uh, I encourage you to check what people are sending me. Mostly uh it's stuff that you have found interesting that you forward to me. It's not a whole lot of original uh content, although I would welcome that from you as well. On The Face Debate today, a special edition of the show. A couple months ago, we did a series of shows that had Jonathan Schweitzer, um Dina Carroll from The Morning Show. and me doing a a series of shows, looking back at some old archive tapes and uh that was kind of fun and got some feedback on that that was interesting. So uh we have kind of an odd time here post holidays where we have uh some uh some shows we have to get in the can and schedules are tough to s uh to to work around. So, decided to there was some stuff that I thought we'd have time to get to during those shows that we never got to. And so this is a chance for me to share with you. some stuff that's a little peek behind the curtain, if you will. Um a look back at the uh what what happens in our our lives in radio, uh our lives meaning my life, I guess, in radio. uh outside of this show. You might not know this. We've been doing the show now for ten years, a little over ten years. Uh I have been working in the radio business though for uh well over twenty five coming up coming up on thirty years And a big amount of that time was spent uh in other markets doing other kinds of radio. Anyway, what you're about to hear now is some you might know this, the very beginning of our show and at the end of every show you hear a little musical instrumental thing. Uh that is done by a rock band uh called Journey. Journey's one of my favorite uh bands of all time. And years ago, when I was just learning how to edit and how to do different things in the business, I put together a montage of some of my very favorite journey songs. This is a first. What you're about to hear has never actually aired on the radio before. It's only been heard by me and a a couple of other folks. I did it more for my own entertainment than anything else. So here is a broadcast first on 930 WFMD, the Journey Montana. We're gonna do everything that you've heard from us and more. It's gonna be one big party, dude. I keep some children Feeling that way. Ooh, any child that you want me Any way you want it, the way you need it, anyway you want it, don't stop believe that you're the people that we want to know, we want to know I'll tell you, Journey's a special band, we need a special drummer. You know what I mean? We really do. Good morning. How you play but as long won't you just Straight here was yesterday. I didn't want to stay to that one. Like to pay where you love me. Deep It leaves you. When you're feeling as a fair You just ask the Lord When we are lost in need, despair you just ask the Lord Even feeling Will the lights go down in the city? Yes, you're listening to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMB, a special edition, uh post-holiday edition. Steve, put out a new album. We'd like to say we love you too. Hasn't recorded anything new in like, I don't know, twenty years probably. That is something I put together for myself. edited all that sort of thing. Back before there was anything known as digital editing. That's all analog equipment using uh actual uh four tracks and um and splicing tape. We actually took a razor blade and you would cut the tape and then tape it back together. Uh so not pristine and perfect editing by today's standards, but back then I was pretty proud of that. Don't think it would have won any awards for that, but what you're about to hear next is the one and only thing I've ever received an award for as far as personal production stuff. I put together way back when, back in the earliest existence of the Orlando Magic, their first two seasons of existence, the NBA basketball team. I was the uh executive network producer for Orlando Magic basketball. And at the end of year one, which was a pretty big deal down there, pretty historic uh thing bringing a major league franchise, uh na uh NBA uh franchise to Orlando. I had everybody very excited. So we put together a retrospective, a highlight program that was an hour long, uh that uh that served to introduce season number two. Now I'm not going to play the whole hour here. But I'm going to play a representative example of what that hour, the kinds of things that hour included, that was enough for me to win an award. So this is award winning stuff. I mean it's not that big deal, but I do still have the plaque, so I guess it's I guess it's worth something to me. Jerry Reynolds moves around an Akers pick, bounce pass back to the big guy, he lays it in. Beautiful pick and roll. Akers with an excellent bounce pass on the pick and roll. Magic trailing by 12 points. Reggie Theius drive through the middle. Whips the pass to Reynolds. Jumper good out of the corner. A great assist by Reggie Thiers. Leaders back to 10. This is a great LA Lakers basketball team. The Lakers, Magic Johnson. James Worthy the world East Green and Michael Fox let both be a fire led by the veteran Magic Johnson. But enough am I have to learn? Los Angeles will have the basketball. Gotta fire with fire. You will not get fired. Magic 91. I gotta stand up, I gotta face it, don't wanna lose it. I wanna think it's about it, I don't wanna waste it. I think it's so bad, I wanna win Ansley gets the rebound, though, turns and lays it up and in. Great shot by Michael Ansley. You see, it's a better side. I'm gonna win. Yeah, I'm winning. Benson intercepts it. Benson all the way to the basket lays it in. 12 points for Sam Benson. The lead is cut back to eight. I got no time. I got butter. I can win. Yes, life won't make me under Even if I take all I have to give. This place is roaring the ring. I gotta face it. No wanna lose it. I'm gonna take this body. I don't wanna waste it. My mind made up. I'm gonna win it. Steve Lennon for the easy layup. I wanna win. The building is so loud. Nobody could hear any instructions from anywhere. Johnson passes it away, throwing by Bibson. Deep fakes drives into the lane. Dumps it low to Hakers. He turns shot blocked rebound. Calvin delayed in rebound. That touch the lead to five and Cavins will go to the line. All the way penetration way up there. That was another tough shot. I saw the determination in his eyes when it came out of the timeout. He really wants this one. Worthy gets a pass, blocked by Reynolds. Johnson gets it back, but Reynolds steals it. Pass to Anderson. He's all by himself. He's up. It's a two-point lead to the Lakers. Wow Shane. BLA, BLA. Baseline jumper is good. We are tied at 103. And Riley calls a timeout. Sam Vincent has led the magic back from the death. Camus follows good. Gibson's good. Nobody is sitting down in the Orlando Arena. Everybody is standing to be standing up too if I do it. It is up. No good. Rebound Akers. 14 seconds left. Akers is fouled in the backcourt. Akers was fouled in the backcourt, but nobody knows it because they can't hear the whistle. Limbs gets the rebound. Four seconds left. And now the realization begins to sneak in. The Orlando Magic are on the verge of a stunning victory against the Los Angeles Lakers. What a comeback. What a comeback. These fans have been standing for the last half hour. Magic Johnson slings the ball link to the floor and it's over. The Magic stunned the Los Angeles Lakers in the arena 108 103 the final. We'll be back in a moment. This is Magic Basketball And there you have a little bit of history. If you happen to be an Orlando Magic fan, that was a rare treat. Remember any of those names? Sam Vincent, Reggie Theist, Harry Catledge. That by the way was played by Playboys, David Steele. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930WFNB. I know it doesn't sound like it Um post-holidays are kind of taking a a break from the routine and and uh going down memory lane. Again, that was uh an audio piece that was put together uh after year one of the Orlando Magic uh and looking back And just to give you a historical context, again the Magic War expansion franchise, it was their first year in NBA basketball. They're playing the incredibly successful and popular Los Angeles Lakers with Magic Johnson and all the rest. I mean it was a big deal. I remember the very first time the Magic ever won a game It was in the preseason against the Detroit Pistons and afterwards everybody was so excited they were started screaming after the game, Hey, bring on LA, we want to play LA like a preseason game really means anything. So when the Lakers came to town and the magic came from behind in the fourth quarter to actually win the game, the city of Orlando lost its mind. So and that kind of captures some of that spirit. Speaking of losing their mind, uh back in the 1950s there was a rock and roller named Elvis Presley who caused a whole bunch of young fans to lose their mind. And as you probably know, if you've been paying attention to uh a bunch of retrospective kind of stuff out there this week, Elvis Presley, if he were still alive. And I know there's some debate on that question. But if Elvis Presley were still alive, he would have turned eighty years old this week And so uh years ago I had a chance to put together uh uh for different purposes kind of a uh retrospective on Elvis Presley's life And we're gonna listen to that now. And if you are an Elvis fan, you are really going to enjoy this. I like it, I enjoy rock and roll. A lot of people like it, a lot of people don't, but uh as long as it lasts As long as it sells, I'll continue doing it. As long as that's what the people want. And if they change, if it dies out, I'll try to do something else. And if that doesn't work, I'll just say, well, I had my day. Elvis friendly. The fans make it possible. You can promote all you want to, but if the people don't want to buy a ticket, it doesn't help So I did my part. Always did his show. We were lucky. Great talent. We had a great show and a lot of fun. Ladies and gentlemen. Could I have your attention please? Uh I'd like to tell you that we're gonna do a sad song for you. It goes something like this. We weren't really afraid of the fans, but if one fan had touched him, then the next one would have wanted to grab him, then the next one would want to tear his clothes off. This is what we really had to watch for. I went in with Sun Records and it was a guy in that took down my name, told me he might call me sometime. So he called me about a year and a half later. I went in and made my first record. There was just something that All of a sudden I felt deep down in my soul, don't ask me why I do not know Jack. Anyway, uh we made the record and when I heard it, uh when I first told him I just knew With a guy, it didn't take a genius to say, Hey, here's an unpolished voice, but here's a voice that makes Fantastic. Well, get out of that kitchen and rattle those pots and things. Elvis is able to uh get a message across with his song. He was able to listen to a demo in a studio and get up and sing it. He listened to the demo just a few times and get up and sing it for heart. Uh all the audience. artists we work with they have to use a word sheet. You don't have to get up and look at every look at their words but President could get up to the microphone and sing without him a word sheet. But I left the best uh a high te in his dealing with people but he almost had to be because uh so many uh fans went after him but to us we never had even a short word or in all that period of time. You don't want me to be so designed And being as close as we were, you know. He's just a genuine guy. One through a party in the county jail. Someone's only singing and dancing. I don't see how they could think they would contribute to June on the link. If there's anything I've tried to do, I've tried to live a straight, clean life and uh not set any kind of a bad example. Uh you cannot please everyone. Well the image is one thing And a human being is another, you know. So How close does that come? How close does the image come to the man? It's it's it's it's very hard to live up to an image and put it that way. Well skip my baby to let me Wells with Twill. Well it's not a dear tea. That's hardly Well I I don't smoke and I don't drink, I'll have to go to movies. Maybe someday I'm gonna have a home and a family of my own and I'm not gonna budge from it. Uh I was an only child, but Uh maybe my kids won't be. I suppose this kind of talk raises another question. Am I in love? No. I thought I'd been in love, but I guess I wasn't. It just passed over. You meet anyone special in Germany? Not any special words. Uh there was a little girl that I was I was seeing quite often over there that uh her father was in the air force and actually they only got over there about about two months before I left. I was seeing her and she was at the train at the airport when I left. So what problem with her and uh there were some pictures made of her But it was no big it was no big romance. I was had a hard time dealing with mother and the little girl that I was to him. And that's I didn't know it then, but that's how I found and realized in later years that he was a father to me. He was he was my um mentor I he to to show any kind of vulnerability and security to me w was not macho. It was not something that he felt I should see. So our communication was horrible It was terrible. Love me tender. If rock and roll music were to die out, which I don't think it will. I would try something else. I w I would probably try uh I would really probably go in for the movies then. I would try to make it as an actor. Which is very tough because you got a lot of competition. Well, it's the one for the money, the two for the show. Don't step on my blue sway shoe. I reckon I've always known it just as plain showing. Let me tell you. No lines on me, Cassie. I've heard all your lies and believed them just like you wanted me to. Go on, say it, Captain. Say I'm lying. Say you want your lover. Say you ain't laid awake every night by my side thinking of it. Wishing I was dance. Wishing you'd waited for him and never married me. Think I'm gonna trust hate you You ain't gonna hate me. I think I'll let you hate me. How dare you think such cheap tactics would work with me? I need tactics, honey. It's just the beast in me. gospel music was embedded into Elvis' life and uh he really tried to sing gospel music at the beginning but he wasn't accepted, he wasn't good enough. I like a lot of the new groups, you know, the theaters and the beards and uh whoever. But I I really liked a lot of the new music. I'm all shook up. But a a lot of it is basically our music is is basically rock and roll music is basically uh gospel a little And uh or it it sprang from that. Yeah, I was tamed after what they do now. You kidding? I I didn't do anything, we just jiggle, you know. He picked his own songs with the uh songwriters, whatever they were. And I was never he never asked me should I do this or that? It was up to him. He liked it that way. The only song that I was able to have him report, because I thought it was good for him, was argue lonesome tonight. That's the only one. It was fine. All set to go. Let's leave tonight. Are you lost tonight? It's hard for me right now. I just I can't believe it, you know. I just cannot believe it. It's such a sense. We worked with him and worked with him up there and I tried to get him to speak and tried to get him to breathe and we done everything that we possibly could until Alice got here and uh they worked with him and there was never no sign of life after after he fell again. In this our sorrow. of both Tennesseeans, the nation, and indeed around the world. The sadness reflect the talent and one of the greatest talents that this country's ever produced. Or maybe this world has ever produced Elvis Presley since I was fourteen. And I used to sit and calculate um if he was too old for me or not. And And besides that, I think uh Elvis had more impact on our society than any other any other popular musician except perhaps the Beatles and the Beatles were English, not Americans. You know, Elvis Presley was just an original man. I mean he was a star. And to me he was This is what the American Dream is all about, a poor Southern boy that made it all the way to the top. And we love you, Elvis This is the Frederick Face Debate, believe it or not, on Frodex News Radio 930 WFMD. I hope you enjoyed that. This is a special edition of the show as post-holiday uh blahs as far as trying to get s guest scheduled and that sort of thing. So we're moving forward in what we hope is entertaining uh radio, even if it's not faith debate styled uh radio. It's interesting, one of those last commenters was talking about the Beatles and Elvis And it seems to me, at least when I was growing up, the people around me were either Beatles households or Elvis households. Now I like the Beatles. I own a lot of Beatles music. I listened to 'em over the years and certainly there's no denying their impact But there's certainly no denying that our home was an Elvis home. And so I had all sorts of stuff that um that we had in our home. All sorts of rare audio collections and clips and that sort of thing that maybe it would be easier to find in today's day and age on uh YouTube or something like that. But back then I was able to put together that uh retrospective uh tribute to Elvis uh based on stuff we had in our own possession. And a lot of it, like I said, it was pretty rare and hard to find. And so when I first ever aired that got quite a feedback from folks who wondered where I had gotten certain uh uh elements of that to put together. So anyway, hopefully you enjoyed it. We have reached the end of our time together. I want to at least for one more week. I want to thank our sponsor, Putman Plum Plumbing. Getting all uh choked up here. Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Uh I'm running out of time to tell you what I've been reading lately, so we'll save that for uh maybe next week, catch you up on some things I've been reading if we have time. And what you're about to hear now to take us out is I mentioned a while ago For a short period, two or three years, I was a DJ at a country station, a small little suburban uh station uh down in Florida, in outside of Orlando. And I would begin and end my shift with little produced uh elements And here's one of them that I used to close my shift with on occasion, and we're going to close my quote unquote shift today as well. Thanks so much for listening. We'll get back to regular faith debate style programming here soon enough, I'm sure Till one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from now. God bless. Thanks for listening. May God bless you. Cranky Love a can. And they're blowing her. May the good Lord bless and keep you shall we again May the Good Lord