This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gap fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. than one half hour learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The faith debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in midscorner, weighing in with a master of divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Oh. Yeah. Troy Skinner. On the Faith Debate. over the years we've had a few authors on the show, most of them local. In fact two I think we've had that were authors that weren't local. Uh one we did over the phone which was believe it or not it was a technical challenge so we won't be doing that any any time soon. And um and one was a guy that was on a book tour traveling through the area. But um I mentioned this because I do a lot of reading and last year on social media, on Facebook, I challenged myself to read more last year and so as an accountability measure I posted about a book every week. I put pressure on myself to post every week a different book. So, you know, I had to really pick up my my reading pace. And so um the the goal was fifty-two books in fifty-two weeks. And I've been sharing in in recent weeks on the Faith Debate Show what my reading was because I pro I provided a little synopsis, a little book review. Some of them were longer, some of them were shorter, the reviews. Uh some of them were were were favorable, some of them not so favorable, most of them were favorable. Anyway, I mentioned um the setup here because we're going to pick up where I left off and all I really had to say about this particular book at the time was a teaser for the faith debate. So we're now up to fifty-two books in fifty-two weeks, week number thirty-seven. And I wrote uh late last year, I'm just beginning to dig into this one, the book, stay tuned for a series of four interviews with the author during upcoming episodes of the Faith Debate Radio Show. That will be this show. In addition to playing over the air, I will post those interviews as podcasts on WFMV. com and on my Facebook page, which I did. So what am I talking about? The author Rowan Stewart. Strikes me as an energetic and winsome man of God. I believe you will enjoy the interviews, and if renewing your mind daily is as interesting as its author, then you will enjoy the book too. So I don't think you much more review if you're interested. There are, I think, four shows that I did with uh Rohan Stewart about his book. And you can find those podcasts at WFMB. com and on the WFMB Facebook page, and actually on my Facebook page as well. So moving right along, 52 books in 52 weeks, number 38. Finding God's life for my will. By Mike Donahay. And that's not a a typo. He actually says, Finding God's life for my will. Because so often people talk about finding God's will for their life, right? And yes, Mike is the lead singer for the band Tenth Avenue North. This book is full of zany humor, gifted storytelling, perceptive insight. Personal vulnerability and wise application. This book, I gotta say, was a pleasant surprise. It is not perfect, but still, read this book. Seriously, read this book. Mike Donahe, I think is how you say his name, Finding God's Life for My Will. 52 Books and 52 Weeks, number 39. This book was a team effort. Stephen Arterburn and John Schure, along with an assist from Eric Stanford, put together this workbook for Midlife Manual for Men, Finding Significance in the Second Hal. Found it for only a dollar, so it seemed worth taking the chance that I wouldn't need the DVD or the other material to go with the workbook. Well, I was wrong. Sometimes a workbook is enough to get a lot of the meat offered by the authors. In this case, not so much. The issue of midlife crisis is a serious one for many men. that too often is met with bumper sticker advice. However, sometimes bumper stickers point to the profound. So let me share one bumper sticker quote from this book. You can't turn back the clock, but you can wind it up again. 52 books in 52 weeks, number 40. Mrs. K. Arthur will turn 86 in a few weeks. She was 49 when she wrote, Lord, teach me to pray in 28 days. Yep, it's been nearly forty years since she wrote the book, and the topic is still as relevant today as in years past. This book contains practical tips, words of encouragement. Discussion for questions, turning a personal exercise into a group exercise. Having tools that aid individual prayer lives is an ever-present need in the church, and ironically, this is why the title might be received as false advertising. Most personal stories of our prayer life major on an abiding struggle to have a strong life of prayer. This struggle might not be brought to its knees in just 28 days. But this book will give its reader a good one month start in the right direction. So I'm not saying don't read the book. I'm saying just manage your expectations of how life transformative it could possibly be, okay? 52 books in 52 weeks, number 41. This is a classic. Far too many things are proclaimed classics in today's hyperbolic world. However, confessions by Augustine of Hippo, or do you prefer Augustine of Hippo is a legitimate classic and in fact stands as one of the definitive standards for what makes a book a classic Confessions is inarguably one of the most noteworthy books ever penned. If you haven't read it, you should, even if only for its historical Significance. Confessions is considered by most to be the first Western autobiography. This book and its underlying theology has influenced the Christian Church and the Western world in ways that are worthy of a deep dive study. I encourage you to dig into some research about this book if you can find the time. Much of the power of the book rests in the fact that it is a human story. in all that one might mean by a human story. Yes, it's the story of Saint Augustine and his mother Monica, but it is also the story of all Christians. Believers see themselves when reading Augustine's experience of being lost in sinfulness, vainly seeking answers from famous, famous people, talented showmen, intellectual worksmiths, before everything Turned by a move of the Holy Spirit and the power of the Word of God. You, if you're a Christian, you will see yourself in this book. Today is a good day to read a good book. Might I suggest this one to you? Confessions by Augustine. Fifty-two books in fifty-two weeks, number forty-two. This book isn't good. Don't bother with it. I read it because women in my life have read it and I wanted to learn what Patricia Bailey teaches. Women Risk Takers has a sprinkling of good moments, but it is fraught with theological peril throughout. The book advocates for a myopic individualistic name it, claim it, feminism. It tries to pass itself off as biblical encouragement for females. Too often scripture is cited out of context. The corporate nature of God's people is ignored. And the power of the Lord is subsumed under the strength of, I am woman, hear me roar. There aren't enough good books in the market which help women to recognize their value and worth. There are some for sure, just not enough. If you succeeded in stacking ten such good books, then by adding this book to the pile you would still have a stack of only ten good books. Don't waste your time. Patricia Bailey, Women Risk Takers. Number fifty-two, or number forty-three rather, of fifty-two books in fifty-two weeks. Full disclosure, I have never been a fan of Jim Baker. But for only a buck I was able to buy his book, The Refuge, and see what Tammy Faye's former husband has to say for himself. And there are some surprisingly good moments in this book, but try as I might, I can't get to a place where I trust Jim. There are notes of sorrow over his past decisions, but Baker still makes himself, his story, his excuses, his lessons, his efforts, his leadership, the central focus of his life and his ministry. Only God knows for sure those who are his, and I cannot truly know the motivation of another man's heart, yet after reading this book, I'm still not a Baker fan. I do feel, however that have gained insight into why other people might be his fans, whether he deserves it or not. Again, the book was The Refuge by Jim Baker. 52 books in 52 weeks, number 44 On my radio show, I recently interviewed a local author about his book on God and the Christian life that's to be lived for his kingdom. This week's 52 Books Post is about a different book with local Frederick Ties. Its author is the brother of an acquaintance who lives near me, so not exactly a local author, but just one step removed from being a local author author. Eyewitness, the life of Christ told in one story, seeks to take the four gospels and synthesize them down to one seamless narrative. To do this, Frank Ball needed to take a few creative liberties, but all in all, he did a pretty good job. With a project like this, there are risks, the risk of personal interpretations changing what really happened, the risk of diminishing the four gospels as somehow inadequate in their original form, the risk of losing the main points of the original New Testament writers, etc. This book drifts perilously perilously close to the edge of some of these risks, so it shouldn't be viewed as gospel truth. However, it's a good effort by a man who appears to have sincerely held positive motivations for this project. Eyewitness by Frank Ball. 52 books in 52 weeks, number 45. Dennis Backey's book, Joy at Work, advocates at the that the workplace should be fun and fulfilling, at least in part. because a joy-filled workplace improves financial performance. The book has biblical principles at its foundation, but the author himself admits that his book on business leadership is, quote, built on passion, experience, and common sense. While not a perfect book, it is exceptionally helpful, even if the reader walks away understanding only its central premise that A joy-filled workplace gives people the freedom to use their talents and skills for the benefit of society without being crushed or controlled by autocratic supervisors. As an aside, it's a wonder there is a wonderful documentary about Dennis Baki's company, and uh it's a slog. Long hard slog against the blight of systemic communism. The documentary, uh, which has had a profound impact on me, is called Power Trip. You can actually find it on YouTube and watch it for free on YouTube. So if you like documentaries and you want to see what uh socialist uh uh communist economic policy can do to the heart and soul of of a people Uh Power Trip really will open your eyes, I think. And the and the book, by the way, I don't want to make this about the the video. The book is Joy at Work, Dennis Backe. B-A-K-K-E. By the way, this is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. My name is Troy Skinner. Normally we do a panel discussion show on the Faith Debate, but But um I'm bringing up to speed on things I've been reading. I posted on Facebook one book a week last year, and so we're making our way through that list and we're making healthy progress. We're gonna wrap this up uh before today's show is over. 52 books in 52 weeks, number 46. This book was a gift to my wife with a note attached that she should share it with me. So a friend gave it to her and said I should read it. So Barbara Publishing. uh put out this selection of Bible passages arranged uh into 64 chapters and they have titled it Light for My Path Illuminat Sections from the Bible So basically it's just the Bible. That's all it is. Page after page, what's not what to like about life for my path? 52 Books and 52 Weeks number 47. This book title is great. So see if see if you don't agree with me. Eric J. Bargerhoff Bar Bargerhoff has written in uh the book is called The Most Misused Verses in the Bible. Surprising ways God's word is misunderstood. It tackles 17 commonly misapplied biblical phrases and concepts. These include, judge not, or you will be judged. Ask for anything in my name. Money is the root of all evil, and you're given no more than you can handle. The book is not perfect in my estimation, as there are a few places that lack some clarity or uh cause me to wonder why something was left unsaid. However, any time that false quote unquote truisms are challenged, that's that's a time to be appreciated. As the author writes, quote, Much damage can be done when the Bible is taken out of context and abused, leaving behind a trail of confusion and faulty decisions. Many a theological heresy has resulted from the misuse or misinterpretation of Scripture, and this can happen no matter how noble the intentions of the interpreters. 52 books in 52 weeks, number 48. Many, many memorable quotes lie within the pages of this book. Profundity and power lie within the crisp insights and accessible analogies. When arriving at page 197, you will almost assuredly you will have learned a thing or two. And almost assuredly we'll have cried a time or two. So I say here below, but I'm going to say it, so wait a second, for a baker's dozen tree, a list of gems from Hustling God, Why We Work So Hard for What God Wants to Give, by Craig Barnes, M. Craig Barnes It could have been delectably longer. It's only 197 pages. So here we go. And the the things that the Baker's dozen treats could have been delectably longer too. So here's the twelve quotes from his book. Being a victim is a choice. It is a choice to waste your suffering. The problems you find that's good. Being a victim is a choice. It's a choice to waste your suffering. You want to walk around being a victim and claiming the victim role, you're wasting what that suffering can do in your life and the life of others. That's really powerful. The problems you find in your life are directly related to problems in your image of the Heavenly Father Number three. The gate of heaven is found in worship. Worship is the means by which we learn how to see the blessings we've received. Number four, to find ourselves in the presence of God ought to be frightening. Number five, we cheat ourselves when we assume the truth is rational and careful while beauty is passionate, subjective, and extravagant. I'm going to stop trying to these. I just go through them. Your life is too important to be necessit uh necessary. You deserve to be loved. Hear that? Your life is too important to be, I'll insert the word merely necessary. You deserve to be loved. Most people are not addicted to power, but we all fear powerlessness. Next quote. The question we should be asking is, who do I really work for? Success is measured not in accomplishments, but in faithfulness. Boy, I love that one. I live my life, I try to live my life by that one. I use that a line very similar to this, my own personal quote. Anyway, next quote from the book Need does not determine call. God determines call. There is no end to need. But need has not chosen you. God has. Most of the deep wounds in life are self-inflicted. That is what fear does. Two quotes left. There is no easy way to receive character. And lastly, forgiving and forgetting may not be the same thing, but those who have truly forgiven aren't interested in keeping records of sin. All these quotes are from Hustling God by Craig Barnes. Fifty-two books in fifty-two weeks, number forty-nine. Really heading down the home stretch now. If ever there was a book for our times, this is it. Living with even immersed in what I call anti-social media is a cultural challenge to our society Smoke signals likely changed the world. We know from history that the printing press definitely changed the world. The advent of electronic media, radio, television, as well as the music and movie industries had a major impact too The earlier advances in communication technology brought with them a mix of good and bad. We're likely tempted to think mostly good. Whether social media has been mostly good or mostly bad, there can be little doubt that the negative aspects have been seismic. Joe Battaglia's book, Unfriended, Finding True Community in a Disconnected Culture, is an old school call back to the basis of authentic friendship, communication, and community. Again, Joe Battaglia and the book is called Unfriended. 52 books in 52 weeks, number 50. Bodie Bachman Jr. is a strong thinker, a powerful preacher, and a biblically informed author. There's very little not to like about him or his book, Family Driven Faith, Doing What It Takes to Raise Sons and Daughters Who Walk with God. To my church leadership friends, want to build a family integrated church, this book is a helpful guide. And to my Christian parent friends, consider, as Vodie writes on page 121, that our children are developing a theology, whether we are teaching them or not. There is hope to be found in this book's pages. Read it if you have time. If you have not the time, then I greatly suggest that you perhaps look to create the time. and then read this book after all when it comes to time right now counts forever. Now I will say that after I posted this, I have a good friend of mine who read the the book as well. And uh he he likes Vodie Bachman as l as much as the next guy and he liked the book. But can't offer the word of caution that, you know, Vodie Bachman has a tendency to be pretty black and white, you know Um, he does doesn't mind squashing an ant with a sledgehammer. And and so my friend was concerned about that, that people might get the wrong idea that Vody's a little too hardcore in his direct approach. And my response to that would be to say that I think, in fairness, that Vodie Bachman is understanding his context. So if Vodhi is ta is sitting across from somebody and he's reading their body language and their facial expressions and making eye contact and he understands their situation and their story. I'm sure he can be a velvet hammer too. I think he can be gentle and speak the truth with gentleness and kindness. But his book is written to a culture. And the culture, in Vodi's view, and I would agree with him, is sideways. And so he feels like the culture needs a two by four upside the head. And so he wrote a book. that accomplishes that task pretty well. But with that caveat, keep that in mind, okay? Uh don't if you're one of those who's gonna be offended by him being overly direct You know, just keep in mind that he his heart's in the right place and and try to give give him the benefit of the doubt and and mine the book for all the good that is in it, okay? Fifty-two books in fifty-two weeks, number fifty-one The Right Doctrine from the Wrong Texts. It's a collection of twenty-one or actually twenty-two essays edited by G. K. Beale. The contributing authors are heavyweight theologians, so this is not light reading. Of all the books on my list of fifty-two this year, this past year, this volume is one of the most academic works, even including Uh the book includes words in the original biblical Hebrew and Greek, okay? I mean using and not just uh anglicized versions of those words, but actually using the original Hebrew and Greek alphabet and spelling the Hebrew and Greek words. This is for uh for for academics, for people who uh have a scholarly aper uh aspiration, who've you know maybe been to seminary. Uh in other words, some people back to what I wrote. I that's a little bit of a side. I apologize. In other words, some people will be more eager to gobble up its pages than will other people. If you're not the academic type, if you don't want a heavily dense, hard w uh book to read, this is not going to be for you. Interested in reading some serious scholarship? This book could be exactly what hits the spot. It's really quite excellent. The Right Doctrine for the Wrong Texts, G. K. Beale. 52 books in 52 weeks, number 52. Nearly twelve months ago, I started my reading list late by a couple of weeks, so it's only fitting that I end my year-long list a couple of weeks early. I also fit in giving that book fifty-one was heavy reading. I've made book number fifty-two to be rather light reading. The family at church listening to sermons and attending prayer meetings is a breezy guide for how to get more out of church involvement. Dr. Joel R. Beakey, I think it's Beakey, it might be Beek. I think it's Beakey, B-E-E-K-E, provides historical background, biblical warrant, and practical advice that covers the purpose, the need, and the importance of sermons and prayer meetings. This book is only 80 pages, and with a different format, it could have been squeezed nicely into about 30 pages. So while it's a refor resource that can be referenced over and over, the initial reading is easily a one-sitting affair. And so there you have it, fifty-two books in fifty-two weeks. So now, fifty-two books in fifty three weeks. No, sorry. And actually I didn't even do it. I started late. I started uh I think four or five weeks I think like four weeks late maybe. And I ended a week or two early. So really it was fifty-two books in, I don't know, 45 weeks, 47 weeks, something like that. So I accomplished my goal and then some. See that? You can accomplish your goals too. Make it your goal to check us out online if you would. Go to WFMD. com. Keyword faith gets you to the faith debate page. You can also go to the Facebook page for WFMD. You can go to my Facebook page if you want. I love to inter interact with people there as well. Uh if you get to the uh Facebook page on WFMD, or if you link to it through WFMD's face Facebook page, uh you'll see there um an outline uh in descriptive form of sh of telling you what the shows were that aired recently. who the guests were, because we typically have guests. We haven't had guests these last number of weeks, but we typically have a panel discussion show. Uh so you can see what who the panelists were, what the topics that were tackled were, that sort of thing. And then if you find any of them interesting, listen to the podcast Uh links to podcasts are found on the Face Debate page. A number of them are probably a couple months, two, three, four months worth maybe. But then a whole bunch in the audio vault section of WFMD's website page. So uh website So go to the audio vault and you can find I don't I think my three, four years worth of Faith Debates are there. Even though we've been doing the show for fifteen and a half years, they didn't post all of them. I don't know. Whatever. Till next week, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from right now. God bless