Welcome to the special edition of the Faith Debate. It's uh it's kind of like the fireside chat uh edition of the Faith Debate. Uh we haven't done very many uh interview guests in this in the uh story tasks of the Faith Debate show. We've made a few exceptions over the years and this is one of them. And uh actually I meant to Tell our s our guest is going to change something up a little bit, but he'll be able to roll with it. Uh what you're about to hear this week and hopefully over the next few weeks of programs on the Faith Debate is For lack of a better way of putting it, a profile in Christian courage. With all of the little weenies that are out there in the world today who will not take a stand for what is right and true and good and beautiful We start to wonder is there anybody that will do that? And there are. And if the man who's the guest on today's show can do it, so can you Anyway, this is the Faith Debate. You can uh listen, of course, on the radio at WFMD and or online at WFMD. com, and you can access all things related to the Faith Debate show at householdfaith in Christ dot com. That's Household of Faith in Christ. I am Troy Skinner, and if you're listening on the radio, thank you for spending part of your Sunday morning with us. Dr. Fuller, Dr. Russell P. Fuller uh made some waves and uh got some additional notoriety a few years ago because the world was going crazy And he made note of that and pointed it out to some people who were in a position of power in his life. And he took that chance and it changed the direction of his career. We'll see if he thinks that was for the better or for the worse. And uh Changed the trajectory of his entire witness, in my opinion. Uh Dr. Russell T. Fuller, and he just goes by Russell or Dr. Fuller or Russell Fuller, that sort of thing, but I'm mentioning the Russell T because his website is RussellTfuller. com, and so I would encourage you to check that out at some point, RussellTfuller. com, and you'll see why that's important to know in a moment. So the first thing I want to do is ask you to explain why you became kind of sort of in your own way famous or in certain circles infamous about what was it three years ago So generally speaking, what what were some of the circumstances leading up to that moment that your life changed? Yeah, I was a professor of Old Testament at the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in Louisville, Kentucky. And that's the largest seminary uh in America and perhaps even the world, I think. And so I was an Old Testament professor there. And when I was brought in, I was hired in 19 uh 98. And the school was heading toward a conservative direction under Albert Moeller, who's the still the president there. And So he brought me in and some other professors in to put the school in a different direction. But it wasn't but another ten years And all of a sudden the school was no longer heading in the proper direction. It was starting to head back to a more liberal direction. And the first time that really caught my attention is when And uh Al Moeller accepted sexual orientation. Just a couple of years earlier he had written about that topic and said, hey, that's the linchpin of the homosexual community and what they're trying to get across in America and to, as it were, normalize something that truly against nature and obviously against God's law as well. And uh but then within just a couple of years, all of a sudden he flipped on that. And now he was defending the notion of sexual orientation. So that was the first thing that caught my attention that uh things could be uh moving in a different direction. Then later on We were in a faculty meeting, and in that faculty meeting, a certain professor brought up a video that he found on YouTube with one of our professors, in which They were arguing for critical race theory. Yeah, he says it was quite alarming and he was uh he thought that Uh video was uh something that needed to be mentioned, and I could tell Mueller was very uncomfortable. When that professor, um Mark Carpinger brought that up, Moeller, I could tell, got very tense about it And so as soon as it was that meeting was over, I went up to Mark Mark Carpinger and the faculty who brought this up and I said, What are you talking about? You know, w what videos and I didn't even know what critical race theory was at that time. And and I forgot the year. It was probably something like twenty sixteen, seventeen, somewhere in there, I think. And He says, Oh, you've got to see this. And so he it's on YouTube and he and he uh it had uh Matthew Hall was a part of it. And it's still it's still on uh YouTube And he was a higher up provost maybe or something. At that time I think he was the Dean of Boyce College, which was associated with the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary. It has a college attached. to it. So it was a very important position. Very important. For the listener, just to help m I think most people who pay attention to this radio show kinda know some of the players and the terms and stuff, but just really quick, uh critical race theory, we're not going to go into weeds on that. We've done a number of shows on that in recent years and there's a whole slew of podcasts and other resources beyond the Faith Debate to learn about that. But basically from a Biblically conservative point of view, that's an encroachment of theological liberalism that infects the understanding of the Bible and therefore infects the church and the teaching and presentation of the gospel, confuses the gospel. So it's a big issue. We want to know all the details of that you can get yourself educated on that if you need to. And Al Moller, for those who don't know, he's a big name. If Protestants uh had things structured like the Roman Catholics, he would at the very least be one of the big name cardinals. Right? He's a big shot And so his voice carries weight. He's had a radio ministry for years. He comments on so these are heavyweight and then his one of his lieutenants, Matt Hall, is also in the mix, not exactly at the level of heavyweight uh that Al Moeller would be at, but still these are big names and so you're recognizing some problems with these big names. And so I just wanted to frame that so what happens next? Um and again Matt Hall was probably at that time, even though he was Dean of the the college, he was probably the you know the second most important man uh at the seminary or at the the whole organization so to speak the school because Muller was really fond of him and so I went and looked at the video And when I looked at it, of course I started hearing about critical race theory for the first time because I really had not kept up with anything like that. And so I I was alarmed. I was I I was shocked at what uh I was hearing. And that faculty meeting we were debating another faculty member who was pushing postmodernism, which Moeller had always said it will never be tolerated at this institution. But yet we had a professor Jonathan Pennington in the New Testament, who was clearly teaching uh postmodernism. So that was at that meeting as well. And so the concern at that point becomes CRT, critical race theory, you know, they put an emphasis on systemic racism. racism. What you're seeing is the beginnings now of what feels to you like systemic liberalism infecting the institution, right? Correct. And so you're like, what do I do? And you're probably trying to figure out who's on my side in this, who's seeing things the way I am. That's probably part of what's going through your mind? Yeah, somewhat. Um But again, you know, I've already seen where Al Moeller's accepting things like um sexual orientation. If you were to go to one of his the meetings that he was behind with something called Together for the gospel. And together for the gospel they were pushing critical race theory. They were pushing uh Sam Alberry and his uh you know accepted sort of side B Christianity. Moeller was completely there. And so, I mean he was giving away uh Alberry's book, promoting all of Alberry's stuff. No, it's all interrelated, but since side B. We have talked about this on the Faith Debate, but not as much. But that has to do with the uh uh homosexuality kind of question and whether you can be a gay Christian or what it means to be a sin. If you're homosexual, is it a sin? Is the behavior a sin? Is the identity a sin? So it's part of that milieu. So if you if side B is new to you as the listener You can go online and you can do a a search on side A, Side B, Christianity, and you can get up to speed on that. But it's all part of the same complicated mix of liberal influences. Just yeah, by side B what they're talking about is you can have a gay orientation and it's okay. You can even have gay desire. It's okay as long as you don't act on them. If you're a site A, you're fully, I don't know how to say that, practicing gay, however you want to say it, and still Christian too. So side A and side B uh i is really both anti-Christian. Uh there's not a good side, a bad side. It's bad side and a w you know. Side C it would be conservative, right? The conservative biblical traditional view. So side A is everything goes, side C is no, what the Bible has said for all these years is what is true. And then side B is trying to play the middleman. Find some middle ground kind of. kind of a thing which has its own problems. So you're seeing that in the mix too. I'm seeing that in the mix too. And then we had a a a professor we hired that was pushing you know the Old Testament teachers mythology. So we had all the things going so you can see the direction of the school even though again to the donors of the institution and uh Moeller would still talk in a very conservative way But you could see what was going on as a faculty member. And again, you can look at YouTube and see the liberal teaching of the faculty. It's pretty radical So Moeller this is all shocking even now to a lot of people. And they give them every benefit of the doubt and they hear somebody like you come along and even now, today, when there's even more reason to have doubts. They're gonna be suspicious of of where you're coming from and where he is. And I mentioned that just to show how much weight the Al Moeller brand really brings so I can kind of frame this to understand what your personal situation was, what you were up against as you're beginning to have concerns and doubts about all of this. I'm just framing that for the listener 'cause I want them to understand I want them to feel it. I want them to viscerally put themselves in your shoes. Right. And think think about somebody who has control over your career. Or at least your c at least your present job. Right? Your income, your stream of income, and is incredibly well liked and respected, is very well known, is Arguably famous, certainly in Christian circles, he's famous. Yet all of that, and you're like, I'm not sure what this guy's doing And so imagine what that would be like. Imagine your boss is really rich and famous and powerful and you think your boss has lost his mind. What would you do? And I want you to uh as the listener, I want you to feel the weight of that. So anyway, go ahead. Yeah, I mean Moeller's p public persona was one thing, but what was actually happening on the campus was something quite different. And so I Again, to donors, to the average Christian. He wanted to come over as a real Bible-believing Christian, holding to the scriptures, holding to orthodoxy, confessional. He would use all those kind of terms. But at the same time, he's hiring faculty members who deny inerrancy. But they would say The Bible teaches mythology. But do you believe in inerrancy too? Oh yes. Mythology and inerrancy, you know, because they knew the right there's certain things you gotta say. You've got to believe in an errorcy of Scripture. Even though when you believe in mythology, postmodernism, critical race theory, these things are all antithetical. to the Christian faith and to the doctrine of inspiration or inerrancy. So I it out of one side of your mouth you're saying one thing, the other side of your mouth you're saying something else. But well the real crisis came is when Al Mollard wanted to promote Matthew Hall To be the provost of the institution and the clear, his clear heir, he was going to be the next president of the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in Bulval. And at that moment I knew I had to make a decision. Either uh take a stand at that point or else what's the purpose of taking a stand in the future? If you if you allow this to go through, this is really showing where the school is, where it is right at that time. how liberal it was going and how liberal it's going to continue to go. So to me I felt if if I don't do something now, what's the purpose of doing something in two or three years? You know, we're always Wait, this is not quite the time for the battle. Well, this is the time for the battle. So when you're thinking through if I don't do something now, it's it's now or never, what is something? What's the something what were you dis what were you having to decide between doing and not doing? In other words, he was about to um he was about to promote him to the second highest position at the seminary. And so his influence at the seminary uh I'm talking about Matthew Hall. So you're saying somebody had to speak up uh uh raise concerns about that. Correct. And so you're just debating what do I raise those concerns now or do I wait till he's already in the position and raise the concerns after the fact? Well it's basically obviously if if you make Matthew Hall Who's going around calling himself a racist? And and and and the reason why he's a racist, of course, is he believes in critical race theory. He wasn't a racist. And it's not hyperbole. I've seen the videos you're talking about, and and you can look them And it's like, wow, and and why are you a racist? Because they've redefined what everybody means by racist and you're just inherently racist. Oh yes. Right. So he's not guilty of any specific racist uh thing that he's done. But he by definition he's a racist because he is who he is. And he would argue that you're a racist. Oh sure. That I'm a racist. But we're all racist. We're all racist. Even though I'll tell you this later on. Uh at his church he was uh they had a special meeting about him and uh a a person asked him, are all white people racist? And he goes, well, no. Well now the problem is, well, why are you one down right? You know. So again, he caught himself in so many contradictions on this. On the one hand uh we're all racist. On the other hand, well not all of us are. Well then why are you a racist? And as a pretty well known contemporary apologist likes to say, inconsistency is a sign of a failed argument. Yes it was so it was it was In other words, you know, some people will always say, well, you know, let's this is not the time to to make the the play, but I really believed it was, because again This the reason this was the time is he's going to be promoted. And I was in a position as a full professor to and I was being asked officially by the institution What is your advice? Should we promote this gentleman or not? And so to me, I felt obligation. to uh to speak what I really thought about this because really that was part of my job. This was uh I was a part of uh what's called the full professors and we're the ones who either recommend recommend or do not recommend someone to uh get a promotion. And so I was being officially asked. And so I felt like I had at this point I must do my duty. Okay, there's political pressure, there's social pressure, right? Peer pressure. Uh there's financial pressure maybe because you're like boy if I tick off just the right people here. I'm gonna lose my job maybe. Who knows? Or it's gonna alter my career track at at the least possibly because these are powerful, well connected people. So I understand all of that But at a seminary where you're training up the it's not just pastors that go to seminary, but in the mix of the students are future leaders in the church When uh from for those who would have argued differently than how you decided to go, I I can't understand how they would say, well, it's not really the right time to call out a false teacher. Right It's always the right time to call out a false teacher. If it in just simple basic facts, if you take all of the those pressures out of the picture and just look at what's the right thing to do, but I guess the point I'm emphasizing here, it's hard to do the right thing. It's hard sometimes to know for sure what the right thing is, and then when you figure out what the right thing is and you're clear on it It's still hard sometimes to press forward on that. By the way, this is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD and online at WFMD. com and uh available during streaming and podcasting, that sort of thing. The guest on this special edition of the show. show is Dr. Russell T. Fuller. You can find him online at RussellT Fuller. com. So now we're at the point where you have to make your decision and you decide to do what Well, you know, I knew if I went against Matt Hall, that it was probably the end of my teaching career. I've been teaching at Southern Seminary for twenty-two years Well no, it was it was over twelve it was twenty-one years and so um I would survive another month or two before well another semester or two before Mower would be. And you taught somewhere else before that even, correct? Yeah, I taught a little college called Middle. continent in the uh western part of Kentucky it's no longer uh and that was several years at least too I would have a couple of years there. So so at this point like a quarter century ish. Yes. Right? And and they know who you are, they have your track records. So you you feel like okay I've I've got some weight of voice in this room. People will respect where I'm coming from maybe, hopefully, right? That's part of your hope in this. I've been there again um a good twenty to twenty one years. When I w matter I can remember when I gave my speech, I said of all my twenty years being here this will be the most important vote w we will take in my 20 years here at Southern Seminary. And so what was what was the first thing that caught my attention was normally we're were given a week's notice about who's gonna who's up for promotion. We were given just a little over twenty four hours notice. So immediately Alice it Moeller in other words, how many hours are in a week? Yeah. It's more than twenty four, right? We were only given about a little over a day and our so Molarn was worried that me or someone else or I or s uh someone else or I would say did somebody snitch that you had these concerns or how did he have a reason to how did he know he had reason to work? Those videos of of uh Matt Hall and he's pushing critical race theory. So some people began to show their hand a little bit. And he so he had reason to be concerned, like yes, there were some tells in a And that's right. And the year before we had also gutted one of uh the the guy who was going to be promoted to uh full professor was the postmodernist and we actually stopped it. There was enough of us voting against him. Almost 50% of the full professors voted against him and Muller says, I can't I c I can't recommend him to go up. You say And you want that to happen again. And so he was nervous so he only gave us l a little over twenty four hours, okay, uh to to uh and he was trying to keep opposition down, so they passed bills in Congress this way too. And and And so at that point I called up Mark Coppinger and they had already basically told him they didn't want him to come back to the school. And I said, Are you gonna s he's one of the white hat guys probably right. He's uh he is a a man of tremendous courage. And I really appreciate him. I'm not sure I could have done it. without his help. But and Jim Oric. Let me let me say both those names real quick. Both those guys, I I'm not sure I could have done it without their help. They were very helpful to me Even though I didn't know what Jim was gonna do at all. But I called Mark Hoppinger up and I say, Mark, are you gonna say anything um concerning that hall? And he goes, Yes I am. I said, Okay. And then I said, Look, I've written something up Would you read it? Just give me your your impression. And he read it. He calls me out and he goes, it's um he goes, it's very clear And it's very stout. And he goes he goes, it's it's good. He he told me to change one word. And he's a philosopher guy. And I'd said an atheistic philosophy of critical race theory says, call it sex. And it took me about a month to figure out the difference of what he was trying to get across to me. But I said, okay, and I changed I changed that one word. So that they I think it was uh in a about a day away, and so When I show up that day, the carpenter comes up to me right before the meeting and says, now Russell, you don't have to say a thing. You can just let this go. And I'll speak And I could feel that yellow streak going down my back. I was ready to chicken out. Uh because I was like, yeah, that's great. You know. But you know I um And by the way I didn't I didn't even have to show up to the meeting because I was on sabbatical So I did not have technically I could have missed the meeting and just said, hey, it's not my fault. Because, you know, I was on sabbatical. I didn't have that I that was a part of my duties and so forth. But you know, I couldn't look at myself in the mirror. And I knew what the students were being taught. And I just could not I I couldn't look at myself in the mirror and say, What are you doing? Y you know, you you say you care for the students and yet you know they're being corrupted. So when Moeller finally says, okay Let's talk about Matt Hall and what are your views. And I did not want to be the leadoff man. Coppinger went first. I was so glad. And then when he got done, I gave a um I don't know how long my speech went it was probably maybe uh four or five minutes. It's on the internet somewhere. If you if you're interested in it, I can send it to you. But anyway. So I do have to give this speech. And Okay, right there I'm gonna pause for a second. So you've made the decision. Uh in the next episode of the Faith Debate, I I want to see how that decision played out in the moment, and then we'll talk about the immediate aftermath. And then Those who have followed the story, some of this is repetitive. You've heard this before if you kind of know some of the background. What we want to do differently though is I want to transition into, okay, what was the background leading into this moment that allowed him to erase that yellow streak that was running down his back. And maybe we can learn something instructive from that. So this has been a uh the beginning of a series of special editions of the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Find me online at Household of Faith Instagram. In Christ dot com. My name is Troy Skinner, the pastor of that Church House of the Faith in Christ. Again, our website is Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Of course you can visit the Faith Debate page on WFMD. com as well. And be sure to check out RussellT Fuller. com as well. Thank you for being a guest on this episode of the Faith Debate, Dr. Fuller. We'll be back next week about 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless.