Helps to press the right button to start the show. Welcome to the Frederick Face Debate from Frederick's News Radio. 930 WFMB. We're broadcasting from the west side of Brig Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County, where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. We're sponsored by Putminth Fleming and Heating. How do we make you smile We're online at WFMD. com keyword faith. There you'll find the faith debate blog, links to news items, podcasts of this show, all sorts of other religious links. Speaking of the Faith Debate blog, my blog is your blog, so email me Troiskinner at clearchannel. com. I post what you send me 18 times a day, Monday through Friday, that's 90 a week So there's lots to go check out. If you don't send me anything, there's still reason to go just about every day and see if there's at least one or two items that might uh catch your fancy. It's all sorts of stuff that people send me. Usually they forward stuff they think is interesting, like I don't know, links to movie clips or uh recipes or political commentary or things in the news or uh perspectives on religion or books to read or all sorts of stuff. So you can check it out. On the Faith Debate Today, we're getting our Spring cleaning done just a little bit early this week. It's me in my lonesome. Yes, I must admit. I was trying to be honest. I'll be honest with you. Scheduling has been tough lately. A combin combination of a whole bunch of events out of our control uh make it tough uh sometimes to pull off this uh this miracle that is the Faith Debate program. And so we're really counting on a miracle today. I'm going to do a little on-the-fly uh spring cleaning, as I alluded to a second ago. Here's the deal If you were to come watch us do this show, we do this show uh typically we record on Tuesday evenings, just FY, a little peek behind the curtain And I uh we you've heard us in the afternoon in the Mid Maryland Live when Blaine Young did uh, you know, was doing that show and uh would often refer to Frank as Frank in the basement. W well that's because there's a production studio in the basement and that's where Frank actually was all the time when Blaine would say that. So we do the show. It's the face debate in the basement, I guess. And if you were to see us walk down to the basement and bring our stuff, well mostly it's me, it's it's Jonathan bringing his laptop and me bringing m a big binder of stuff that I started collecting ten years ago for show ideas, topic ideas, that sort of thing. Figuring, hey, someday we're gonna need to Stir the pot and think of some things to talk about. And I've just saved all this stuff. Some of the stuff I don't even know. It's gotta be serious seriously, some of the stuff in the binder is like ten years old. We haven't talked about it until now. We're probably never going to talk about it ever. Who am I kidding? So I've decided to thin out my binder. So I'm just going through random stuff here and I'm going to share with you the kind of nonsense And if any random thoughts pop into my head, I'll share those with you. Okay, here's something I saved. It was we were trying to get a psychic astrologer on as a guest. His name was uh Ray Set. And uh this is uh can I save, I guess Um an email email exchange that we went back and forth a few times to try to get him to get him on the show. Hasn't happened yet. We're not giving up on it yet, but he is a psychic astrologer, spiritualist, and medium So, you know, we'll we have everybody on the show. That's the whole point of the show. So hopefully we'll have Ray on at some point. Here's some notes I have. on Unitarian Universalism because we did some shows recently on Unitarian Universalism and I'll tell you something. I gathered here one, two Well, I can't count. A handful, quite a few pages here of of notes about what Unitarian Universalism is, the kinds of questions we want to tackle, you know, some some launch points, if you will. I forgot I had these notes, didn't refer to them once when we had that guest. on the show. That was um oh my goodness, why am I drawing a blank? It was um Carl Gregg Carl Gregg was uh was was the guest uh back then. Hopefully we have him on again. He was uh very good guest, very very articulate and very good at our uh uh explaining his point of view and and tr and defending it and and and trying to uh be persuasive while he was at it. So what is this? Here's some notes about Reformed Judaism when we had uh uh Rabbi Dan on from Kolame. Uh Reform Jews. I don't know why why I have this. Why am I saving this? I don't know. Talk about Frederick 48. Frederick 48 has undergone a year of transition this past year. Hopefully it will continue to to uh maintain steam and raise money for charities all across uh Frederick County. Jonathan Schweitzer launched that a few years ago. He handed off the baton uh this past year was still very involved but wasn't the main guy uh pushing that through and and uh you know got a delegate sometimes. So that's all a good thing. Here's a random piece of audio. Oh I know what this is. This uh In recent months we've uh we've had some special editions of the Faith of Eight Show and we've played some samples of me when I was doing audition tapes as a disc jockey, a newscaster, a sportscaster, uh had me hosting a call-in radio show, a sports show. And during those shows I would reference people like uh you know the coach Mark Daniels and things like that. I did a show with Mark, very talented man. Uh uh it was a blessing to be able to work with him as many years as I did. And we did a show together in the afternoon. It was mostly uh during my time there it was his show, although it was a seven day a week show at one point, and so he wouldn't do the weekend editions. Uh and so I would fill in then and when he needed that he did a lot of play by play stuff so he would go out and do play by play stuff and be out of town, I would fill in for him And here's a sample of what that that the dynamic that was going on in that show. It was a three person show really with stunning Steve Egan uh joining the show about maybe two years or so uh my last two years with the show. I was involved with that show for I wanna say that was six years and the last two of it was a stunning Steve and that was still to this day I often refer to it as the most fun. Didn't make a lot of money, but it was probably the most fun I've ever had in the business. And here's just a little sense of the kinds of things we did. Um you will lose the news. I don't believe in you Uh sorry. Manhattan transfer. Right. No. Well, transfer was in their original name. Uh not transfer, we're close to something close to transfer. Yeah, transit. Why don't you know your groups for crying out loud from your own city for crying out loud? By the way, the other day when we had Journey as a featured artist and you were going through this whole thing, somebody called it and yelled You guys have been in Colin's journey. You should know that. What did he say? You should know it's journey and he got mad and hung up. All of us. He thought none of us knew. You actually put the C D in the machine, right, don't you? Ooh. Ah that's funny. That's good. I like that one, man. 330 on Sports Radio 500. Boston. Exactly. We had a lot of fun. I I miss uh miss those guys. Haven't uh done a very good job of staying in touch over the years, but uh some really really good memories uh from back then. Um Steve used to do the sports cast within the show. Uh I was primarily the producer and kind of the sidekick co-host kind of thing on occasion, the occasional co-host. And then John uh not John. Uh Mark Daniels was the uh was the main star of the show, if you will. Alright, so some other stuff I got here. Oh, th you hear me open the show every every week with you know broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City Um this was an early edition of the show open. Had to tame it a little bit. It was broadcasting from Big Brothers, Frederick City, right in the middle of Gridlock County, within the socialist state of Maryland. Just outside the nation's capital of the former Republic of the United States of America, this is the Frederick Faith Debate. A little bit uh political, huh? Let's throw that out. There's some notes from uh oh production notes of how to record this show and and uh do I know how to do that now. That's obviously an old note. Here's a note about Angela Phillips from New Life Christian School. She was on this show around this time last year. It was almost exactly a year ago that we had her on a series of shows. talking about uh homeschooling, charter schools, religious private schools, public schools, that sort of thing. I will have to have uh Angela on uh again soon but for now we don't need to save that anymore Uh Dr. Brian Lee from Christ Reformed Church, but we got to get him back on. He and Jonathan really went at it. Uh they couldn't be more different and still be within Christianity as far as uh their their view on some major hair split issues. I mean it was really good stuff. That's a little tip for you. See if you can go find the Brian Lee, Dr. Brian Lee shows uh in the Faith Debate podcast. I'm not sure if they were labeled all that well back then, but if you can find 'em Uh they're definitely worth uh listening to. We're talking about the fivefold ministry and the charismatic gifts and if there's such a thing as a Christian nation and topics such as that. Good stuff. That's here's a note about uh same-sex marriage. Could bring the wrath of God. I don't think we ever talked about this specific story, but we've talked about that issue over and over and over again. What do we got here? Hmm. Oh. This is a memory. Mark Braberman, author of uh Fatal Embrace, Christians, Jews and the Search for Peace in the Holy Land, uh that was uh that was interesting series of shows and shortly after that we had another pastor on a pa I guess he called himself a pastor what was his name uh he wrote a book called Thank God for evolution and I asked him a question that's right out of the gate really, you know, so you say Thank God for evolution, so let's Let's define our terms. What do you mean by God? What do you mean by evolution? And he was so offended that I asked that question that it really he almost walked out. And we typically record several shows in an evening. He uh at the end of the first show said, I think I'm done here, and we uh had to do work really hard to make amends and continue to keep him around. So Uh anyway. Uh here's more stuff from our uh different incarnations of the show open. Don't need that anymore. Here's some other audio. This is oh within the last few months we've listened to some snippets of me talking about the Mahmoud Abdullah Rahuf story. That's when Chris Jackson was an NB NBA basketball player back in the nineteen nineties and changed his name because he became a uh follower of Islam became uh a Muslim and then it became controversial because he refused to stand during the national anthem, ref refused to respect the American flag in the way that American sports fans thought that he should, and the way that his Team, the Denver Nuggets thought that he should, so he was suspended. Really? He was threatened with losing his career. He ended up competing. He said some things that were a little bit politically charged. But I was defending his right to uh have those unpopular opinions and uh took some grief for it and here's a little f little f I don't know, four or five minute snippet of of me with the coach Mark Daniels, uh navigating through the post traumatic stress of of that whole issue. Anyway. Yeah. They never talked to him. No they didn't, and that's the mistake they made. I mean they suspend the guy uh without ever really addressing the issue. And to me this is different than a fight. You suspend a guy for a fighting has a right to appeal to suspension. I mean it's a little different situation. And so I think a lot of parties involved are wrong and um you know, I mean the basis of what you said I think that You know, he's got a right to his belief, he's got a right to uh a right to do what he does. Doesn't mean that I agree with it, doesn't mean that I agree with anything that he did or anything that he says, but he's got a right to do it. I just think he could have handled it better, the league definitely could have handled it better And um, you know, because of that it's become such a big story that will never go away for him. And if Charles Barclay can say that he hates white people And get away with that and with no repercussions, it's why aren't we as offended by that? Because he's Charles Barclay? Is that what he's doing? Yeah, because Barclay I think has established that it's just his personality and and and you know, therefore I guess the guidelines are a little bit different. But again, I think this is where Mahmoud. Made a mistake, he should have been a little bit more open. Well, let's see what people have to say. Phrase yourself. Hey, I'm just uh I'm just a sidekick today I'm in McMahon. Yes. And I don't care if you disagree or agree or want to take shots or whatever, i if you want to do them to me. But apparently a couple people are calling off the air and making remarks and that just proves my point at how you know intolerant and how stupid some people can be. Yeah, because Steve doesn't really make it to me Maybe you can ch maybe you can change my mind. Guy goes away to Providence for two days, comes back and look what this place looks like right now. Steve's on a car phone. Steve. Hey Gubby. Hey you're on five forty the team. Hey, um I agree with a lot of what you say, Cub. Um the only problem I have and I gr and and I agree with uh Mr. Daniels there, um is is how he approached it. Uh I think he sh I think he she took a softer stance. This would have been a non-issue. Um But in fairness, I think I I think I think it's just a simple case of respect. Like like you said, the latter part of your outrage there If we didn't respect him, why can't he just turn around and respect us? I mean if if it is a double edged sword, what's the problem if and and he's already compromised saying, Well, I'll stand now and I'll play Why couldn't why couldn't he do that from the beginning? Well I think I mean the first point you made was that uh he handled it wrong and that he took too hard of a stance. Well, in the fairness We took a pretty hard stance, uh we the public took a pretty hard stance with him right off the bat, and the league took a pretty hard stance with him right off the bat. I spoke with the front office for the Denver Nuggets And I was shocked by the hard stance that they took. They said they had no plans of trying to appeal. They had no plans of trying to see if they could get an exception for him or get the rule changed for him in the future. They said the NBA has rules, it's his job to obey those rules, and if s if he's not going to obey them, then fine good riddance was their attitude. And I was shocked by the hardline stance that everybody was taking. So sure, he could have handled it better. But it's not but so could have everybody else. But it's a petty rule. You're right, maybe it shouldn't be there. But it is there. Well you know what's funny that's it? And I don't I and I don't follow all the rules that that I'm giving But you know, if if they're petty and they don't make a big difference, okay, i i and if I choose not to believe it even though I have to stand there, then then I'll think about then then I'll think about something else. And then and and for the and the least he could have done Since this is a team sport is to at least stand with his teammates. Yeah, but Steve, what's the the the issue for him is what's his priorities? And in his life the most important thing in his life is his religion. The second most important thing in his life is probably his family. The third most important thing in his life is I don't can't speak for him, but let's say it is his country. And the fourth most important thing in his life, let's say, is his team Well based on priorities, what does he have to respect most? His number one priority. And if his religion is his number one priority But at that at that present time, at that moment, his priority is his team. For then the for the next two hours that game plays His priorities is that team. Well that's your priority. You would place the team. That that that's not true. You're you're you're saying basically that your priority is that the team is m during a game or during the process of getting ready for a game, the team is more important than your religion. Is that your opinion? That is my opinion. Your opinion is different from his. You have the right to yours, he has a right to his. We have to take another break. It's four thirty eight. Come on. I d take this thing longer for crying out uh you say you break on time. I was always respective of the informatics even back then. By the way, my upset of Santa Clara over Maryland's about to happen. All I need is North uh New Orleans to beat North Carolina. I mean this is good. This is fun. This is fun. for a while. I'm making a fool of yourself. We raise the point. I'll deal with it. Uh Cincinnati is a winner. But Steve will have the score and for that game and all their games uh coming up in a second and uh what? What are you shaking your head about? Oh, just go ahead. Take a break for Clan I Line. Steve doesn't want me to associate his name with this program. That's what he's worried about. Well Steve will have the ticker coming up next on Sports Radio Five. Iowa and Jones. That was fun. I wish we could take some calls on this show, although we don't have time. I mean seriously. One or two phone calls, show's over. Here are some notes I have in my binder of stuff that I'm cleaning out here on my early spring cleaning, listing the most popular uh web pages on WFMD. com. And I think we've mentioned this on the show before, but The main page of the website is the most popular page. Go figure that. The home page is the most popular, most most visited page. But After that comes the l the news page, the local news and the national news, and then we've got some uh contesting pages, the listen to win and some of the widgets uh kind of stuff, uh trivia things. And then comes the faith debate show page. And it's been consistent. It's been like that for a long time. Uh I don't think that the uh you know, we've always been in the top four or five most visited pages on the entire website, beating like the Monday through Friday lineup show pages. It makes no sense to me other than, you know, there's a lot of that kind of stuff out there and there's very little of our kind of stuff out there. There's not a whole lot of you know, local religious web content. So I guess we're filling a void. So thank you uh for that. For making us so darn popular. You like me. You really, really like me, as Sally Field said. So let's see, what is this? Director of Revive Israel. Uh okay, notes for it's interesting. I have on this, this was a for for at a um A guest that we had from El Shaddai Congregation Troy Wallace, and I had one, two, three, four, five, I had seven things we are hoping to get to. And I have I can see what we checked off and what we ended up covering. We talked about two of 'em. Two two out of seven. Alright, let's see. Here's God is. Bible verses describe who God is. So from Deuteronomy, God is a consuming fire, a jealous God. God is a merciful God. That's uh these are all from Deuter these first ones are all from Deuteronomy. So jealo uh consuming fire, a jealous God, a merciful God. The Lord is one. The Lord your God is the one who goes across ahead of you like a devouring fire. He will destroy them. The Lord your God is God of gods, and the Lord of Lords, the great God, mighty and awesome. The Lord your God is the one who goes with you to fight for you against your enemies to give you victory. God is your refuge. This is from 2 Chronicles. God is gracious and compassionate. From the Psalms, God is our refuge and strength and ever-present help. God Himself is judge. God is my help. The Lord is the one who sustains me. Our God is a God who saves. God is a son and shield. God is full of compassion. From the Gospel of John. God is spirit. From 1 Corinthians, God is faithful. Also from 1 Corinthians, God is not a God of disorder, but of peace. These are just selected highlights, by the way. There's a whole bunch more than the ones I'm reading. The Bible tells us a lot more about God than these uh dozen or so verses. First John chapter one, God is light. First John chapter four, God is love. And uh yeah, I'm not sure why I have this Why do I have this in here? I don't know. But that was fun to read. Enjoyed that. Have you ever read the Gnostic Gospel of Thomas? You might hear that reference from time to time, the Gospel of Thomas. If you haven't read it, it's very short, doesn't take much. Uh go online, you can find it and read it And if you find the Gospel of Thomas, I call it the Gnostic Gospel of Thomas because I think it's uh an early form of of Gnosticism that is that is influencing uh that supposed book. Um It seems to indicate that humans became God. Uh it focuses on knowing the self rather than knowing God. Um Talks about a seven-day old baby talking, which, you know, miracles can happen, so I don't know if I would have a problem with that necessarily. Uh it seems to say that history centers around James, which is interesting. Uh fasting and uh praying and offerings uh seems to say that all of those might be bad. Um almost seems to instruct not to worship Jesus. I mean that's uh so there's some really questionable weird stuff in the Gospel of Thomas, and that's why it's rejected and not part of the Christian canon. People do not um Do not like the Gospel of Thomas if they're if they're Christian. And by the way, uh a lot of feminists and people who like the feminine divine kind of idea are um uh are kind of into the gospel of Thomas, which is interesting to me because it's anti feminine. Um it it ends with Simon Peter said to him, Let Mary leave us, for women are not worthy of life. Jesus said, I myself shall lead her in order to make her male, so that she too may become a living spirit resembling you males, for every woman who will make herself male will enter the kingdom of heaven So I'm not sure what the feminine div divine folks uh w why they might like the Gospel of Thomas, but uh there you have it. Let's throw that out, but I'm gonna actually save this copy because it's good to have that on file. So we're not gonna we're not going to get rid of that just yet. Here's another earl uh early introduction for the show. Talked about this is the Frederick Fate debate, home to conflict resolution on the issues that matter most. We only used that introduction for about, I don't know, two shows, I think. 'Cause Jonathan hated it. I said that we can't really resolve anything without understanding. We can't gain authentic understanding without honesty. And so that's what you get here, a safe haven for honesty. We share what we hold to be true and why. Where there's disagreement, we hash it out because we know why we're here. There's no worry over hurt feelings. At the end, if we fail to persuade each other within the twenty-seven minutes of the show, we will know that at least Uh we will know not only where we stand, but the reasons that we camp out where we do. I think that actually captures kind of the spirit of the show, but for some reason Jonathan didn't like it because it talked about conflict resolution. So here's another um well we are involved in a war whether we realize it or not. That's true. That is so true. Where are we on time? Alright, let me uh catch you up on where I what I've been reading and then we'll close the show with one of these old show introductions or something like that. I've been reading I mentioned this it was last week or the week before a real classic and if you haven't read it, it is m to my understanding it is the second most popular, the second most sold book Ever, the Bible being number one. The number two book on the all-time sales list is by John Bunyan, The Pilgrim's Progress. If you haven't read it, you should. I mean it's old English. It can be a little bit tough sometimes, but it's so worth it. The allegory, uh it's just it's beautiful, beautiful, beautiful. Also been reading The Openness of God by Clark Pinnock, uh Richard Rice, John Sanders, William Hasker, and David Bassinger. Um the openness movement was a pretty big deal about ten, fifteen years ago. It's it's kind of uh faded in recent time. But Uh Clark Pinnock's kind of one of the noteworthy leaders uh of of that openness movement. So the openness of God uh is the book there. Uh Prayer and Preaching by Karl Bart. And we listened to some sermons by Peter Marshall last week. This is a different Peter, a book by Oliver Clement called You Are Peter. Uh but th this Peter is not Peter Marshall, he's talking about the actual Apostle Peter. So uh it is kind of the reference point uh in that and talking about church leadership and that sort of thing. So those are some books that I've been reading of late. We've got about a minute left in the show, so let me see if I can uh get through this old show intro to be our show close for the day. We are involved in a war, whether we want to realize it or not. Old certainties are often met with automatic suspicion. These days it's fashionable to question everything. Trendy scholars can't wait to endorse the latest perspective. Maintaining a positive image has become a priority over guarding the truth. Well the fact is denial of all certainty has nothing to do with true humility It's actually an arrogant form of unbelief. Because every thought we think presupposes there is such a thing as truth. Any propositional statement is an idea that affirms or denies something and is expressed in such a way that it must be either true or false. To make any cogent argument against this a person would have to employ propositional statements, so every argument against propositional truth is instantly still self-defeating. Remember, real love does not rejoice in iniquity, but rejoices in the truth. This is the faith debate. Thanks for our sponsor, Putmin Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Uh thank you for listening. Talk to you again next week. God bless.