Broadcasting from the West Side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock. County where preaching with impact, it's like plowing pavement. People continue to place their open unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Healing. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com keyword faith. So you find all sorts of links to news items and the podcast of this show, and you'll find the Faith Debate blog. Our blog is your blog, so email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com I will post what you send me 18 times a day, Monday through Friday. That's 90 a week. Now, John Schweitzer has smartly pointed out in the past that that's a lot of pressure to have to read all this. You don't have to read them all All I do is I encourage you to go once a day. Just hop on, see if there's something that grabs your fancy, and read that. And if there is nothing that grabs your fancy Okay, but with eighteen choices from which to choose, odds are good, right, wouldn't you say? I think so If not, check the next day, I'm sure. You have thirty-six over two days. There's gotta be something out of thirty-six. And it's not mostly original. I mean none of it's original to me. It's stuff that people have sent to me, and for the most part it's stuff that people have forwarded to me. So They see an interesting news story or they you know, they they stumble upon something. They think, hey, this is kinda fun, let me send it over to Troy. That's kind of what it is. We've been listening to some special editions of the Faith Debate Show uh in in recent weeks and months, and uh today's gonna be no different than that. Um if Uh, tomorrow were the day of the show, we'd be doing this show on my birthday. But it's not, so it's birthday eve for me. And I've decided to embarrass myself or put myself through a the very likely possibility of embarrassing myself uh on uh this show this week. We are going to listen to the earliest stuff ever that uh I did when I was trying to get work in this business. We're gonna I was a sportscaster once upon a time. We are gonna hear my very first sports cast done as an audition years ago. We are going to hear an audition tape that I put together, a compilation of my very earliest career experiences up until that point that has a sample of me doing some different things. I think some news, some some d really horrible DJing, things like that. And we're going to hear my very first um um audition, first shot at doing talk radio a as a talk show host. So that's what's in store for today. We're going to begin with Man, I'm out cringing already. My very first sports cast audition. See if you can even recognize this as me. Yesterday was Juan Samuel Day in Philadelphia as the Phillies beat the Cubs 13-7. The Phillies suck in baseman went three for four, knocked in five runs, and scored two others. He also stole a base and hit his 20-second homer, a grand slam in the eighth inning. The base's loaded clout came off losing pitcher Ed Lynch, who gave up six runs in just two-thirds of an inning. Lynch's record now stands at one and seven. The Cubs start a four-game series against the Mets this afternoon at Wrigley Field in a 305 start. Mike Mason is matched up against Dwight Gooden. At Comiskey Park, the White Sox held a 5-0 lead over Detroit going into the fifth inning. Socks couldn't hold on and the Tigers won eight to seven. Fred Manrique hit his second home run of the season, a three-run job in the second inning for the Southsiders But a single by Matt Nokes in the ninth scored a run and made a losing pitcher of Bobby Thigpen. Hernandez was the winner. The Sox will play the Blue Jays at Toronto tonight at 635. Floyd Bannister faces Phil Nicrow. In the other American League games, Texas stocked it to the Brewers twelve to three. Seattle again beat Oakland this time four to three. In Boston, the Red Sox lost to Toronto ten to four and lost Dennis Oilke and Boyd for the rest of the season with an injured shoulder. In the Metrodome, California pounced on Minnesota eight to two, it was Cleveland eight, Baltimore six, and Kansas City scored two runs to the Yankees one In the rest of the game is over in the National League. The Mets top Montreal 4-2. San Francisco beat Houston 8-1. At Pittsburgh, the Pirates clobbered St. Louis eleven to nothing. That's the first time the Cardinals have been shut out all year. Los Angeles squeaked by with a one nothing win over Cincinnati, and San Diego was the only National League team to lose at home, falling two to one to Atlanta In Platteville, Jim McMahon continues to struggle with his ailing shoulder. He threw a few wobbly passes before retiring for the day. Mike Tomzak is expected to start against Miami on Sunday. Other injured bears who are unable to practice include six offensive linemen. Among them are stutters Jay Hildenberg and Keith Van Horn. None of the six, however, should be out for more than two weeks The Bears also announced that wide receiver Clay Pickering was waived after asking to be released so that he could go to another team. Pickering didn't feel he would make the Bears roster. At the Pan American Games in Indianapolis, the Americans are dominating. The United States has won more gold, more silver, and more bronze medals than any other country. All total, the U. S. has 148 medals. The Cubans are next with 82. The American men's baseball team is trying to add more medals. They show that Nicaragua really does need aid. beating the Nicaraguans twelve to nothing. And speaking of high scoring baseball games, why have there been so many home runs in the major leagues this season? Many people have been asking this question, and possible answers have varied from livelier balls to cork bats Meteorologist Joe Dealeo says it's neither of these. The reason for the round trippers he says is high humidity. Dealeo calls it the Wovum theory. Wolvum stands for water vapor molecules, which are lighter than most gases, so when there is high humidity, there is less resistance, and thus baseballs are given a smooth path to the cheap seats. And a look across nation shows that the average humidity in Major League Cities is up about five percent. Troy Skinner, WCRX Sports. And there you have it, my very first audition. To try to do sports radio and it actually landed me the gig, believe it or not. So I did sports radio for quite a number of years. The first oh probably ten or so years of my career were spent in sports radio uh with some dabblings in some music radio and some news radio along the way as as well. And I transitioned more significantly into the news radio direction uh as things progressed and now gone into a religious radio direction, I guess. Uh and and you're gonna see here Uh with this next audition some of the sampling of stuff. I think there might be some sports on this. I I can't remember now, but I know there's other stuff. I think a newscast and some DJ and stuff. This is still me. maybe uh a couple of years probably after what you just heard. So hopefully I sound maybe a little bit more seasoned, but I'm sure it's still going to be horribly embarrassing. It's twelve fifty-eight. I'm Troy Skinner in the 74 Winds News Center, leading local news at this hour. I probably should just say, by the way, paid no attention to these uh pause up for a second. Pay no attention to these other radio station names That that first thing you heard a moment ago was me in Chicago, this is now what you're about to hear, this newscast thing is me in Orlando. And and you might hear I'm not sure where else what other places might be referenced throughout this. So just ignore those. You are still listening to 930 WFMD in Frederick, Maryland, I rest assure you. Uh in the media connection here too. Robert Doyle says the mutilated body of Horace Brown was found at Lakeland before the Gainesville murders. He wants the state to release information on student murders in hopes of clearing his client in the Lakeland murder Florida Republicans are talking about General Norman Schwartzkopf as a nineteen ninety-two candidate against U. S. Senator Bob Graham. The discussion may be a little premature, though. The party doesn't know whether the Tampa-based military man is a Republican or not. One of Florida's top ten deadbeat dads is beginning a 179-day jail term for not paying child support. Seminal circuit judge Vernon Mys has ordered Robert Coleman to pay his former wife twelve thousand dollars in monthly installments. The Anti Defamation League says Ku Klux Klan membership nationwide appears to be decreasing, but recruiting activities in Central Florida are in the increase Steve Goldman of the ADL in Orlando says there are reports of Klan gatherings in Central Florida. The ADL says the Klan has begun doing more thorough background checks into prospective members, going so far as to require lie detector tests. CBS News is next on WWNZ Orlando. 74 wins where news comes first. Country 1080, the question was, how did Dorothy get back home to Kansas after she saw the Wizard of Oz in the movie Wizard of Oz? We've had a variety of answers, one of them being the hot air balloon. No, that's the way the wizard got back, or tried to get back anyway. Dorothy did not get on it. Remember, Toto jumped after the cat. So that is incorrect. See if anybody else has the right answer. WFIVE. No, you lose. How d how do you feel? You you lose. If you lose something you win something. It ain't. Keith Whitley on your country. Country 1080. Gruin precision time is 218 seven. You're at your country. Before key food, fuck owings, act naturally. So your brow from the album The Boys are back, song called The Did It For Love. I'm gonna buy me a new b yeah kinda makes you wanna put on white shoes, flat pants. Snap your fingers a lot. Yeah, baby. The smooth and mellow sounds of Pat Boone on Country 1080. It's only part of Godcamp when I can't give you any more It's my lame attempt at doing Scotty from a Star Trek. Very lame attempt, I might say. Pinnacle Boys there in the Bluebells of Scotland. Walk on! Reaper McIntyre on Country ten eighty. Caroline Precision Time at 635 80 degrees here at Hewart Country, also just heard from Garth Brooks, Clint Black, and Susan Ray This year, put more promise in your future and find out what the Coast Guard is all about. Call for more information. Toll-free 1-800-424-8883. That's 424-88-83 Alan Jackson, his latest and his first real big hit here in the real world. On your country, Country 1080. Cowboy. Ten eighty, he of the TIFF with the Statler brothers because of some contract problems, I guess. But Statler's a nice guys, and Ricky seems to be a nice guy, so I don't think that spat will last too long. It's probably already over as we speak. Ricky Van Shelton, statue of a fool. Remake of the big hit for Jack Green back in nineteen sixty-nine. Ruim position time, thirty-three minutes past five o'clock, sixty-eight degrees here at your country on the way Southern Pacific, Carleen Carter, Marty Robbins, and GD Pruitt on Country 1080. Yes, indeed. It's that time again for me to say thanks for spending your Wednesday with us here at Country Ten Eighty. I'm Troy Skinner. I'm back in on Monday Mickey Booth kicks things off in the morning at 7. 15, George Hawkins in in the afternoon. Willie Nelson sums it up well. There you are. There you have it. It's all done. Adios, amigos. Arriva Derci, my friends. Till next time. Be good to yourself. Marshall having a little trouble against the mini press, as we'll call it, a little two-man press. Robertson dishes off. Oh the the dunk is missed. The dunk was missed by Lewis. There's a foul on the play Robertson had a nice dish to Lewis who went up for the dunk and he hit the back of the rim. Sherman Holmes has the foul. He gives him two. Williams also has two for Phillips. Not too much foul trouble on that side of the court. 15 and a half points per game average. Well that today. And there you have my one of my uh probably the earliest edition of a audition tape that uh that I was using to try to get radio jobs way back in the day. You can see I dabbled in a bunch of different things, some DJing, some sports radio, some sports play by play, some newscast, that sort of thing. Hey, you know, you do what you can to get a job uh in this business. It can be tough to break into and and and tough to stay. And I had a lot of friends, prob uh uh maybe a dozen friends that were pretty close to me early on that, you know, we were kinda in this together and I'm pretty sure though of those uh ten or twelve folks, I think I'm the only one still working in the business. Uh you know, here we go. I mean it's a long time now. And a couple of guys left because they not because they couldn't make it, but because they chose to leave it. But most of them just couldn't quite ever get a toehold. So I don't take it for granted. As horrible as that stuff sounds, it was good enough to get me a job. So And now the very first time I ever tried to do a s uh uh a uh uh um uh a talk radio program, that's what I'm looking for. Happened to be a sports show. And this is the very first attempt at me doing that. And this is quite a few years later, so I think I sound a little bit better than I did in these last couple of things you've heard. But hopefully I sound better now than I did back then. You you be the judge of that So this is me uh doing sports radio for the very first time. We'll see how how this goes. What is going on? I want to know just what is going on. You're probably asking yourself that question, saying, what is this voice I hear? This isn't Tom Morgan. No, it's not And it's not Mark Daniels the coach either. It's Mr. Cub Troy Skinner hosting tonight's edition of the Saturday Sports Nut. But that's not why I'm asking what's going on. I want to know. Has the law been changed or something? Last I heard it was illegal To gamble in the state of Florida on something other than horse racing, dog racing, high lie, bingo I'm confused. I thought I wasn't allowed to gamble on football. Football, least of all. But apparently it's legal now. I didn't know. Perhaps you didn't know. News flash everybody. You can gamble on football. It's allowed in the state of Florida. You are allowed. What am I talking about? You might be asking yourself. Well you should. But first let me ask you a question and I'll explain what I'm talking about as we go along here. Let's just say for the sake of argument that you and I decide to wager on a football game. Let's just say that that football game happens to be the Orange Bowl between the Nebraska Cornhuskers And the Florida State University Seminole. Now let's just say for the sake of argument that you and I are caught gambling Wagering, betting, on that football game. What do you think would happen to us? We'd be locked up, the key would be thrown away, we'd be out of there Never to be heard from again until we told them we were sorry and they slept us on the wrist, we paid a fine or whatever and went on with our lives. However, if You send out press releases. If you call a news conference, if you brag about the fact that you are gambling, it apparently is legal. If you call attention to the fact and say, hey everybody, look at me. I'm gambling. Aren't I doing a good thing? Aren't I a dandy fellow? Then it's okay. It is. It's okay. You can gamble as long as you tell everybody first Oh wait a minute. I'm sorry, I'm leaving out one very small detail. You first have to be elected governor of the state. This came over the wire today and I will read it verbatim and then laugh along with you as you laugh along with me. Governor's Bet Hunting Trip Corn on Orange Bowl Outcome. The slug Tallahassee Governor Lawton Childs of the State of Florida and his counterpart in Nebraska. I will say though for the record that still bugs me. It still bugs me when politicians will wager publicly on things that the average person is discouraged from wagering on. It also bugs me that you can't gamble in certain states except if it's state sanctioned, like buying a lottery ticket. Either make it legal or make it illegal. But trying to navigate this thing where it's illegal for you, but it's okay for me still bothers me to this day. Um anyway, I I've mentioned some names. I'm gonna uh give a shout out and you never know. Uh earlier I heard uh myself m mention uh Mickey Booth. He did mornings on WFIV in uh Orlando for years. That radio station, I don't think uh in fact I'm almost positive is not still doing English language radio. I think it's uh doing s uh Japanese or Korean or something like that. So I know that Mickey's not there. In fact, Mickey was kind of older then. I'm sure he's at least retired by now. I wonder if Mickey is even still with us. And George Hawkins What a lifesaver he was. He taught me so much about how to uh navigate that WFIV world. If it weren't for him, I'm not sure uh I would have made it at all. Um I mentioned uh Mark Daniels, the coach Uh he's a talk show host, uh sports talk show host and play-by-play announcer down in Orlando. I'm um almost positive he's still doing that. Last I checked was just a couple of months ago, he was still doing it Um and Tom Morgan was uh uh mostly a sportscaster but also did some sports call in radio show stuff. Uh he was down there for years and years and um I'm not sure where he would be. He was probably I'm gonna guess he was in his maybe his forties. uh back then and that's probably twenty years ago so he he's probably still doing it. He's probably still doing it. So let's see what I was up to now. I was uh ripping on the uh the governors. Let's see what else we got here. They're happy about it. They want to tell you Because they feel, hey, they're just regular Joes. They bet just like the rest of us. Oh, I'm still talking about it. Well this is back in the day when you did monologues, you know? We don't have time for a monologue on this show. The Fate Debate show is is only about twenty six, twenty seven minutes, something like that, long Uh heck, I would do an opening show monologue if that was was that long. Uh what's a fun of time. A court date of February 1st is set for Los Angeles Rams cornerback Darryl Henley. He's one of five charged as being part of an alleged cocaine ring. Yes, drugs are a problem in society. Football is part of society. Drugs, therefore, are a problem in football. I still agree with that. Gary Sheffield was arrested. For driving under the influence over the weekend, Orlando Felice said he was clocked at 110 miles an hour on Interstate 4. Speed limit through downtown Orlando understate four is fifty, so he was going no seventy miles an hour too fast. Actually I can't add sixty miles an hour too fast. In other baseball news, teams face salary arbitration deadline today. They have to offer their free agents uh the option for It's amazing to me. This is years ago And sports I mean the names have changed, but the scenarios haven't really changed, right? You still have sports arbitration issues, contracting squabbles, if athletes breaking the law or doing things getting themselves in trouble. We'll tell you where the Florida Marlins uh rank in the uh listing and we'll tell you where your favorite team uh how cheap they might be or how uh spendthrifty they are. I think I invented a new word, spend thrifty. Also in college football The NCAA, they like to be called the NCAA, but I don't like that. So the NCAA is again considering a playoff For major college football. A group has been formed to study advantages and disadvantages. I like that. A group has been formed to study. Sounds like a government kind of thing. If a proposal is put forth, uh schools might vote on a playoff at the uh NCAA convention in January of next year, January of nineteen ninety five a little over a year from now. Twenty years ago. Course not. He says it's just a decision to gather information. Again, sounds kind of governmenty, doesn't it? The decision to gather information. And we still are, you know, figuring out what the long term solution for a college football playoff is going to be. Here we are twenty years later. It's amazing. writing to their sports editors and saying, It's not fair. West Virginia should be playing Nebraska or West Virginia and Nebraska are both terrible and FSU should be number one or Where the heck is Notre Dame and all of this and I think it's unfair and we should have a playoff and it's just not fair and please give me a playoff, please, please, please and the NCAA is saying, Well, okay, just relax a little bit and we'll give you a playoff, maybe. We're thinking about it. I don't think anything will really come of it. Although maybe we'll be surprised and maybe this will lead to a playoff and unlike uh the coach Mark Daniels who you listen to Sunday through Friday who doesn't like The possibility of a playoff doesn't think it would work. He doesn't think that it is doable. I do think it's doable. I like the idea of a playoff and I think He would be good for the popularity and the profitability of college football. And I still agree with that. I haven't changed my position on sports very much over the years, apparently. Well if you're not in South Florida you didn't notice In today's Miami Herald, Alonzo Highsmith is quoted as saying he did not accept money from an agent while playing football for the University of Miami in 1986 Yesterday the Some Sentinel in Fort Lauderdale, quoted High Smith, is saying he did take money from an agent that year. So which time was he telling the truth? I guess it doesn't really matter. I doubt that the NCAA will do anything in this matter considering it happened seven years ago. Although they've done crazier things in the past. But I really don't think it's it's gonna come to anything for Again this is the Frederick Baith Debate of Special Editions we're listening to old audition tapes. This is my very first attempt at doing sports talk radio and For a very first attempt, I don't think it's actually that bad. This isn't as embarrassing for me to listen to as the first couple of things we listened to earlier today. Every school will probably within the next hundred years be caught cheating. That's not really an issue to me. However, there is one angle of this story which I don't understand Alonso Highsmith isn't saying that his coaches gave him money. He isn't saying that the university gave him money. He's not saying that boosters gave him money. Well right now he's not saying anybody gave him money according to the Miami Herald, but yesterday he said that an agent gave him money. So? So what? Who cares? An agent gave him money. The agent doesn't work for the school. The agent of the work is a very important thing. That's interesting. We listened to some some religious uh kind of stuff uh a couple of months ago with the a Mahmoud Abdullah Aroof story from the nineties and uh John Schweitzer was on the show with me on that day and we went back and forth about some some ways that my my uh My understanding of religious things has has has matured and and progressed a little bit as far as having a deeper understanding and and uh and being more well in informed on some of those issues But sports I don't think I would change my opinion very much. I will say one of the reasons I didn't mind steering away from sports radio and getting into news talk radio and uh and doing some music radio stuff and now doing the this uh religious program with uh the faith debate show. Is it's very repetitive to do sports radio. Um, you give me a day on a calendar a year in advance and I could probably tell you what I'll be talking about because Every year in December, uh at least down in Florida, uh every year in December we were talking about the need for or the desire for a college football playoff. Um yeah, then there's the all the ramp up to the to the NBA and NHL playoffs and the the the the drafts, the NBA and NFL drafts and the baseball season and the midsummer classic and then the postseason for baseball, the start of the football season, it's just there's this cycle. And then mixed in there you'll have some contract squabbles. You'll have somebody who's accused of being on steroids or taking drugs or that sort of thing. And it just goes on in this never ending hamster wheel and after ten years of that I felt like there had to be something a little more interesting to spend my time on, although I do still love following sports and pay attention to it. So we are reaching the uh nearing the end of our show, so I've got some time to catch you up on some things I've been reading because a number of shows lately I haven't been mentioning uh what I've been reading. So I'll give you a few in case you'd like to read along. A book called The Brief History of Christian Worship Worship. A Brief History of Christian Worship by James F. White. It's kind of an academic type of a book, but if you like that sort of thing, I would suggest you might want to read it. Excuse me. You have to hit my cough button there. Every day with Jesus by J. Thomas Bissett. It's uh or is it Bissett? I think it's I think it's Bissett. May as beset. Every day with Jesus. Not going to recommend that. It's about uh a local family who got into uh radio as a ministry kind of a thing and it's And you know, quasi interesting uh to a point, but you know, not the most spectacular read in the whole world. So I would recommend that. Here's one I will recommend. This is a great, great, great book. Uh Christ and Culture by H. Richard Nieber. If you are serious about your theology, serious about your religion, serious about your Christianity Uh and you have uh at least a high school education, I would say. Uh you will enjoy Christ and Culture by H. Richard Nieber. Um very, very good stuff. And an uh well, I'm running out of time to tell you about an all-time class I got in reading. I'll save that for next time. So that's a little teaser, I guess, for you. Thanks to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile Thanks to my longtime co-host and colleague who wasn't on today's show, but is still here in Spirit, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. I am Troy Skinner. Thanks so much for listening. Until next week, 167. 5 hours from now. God bless you