Welcome to the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD, sponsored by Hilo Auto Sales, online at HiloAutoSales. com and Tire Pros of Frederick. Rick. Today we're going to hear part two of a three-part series. We've covered the very beginning part of a message last week, along with the response to that message last week. If you didn't hear it, I would encourage you to listen to it on the podcast later on. And then you can connect that with what you're about to hear. Jonathan Schweitzer and I will be doing a panel discussion show with a special guest in our more typical style of program. Not this week, obviously, not next week, because we're gonna have part three of the three part series next week, but the week after that. So hang in there until then. Until now here's part two of a message is titled Who Is This Jesus? Loosely based around Luke chapter two in the New Testament. You have your Bibles, you would open them and turn to Luke chapter 2, 3 book of the New Testament. While you turn there I'm going to mention a couple other passages. If you're really quick at turning in your Bible, you might want to turn here to Matthew chapter one, the very beginning of the New Testament. I'm not going to read from Matthew chapter one. I just want to Point out that in this first chapter of the New Testament we have a genealogy that is broken out into three sets of fourteen generations From Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob to Judah, David, and Solomon through Ahaz, Azor, and Joseph, wrapping up with Jesus himself. And in Luke chapter 3, one chapter past the one that we're going to read here in just a moment, we are given another genealogy that works backwards through 77 names, including Levi, Omo uh Amos, and Judah, uh Boaz, Jacob, Isaac. Abraham, Shem, Noah, all the way back to Seth, and Adam, wrapping up with God Himself. And in Luke chapter 2, it begins, In those days Caesar Augustus issued a decree that a spenses should be taken of the entire Roman world. This was the first census census that took place while Phenerius was governor of Syria. And everyone went to their own town to register. So Joseph, he also went up from the town of Nazareth in Galilee to Judea, to Bethlehem, the town of David, because he belonged to the house, the line of David. He went there to register with Mary, who was pledged to be married to him and was expecting a child. While they were there, the time came for the baby to be born, and she gave birth to her first son, firstborn a son. She wrapped him in cloths and placed him in a manger because there was no guest room available for them. So what's one thing that we can gather from the long lists of genealogies that I mentioned and this little story here in Luke chapter 2 that I've just read? What what's just one thing maybe that we could gather from these things about Jesus? Jesus is a real life human. This is one of the reasons that the Bible provides us with this genealogy. And gives us details about his birth. Like you and I, Jesus has grandparents and parents and great-grandparents and great-great-grandparents and so on He really, truly existed. These were real people living in real history Just like Jesus. Just like us. Stories about Jesus are presented in the Bible as historical. He really lived in the real world. This isn't some story, a make-believe land, once upon a time. It's a story that takes place within historical context. As we just read in Luke chapter 2, it is when Rome ruled the political world. It is when Augustus was Caesar, when Quinerius was governor. This is not some mysterious land far, far away. This is Nazareth and Galilee. This is Bethlehem and then Judea. Just like with us, Frederick in Maryland. The Bible gives us the story of real people in real locations taking place in real time. Jesus is real. Like you and I are real. He is human was born a baby. He grew and became strong, filled with wisdom, as it tells us in Luke chapter 2, verse 40 Now we're not told much about his childhood, but we are told enough to know that he had a childhood. And we know that he lived as an adult, even from non-biblical sources like the ancient historian Josephus. And we of course know about his adult life in some detail from the Bible. In the Gospels of the New Testament we can see that Jesus lived a life that is much like ours. He went to parties, even turning water into wine. He needed rest, even sleeping on a boat during a violent storm. He ate and drank, both before and after his resurrection. He felt stress, coining perhaps the phrase, never let him see his sweat. Blood He got angry overturning the tables of the money changers in the temple. He cried. More than once. And ultimately, even die. Absolutely Jesus is a man. This is what the Bible tells us. Most believe in grant this point. Perhaps saying that only Jesus was a great prophet, wonderful teacher. That's as far as it goes. But in addition to this, Jesus is the real life-giving God. The writers of the New Testament tell us that Jesus is God by his word, and they show us that Jesus is God by his deeds. Matthew chapter 1, verse 23, and we even sung about this today. It tells us that Jesus' name, even Emmanuel, means God with us. And we can see this demonstrated over and over again. Three dozen specific miracles are recorded in the four gospels. We have twenty or so described each in Matthew, Mark, and Luke. Not all different miracles. Of course, there is some overlap between what are called the three synoptic gospels. Then we have eight additional miracles talked about in the gospel account from John. Most of his miracle stories are unique to his gospel, but the point is God authenticates his word throughout Scripture, through supernatural occurrences, through miracles. Like the plagues in Egypt vouched for the truth of what Moses said. Like fire from the sky proved that it was Elijah who served the one true God. Like the Great Flood, the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah, the tumbling down of Jericho's walls, the pregnancies of really old women. Jesus is the word And he is authenticated by his miracles. So what we see throughout the Bible, we see specifically with regards to Jesus. And this should not be a surprise to us because the Bible we're told is about Jesus. Jesus himself tells us this. Bible, of course, is about God and about his relationship with man, and this relationship centers on Christ. The whole Bible is about Christ You still have your Bibles open to Luke chapter two. Thumb ahead to Luke chapter twenty-four By the way, if you don't have your Bibles, I know I think that some of these verses are are included as a bulletin and they're probably maybe up on the screen even I'm not sure about that part, but uh logging to Luke chapter uh two uh twenty-four John chapter 5, verse 39, I want to read this to you. This is Jesus talking in John chapter 5, verse 39. You study the scriptures diligently, because you think that in them you have eternal life. These are the very scriptures that testify about me, Jesus said. And in Luke chapter 24, we're going to look at verse 27 and also verse 44, where it says, beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he, Jesus Explain to them what was said in the scriptures concerning himself. He said to them, This is what I told you while I was still with you. Everything must be fulfilled that is written about me in the law of Moses, the prophets, and the Psalms. Now the law of Moses, that's a reference to the Pentateuch, the Torah, the first five books of the Bible and the the prophets and the Psalms, that's a shorthand reference for the rest of what we now call the Old Testament. So by this phrase Jesus is talking about the entire Old Testament. We still use these sorts of idioms today. Like if we were to say from New York to Chicago to LA, we would be talking about the entire United States of America. And so Jesus with this phrase, the law of Moses, the prophets, and the Psalms, he is talking about what was at that time the entire Bible. So consider we know the New Testament is about Jesus. And Jesus here is telling us the Old Testament is about him, too. The whole Bible is about Jesus. Well, what does it say about him? What does he say about him himself? Jesus claims to be God. Nineteen times in the four Gospels, he says that he is the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecies, pointing to God saving his people. He says twenty-three times that he is a son of man, which is actually a most powerful claim of deity when it is understood the context of Daniel chapter seven, with one like a son of man coming in the clouds of heaven. Sixteen times he says he is a son of God. Thirteen times Messiah, Christ, Savior, only God saved. Twice he says that he has the power to forgive sins, and only God can do that. Three times he calls himself Lord, and dozens of times he says I am the covenant name of God revealed to Moses at the burning bush in Exodus chapter three. Jesus says of himself that he is God. And he backs up what he says about himself with his miracles. And ultimately his resurrection and his ascension. Now the resurrection, that is often said by some commentators to be God's greatest miracle. I like to think of it as his second greatest miracle, with the greatest being creation. I mean, think about it, he made everything that is out of nothing. Even time and space. Think about that. Not only did he create everything that is, he even created the space within which to put it. And he brought order. Without him there is chaos. Well the opening of John's gospel account tells us that the Son of God performed even this greatest of all miracles. John chapter 1. You want to flip there you can? We're going to look at verses 1 through 4 and then jump ahead to verses 17 and 18. Beginning with John 1, verse 1. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God. And the Word was God. He was with God in the beginning. Through him all things were made. Without him nothing was made that has been made. In him was life. In that life was the light of all mankind. Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. Jump ahead to verse 17 there. Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. No one has ever seen God but the one and only Son who is Himself God and is in closest relationship with the Father. Has made him known. From before the creation, the Son has been God. Amen? Amen. But what I want us to remember in earnest at this moment Is that Jesus is Lord, Savior, and King right now? Right? Yeah. Back then? Yes. But also right now. In the future? Yes. But also right here, right now. Jesus is Lord. Jesus is Savior. Jesus is King. Right now. Now. I'm going to share with you a personal story that will help to illustrate that Jesus is Lord, Savior, and King today. My son Tyler was born very sick. One of my earliest memories of him after his birth is that of his breathing. His entire body convulsed in and out so violently that his rib cage practically touched his spinal column. I wouldn't have believed that it was possible for a human body to do that if I hadn't seen it with my own eyes. He was struggling to force down every breath, and he was failing in that struggle. Because his lungs weren't capable yet of doing their job. I thought for sure that he would die within minutes. He didn't. Over the course of a few days, his breathing is steadied. But his skin had purple dots all over it and it was yellow. Really yellow. It was caused by elevated bilirubin in his blood. You might know this as having jaundice Now bilirubin, that's the junk that's in our blood that's supposed to be cleared out. And a normal bilirubin count, I'm told, is something like 00. 001, or basically zero Now sometimes a baby has a bilirubin count of one or two, or maybe a more dangerous three or four, and so the doctors they place these lights over them in the hospital, and somehow that helps to bring that number down Well Tyler's number was well over three or four. And it kept climbing. Now the liver that's what cleans all this garbage out of our blood. And Tyler's liver was not working. So it was drawn this number, it just kept climbing. Now the doctors to assure us they said, you know, let's not worry too much. As long as that number stays in single digits, it doesn't go into double digits, we'll be okay And it went into double digits. So then they explain, well, there's two parts to Billirubin. There's what's called direct and indirect Billirubin. And As long as the direct stays in single digits, you'll be okay. And then the direct went into double digits. And now his skin, it wasn't yellow. It was green. Seriously. Green. Sometimes he'd have this scrunched up look on his face. He looked like the Grinch who stole Christmas. And I would joke. Not easy being green. Billirubin went well over twenty. And at that point I said to the doctors, how high can this number go? And he said, that's a very good question. They had been researching it themselves and they could find no evidence of any record anywhere with anyone ever having a delivery room account so high as Tyler's was at that moment. And it was still going on. If went up all the way to 30. 5 Tyler had a liver biopsy. He had liver surgery. Consultation was sought from leading medical experts across the nation. Nothing helped. He thought for sure that he would die within weeks. He didn't. Tyler was sent home from the NICU after two months, and we are convinced to this day that he was sent home to die. He was seeing eight specialists who needed to see him every week, most of them two, three times a week. And so we took Tyler to several doctors' appointments per day He was on twelve different medications. We fed him by using a syringe to shoot the food. down the back of his throat because he was too weak to suck and swallow. He would be back in the hospital in about a month He had bilaria treas surgery and bilateral hernial repair and hypospadia surgery and strabismus surgery and exploratory procedures and gastroint uh intestinal intervention for reflux and esophagitis and thrush and other issues, both serious and relatively minor. And because of his condition, he needed to eat every two hours. And we would spend an hour getting his food and all of his medicines together and then into him with that syringe to get everything he needed into a stomach, only to spend the next hour cleaning up this projectile vomit All day. Every day. Tyler was sick. Everyone thought for sure that he would die within months. He didn't. And the biggest threat to his life I haven't even mentioned yet. Tyler had a Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and pulmonary stenosis, which means that his arteries were way too narrow and the muscle for his heart was way too thick. Four times thicker than it should have been. He weighed five pounds and his heart muscle was as thick as that of a 40-year-old man. We asked our cardiologist to shoot straight with us. For our sanity, we needed an honest prognosis. The doctor don't like answering that question. So he hesitated But then he said there was no medical reason why Tyler was still alive at that moment. And it was not likely that he would see his first birthday. And there was just no way he would see a second one. He should have died. In less than two years. He didn't. Why? Because God had a plan and a purpose for this boy born sick. And that brings us to the end of part two of a three-part series titled Who Is This Jesus? Again, if you missed the first part, you can listen to the podcast online at wfmd. com keywordface. This is the faith-to-base page, and from there it's easy to access the podcast for last week's show, where you'll hear the response to this message that you're hearing this week and next. uh as well as the very beginning part of the message. You could tell probably that we joined a little bit in progress for today's message. And then next week we'll hear the conclusion right here at our new time, nine o'clock here on nine thirty WFMD every Sunday morning. Coming up next we have Neil Chempong's Covenant Family Chapel program from 9:30 till 10 o'clock. Until next week, I want to say God bless to you, and also I want to thank our sponsors. Hilo Auto Sales online at hiloautosales. com and Tire Pros of Frederick. Again, thanks so much for listening. Have a great week. Until 167 and a half hours from now. God bless