A theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. Faith debate is on the World Wide Web at WFMD. com keyword faith sponsored by Hilo Auto Sales entire pros of Frederick. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready. Ready to rumble in mids corner, weighing in with a master of divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Oh yeah. Troy Skinner. Last week we announced that This month is the last month for Covenant Family Chapel to meet in downtown Frederick. Beginning next month, Covenant Family Chapel will be meeting in their new building in Woodsboro. Doctor Neil Achempong is pastor of Covenant Family Chapel. He's on the show again this week. week like he was last. And he's friends with Clement Mboue, who is the pastor of International Tree of Life Church also in Frederick. And we're gonna end up talking a little bit more about the specifics related to the Covenant Family Chapel move to Woodsboro, but we're gonna pick up where we left off last week first. Uh and uh last week we started with uh Dr. Neal. This week we're gonna begin with uh Pastor Clement uh and and talk a little bit more about the the the transition days for International Tree of Life Church. We talked about the very early days, start with a prayer. call that that turned into a uh a church thing with about a half a dozen people showing up with some consistency. Um they they they got a blessing from a church that uh Well, charged them rent but didn't actually collect on their rent at first for a for a while, giving them a chance to get their legs under 'em. Um what was the next step? So the early step Well welcome back by the way to the show. The first step was uh just getting started and figuring out how to make the finances work, finding a space. So now you have a space And now it's three months in, nine months in, eighteen months in. Were you seeing growth out of the chute? Oh look, we have fifteen people now. We only had six. or six months a year later you're saying, look, we still have six. We they might not even be the same six that we started they started with. Now how did how did the growth progression go and how did you handle that emotionally and how did you lead the people who were, you know, along on on that ride with you. Yeah, uh I think uh when God calls you, you know, it takes some time. You have to be patient with God. 'Cause the Bible said that in in the early church he was the Lord that was adding daily the number of those who were safe. You know, the hard things when you begin to implant a church, you know, you have like you s you mentioned, you know, you may see this people Sunday and then the following Sunday you see They're not there or maybe new people come. So it's kind of var varies, you know, time to time, but you still have to preach to those people who come there. And I think also God is also testing you. It's like a test. you know, if you faithful on little things, God is gonna give you more things. So and he will test you for a period of time. So that was kind of, you know, where I find my motivation, knowing that I was not alone that God will always always there with me, you know, even where there were five people or ten people. Some Sunday you may preach there's twenty people. Then you think you're gonna see them next Sunday again, then next Sunday then ten people again. But you still have to preach. You know, you just have to preach like you were preaching to thousand of people. So, you know, and I think when God calls you You know, he give you the strength, you know, to get up and do what you do every day. So that kind of goes from there and with perseverance and just continue to pray and you know, speaking to people, you know, inviting people. So you just go from there. And then did you start the same way where you had m maybe not that many people, but you you treated it as though you had a lot of people there or did you treat I'm wondering if some pastors would uh decide that you know what, I'm not gonna do it as a typical sermon. I'm gonna pull up a chair and I'm gonna and we're gonna have a dialogue and a conversation and handle it that way as opposed to standing up and preaching. Or did you write out of the gate, I'm preaching, that's just the way it is. Um It's a bit of both. Um, I there were days where because of our focus as disciplined work, there were days where I focus more on um as if it was a small group that was sitting there. Actually it was a small group. But then there were days where I would just go out and preach and see if I was dealing with thousands of people. The um one of the things that actually guided me was the idea that I did have some pastors who had just begun ministry that would come and sit. So they will write notes from me. So then anytime I talked I was a little bit cautious that I was not just dealing with. Wrote notes meaning like critiques? No. would would write my notes and um take my preaching and would appreciate too. Oh, they were taking notes to steal your material. I I was pretty much aware. I was pretty much aware that that was what they were doing. So um I would invite them to sit And share with me sometimes they will share their own salmon notes that they are prepared and our help. Well you know corrected for them. Oh people do that now They don't but they don't show up in person to do it because so many sermons are online. So they go online and they listen and you know how I know this is what happens? Because I'm a I'm a big um uh audiophile. Uh you know, I listen I consume audio all the time. I'm l I listen to lectures online, I listen to podcasts, I listen to talk shows, I listen to I mean I'm constantly consuming spoken word stuff. And I've heard pastors in different parts of the country the exact same illustration. The exact same quote unquote personal story. I mean there's not that much difference between all a lot of count but word for word So you know people are doing that. And it does. It takes the edge off your you know, your respect a little bit. Like I I think it's fine to be inspired by somebody or I and I've actually, you know, I I preach on occasion and and I've used somebody else's example, uh uh uh uh you know, their personal example But I think by saying I was listening to a sermon the other day and I heard the pastor share a story where he said this. I don't try to claim it as my own buttons. At what point did you get to where you consistently had more than a dozen or a dozen and a half people? When did you feel like the corner? More than We turned a corner a little bit of early. Then it got stale for about a year or two. Uh I think we turned a corner of after six months. Um we we had more than what we began with. And then it became stale uh for I think a year or two, then we started growing up again. And then it got stale again and that's how it's been for me. You hear this plateau You know, a half a dozen to twenty or twenty-five? Yeah. And then went from there to what what to forty or two? Then it went to about forty, then it went to about sixty, then it went to about eighty. And Whenever you get to a certain point, you you you can feel that okay the numbers are not changing. One of the things I have done in ministry and one of my mentors used to say Oh, we we started from Genesis and we went to Exodus and we got to Numbers. You need to move to Joshua. And um he will crack that joke just to remind me that do not focus on numbers because that would discourage whatever you're supposed to do. And so when I got to a point I stopped counting, even though my Australian team would still take account for as to for the purpose of planning other things that we're gonna do like printing of brochures and whatnot. You don't want to print less than the people who showed up and so on. So um It's been that story is up and down, but then there's a consistency in camps of those who are committed. So you know If I said these are my church members, I am not pointing to the number of people who show up on a Sunday morning because there will be Sunday mornings where the entire room is full. And there will be days where it will be like half full And there will be days where it's even below the half. Yeah. I want to clarify what we mean by these numbers in a second, but first that is is similar in your system? It's very much similar, you know. It's uh there's always people I mean you can have a certain number of people, but there is always that number of people that you know, you see them they kinda like the love, the ministry. They're ready to sacrify. And some some time you will see that uh there is a a great number of people who will show up, but not all of them. you know, always gonna be there and the number vary. And for me, for example, I always look at ministry or church as a lifetime. You know. Sometime you hear you know, a ministry or pastor, you know, celebrating forty years. You know, you say if they can get to forty, you know, you're just starting like what, seven years? you know, you got a long way to go. So it's a lifetime, it's not just like two months, t three months or six months or two years. So you know you have time, you know, for the work of God to grow. So that kind of like you know, give you encouragement. You know that it's a lifetime thing, it's not something you say for two or three years. So now I think on your web It says something like 40-ish people in the church, I think is what I saw. And Neil, I don't know if you just made up that number on the top of your head or if the the 80 you threw out is like what you think of as you know the size of your church. Currently it's more than that. So but when you're when you're ca a and I agree with you, we've got to be careful not to be counting the number of fannies in the seats because that's not really what it's about. We're not called to have huge numbers or called to be faithful. And God provides the numbers if He wants to. Right. He's gonna move people to from to to to show up and to to respond and stuff. However As a practical matter in the things we're talking about here, when you say there's forty or eighty or a hundred, are you talking about members? Are you talking about f any adult? Are you talking about family units? Are you talking about bodies including children? Like what what what are the numbers that you're throwing out? Um for our church, um When I say for the adult, averagely on a Sunday you might meet about between eighty two hundred people Um, but that is adult. Um, when you want to talk about kids we have a very large number of kids. 'Cause in my own home I have about four I visited. They they have eighty adults and seven thousand children. Yeah. It's a lot of kids, but we tend to put a lot of focus also on raising that generation because uh they actually just end up replacing the adults. And then um then our our youth ministry also. There are not that many, I think the youth is about fifteen or so. But when you take the children ministry they're pretty much the outnumbered the adults. And so to me uh which is what my mentor taught me that God counts souls, not adults. And so he said, son, anytime you count your church membership you must add the adult to the children and to the youth. And so when we put all of them together we we are spending about two hundred. Even though some people would only say, Oh, there are two hundred adults. But we don't have two hundred adults. We have And those are people that you consider to be the flock that you are charged with shepherding. So that's your congregation. So you might have additional people who are visitors. Yes. Yes. And so the same thing? Yeah, it's uh very much the same thing. Uh you have a lot of kids at your church as well. Yeah, we also have a lot of kids in the church as well. They outnumber the adults? I would say quite about the same thing. Yeah. And uh So you said it's forty ish. I mean I don't even know what the exact number there might be eight out of ninety. It might be more than that. That number probably We didn't update it yet. But uh I think when you when we count the number of people is uh basically the one, I think. who really support the church, they're there. But some people come and visit here and there. We may see them today, maybe after a month they come maybe sometime when we have a special program. But people really been involved as far as not only supporting the church with their time and also financially. People like Tithe at church or, you know, when we have a different program, you know, the support those are the people that you know that we see regularly at churches. So it's like you're talking about the committed members. They committed those who just Yeah, I know some churches that that count their uh m their membership by uh basically by households, by family units. You know, so let's say we have you know forty-three families. That could be forty three people that are all single. Singles, yeah. That's that's not likely, but that could be. Or it could be families of ten. So but that's an interesting way of thinking about it too. I think that that's helpful in a practical sense as far as uh dividing up the workload among the leadership if they're gonna do pastoral visitations and they're gonna make disciples of family units or gonna do visitations in the home and that sort of thing. Uh it makes sense to break it up that way. And I think one point that he made is true. Sometime when we count we only count adults. But everybody, every soul's you know, children you have children fifteen years old, fourteen years old And some I've seen in some churches where the the choir they are children, you know, if a fourteen years old playing drums, you know. I think they should count for me because one, you're praying for them. Yeah. You're interacting with them. You're teaching and discipling them. You know their name. They know yours. I mean, you're investing in them as much as you're investing in anybody else. I think you know, and and they're people. I a person's a person no matter how small. The the problem with the um the twenty first century churches we tend to put too much focus on adults and forget the little ones. Yes. But I believe that we've been called to raise a godly seed and we should never forget them And so I have to be reminded by my mentor. Keep telling me, don't do that. It's interesting though, because I I'm not disagreeing with you. I think you're right. However, uh The adults are the fish we're trying to catch, but we use their children as the bait. So we have all these children's programs, so we're trying so we're trying to cater to those young families with the young kids so we can have all these wonderful things for the kids to do. And so we do put a lot of energy into the kids, but the reason is though that if the kids come so my parents And a lot of time we seem like for example in our church You know, when parents visit for the first time and they bring their kids, you have all the Sunday school for children. When a child life love what they do there. You know, when the parents try to bring them to another church they say, Mommy, you know, I want to go back to that church we because they love it. And you know, it's also One of the things. Yeah, that's the voice of Clement Mbouet. He is the pastor of International Church of Life. Um the International Tree of Life Church in Frederick. It's a church that's about what eight or so years old now, I think. Seven seven seven years. In your eighth year, beginning your eighth year. And uh Pastor Neela Champong from Covenant Family Chapel and your church has been around for what, a quarter century or something? On Church Street, most of them are like that, but we're the youngest out there. We've been around since two thousand and five. Even when you you your roots down south of here, down by DC and you that started in two thousand five? Yeah. Okay. When did you move to Frederick? What year was that? I came here I think on the last day of two thousand and four Hm. Hm. Came here in December thirty-first, two thousand and four. That's when I moved to Frederick. Okay, but the church already existed before that, right? That's the part of the story. When I relocated, most of the people who were in the church were students and they had completed school and they left. Oh, okay. So you're starting over. And so when I came here I had to begin all over again. So I stayed home for about a whole year and then close to two thousand and six we began all over again So let's talk about some of the practical matters early on. You had to find a name for your church. Yeah, how did that happen? Who wants to go first? Who has a good story? Well as far as the name, you know, I was praying also. I mean I was thinking I say, Okay, I need to come out with a name. And I was actually praying and, you know, a name came in my spirit, uh, Tree of Life Church. And uh And then a few days after my wife uh was also praying and then he came and said, you know, I was praying and then uh I saw, you know Uh God gave me a scripture in the book of Revelation. I think Revelation chapter 2, uh when the Bible talks about uh the tree of life. So when she said that that to me was a confirmation about the name. So it's something that I had in my spirit, but for her to mention that so to me was a confirmation that God wanted to go with that name. So Tree of Life Church. And when we try to register for the church, that name was already kind of taken. We couldn't use Tree of Life Church. then we have to add international tree of life church in another way. You know, God is a God of nations, so international is just when you take off you've got you know, spawned churches off out of you, you you know, the church plants that spring out of your church, you'll live up to the international part, right? Yeah. How'd you come up with Covenant Family Chapel? Um, it's just the basic scripture of Marty twenty eight nineteen, the go into all the world and preach the gospel. Because our focus is more about discipleship. Um, my focus more is discipling the family entity. And then the f it because it's a family entity that forms the church. So once you deal with the family you're then you're dealing with the entire church. And then um that is the basic thing so I wanted to name the church family church. And I said, now well family church doesn't make sense. It's uh but and I wouldn't say it was much prayer here but the family thing actually came out of our purpose in terms of Matthew twenty eight. But the addition of the word covenant uh came into being when I began to think through that okay, we're not just gonna deal with families but families who do have a covenant not just with themselves but with God Himself. And that's why we came down to Covenant Family Chapel. Fortunately when I decided to register there was no nobody had that name. Nobody had that name. And why did you go with chapel and not church? Because the concept of chapel um It's a little bit different. It connotes the idea of worship. I wanted to just send a message that we're not just here to gather as an organization, but we're here purposely for worship And that if you walked into this place, your focus first of all is not a pastor, it's not the church organization, it's not uh uh any of these things here. You're just here to focus on God And that has become our focus. Sometimes I'll pray for the sake, I'll pray for church members, but I'll prefer to teach you so that you can do it on your own. So you do not become dependent on me because that is what disciples should result in. Has it ever caused any confusion where somebody say, Oh, you're the pastor, where are you the pastor? You say Covenant Family Chapel and they're like, Oh, chapel, so it's not a church Yep. I've heard it a couple of times. Oh, why don't you make a church? And I said, Lady, just write down exactly what I put out of Everybody makes a church. And I said, I know. Well you just make a chapel for us. So um we've mentioned it a couple of times, I'm gonna mention it again here before we wrap up this uh version of the Faith Debate show. Covenant Family Chapel currently meets in downtown Frederick on second. Uh like right at the corner of market and second. Yes. Uh like w right off the corner, like one or two. Second and market. Yeah. But one li two buildings down from the corner, something like that? Oh but that's only for a few more weeks And then starting October fifth, you're gonna be meeting in Woodsboro on Copper Mine Road. Copper Mine Road, ten, uh, one zero three zero seven Copper Mine Road as soon as you come off the Woodsboro Pike onto Copper Mine Road. You cannot miss it. It's a huge twelve acre property. So if you want to visit them before they move, you gotta do it these next couple of weeks. Yes. And then you can uh check out their new digs starting in October And then your church meets on on the west end of the Golden Mile, correct? Uh inside for those who know inside it used to be Dandy Restaurant. Okay. Does it still smell like grease or anything in there? Not really. No. Okay. Could go there, you could get hungry. I don't know. All right. Um There was something I wanted to ask and now it's lost. I'm going to help call it to mind and maybe I'll bring it up next week's show, whatever it was. I had one last thing I wanted to bring up darn it, I can't remember what it was. Hate when that happens. It's a sign of old age. That's what that is. Anyway, thank you both for being on the show. Uh Clement Mboue is the pastor of International Tree of Life Church in Frederick Um Pastor Neil Achempong. His show's coming up here and in just a few minutes you'll hear his uh sermon uh on right here on nine thirty WFMD that airs every Sunday from nine thirty till ten o'clock, right after the Faith Debate show. Um I'm Froy Skinner. You can find Find us online at wfmd. com. Keyword faith gets you there. You click on the drop-down menu and find the faith of it. You click there. You can see uh a picture of us. Remind me we've got to take a little selfie so I can post it on social media and on the website. I almost forgot to do that. We could do that. Uh so you'll see you'll see what we our handsome faces. Uh and you'll get a uh uh um kind of a teaser. of what's coming up on the following week show and if you missed some shows you can see what's aired recently and all the shows at least over the last couple of years are there and you can listen to them via podcast. So um and I strongly encourage you to do that. It's fun sometimes to listen to when we have the same panel usually Two, three, four weeks in a row. Listen to all of them in a row. Just make it an evening. Who needs TV anyway? Till next week. Thanks so much for listening. We'll be back 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless you