This is the Fate Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build? Yes, we can. The faith for all four. Where faith community leaders wrestle over the truth. Yeah, but in less than thirty minutes, learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of free? Let's get ready to rumble. Let's get ready to rumble. Ah. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the face debate. Master of ceremony, boys. Get her get a moron. Is that it? And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of Bridges, connecting needs and resources. Community the notorious big bridge builder John Squeza. If you like to talk to tomatoes, the squash can make you smile. If you like to waltz with potatoes up and down the Produce Isles, and you've probably seen the seventeen minute video posted in mid-June of Veggie Tales. Phil Visher's masterfully crafted presentation of his political views Has been making the rounds on social media these past few months professing Christians. And as a result, I've had several in-person and online conversations about Phil's words and worldview. Now we're tackling the topic on the faith debate. What exactly is supposed to be edifying message for Christians in this video and things like it? Of sin. Took seventeen minutes of selective history nuggets, fast talking statistics, and highly effective marketing language to tell Christians to care about sin. Any true Christ follower already cares even before hearing Phil's words. And so the viewer of the video might be excused if feeling a little confused, perhaps even short-changed, for having wasted. And so what gives? What is this all about? Why should you care? Here to explain to you and to me what's going on and what it means for the Christian church particularly, but also for all of society for that matter. We have two Jonathons, Jonathan Schweitzer, the big bridge builder, the co-founder of Cross Bridges, as well as co-founder of this show, The Faith Debate, and Jonathan Harris, a blogger, a podcaster, an author who describes himself as one who provides traditional Christian commentary on issues facing the church and the country. And before we came on uh and started the the show, jo the two Johns were talking and they asked, you know, well, how did this come about? How Troy, how did you come to know John? And John, how'd you come to know Troy? And the the the simple answer is I first became aware of who John Harris is because of a podcast, a video podcast hosted uh a couple months back about the video that I just was talking about. And that really captured my interest. And so I started paying attention to other things that he's been writing about and and and vlogging about. And um it's been a rare occasion we have a telephone guest on this show, but uh we're making an exception because John's just that special and brilliant. So welcome to the show, John. You're too kind. I appreciate it, Troy. I'm looking forward to talking about this. So I'm going to um uh ask kind of a general setup question and then I'm gonna let the two Johns probably go back and forth on some stuff. Just to As a histori as a a bit of a narrative, as an introduction here, I've been paying attention a little bit on the on the sidelines of what's been going on with this um emerging threat in my opinion to the Christian Church, this you know, leftist, uh neo-Marxist kind of a move Cultural Marxism, um uh what what does Vodi Vaccum call it? Uh ethnic Gnosticism or something like that Uh and you know, Vody Vakum has been talking about it for a while, so that's why I kinda knew what some of what was going on. And then it feels like not to use the term too uh too generically and broadly, but it feels like you kind of became woke in a particular kind of a way. You became awakened to the wokeness. Uh so if you explain what is, you know, uh the way it's typically used, not the way I just use it, what does woke mean or what does woke church mean it And if you can, like really quickly, how did you come to have it, you know, enter your field of vision where you thought, boy, I need to start talking about this, writing about this, thinking about this, interacting with people who care about this? Well I think the first thing to mention is that this isn't a new concept. It may be a new term because it's just uh usually you would say I'm awake, not I'm woke, but The term woke conveys the idea that you're awakened to the disparities and injustices that are surrounding you in culture, in the world, in your country, in places that you didn't notice them before And uh you know, you go back to the uh late or uh sorry, the early nineteen seventies, Jim Wallace taught um in Agenda for Biblical that uh he was awakened. And and that's when he you know, his faith really became real to him and he understood that Jesus identified with the poor. And we I can you know, those who are familiar with Jim Wallace know where he wound up. And we have now uh a church that's been taken over, essentially, at least uh in the upper echelons of denominations and organizations, Jim Waller, and they're all awakened to supposed injustices that surround them and that's making them do things and say things that they never normally would have done. um things that honestly are not orthodox uh or at least questionable depending on which situation we're referring to. I became aware when I was on the campus of Southeastern Baptist Theological Seminary in Wake Forest, North Carolina, which is a Southern Baptist seminary. I graduated from there two years ago and Uh when I was there I noticed uh really what amounted to a takeover of the school overnight. It it seemed almost like after the election of Donald Trump someone blew a whistle and the entire campus changed uh from what it was. And I was noticing a lot of talking points that I have heard in my secular college experience showing up on seminary and coming out of the mouths of professors and speakers that were promoted by the seminary. And this concerned me a lot. And so that's where I started um As you said, I got woke, but I started um noticing, analyzing, paying attention to what Christian leaders were saying at conferences and in books that were coming out and messages and I realized this isn't just something that was happening on the campus that I went to school at. This was happening all over Christendom. And uh so that made me concerned enough to start talking about it because I didn't really hear a lot of pushback. There were a few voices who would say things occasionally, but there were there really wasn't the pushback I thought there needed to be And um my goal was simply to explain to people uh what what was going on. Because a a lot of people were disturbed by it but they didn't quite understand what it was. And so Uh that's what I've been doing and I I I don't claim to be uh necessarily an expert on all of it. I don't know that anyone can be. There's so many facets to it, but I understand the gist of of what is being said in different quarters of Christianity and hopefully we can articulate a critique of it and um explain why it it's not such a good development So um is this uh this change, the talking points that you're referring to Um is this critical theory language uh a a term that would apply to to what you started to see? Yeah, it it it does. So it's not just critical theory, but yes, critical theory is a big part of it. Um one of the things that I've noticed is that Because of Resolution 9, uh, which was a resolution passed uh last year in the Southern Baptist Convention, which affirmed critical race theory and intersectionality as analytical tools, lines have now all been captured pretty much by critical race theory intersectionality. And this is what we're facing. And to be honest with you Um that's it's I don't think that's the root of it necessarily. I think um that's part of it. But if you understand critical race theory and intersectionality and critical theory in general, um the critical part is the the Marxism. The theory part is the postmodernism, the fusion of the two and That development has been going on for a very long time. This this goes back to the Frankfurt School. Um it's i it i in some ways that it's actually even older than that. Uh Now it's not monolithic. There's uh just like postmodernism isn't monolithic, there's different schools of thought, there's d different uh theorists who have different ideas, but the bottom line with all of this whole mess is um the desire to uh have a some kind of a revolution to address the oppression of the hegemony uh which means those who uh have a system of oppression that they've imposed to benefit themselves and and so there's there's this whole unjust system that needs to be ripped down, critiqued um challenged. And and so that's what all of this is is about. And in doing that, in critiquing this um it it will spark a a revolution that will usher in some kind of a really a utopia, but a a quote unquote just society in which it's built along egalitarian lines and um and there aren't the disparities that we see today and and so de-centering Western civilization is of course a necessary part of all of this. to um and that and that's why we're seeing what we're seeing right now. That's not just reparations, but the ripping down of history um that that's trying to decenter uh the you know quote unquote uh white people Um the uh the police as sort of an occupying force in minority communities, we need to get rid of them because they represent the hegemony. So it's an attack on current hierarchy And the the scary thing is that it will replace it with some something else, something that is not Christian. This is not a Christian movement something that will fail and that will bring in a tyranny that would be akin to what we've seen in other communist revolutions, that kind of a tyranny Uh so why are Christians involved with this? And and the real answer is, why were Christians involved in other communist revolutions? Uh why were Christians involved in uh what even took place in Nazi Germany to some extent, or at least people who called themselves Christians? There's multiple reasons. Um but those who are truly involved for you know because they're they're really they believe in it, uh they have had to corrupt their faith in some way. They've had to change things. and their understanding of Christianity to make it fit, they're secular religion. And that's what we're seeing right now happen quite a bit. And uh and it's scary to be honest with you because You know, I want my kids to grow up in a country uh that was similar to the one I grew up in. I know there are problems with that, but uh there is no perfect country and um knowing that they will grow up in a place where the church is weak, able to stand against the cultural winds uh and they will also have to endure some kind of socialism. Isn't that that exciting to me? Uh so that motivates me too in trying to explain this. But yeah, so so that's a long answer. The short answer though is yes It is related, but no, it's not the whole thing. It's not just critical theory. It's bigger than that. That's the voice of Jonathan Harris, deep within a bunker somewhere in North America. joining the faith debate today. Uh I'm Troy Skinner. You're listening to the show on 930 WFMD. Jonathan Sweitzer, of course, on the panel again. this week and Jonathan uh Schweitzer has been uh writing down a bunch of notes and so I'm thinking that either he's treating this as a a lecture series Or he's jotting down things he doesn't want to forget to talk about and maybe ask a question and uh I'm guessing it might be the latter. So you have some uh follow-up thoughts and questions you want to get into? Yeah, so right, the the question for the believer, um back when Constantine came into power, previous to Constantine, you know, under the Roman Empire you know, coming into the uh the Holy Roman Empire, the Germanic Empire, you know, into the Enlightenment. The question for the believer step of the process, right, is is how do I proclaim the gospel, how do I live the gospel uh in in my world? And um so I I'm probably in ninety-five percent agreement with you about like where things are headed and and your um your analysis of um critical theory, postmodernism, you know, the the um the turning towards some kind utopia tyranny. Um my question is um for the believer is what then how then should we live, you know? Uh what what is the what is the role of the believer, right? So so do we fight it as a nation, I mean as believers politically, or is it the case that this is something that God has in some way or other ordained? at this time in history, uh because the nation has gone a certain direction and that that we uh as much as we would like for him to just continue to bless us you know, as a nation that at the end of the day, um uh Babylon uh was brought by God to judge Israel uh and to take them into captivity and is it time for the church to say God knows the plans he has for us to prosper us and not to harm us into to say, okay, if this is our culture and this is where it's going, is it better for us to learn how to preach the gospel? in critical theory language, or is it better for us to fight it? And and so my question is, what does that look like? I see, I I don't I I appreciate the question. I don't see an either or in that. I don't think it's do we fight this or do we preach the gospel and and I would assume you probably don't either, but uh you know, my I think as as it gets darker, I think the emphasis in um our churches and probably my own personal emphasis is probably going to become more and more um evangelistic and less and less about winning that battle because I'm not going to see that battle as winnable um i if things continue like they currently are going. So that that's just a practical kind of way of looking at it. But I I don't think that you have to make that choice definitively. I think you can do both. You can fight it and you can accept that as I'm fighting it, it might be a rear guard action, but the Lord is is gonna bless this effort. And uh For example, in the fabric area and even down into the DC area, my dad's also a pastor and my brother and and uh And we all have extensive relationships with African American pastors, 80% of whom, you know, the people in their congregations are in the Democrat Party. uh and have been for some fifty years. And my experience with them is uh the ones that I'm referring to, I'm sure there's others that might be in a different place, but that they're um vigilant to preach the word of God and to uh to uh submit to uh the the the moral um uh clarity that it brings into you know the the death and resurrection of Christ and yet they've lived for fifty years in the environment that you're describing. You know, and so even like a Tim Keller and other guys, right, to the extent that they're grappling with these things, uh it it appears to me that that there are many of our fellow believers that have said, okay, let's figure out how to preach the gospel in that context. um and uh instead of fighting it as it were have have just said look there's uh i if there's an emphasis on justice in those contexts and on caring for those that are oppressed, then let's find ways for that to line up with, you know, where that does line up with the gospel. Uh and um and you know where critical theory, whether it's, you know, critical feminist theory or critical gender gender theory, you know, where it doesn't line up with us, we'll just be clear, you know, about what what the Bible says. And uh and so my impression is I I mean my question is, you know, if I lived in Russia for the you know sixty years ago or communist China today, you know, what mountains do I die on and what um you know like you're describing, you know, what does it look like to be evangelistic uh in that environment? Yeah, I I think that's a very practical question. I mean it's not to change subjects completely, but to take a a different um scenario that's happening right now with COVID. If you're pastoring in California in a major city might look a little different, uh, or a few months ago especially, it might have looked a little different how you tackled that issue than if you were out in rural Kentucky or something. And uh so so there are different contexts in which we do ministry and uh there's you can get away with it more in rural Kentucky Uh I know, 'cause I was just there a few weeks ago and and I asked him about that. Did you guys shut down for COVID? And uh we did for a few weeks, but you know, we're all farmers, so no one's checking up on us. And so but in California that was much different. And so I I think um with this issue that you're bringing up as far as uh uh should we um preach so hard against the social uh justice gospel, um because I I identify it as a false gospel Uh I I think there is a false gospel behind it. I need to be careful in how I phrase this. I don't think that everyone who's on the social justice bandwagon or thinks they are really imbibing a false gospel in totality. I'm not saying they're all they're not Christians, but I think behind this whole thing is a false gospel. And so there's there's some kind of a um uh a confusion, something that uh eventually someone who's really walking with the Lord and really wants to live out his word, obey his law, they're gonna realize that their political views, if they are not in keeping with that law, need to be uh ditched somehow. And so uh how do we um how do we Christ to not just preach the gospel, but also to to make disciples by teaching them what Christ has commanded. And I think in s in doing that and teaching what Christ has commanded, you're going to come up with contradictions between social justice and uh Christian virtue and ethics. So a couple of things that you Yeah, I was just gonna put a cap on that and say, I don't think you can avoid it. You're gonna have to address this at some point. It's in the culture. It's like if you were in Utah and you'd you know, well, we're not really gonna talk about Mormonism because Well you have to talk about it at some point. Yeah, no, I agree with that. And and what uh I'd like to maybe define social justice with you. uh here uh maybe um in our next show um uh because I feel like that's a really valuable discussion and and would help us to dig into some of what you're describing, you know, like what is biblical versus what is not biblical. Uh and and another um you you were talking about false gospel. Like one is is there's there's the danger of falling into a false gospel and the other one is that is that the whole thing is rooted in a false gospel and what what What has become clear to me is that is that there is a danger in the body of Christ fighting to win the political battle and that becoming our gospel. Right? And so uh so you know and and the reality is that guys like Andy Stanley and Tim Keller uh are uh are appropriately calling us to not flip you know a political gospel, you know, uh as the main thing uh the uh of what we preach. whether it's Sunday morning or whether it's how we disciple or whatever it is. And so um I I th I wonder how much uh the false gospel is the root versus just a recognition that in all cultures at all times there's a danger of slipping into a false gospel just like Martin Luther clear you know said that if you preach the gospel in all the all the places where the gospel is true except the one place where it confronts the the culture than you haven't preached the gospel. And so um my impression is that when I talk to my African American pastor buddies you know, that have been in this environment for a while, uh, they are diligently letting the Holy Spirit help them to to define uh i idols that need to be confronted and addressed and called out um you know on different fronts and same thing with you know, like an Andy Stanley, Tim Keller. Uh and so, you know, the question ends up being like which idol are we gonna knock down? And ultimately, you know When they went into the promised land, they were told to knock them all down. So I think we're coming up on a on a close here. Sorry to keep going so long Yeah, gonna jump in. We're gonna have to pick up uh with an answer or or or at least a response to the the comments that John Sweitzer just had. We'll get that in the beginning of next week's show and we'll also get into defining social justice and make sure we're all defining our terms the same way. That'll certainly make for a more productive Conversation. Um John Harris has a a YouTube channel and a video blog that's called uh Conversations That Matter. So you can go to YouTube and look up conversations of the matter with John Harris and you can follow him there and there's other ways you can follow him too. We'll find about about that next week. John Sweitzer on the show, I'm Troy Skinner. You can follow us on WFMD. com. Thanks so much for listening. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless.