Broadcasting from the West Side of Big Brother City in the heart of gridlock. Chanty where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Fleming and Heating, Halfway Make You Smile. The Faith Debate is online, WFMD. com keyword faith. There you'll find a podcast of this show and others like it. News items uh links to all sorts of religious traditions and the Faith Debate blog, our blog is your vlog. Email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com, whatever you send me within reason, I will post eighteen times a day Monday through Friday at ninety blog postings a week. I think I sent you one this week. And oh really? Yeah. It's on our inbox. Oh, so should I give attribution? I don't usually give attribution. I just You don't have to. Okay I did sign it at the end though. Okay. So I don't know if that like ended up coming together. You know what? I will say this. Check out the blog and see if you can identify Which one is from Jonathan? And if you think you know, email me and say, Was it this one? And if you and if you get it right, we'll invite you on the show. We'll invite you on the show. Prize or a punishment, I'm not exactly sure. Jonathan Sweister is a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, and we are joined again this week by uh uh a member. How many members on the Board of Trustees over there? Uh five He's one of five members of the Board of Trustees for the Islamic Society of Frederick. He is Khalil El-Shazli, a past president of the Islamic Society, and Uh we've learned something. We've learned that he and his brother don't always see eye to eye and he's making arrangements to have his brother fly in from Egypt to be on the show in the near future. So we're looking forward to that. And he'll tell all his family and then we'll have an international audience. So on the show do you Encourage people in Egypt to go on and listen to the show? Uh no. No. Why not? After being on this show, if I go back to Egypt, I'll be arrested at the airport. Possibly. I understand that. Positively, not possibly. That's w uh uh I have two things I'm hoping to accomplish. I doubt we'll accomplish either one of them today. Uh but one thing goals. Yeah. Yeah. He says that in a very patronizing way, you notice. We were talking at the end of last week's show about Sharia and trying to come to an understanding of how Sharia law relates to Islam as a whole and to Islam as the individual and Islam as we understand the religious aspects and how do you tease that out? Should you tease that out? I don't think it can possibly be teased out. And it's hard. I mentioned last week that we're so conditioned in America with uh particularly the American Christian Church of thinking in terms of separation of church and state and all that sort of stuff that we're so conditioned to thinking that way that it's hard to grapple with how do the two somehow fit together and yet there's some differences I'm wondering if a p touchstone for us could be to think in terms of Old Testament Israel and the Maw Law of Moses and the nation of Israel under the kings. Uh Old Testament Israel is a theocracy and the law is the law and is distinct unto itself, but there is no Israel without the law. I mean the point of Israel is to uphold the law. uh s y you don't really have one without the other. I mean y there you do but you don't. So is that maybe a w a way where we can try to understand Islam? Is Islam Today, if it were rightly practiced, like Old Testament Mosaic Israel Is that f a fair analysis of the other? Same God who uh sent Jesus uh with the Bible, same God who sent Muhammad with the Quran. So if you're according to according to Islam. Right. Absolutely. the campaign to distort uh what's called Serialo. Um Serialo guarantees the rights of of individuals, communities and countries and guidelines of what the law should be. For example, there are six uh articles which is the right uh to the protection of life, the right to the protection of family, right to the protection of education, uh intellect, uh, protection of property, access to resources, protection of human dignity, protection of religion. Uh I gave you one example of Sharia Law and how it was practiced in Egypt, uh, for example, because country I know more about because I grew up there. Uh if you are a Jew and you have a family matter and need to go to a family court According to Sharia, you go to you have the option to go to the rabbi for rulings. So y as a Jew, you could still practice your religion and apply your religious law that guides your community. Same thing with Christians in Egypt. Like uh for example, they're Orthodox. In uh Christians in Egypt, they're not allowed to divorce. So whenever there is a family dispute or anything between Christians, amongst Christians, they have the first option to them is to go to the church or Christian Christian judge to judge between them. Okay, and so that's according to the Sharia Allah, it protects your minority. Absolutely. It protects the minority. Early on in your in your explanation you talked about the Campaign to corrupt Sharia, I think is the way you put that, right? What did you mean by that? There are a lot of uh He means that the money is a very good idea. Uh there's a lot of campaign in the media. Distorting this would be distorting uh the trade. It's a fear campaign to make people fearful of what's called Sharia without understanding what Sharia is. Sharia guarantees your life. You're right. I mean most people think of Sharia like, you know, oh in Saudi Arabia if you steal the cut off your hand But again, the the language part, I wan I'll be careful that we don't flatten the language so much that we lose uh meaning. Because I think of campaign, I think of an organized effort to organized effort. And corrupt meaning they're trying to somehow change Sharia. But it sounds like maybe you believe there's just a campaign to disseminate misinformation about Syria. Absolutely. Not necessarily corruption of percent. No, no, no. No, not corruption, yeah, no. Yeah, it's it's to make the people afraid. The same thing like Muslims terrorists, Muslim terrorists make sure make you afraid of Muslims Uh you know, Sharia, Sharia, Sharia. You know, they're gonna cut off your hand. If you if you're Christian, you live in a Muslim country the if you don't convert they will kill you. Which is not true. So there are that are said that they're not going to allow for these separate Sharia courts, these It s court. It's for example, I'm a Muslim. Uh like they passed a law I believe in Oklahoma. I give you the article to read, uh John. Uh Uh they passed a law to ban Sharia law. For example, I'm Muslim and uh according if I die I I ride a well according to I say okay it's it's my will will be distribute my inheritance will be distributed according to Sharia law. I can't do that anymore. As a Muslim because they would pass a law in the state says you cannot apply Sharia law. But this is against the constitution. Right, but in particular But if you're a Jewish or Christian and Yeah, yeah. Because they are that because they contradict standing laws in the United States. Exactly. Exactly. Right. But the same thing's true about Christianity. I can't I can't write a uh a will that says I want my uh things to be distributed according to something out of the Bible that disagrees with a standard constitution. You can read the article. It's not a good thing. Then your Christian law doesn't overrule the law of the land. No, no, no. I'm talking inheritance. And so am I. Yeah, I'm talking inheritance. So so give me the example give me the example that that Sharia law would say distribute it this way that that the law of the land is not allowing them to do it. For for example, if if uh if if my if I die today, I have a son, I have a mother, I have a sister, I have a wife. Each one gets a share of my inheritance. Okay. If you don't write this well, then you go by the civic law. But the civic law says basically the wife takes most of it and the son whatever. Uh I don't understand that. Sure. Civic law yet. So but if you write the will that way, it's enforceable in court. What the courts in Oklahoma tried to say no it's not enforceable because it's following the Sharia law, which is against the So what the what the the person that wrote the will wanted to do was to give some money to his wife and some to his kids Absolutely. And they said that they can't do it through that law, but they have to do it through uh the normal civil law. And they they nullified the will. They would nullify uh a will that follows the Sharia law. Well, I mean if it's doing what you're claiming, which is which is unconstitutional. It is a violation of the constitution. It makes no sense to me though. Would the will simply say I want to distribute my inheritance according to Sharia law, period, or would it explain the thing? Because if you outline percentages, all of you have to recognize something that I want Any to get my favorite pen. I mean that sort of thing is in everybody's head. Average Muslim uh does not understand all the details. of this laws. So they have to go to like for example in John's church, not everybody understands everything about Christianity. They refer to you because you have the the knowledge. Okay What does Christianity say about this and this and this and that? So they have to go to someone with the knowledge and say, okay, what is the equitable Distribution according to the Sharia law and then but now the Oklahoma said, Oh no, I can't do that. But it was proven to be unconstitutional and to God tossed that. So some of the supporters of that particular law in Oklahoma are pointing to a 2009 case in New Jersey where there was a Muslim couple who had moved from the U. S. to Morocco and a trial court in the United States. didn't consent to the wife's request in Morocco for a straining order, despite finding that her husband assaul had assaulted her. And that the reason why the court didn't give the wife a restraining order from her husband is because the man believed it was his religious right to have non-consensual sex with his wife. Now in a scenario like that in the United States, I would say that c that United States law would have to trump Shudia Law. Meaning that if a wife in the United States does not want to have sex with her husband and he forces her to, even if Sharia law allows her to No, you now you're g you' j jumping back to civil law, which as a Muslim living in this country you have to follow. As long as it doesn't violate the Sharia law. By the way, a r religious question, Pasama, is that an accurate understanding under Sharia? Is is that the the husband has uh no bounds on on his non rights in that way? If she doesn't want it but he wants it, she has to agree. It's a fuzzy area, it seems like. I'll have to ask someone who has more knowledge than me about this. Because then the problem becomes if he says, well, it's according to Sharia law, then you're asking non Sharia law experts, people who are ex in American civil law to make a decision based on Sharia law. They're not equipped to do that. But you're saying that when a Muslim is in the United States, he has to submit to to American civil law. Absolutely. Do not go by Shah. So in that scenario, then what's the issue with the will question then? I'm not understanding. Because the well if you leave it if you leave if you leave it up to the state, the state probably gets the majority of it if you don't write the distribution equally. It's it's a well uh f for example some Uh it it happens a lot in marriage. Like if you have prenuptial agreement or contract according to the Sharia, then this court will say, Oh, I'm not gonna enforce it. But if you have a prenuptial agreement according to the civil law they will accept it. But if you say prenatural according to Islamic law, no it's not g not gonna be accepted. That's what they're trying to do. That I've read about in the news and I think uh the the ones I've m taken notice of the most over the last few years have been instances in Britain. Whereas different pockets of the community have been allowed to uh enforce Sharia as opposed to whatever the civic laws of of Britain R. And that's been pretty controversial over here as we anticipate that that sort of move could come here. Would we want that sort of change? Talk about, you know, the type of food, you know, how it slaughtered the food and stuff like that. And the banking, you know, no interest and stuff like that That's that's that's the aspect of Sharia that they talk about in in in England. But if you're talking about Well I've heard about cases where the wife is claiming abuse and she and she's taking to the abuse in Islam Abuse is is is condemned and it's not allowed, you're not allowed to raise your hands or or hate anybody. Period. Period. That's against Islam's uh against Islamic teaching. If people do that, they do that out of ignorance. Okay. You're not allowed to hit anybody. There's no hitting in Islam, period. The Prophet never hit any of his Any of his wives, any of his relatives, any of his servants, any of his companion never raised a hand on any of them. Okay. So we split these here because it's a good thing. com. ask our uh ask our wives uh to uh have an intimate moment and she says no and we can do it anyway. They have the upper hand now. I mean come on this is twenty first century. Okay so so this is This is the religion of peace dot com, so I don't know if that's Christian or not. Uh it says uh yes, she's allowed to hit him, but only if she doesn't do as it a as he asks. And so the cur it's uh Surah She let hit him or he's let it hit her. Okay. Surah four thirty-four. It says men are the m maintainers of women because Allah has made some of them to excel others because they spend out of their property The good women are therefore obedient, guarding the unseen as Allah has guarded on those who part for fear of desertion, admonish them, leave them alone in the sleeping places, and beat them Then if they obey you, do not seek away against them. Uh Surah thirty-eight forty four, and take in your hand a green branch, and beat her with it, and do not break your oath. Allah telling Job to beat his wife. From the Hadith. This is not in Quran. Bukhari. Yeah, both of them. Job? No. Quran four thirty four and Quran thirty-eight forty four. They're both right there. Look them up. Read them out of your version. Isn't it fair to say that the hadith is is incredibly influential and important to the tradition that the first thing is. Both of those were Quran. Yeah the Quran the first as well. Could mean hit. Darb could mean give an example. And many uh more than example with a branch No, there's no such thing as branch hit on branch. Let's see. While he's looking that up, this is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. Khalil El Shazli is member of the Board of Trustees for the Islamic Society of Frederick I am Troy Skinner, and you are listening to the Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Free talk. The Hadith says in Bukhari 72, verse 715, a woman came to Muhammad. begged her to stop her husband from beating her. Her skin was bruised so badly, it's described as being greener than the green veil she was wearing. Muhammad did not admonish her husband, but instead ordered her to return to him and submit to his sexual desires Hit her? Yeah, Bukari seventy two. I'll I'll I'll have to uh see the authenticity of that. Uh thirty eight Thirty-eight forty-four. Thirty-eight forty four. Seems to be this is an example why we don't want Sharia law ruling communities here. We g we can't come to agreement between the three. And the like of them with them as mercy from us and as a reminder to those possessed of understanding. So I don't know what That's thirty-eight forty four. That's thirty-eight forty-four. Alright, I'm gonna pull up a find a different source because we're gonna have website. We can swing back to the language. But I I I you know I'm kind of a goal-oriented person and I have my two goals. I'm gonna bring up the second goal and see. All right, wait, I so I went to Quran. com. I went to Quran. com 3844. This is Quran. com. And it says, Take in your hand a bunch of grass, strike with it, and do not break your oath. Indeed we found in patient and excellent servant. Indeed, he was one repeatedly turning back to Allah. So in this version they're saying it's grass, the other one was saying uh a green branch. So these guys are saying strike with a bunch of grass. No, that's for uh that's about uh Ayyub, Prophet Ayub, where he was sick and uh uh all his family Job? Job, yeah. Which all his family left him and people of people were committing mischief in town and they were talking bad about him and this and that and he was ill for a long time. So what was your verse? How come your verse didn't say that? I don't understand why you went through thirty-eight forty four and it was something like totally different. Thirty-eight forty-four. I teased it, so at some point you guys are gonna have to explain to me what the heck is ISIS? Yeah, it's shruat sad. What's that L. Surat Sad, yeah. Surat sad. Yeah, what what is Isis? Forty four. And so he's talking about Job and Job's wife was against him, and so the question is is this saying that he's supposed to be a little bit of a strike with it? And take no no no. And take in your hand a green branch and beat her with it and do not break your oath. Now that's your version, not mine. No, not my version. Surely we found him, patient, excellent servant, surely okay, how was his wife? I mean uh that's saying beer be no it doesn't say beer What what did it what did you just read? Take a green branch and hit her with it. No, that's not the Arabic word. I I I have and you know that for a long time I have since I'm Since I have knowledge of both English and Arabic, I could tell the difference when someone misinterprets. And it happens a lot actually at at the mosque where they read the interpretation and they make a mistake and I have to stop them and say, Hey, it doesn't mean that. 'Cause typically the one who's translating either opening a dictionary, English Arabic dictionary, and writing without understanding what the meaning is. Because you could say one word but you mean something else. Okay. Nevertheless, then what does that really mean there? You're saying I have to go to explanation of the meaning in Arabic and then see what the English translation should be. Okay. And so you have one here that says grass, one here says branch. I have to really understand the context. I have to re the the verse before it or couple of verses before it couple of verses after it and see what the meaning is. Okay, so that that verse from f chapter four verse thirty four Uh Quran. com men are in charge of women. Yeah, I could explain that. That I know very well. If they uh it says That I could explain very well. Advise them, forsake them in bed and strike them. No, that's no, that's that that word strike, that's what I was talking about. Dog means give an example. Meaning uh if your wife is disobedient, what you could do is you leave your bed. And that's really Uh psychological. Forsake them in bed. I mean I I see I see a you know do this and then escalate it, forsake them in bed uh and then escalate it more. You've already advised them. You're not gonna go back to advising them if you're escalating it. No, I'd be just giving them advice them, advise them, forsake them and then strike them. The only hitting allowed in Islam is you grab, you know, the miswak with the the the little branch with the clean the teeth with Tooth thick? No, no. It's it's it's uh it's it's it's some type of tree. Some type of tree that has a lot of fluoride where you we used to brush the teeth before toothbrush. That's the only hearing allowed in Islam. If you go like this. The example of it the example of it is. I am certainly finding it hard to believe. But this is the only hearing allowed in Islam. There's no Okay, then from the hadith, you know, there's verse after verse where it says, uh Aisha said, I've not seen any woman suffering as much as the believing woman. is Muhammad's own wife complaining of the abuse that the women of her religion suffer relative to other women. Muhammad struck his wife in in uh Muslim 42127 in the chest one evening and she narrates he struck me on the chest which caused me pain. Right? I'm just saying that that there's a lot authentic story. That's not authentic. That's I don't know where you get the Abu Dawood 2142 the prophet, peace be upon him, said a man will not be asked as to why he beat his wife Oh who said that? Abu Daw. No, no, no, no. No. That's not allowed in Islam. There's another uh Isham Isham requires that a married woman be put in a separate room and beaten lightly if she acts in a sexual manner towards others. Sexual what? If she acts in a sexual manner toward others, meaning she's flirting with other people or something. I don't know what that means. I don't know either. But uh of Al Zam Zam Shari, volume one, page five twenty five, Muhammad said, Hang up your scourge where your wife can see it. I'm just saying it's not like just a few places. It's all through the hottest. It doesn't matter. No, it's not in the Quran. No, no, no. I disagree with that. Well either the same thing. Translate it wrong that And that people in your chur and your gut. Oh yeah, but you guys are the same thing. No, no, no, no, no, no. I'm talking about Christianity, I'm talking about the Bible. No, Kranda Kam Anybody could go and put a Quran. com or QuranDisc. com or Bible dot com. Anybody could generate uh an online um Quran that is trustworthy. I'll I'll get you this information. Uh you you had done it previously, I know, and uh so I guess you're still even even though even though even though I still disagree with some misinterpretation because the one who is interpreting this either doesn't have uh Full knowledge of the Arabic language or full knowledge of the meanings of the Quran that even in your own mosque that sometimes people read it and you're like, No, let me interpret that for you. Exactly. Because the interpretation might be a good idea. It is con it is the biggest concern. That means that Islamic worshipers in your mosque have their own Quran reading them and they go home and they're like it says I can beat my wife. No no no no No no no no. The one who interpret make m they all make mistakes. And everyone Yeah, but how many of the worshippers in your congregation actually read in Arabic? Majority you have to read this in Arabic. All the prayers are done in Arabic. All the prayers and Arab. You think they okay, so if Arabic is their second language, they live here in the United States, Arabic's their second language. Do you think they interpret the Arabic pretty accurately? Nothing It depends on what language it is. That's my concern. It's it's my concern as well. That's why I corrected all the time. They're both concerned. Okay. Alright, T is equal next week. Next week, we're gonna say this week. I don't know about our wise, but I'm gonna go get a branch and and start striking Jonathan as often as I can. That's for sure. That's right. It just sounds like good fun. I'm gonna name my pinata Jonathan Silas. I saw a pinata the other day that dropped out nothing but vegetables and the kids when they saw it They all drop their heads and turn around and walk away. That's like this show. This is vegetables on Talk Radio, right? John Zweites, Senior Pastor of Cross Valley Church, Khalil Al-Shazli, member of the Board of Trustees for the Islamic Society of Frederick, our sponsor of Putland Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. What have I been reading? Beyond Belief by Elaine Pagles. I do not recommend it. Unless you want to just disagree with everything. That's okay. Alright, till next week. God bless.