Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks so much for listening. Joined this week by Daniel Rasby. He's one of the co pastors at uh The church that meets at Imran's house. You can learn more about them online at conquered by love. org. I think I said my website, but just in case I didn't, Household the Faith in Christ dot com We've been spending the last number of weeks, like three, four weeks, something like that, talking about things that have to do with pastors and elders and the requirements and the responsibilities of and the role of men and women in those sorts of things. And uh David Forcey was here to talk about those things with Daniel. and I and we're kind of uh continuing some of those thoughts now without David, so good we can talk about him. Um we would never talk about him behind his back Not in a bad way anyway. No, exactly. We I mean w if we're gonna ridicule and we want 'em to hear the ridicule, right? Exactly. That's half the fun. So this week, um I we I still want us to talk about pastors, but we're we're um Uh we're going to pivot in a moment, but to finish up the thing about whether pastors need to be uh men who are married or what have you, assuming that a man could be unmarried and be a pastor. Can that person have been divorced before they became a Christian? So let's say somebody gets married when they're 18. They get divorced when they're nineteen, they have a conversion experience when they're twenty, and now they want to be a pastor when they're forty I think the answer doesn't really depend on whether they they have to be married now to be pastor, because you could say then let's say they're remarried. Okay, they're re yes, okay, then they've remarried. Okay, that yeah, that takes that off the table completely. The point uh I would say that if somebody has been a believer Right? They they identify as a believer, everybody says, yeah, they're a believer, and then they have an unbiblical divorce. Okay, well you clearly can't be a pastor. I'm not even sure about your faith at this point. Right, if you're gonna disobey God's word overtly. But i if if it's an i indiscretion like that before they even I would say, I mean, your life before you're a believer kinda doesn't exist I mean Paul was a murderer. Yeah. Quite literally. Yeah. Um he he he bore false witness and was a murderer. um and kidnapper a and man stealer and uh and uh all those things. And but he was uh And now that again, Paul is probably a bad example 'cause we had this discussion with a couple of weeks ago about whether he was even qualified to be an elder because he was not married, at least at the time he was writing the letters. But I think that's a good example of what you did before doesn't impact how you could be used for God's kingdom now. It may have earthly consequences. Right. Um, you know, you may have committed a crime and now you're in jail for it. Just because you get saved doesn't mean you should be let out of jail necessarily. Um we well jail may be a bad uh uh example 'cause we talked about before, I don't agree with the idea of jail. I think restitution is much better than than incarceration. Um So that's that's what I would say about that. I think I think if you're married if you were divorced or or or s something before you were ma uh saved That may not be the same thing. Now, the prohibitions still apply. Let's say now you're married to some other woman and then later you get divorced to that woman. Let's even say it's a biblical divorce. Um, if there if there isn't such a thing, not all believers would agree there is such a thing as a biblical divorce, but assuming there is you can't go back to that first wife, even if she's now a Christian. 'Cause the Bi there there is a uh I think the Bible was very clear, don't go back to the original wife if you've had to. Um But maybe you know, other people would say, Well that's just an old testament prohibition and whatever else, but Yeah, uh there are there are pastors, there's there's a quite a big group, especially in the Mennonite community, that would say, if you've ever been divorced You can't ever be remarried no matter whether it was a quote unquote biblical divorce or not. Not only can they yeah, you can't even be a member of the church If you're currently married to somebody that's not the f not your first wife, you need to separate and and be and not be with them in order to be a member of the church. So let let alone a pastor. Yeah. That's why I'm not a Mennonite. One of the reasons. Yeah, that's that's a bit of a of a of a hyper precise uh application. They were talking about the regul regulative principle last week, right? That's a A hyperregular principle on the marriage question and the church membership question, like if you can never have ever been divorced, even if it's Well, I don't know if Mennonites even think there is a s certain Mennonites would say that there is no such thing as physical divorce, is there? I think they they may be okay with that. It's more the remarriage that they're not. Um I think in certain situations such as adultery may be abuse, but uh uh in a in in uh Um circumstances of abuse m a lot of them would probably say just separation is the is the answer, not divorce. Um that you can't just go up and get married to somebody else now. You have made a vow to be married. Um and if you're fearing for your life that's that's one thing, but that doesn't just give you the liberty to go marry somebody else. Um that's that's the the teaching that I I've heard before. Um and I'm not Mennonite either, so we probably should have a Mennonite pastor to defend himself on this. Uh but there there is a there is a large s portion of the church that is extremely strict on the abortion uh abortion on the divorce and remarriage uh topic. I think I'm not quite as uh as much there, but I I d I don't believe as many Christians seem to, that you can just go divorce, willy nilly get remarried and there's no consequences for that or no church discipline for that. Yeah. And I think the solution once you repent of it is not necessarily to now tear apart this new family with the new kids you have. I don't know that's that's really the solution for it. I think a lot of uh wisdom questions to navigate those sorts of things, but you know I I don't want to turn this into a sermon because this isn't you know that's not what the faith debate is here for, but I think a strong word needs to be reinforced here because I'm agreeing with almost everything I think I heard Daniel just say. So we're on the same page. But I know that You might be listening to what Dana just said and you disagree. And I had a conversation with um a good friend of mine not too long ago who's apparently having some dissatisfaction in his marriage. And it's not like they're at each other's throats. As best as I can tell, they're not cheating on one another, like there's nothing like that. But they've you know, the whole we've grown apart story that you hear, you know, it's just it's not what we thought and Yeah, we've been married a number of years now. We're just we're not in love like we were. And so I you know, we're not happy together. And so I think it's best if we just get divorced. And you know, I'm not sure if he was sharing it with me because he wanted counsel. Or if he was sharing because he was just sharing life, I don't know. But he got some counsel. He got an earful of counsel. I said, Are you kidding me? You want to turn your wife into a whore? Mm. Because if you if she ever wants to then go get remarried to somebody else, she's an adulteress. Right? You're you're gonna You're you're gonna uh consign her to a a life of of uh of of uh of singleness uh for the rest of her life because you want to get out of the marriage? Well not only that, but oh I don't feel like I'm in love. Well tough. God commanded husbands, love your wives. Not if you want to, if you feel like it, if you're in love. Love your wives. That's what says husbands love your wives. You are commanded to love your wife. It doesn't matter whether she deserves the love or not, you have to love her. And we have such too with her. a squishy understanding of what love even means. Certainly I think love can embody some emotional response and that that that warm, fuzzy feeling. Yeah, I think that that it can be an aspect of what it is to to have love for someone, to have an a a a a deep felt affection for someone. But that's not all that love is. I would argue that's not even primarily what love is. Primarily, I think love should be understood as a verb. It's about what you do. Go love your wife, meaning go care for your wife, protect your wife, provide for your wife, defend your wife and her honor. Do things that are gonna help your wife to grow in the Lord. It's about what you do, it's not about what you feel. The whole feeling thing, that's Freudian. That's not biblical, right? That's Well that's lust to not love. Yeah, it's about the psychobabble stuff that has dominated the culture for the last hundred plus years now. Uh but that's not the biblical thing. So yeah Th and that's why it's possible. When God gives you a command that says, Love your wife Well I how am I going to manufacture those feelings? It's not about the feelings, it's about serving your wife. And you know what? The feelings will come. Right? If you s if you actively it's like the movie you ever see the movie Fireproof? Mm-hmm. You know, Kirk Cameron's in it and I think it's a pretty good movie. Uh it's it's not award winning, but it's it's a pretty good movie. But The Kirk Cameron character does not love his wife when the story starts. Right. His father basically tells him I mean I'm I'm sh I'm short circuiting the the narrative of the story, but basically his father says Tough cookies, son. Do these things for forty days. Go love your wife for forty days. And so he does things that are demonstrating love for his wife, and early on he has no interest in doing it, but by the end He wants to do them and guess what? Lo and behold, he actually has those warm fuzzies. Right? Right. So going back to then the the the divorce and and and remarriage, the the the controversy among pastors seems to be on that that teaching from Jesus that says Whoever divorces his wife except for adultery causes her to become an adulteress, and whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery. And so there's the the question, first of all, is there a double standard for marrying a divorced woman versus a divorced man? Um 'cause it also says whoever is marrying a divorce women commits adultery. Uh but I I don't know, the the the the de the specific mincing words I know people that will say well clearly this means you could divorce because of uh adultery and the other people will say well no even for adultery it doesn't say that it says If you're divorcing for some reason other than uh adultery, then uh you're causing her to become an adulteress. But if you're divorcing for adultery, she's already an adulteress. That's why I'm not causing her to become an adulteress Um, so that's what they were saying and then the the the uh understanding would be, no, actually you just really shouldn't ever get divorced for any reason at all. I would take the tact that is it is i it is allowable but not preferred to divorce in a cases of infidelity. Um and as David said last week I think he used the word ideal or optimal I think it's optimal or ideal to still remain married if possible and reconcile. Um and in cases of other cases that seem extreme or or unhealthy or awful, such as abuse and uh and and so on other things, there are remedies that don't involve actual divorce, there's separation and and and so on and and and counseling and reconciliation hopefully at some day if that's possible. But um I I you know that's that's kind of Yeah, I know we're uh pretty much on the same page. Uh you know projecting a culture like ours where uh it it's so normal For people not just to get divorced once, they get divorced a whole bunch of times. Regardless of religious affiliation, now this might become a decreasing problem because nobody's getting married anymore. But But as long as people are getting married, divorce is a problem. And you know, when I put uh a couple through my uh you know, premarital counseling uh sessions uh I emphatically tell them that divorce is not an option. Yeah. I say uh it's mostly for rhetorical effect because I do believe biblically that divorce can be an option. But I want them to understand divorce is not an option Divorce does not exist in your vocabulary. You start having a fight and you you don't say, well fine, let's just get divorced. Like those words don't leave your mouth, those thoughts don't enter your head, those attitudes are not part of your heart Like divorce is not an option until maybe someday because everything conspired against your marriage, you now have to talk to your pastor about, I think my marriage is over. And okay, now we have to talk about the but even then I would say the overwhelming majority of the time the marriage can and should well should be, but can be rescued. So some people, oh He or she cheated on me, so now I'm gonna get divorced. As though like that's the automatic must-be response, right? No, no, no, no, no. There are incredibly wonderful marriages today that are post adulterous liaisons, right? The the husband or the wife cheated uh on their spouse and they work through it and now you look at that marriage decades later, oftentimes, and it's like a picture perfect marriage as far as you can tell. Like it from a distance, it's like they have an ideal marriage, and in many ways they do. Like there is recovery from that. The other thing you haven't mentioned is uh you know the whole separation, like the the abandonment uh question. If somebody abandons their uh some people would argue that if, you know Certainly if an unbeliever abandons because you become a believer. But some would argue that um th there's different kinds of infidelity that represent an abandonment. Um Yeah. Like having another family, for example. Like a husband who's just Yeah, yeah, having that that'd be a really good one. Or a husband who or a wife, I guess. And usually it's the husband, uh because they're bigger and stronger often, most often, uh, who's just battering his spouse nearly to within her life. Yeah. Yeah. Or just making her life you know, quote unquote, a living hell because he just uh I mean he he hates his wife and he wants her to know it and he's gonna make her life as miserable as absolutely possible. And some would argue and I'm I'm I take this on a case like haste basis, so I don't have a blanket answer on this. But if that's l legitimately after sussing it out and doing your investigation on things and that's really what's going on Has the person abandoned the marriage? Has the person uh in effect committed a some sort of an adultery, not a sexual adultery, but some sort of a relational adultery by embracing something that's not godly, not benefiting the marriage, if it's dramatic enough. Um I think I I've had to deal with this uh uh when I was not the pastor but was a pastor uh at a church where there was somebody else who was the pastor and we had to navigate this question together as a team like what do we do? Um And full disclosure uh for this conversation, we ended up deciding that in this case it was the woman who needed rescue, in our opinion. And we said, you know what God help us, literally. I hope we're making the right call here, but we feel like we can honor your decision to move forward with a divorce with your husband. We think that God would sanction it. To this day I'm not a hundred percent sure I was right. But I d or that we as a group. I would definitely have a lot more grace for somebody who's being physically abused. Yeah, rather than emotionally or or uh with words. Not that words have no effect, but I say I'm not a hundred percent sure just for the record. I'm ninety-nine percent sure. You know, I don't I'm not wrestling at night like oh I'm a I th uh but there's just every once in a while there's a twinge of doubt because it's that serious. Divorce is and that's the point I'm trying to emphasize it. Divorce is that serious. And sounds like you agree with me. Alright, so we've got uh we've got time to talk about the one last thing that I think I really want us to have time to talk about when we're talking about uh pastors. The divorce and remarriage thing uh was related to that, but mostly it was going to be about divorce and remarriage with pastors and stuff. And we've we've covered that here and there in spots over the course of the last handful of shows that I don't think we need to beat that horse anymore. So one more thing I want to talk about regarding pastor specifically, and this is an issue that you see a lot with the YouTubers and a lot of social media comments and stuff, a lot of pastors get uh uh called to task for the tone that they take or the tone that they don't take. So how important would you say tone is for a pastor? And by tone, do you need me to define what I mean? Do you think the listener would benefit from me defining what I mean? Probably a little more explanation would be helpful, another sentence or two. So Some guys are they're the manly men, burly, right? And they're aggressive in their in their attitude and their and even their word choice and their manner. It's very aggressive and they're gonna call out sin and they're gonna call it out sharply Fire and brimstone type of thing. And that's that's toxic masculinity, and that's unbecoming a Christian. And so you're you're too aggressive, you're too mean spirited, that you're not loving. So there's that But then there are others who will criticize other pastors who are and and and they get criticized where you're trying too hard to be winsome. You know, you're you're soft and you're light in your lobers. Like a T V pastor. Yeah, yeah, you're like somebody on the You're like Mr. Rogers wearing a little sweater up on there and you're not You're not willing to call out sin and you're you're always, you know, circumventing the issues by t dancing around it and nuancing things to death. And sometimes you just gotta bring it. So most of the pastors they get caught out for b having a mocking tone. Yeah. Uh and not not really sorting I mean the the there's there's uh They may have a lot of great stuff to say, but they have too many jokes and and the stuff and it's and and either if either it comes across as mocking or flippant and so then then there's some criticisms there. So how important is tone. Are there any tones, now that we've defined them a bit, that are off-limits for a pastor and therefore off limits for a Christian, I would argue. Um Or is it case by case? Is it uh do the does the environment and the circumstances that are presenting uh Yeah. I think that's you come into play. I I would think the the environment um makes a difference. The the context makes a difference Um certainly sh sin should be called out when it needs to be called out, but there's also times and and with the leading of the spirit you might have uh a time of of having a soft answer. to turn away wrath or uh uh you know uh uh to turn over tables like Jesus did as well. I think both of those are the place of the Christian in in different uh times and contexts. And also personality has a as a way um That has something to do with it. You know, if you are not of the personality, if you're an introverted personality, but God's called you to teach, there could be some things in some ways you don't have to s all of a sudden try to become really animated and powerful and all this it may maybe that God's called you for a specific purpose and to teach in a certain way. I I don't think there's anything wrong with that. Um I think being unnecessarily uh crass or or rude or obnoxious uh type of thing when you're speaking and maybe cursing and stuff like that is probably not so becoming but You could also make the argument that Jesus used some language that uh would would be bleeped in most TV uh uh st uh uh you know, or radio shows today. Um I mean he he he would go around saying things like, You son of a snake Which uh we have a similar phrase in uh in in in in American English, which is considered a curse uh, you know. Um a and uh you know, he go goes around calling his uh his chosen people a whore all the time. Uh you know, this deservedly so in the at the time when they were f not following God and and and they got i so I don't think that you can really say uh, you know, definitively, well, this this is not a good pastor because he doesn't use the tone I I appreciate. I don't know. Um I think much more can be gained usually by cleaner language, so I'm not a I'm not advocating for people to go around cursing, but I I also don't know that that that's gonna mean that they're not a good pastor or not saved or anything like that. Yeah, we don't want to have unwholesome talk coming out of our mouths, it says in the New Testament. Paul says that I think it's in Ephesians, if my memory serves, I couldn't give you the exact chapter and verse right off the top of my head. And I think in King James there's no corrupt communication. However, um w how are we defining what we mean by whether your translation into English is is corrupt or unwholesome? Uh, what are we meaning there? And I think there's a strong argument made that it's talking about uh something that's unedifying and unhelpful. Right, for that person or those people in those situations. There are times when think of that as a parently in general. Right, but think about it in your as a parent, there are times when you're going to use what some people consider to be a harsh tone with your children And other times you're gonna use a very gentle sing-song y baby talk kind of a tone. Maybe with the same child or with a different child because it was appropriate in the context and to the person you're giving the message to. Now, if you need to arrest your child's attention because they're about to get hit by a Mac truck, you're not gonna say, Oh, my lovey dovey little son or daughter, let's let's be safe now. I okay, and then they get hit by the Mac truck because you there was no urgency in your tone. Or you know, but if um if You need to remind them to brush their teeth. You don't uh instead of saying, Hey honey, stand for bed, go brush your teeth it's like, Honey, stand in for bed, go brush your teeth It's like, okay, like the tone has to match the moment. That's not situational ethics, right? That's that's not s But there's it it's applied wisdom. There are times when so I would argue that uh for my for me, somebody being rather brash uh coming across as you know arguably harsh is totally appropriate and not and and even more than fine. It's the way to go because it's the most loving approach to take for that person or that group of people in that particular context. But there are other times when um those same people so it's not always the the people, those same people but in a slightly different situation. you're going to use a softer, more winsome tone. But I would agree with you. I think the default should be to try to be Gentle. Because that's the fruit of the spirit. It's about gentleness and kindness and self-control, right? And so if you're gonna be bombastic all the time, are you being bombastic for a fact? Are you being bombastic strategically? You're being bombastic because you've made a calculation, you know what? This person In order to be pulled back into the path of righteousness so they can experience God's blessing in their life, they need a firm word from me now And you make a self-controlled decision to say things in a way that might have their jaw dropped. That's a that's a key point. You're saying make a self-controlled decision. You should not be speaking in anger that is not premeditated. Um that is not tempered. You should have self-control. And I venture to say when Jesus overturned the an uh tables and when he took a whip and whiffed a bunch of people in the temple, he was very angry. But I think he had complete and total control over his motions at the time and his and his mood at the time. And I think it's the same on the flip side we were talking about, you know, that hyper winsome soft and gentle and it's like, okay, come would you call out Sin please? Would you would you speak the truth boldly please? And sometimes not always I think we gotta be fair, like okay I don't know everything that's going on in their head. I don't know everything that's going on with their church and their situation. But from an outsider's view, it sure does look like they're being fearful. Like they're afraid to offend. They don't want to chase away big donors from their church, or they don't want to chase away quote unquote seekers who might want to join the church or whatever. So they're they're ruled by fear. Well that's not self-control either, right? That's fear control You're controlled by your fear. You're not controlled by um the the the fruit of the spirit the Holy Spirit. You're not controlled by by God. You're controlled by the flesh. And so it's not just anger. it's any and all tones. So we need to catch ourselves. Am I am I doing this out of fear? Am I doing this out of anger? Am I doing this out of any sort of emotion that has me taking my eye off the ball? I think that's the point. And so I don't know if the young bros would hear this show because uh you and I are not hip enough for them, Daniel. Um So I don't th but if they accidentally somehow stumble upon it, you young bros, listen, if you got a pastor who's full of dynamite and fire and brimstone and he's bringing it Probably I'm fine with that, generally speaking, although that's not. As long as what he's saying really is godly. Right. I mean you got somebody like a Stephen Furtick, for example, who's extremely passionate and bombastic and all that and says very few godly things. Exactly. Um you know, and you got somebody Like a Joel Osteen, who's very soft spoken and very polite and also says lots of very very few goddamn things, again. Um so Jeff, the tone I think is not really the what to focus on. You know, it's it's uh are they speaking godly things? So what are they saying, why are they saying it and that will help you understand if the tone is appropriate. So keep that in mind. So us all out of touch guys, understand you bros and your bro culture. But you've got to turn around and have a little fairness and understand where we're coming from too. You know what I'm saying? We've been around the block. I've been around the block a couple more times than than Daniel, that's for sure. Daniel Rasby, Australia Skinner, what the block. To Sadia. Almost. Anyway, Jenna next week, one hundred and sixty seven and a half hours from now, God bless