Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. You can find me at WFMD. com, the Faith Debate page, or might be better and easier to go to household of faith in Christ dot com. I know it doesn't sound easier. It's a lot more keystrokes. But once you get there, it's actually easier because it's a one-stop shop for everything and anything involved with the show, with me, the church I'm involved with, and If you want to connect with Daniel Razby, the minister he's involved with, conquered by love. org. It's connected to through Household of Faithinchrist. com. And he's one of the pastors, by the way, at the church that meets at Imran's house. and uh part of his extended family is here. Elijah Dirksen is a seminary student. Uh he's a world traveler. Well he's a North American continent traveler anyway. And he's got the country for the first time. Yeah I heard about that this past month, right? You went to the Switzerland. Six months ago by the time it's airs. That's true. That's true. Yeah. Yeah. Well also the number of my story. With John Knox Stood in his church. It was it was incredible. Did you tell him hi for me? Huh? I wasn't talking to the dead Troy. two two weeks ago. No, I have to scratch that was one of my unspoken prayer requests. Oh good. Alright, so I was I I I have to say I w I was talking to Elijah about this topic ahead of time and he said well I never experienced somebody s asking for an unspoken prayer request. 'Cause he doesn't uh he doesn't go to one of those heathen churches. He's never coming in this topic almost completely blind. Yeah, you see some background on what this is. You see it a lot on social media and you'll hear it in uh in some of the the the big Faceless churches where it's easy to hide. Like a house church like Household of Faith in Christ or or uh the House that meet uh the church meets at Imran's house You can't hide in a church like that. So there's no unspoken prayer requests. But in the bigger churches you don't know each other that well maybe and it and it's maybe it's an embarrassing thing you're you're struggling with or whatever. Or you're just being unusually bashful. And you'll just say, Would you pray for me? I have an unspoken and you'll ask them what it's about. Specifically someone else is a good idea. Please pray for me on an unspoken prayer request. Actually we'll use that phrase. And it's like I can't pray for you because what if your prayer is that Give me the strengths to axe murder my next door neighbor. I I I can't write I how can I pray for it if I don't know what it is? I would say two things. One is There is a way. You could say, Well clearly God, this person is going through something. Please give them wisdom to follow you. Sure. You can pray a general prayer for their um faith in Christ. And and it i if they're more specific, which some people are, some people will say, you know, and I've I've done this before too, where I say, well I'm going through something I d I don't really want to talk about too much, but there's something and I'm I'm having trouble being content with certain things that are happening in my life and so can you pray for that? Like I can uh you know you might get some detail, you may not get the whole story, right? And you can say, Well I'm struggling with some some sin in my life right now that I've identified and I please e uh pray that I'm be encouraged to fight this. You could do that and what's the benefit. That's a little better What's the benefit? I don't know. I mean you can you get get more people on uh in your uh in i uh h helping you fight your battle or whatever. But they're not because they don't know what the battle is. It seems like the main moral question of this is if someone approaches you as opposed to if you have this this prayer request. 'Cause I I think it's it's perfectly fine to have some kind of prayer that's just on your heart between you and God that you don't speak out loud and that You can pray silently. Here's my opinion on the so we'll we'll break this into two pieces. There's the social media component, which is really what drew my attention to it most most the firstly. Uh is the right w right word to use there. Um Inappropriate use large words by Troy Sinner. Um and the um and then there's the church contacts, the prayer meeting, the church context. On social media, I'm telling you most of the time how it strikes me is it's a desperate plea for attention. Yeah. Yeah. My life is hard. Have pity on me. Have pity on me. It's like an inverse virtue signal. Uh-huh. Right? It's just put attention on me, please. It's not even an inverse virtue signal. It's It's not virtuous. Well is it because they oh look they were they were wise enough and maternity to ask for prayer. Okay, so it's a virtuous signal then. I'm being persecuted or I'm having going through a rough time or something like that. I'm sorry, fascist book. Fascist book. Uh but if you're you know if you're connected on one of these platforms, you'll you'll see their things show up In your feed, I think is it's still m possibly called these days. I'm so out of it's probably not called that anymore. It used to be called in your feed. But anyway, you see stuff show up in your feed or on your wall, maybe it's called. I don't know. Anyway And I have a uh unspoken prayer request and then a couple weeks later. I have an unspoken prayer request and then a few weeks later, I have an unspoken prayer request and then about Six months later, I'm filing for divorce. Oh, now I know what all those requests were about. You were basically setting the s the foundation to have pity when your marriage dissolved that it wasn't your fault It was the other person's fault. They were praying for this whole time. Right, exactly. I don't know, it just asking someone to intercede for you in doing it. And you don't need my here's the thing I believe that prayer is important. We should prayer pray for a vr we've actually talked about this on a recent show, a variety of reasons that we should pray. And so I'm not dismissing the value of prayer, the power of prayer. Power prayer, I don't like that phrase. But anyway, there is a powerful thing that happens when people pray. Let's put it that way. And and God will move in and use that to shape his people and and to to accomplish great things in and through his people. I'm not saying any of this. However, you, Elijah, don't need me to pray for you. You already have the preeminent intercessor of the universe praying for you, interceding for you continually before the throne of God. You don't need me to do it. I don't need you, but As a church, we're committed to pray for one another. It's one of the one another. But then you can come up alongside, right? And share in the struggle. And if you want to come up with the struggle, I can't share in the struggle with you. And that would be my issue. Well that's the that's the whole thing. I agree. That's that's the problem with it, not the asking for prayer. I think asking for prayer is a very mature personality. And I think But not on social media. But I by the way, pray for my husband, he's cheating on me. And I don't do that on social media. Things that would lead someone to get a divorce are evil. I think I I spoke a little too quickly. Yeah. But I think I think it Church is a community that works together. So while it is certainly true that you don't need other people, God doesn't even need you. God can just fix them without even you asking him But but God commands us to act in a certain way. It's like saying, well, you know, God knows and has already elected who will be saved, so why by the wit well no, you you gotta command us to witness, right? So the same thing In God commanded us to pray and we God commanded us to ask for prayer from other people. So we do that. In fact, God told um Job's friends Um, you know, ask Job to pray for you. I'll listen to him. I'm not listening to you and I don't like you right now. You know, but if even if they had been believers, I think that would have would have been something that they should ask Cade, please uh you know, please pray for me also I I and and they should pray too So that's I think asking for prepare is not the problem. It's it's n not being willing to say what it is about and it's 'cause it's embarrassing, whatever. Well if it's embarrassing Well then go talk to whoever you can talk to privately if you don't want to say it publicly. Maybe you can't. May something's maybe too embarrassing to talk to everybody in the whole world about. But talk to somebody. And if you don't have anybody that you can confide in that you trust that that much, then you need to be part of a congregation where you ha you can open up to have that that level. And a a lot of this may depend on on the heart of the person asking the question. If it's I want everyone to notice me, which it seems like that could be the case in a lot of the unspoken prayer requests that we're talking about. Um then You're in sin. It's a way to try to wrong reasons. And the other thing it does when it's not on social media necessarily, when it's in a prayer group or a church setting or something, your boy, you're sounding and maybe even feeling spiritual, but letting yourself off the hook for any accountability. Because maybe what you need prayer for is you're really tempted to uh have an affair with somebody at work or you're y you're having a hard time uh being honest on your taxes. That that's your pray for me. And but y but they don't know that's what it's for, so they There's no accountability. They don't know if there is being answered or not. And the other thing is you're you're robbing the situation of the opportunity for God to be glorified. Because if Daniel comes to me and says I got an unspoken prayer request, would you pray for me? I'm like, sure. God, give Daniel wisdom and whatever the heck you know he needs to do the right thing to glorify you. Amen. Right? Okay. But that yeah, that's fine But he says, pray for me. I've got a really critical business decision to make and I'm really unsure. And I've already tried casting lots, but the dice are broken. So I'm just not sure I really need wisdom and discernment. So in that case, And then when you make the decision, I can celebrate with you and God gets the glory for helping you arrive at a decision. The the amount of detail you gave there doesn't have to be all the detail. I have to say, hey Troy, I have a business decision to make, play for that we make the I make the right decision. I don't have to tell you, well, it's between merging with this company And declaring bankruptcy and also th this I don't have to give you all the details. Right. I can say, well, this is But when I see you next week at church. You can ask me, Hey, how's your business? I appreciate your prayers. I've made a decision and I feel really good about it. And I'm like Praise God. And to answer the prayer. That goes right back to the case. You can't do that if it's an unspoken thing. That goes right back to the body of Christ and how we're supposed to live with each other. We're supposed to Rejoice with those who rejoice, weep with those who weep. We can't do that if we don't communicate within the body. And communicate that communication I think is is really important. So we know when to pray for someone, when to weep for someone, when to to uh rejoice with one another and and build each other up. And it helps people to know that others have the same kinds of struggles you have. If everybody's got these unspoken, we might imagine that there's a hundred people in my church and they all have one hundred different things that they're worried about. But when they actually share what their unspoken requests are, you realize, oh, it's like the same four things divided twenty-five people have You know, one of the four, right, each kind of thing. And so yeah, I I I I'm so I'm really struggling with this, so if you would, pray for me. Listener to the faith debate. By the way, I have some unspoken prayer requests. If you could pray for those too, I'd appreciate it. See the difference? And you're one of those social media virtuals saying no stop, please don't do that I I think it really is something that does that you are struggling with that you're too afraid or embarrassed to mention publicly, well then just don't say anything publicly. Anybody remember that old movie Bambi? Uh Everybody's heard of Bambi. Not everybody appearly of a couple weeks ago has heard of Johnny Carson and Jay Leno, but everyone's heard of Bambi. Or even Jerry McGuire, right? But um so in Bambi there's this Yeah. Bambi in some way and his mother said, Hey, what did your father tell you? And he says, If you can't say something nice, don't say nothing at all. Right? So that's actually great a great principle If if you can't actually legitimately ask for prayer for somebody, then just don't say it. You find someone that you can actually confide in that is a brother or sister in Christ. It's also a a believer, right? Don't confide in unbelievers, confide in believers. And Ask for advice or prayer from them. If you have to do that privately and in confidence, say, well please don't share this with other people. But and I've done that before. I've been going through s something where I s I share with a believer that I know a brother or sister in Christ, whether it's a family member or a friend or somebody in the church or a pastor and I say, I'm struggling with this, please pray for me. I don't feel comfortable with you sharing with this with other people, even in the congregation, but just pray for me yourself and and they say, Sure, I can do that and you you know you keep confidence That's reasonable, and it's certainly reasonable that there may be something that you don't feel comfortable sharing with others, but you can open up to somebody, but then Open up about the specific thing. Because also they can give you counsel. Right. I think something that goes hand in hand with this is someone asks you to pray about something and then you say, Oh sure, I'll pray about that and then you forget about it. Pray right then. Yep. Unless there's it's something I I always pray right there. I say, I'll I'll I'll be praying for you. And then I think back, did I actually pray for them? I don't think I did. So I ever shared this story on the show, you might know because you've been on a majority of the show's last few years, uh Daniel. Uh Elijah, uh unless I happen to have shared on the show when you were here Uh about Nancy Pelosi? Think she afraid for somebody? No. There was some tragedy it was a few years ago, uh probably right around the time maybe that you started being a regular on the show, Daniel, so maybe I can't make sure if I've mentioned it. Anyway, and uh one of those talking head shows and it was a father and a daughter uh being uh on on a a single shot camera being interviewed by uh the Talking Head Newsman and on a different screen in like in Washington DC somewhere was Nancy Pelosi. And so it's like a three way screen thing. You've seen this set up on the Talking Head shows all the time, right? And there's some tragedy. I can't remember the tragedy exactly. I don't know if it was a hurricane or a I don't know, something something that Nancy Pelosi would care about. The mass shooting maybe. Mass shooting maybe. Right. Yeah, that's something it probably was because that's the kind of thing Nancy Pelosi would come on to be a guest about, right? And so they're talking about this thing and it's this horrible, tragic thing And the the the father's distraught, the the the teenage girl is distraught, and Nancy's opining and giving her pearls of wisdom. And uh gee it's radio, right? You couldn't see my facial expressions. Uh so Uh and she says in the in the towards the end of this interview, would it be okay if I prayed for you? She says this on the show, which is a little shocking. To me as a viewer, Nancy Pelosi is gonna pray for this person on national television? I gotta see this. Well she's a Catholic, right? So now The dad is like, oh yeah, absolutely, if you would please. And the teenage girl, she's like thirteen years old, she's so moved by the gesture that Nancy Pelosi, who was then Speaker of the House, is gonna be, I think she's Speaker of the House. certainly a high rankings Avercard official, is gonna pray for her on national television that she actually starts to well up. She's about to cry. Her lip starts to quiver. She's so moved by this. And Nancy Phillips says, Okay, then I will when I get home later or something like that. And all you could see the girl Like she felt she was defeated and the dad looked like broken and unimpressed, like, okay So if you're going to say, is it o first of all, you don't have to say is it okay to pray for you, really. But if you're gonna use that language, it's not wrong to say that language. Hey but it might be if you have time, right? So is it okay if I pray for you? If the answer is yes, say, okay, pray May maybe even better would be can I say can I pray with you? Right. Yeah. But don't uh it depends on who you're talking to, right? If you know the person's a believer, then yeah, hey, mind if I pray with you? Let's pray together. If if you're if if you're not so sure they might be We had uh a Christian couple over to our house. Um the my wife met uh the the wife and of the couple. And uh they came over for dinner and we had some fellowship and stuff and um the first time I had met either one of them And uh we decided that, you know, it was good fellowship, a good meal, good time. I it just felt right about some of the things that were talked about during the time that we should end our evening with prayer. And so I prayed, my wife prayed That was it. These were Christians, supposedly. They they weren't comfortable praying. So Yeah, you can't assume that he's gonna pray with you. True, true. But he even even the gesture of hey let's pray together, I'm gonna be the the only one talking, but we're gonna be doing it as a body. I think that that's even important. And I have done that not as often as I should, but I have done that and I gotta say, it's usually a pretty powerful thing, even for the ones doing the praying. But oftentimes it for the ones being prayed for, it's like wow, you're like the real deal. Like you really believe what you claim to believe 'cause you're actually being vulnerable with me in praying. It's also an opportunity to to to witness and, you know, absolutely. Share the reason for the hope you have within, right? I mean it's uh to really do it. We should do it more often than than we do. We've got about Five, six minutes maybe ish left in the show. I don't know that there's a whole lot more for us to say about the virtue signaling with the uh un un unspoken prayer request except for this. If somebody wanted to push back, because we're all pretty much in agreement. If somebody wanted to push back. Then they're wrong. Probably, right? I can't for the life of me think of a biblical precedent for Unspoken prayer request. Is there something else? I can think of I can think a lot of like keeping your own prayer request in your heart because God knows your heart, but not asking someone else to Pray for you but not telling them. Right. I was thinking like Yeah, I can't or m or just when God when Jesus says go go and pray in your closet by yourself instead of openly or whatever, so you're not making a scene But I would actually argue that w if you're asking like oh unspoken that actually is what is making a scene. That's a that's like a public parenthetical type of thing So yeah, I can't think of any even any argument for why it would be the only thing that I I could see that where where pastors might uh if I feel like they can allow it in their congregations for people to say is because they don't want to put somebody in the spot make them embarrassed or whatever. It's like okay, well then we're not gonna pray for something unspoken. If you want to talk to me about privately I'll be happy to pray for you privately about it if you don't want to share it in the front of the congregation. But we're we're gonna pray about real quick that we all can be day round. I think as a pastor, if you're a pastor listening to this Take your first stance on that. Say look, I would love to pray for you. If you want to share with me what it is, if you just want me to pray, you can even be as vague as you want and say, God uh Pastor, pray for me that I have a closer walk with God. That's fine. I'll I'll pray for that But you need to at least say something that you want me to pray for, not just some random thing. Um if if not, you can talk to me privately and I'm happy to keep confidence as your pastor and not share it with you. Uh no not share it with other other people, that's fine. We would encourage you to share as much as you can about your your private life so that we can all encourage each other and strengthen each other. But that's I think what you should take. Your walk as a Christian is not a walk alone. It's a walk with the rest of the body. And walking and interacting with people requires communication. If you're not doing that, there's some type of break in that relationship And I will say I've had times when I have uh of my own accord voluntarily prayed for someone with what I knew to be an unspoken prayer request, but here's how that happened. You're talking to somebody or you're walking up to somebody, you see them, and you can just tell their demeanor's not normal. And you're like, hey, you doing okay? Look maybe a little downcast or a little preoccupied, all right? Yeah, just having having a rough time. Well, anything I can help with? Uh it it's something with my family. To be honest, I really don't wanna get into it. It involves people that you don't really know that well and It it's but it's a struggle and I I guess I I'm trying not to have it show, but obviously it shows, so I appreciate you asking and checking in on me. So you know what? I'll be praying for you. I don't know any more than that. But you know enough for God about this thing. Exactly. There's something weighing heavy on the heart. It has something to do with something that I'm not really supposed to know a lot about because it's embarrassing to people that it's not my place to know But I will I don't know what it is specifically, but I have a sense and I will pray for that. But that's different than the guy walking up and be got a lot of stuff going on Unspoken prayer request, will you pray for me? No. I'm sorry, I can't do that. How do I again how do I know your prayer isn't I'm really wrestling with with whether or not I should ask murder my next door neighbor Right I can't I can't pray that God would help you in that matter. So anyway. Show's coming up uh on the docket. Next week we're planning to to talk about cremation and whether or not cremation is a sin. And it is wrong. It is wrong wrong to unpack uh his opinion on that next week. And uh the week after that, if things go according to plan, we'll be talking about Samuel, the uh Old Testament prophet, and whether or not he was raised from the dead as We have the uh the narrative described for us in 1 Samuel 28. So if you want to do your homework, listener, open your Bible to first Samuel will be raised from the dead at the last uh last time at the end the very end. So those are topics Now we've got like literally three minutes left, so I did this on purpose. I don't want to turn this is a show by itself. But we had an interesting little three minute chat in between shows about continuationism and cessationism. So in like sixty seconds apiece What's your general take on that? I I would say my position is a very mild continuational list. I can't find any passage in the New Testament that says Well, God will never speak to these people again. Or God will never allow someone to speak in a different language to reach uh a tribe that wouldn't otherwise be able to hear them, or something like that. Um I think a lot of charismatics go too far, misunderstand what the sign gifts actually were. Um and I think they are a lot less pronounced than they were when we did not have a complete revelation. Okay. And and I would I would I would kinda agree with that just so you're aware a cessationist is often a lot of Baptists will be cessationists, um not all, but many Baptists will be cessationists. And the they'll they'll take a verse um in Corinthians that says Um whether what you have your tongues shall cease, m meaning they're not that important uh compared to love. Uh and and and they would say, Well that c proves that They will cease and in fact they have ceased. As soon as the canon was closed, God stopped working in miracles in that way with speaking in tongues and and healings and and stuff like that Um I don't I don't agree. I think that's that's a gross uh um uh mixed mischaracteration mischaracterization of what that passage is talking about. Uh and in fact I think the the Bible does strongly imply there will always be spiritual gifts being at work. I do think that most uh Most is it may may not be a great word depending on which church you think I'm including in this uh in this generalization, but a lot of so-called charismatic churches, I think, are at best practicing spiritual gifts the wrong way and at worst actually flirting with the demonic in many of the things that they're and and when I say demonic I a lot of these are churches that we wouldn't even calls saved churches in the first place. They're not preaching the same gospel. They're not so there's other things going on. It's not just, well you have great doctrine except you also speak in tongues and so therefore no. That's not what I'm talking about. But I I do think it's it's important. But I've I've met people Like I I met a pastor from India who goes around to different tribes in India and he speaks the gospel, preaches the gospel in his own native tongue. He doesn't speak the language of these other people, but they hear him. And his whole ministry's been that way. That's what real speaking in tongues is not just some random babbling in in the church service. So I think if you're gonna uh practice spiritual gifts, d just definitely read the Bible and see how they're applied and and do it that way. But I would not be saying That if if you're if you preach that you have to speak in tongues in order to prove that you're saved, you know, and otherwise you're not really saved, that's th I d I disagree with that. Yeah, and I think that um uh it's important to make a distinction that uh nobody's a complete cessationist because there are spiritual gifts. So we're talking specifically about a subset of the charasms, uh the the what are called the sign gifts, uh getting up. But if you want to look that up and do Uh look specifically at the sign gifts and are those still active in the church today or what does that mean? Um uh I don't have time down faculty I like 15 seconds left, so I can't really give my full opinion on this, but uh it's not wildly different than what those guys had to say. I'd have some nuances I would add, but that's about it. So anyway, Elijah Dirksen, Daniel Razby, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD, online at WFMD. com and Household of Faith in Christ. com. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless.