Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brothers City in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Fate Debate on Frederick News Radio 930 WFMD. Brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Visit us online, WFMD. com keywordface. There you find the Faith Bade blog, so email me because whatever you send me, that is the content of the Faith Bay blogs. 18 blog postings a day go up. Monday through Friday. I couldn't possibly do that on my own, so email me Troiskinner at Clearchannel. com. By the way, shame on us. The last two weeks we had an opportunity to wish you a special Christian holiday. Two weeks ago was Palm Sunday, so belated uh happy Palm Sunday to you. And last week was Resurrection Sunday, so belated happy Resurrection Sunday to you both. Thank you. He's risen. He is risen indeed. Nice. We didn't think we didn't do that. You guys must be church goers. And you'll notice I refer to it as a resurrection Sunday. That's uh self-consciously uh on purpose I'm not a huge fan of calling it Easter. You you don't like the goddess Ishtar? You don't think it's about her? Not big into the colored eggs and the uh and the rapidly multiplying uh um you know, rabbit imagery and all that that somehow is co-opted Resurrection Sunday. Unfortunately I'm all about the chocolate. That's something I gotta work on. But not just on Resurrection Sunday though. Usually it's Sunday night after a stressful week Well we won't go there. This is in the diet. What are you guys women? I thought the women were all about chocolate. And I heard I heard recently that uh cocoa, real cocoa, not like garbage chocolate. But like real co chocolate made out of cocoa is uh is is a good um has medicinal advantages that fights off diabetes. It's counterintuitive, isn't it? Dark chocolate is good. Yeah, apparently pot's good for you medi medicinally as well. Company there. Did you just talk about pot? I did. Frank in the basement's a big fan of uh of this portion of the show. I imagine that's right. Frank in the basement is like the one guy, uh, Mike, for you to know that uh on uh uh on the group of radio stations that are part of here that is like the liberal in the basement. Everybody else is Tends to be very conservative. Anyway, Jonathan Sweisser, Senior Pastor of Cross Israeli Church, I'm Troy Skinner. We're joined this week by Mike or Michael if we're being Michael. If he's in trouble, he's Michael. Uh he's not a pastor, but uh he's a l uh a very active uh layperson in the church and he and he and he knows a lot of stuff. In fact he knows where all the skeletons are buried in Jonathan's past Now we were talking last week about uh leadership in the church and we were particularly talking about the you know the apostolic uh model of a lot of of a number of charismatic churches. Not all charismatic churches have the apostolic model, but uh but Jonathan's church kind of follows uh uh that government model and Presbyterianism because that's the model of the church that uh uh Michael attends. So um going back and forth on this I made the point after last week's show that I think the real the the the the divide here comes comes down to what you believe about apostles. If somebody believes that there are apostles today in the same way or a very similar way that there were apostles in the first century, then yeah, you're gonna have lots of com 'cause I have confidence when Paul spoke to the churches and said, Do this, don't do that, that he knew he was talking about. So I'm pretty cool with Paul doing it. I'm not so sure I'm I'm cool with it with some guy named George doing it, 'cause I don't know who George is, uh in today's context So I would agree uh probably uh pretty strongly with Michael. Jim you the word apostle scares me. No, the word the word scares me. And and I'm I'm not a biblical. Like how how scared do you get? Actually I like Clowns. Now that scares me. My daughter's afraid of clowns. I like clowns. And if you know, by the way, if you go to Mexico, Mexico TV loves clowns. And they're they're they're uh Johnny Carson or I'm showing my age. What's the what's the gay now guy now? Uh over Jimmy Fallon. Their Jimmy Fallon is a clown. Funny. Our Jimmy Fallon is a clown. I think it's like Bimbo the Clown or something like that. Anyway, I know that because I was on in Mexico doing some missionary work and w uh watch TV at night, but I digress. The w the word apostle scares me because the f when I when I when I see apostle I think of when I hear the word apostle I think of someone who is um like Paul or like Peter who are writing scriptures who are taking taking the Old Testament and by the by the work of the Holy Spirit they are interpreting or or I should say they're shedding light on a dark room. Uh one of my favorite authors, Sinclair Ferguson, um talks about the Old Testament is you know a lot of the Old Testament is all of the furniture's in the room. It's all decorated, it's painted and everything. All every all the decorating features are there, from the big furniture to the little, you know, accessories But the New Testament now sheds light, it lights the room, it gives us a and we see Christ, and we see his story of redemption, we see the fulfilling of that prophecy that that God gave to Adam and Eve before he banished them from the garden that, you know, I will there will be enity and, you know, you he will bruise uh your he your head but you you'll heal but you'll crush his head. And just the f the f living out of that um what do they think they call that proto evangelica So the word apostle scares me now. Chapter three if you're reading along. And I think you know, my take is everything in the New Testament is really p unpacked from that passage. But back to the word apostle. It scares me from the standpoint of I don't how do I know well then d can you like Can you prophesy and like give word for today? I mean, like that's where I'm not charismatic 'cause I think God has completely spoken everything that we need. for our salvation and our and our Christian journey. So the apostles, did can can then now they when they talk, is it scripture? You know, do they have to heal like Peter did I mean Paul did with these handkerchiefs and things? I mean it just really scares me, just being completely honest So how how would you go about trying to calm his fears, John? Well, it's clear that um there were many you know the word apostle is one that is a sent one Right? He's been sent out by somebody, right? And so uh Paul sent Apostolo Timothy and he sent uh Titus You know, and um uh the uh there's um Junia who's said to be of note among the apostles uh as well. Um of course uh uh Apollos you know, is called uh an apostle though when they call Aquila and Pasilla Fasilla apostles, I think. right, is not just these guys that were the original twelve apostles of Jesus Christ and Paul, right? But these are guys that are sent out for a certain mission and they do a mission. Today we call them missionaries. Why do the way why do we use the term missionary? Because nobody wants to use the word apostle anymore. Why does nobody want to use the word apostle anymore? Because we don't want to think that the Catholic Church is the Apostolic Church and they're the ones that that have the apostles. 'Cause we we want to claim that that there are no more apostles because when Martin Luther stepped away from the Catholic Church He was arguing that we need sola scriptura, and so he's arguing that the scripture is all that we need. And so going along with that, we didn't need apostles, we didn't need miracles, we didn't need all those things. All of that got thrown out by Martin Luther and the early reformers claiming that that's where the Catholic Church was off. I'm of the opinion that's not where the Catholic Church was off. I'm of the opinion that where the Cathol Churches off is in the same place where some of these other denominations got off. That it was all driven by structure, it's all driven by by these man made structures instead of doing things So would a man made structure be works for salvation? A man made structure having to do with both the gospel. Well, I mean the the the gospel uh the gospel is the gospel But I'm talking about where is it that the church becomes this beast, something that is no longer the church, that is now you know, something uh that that it appears that Christ never intended to be intended it to be, meaning some kind of a uh of a kingdom unto itself, right? I I see I see the church as being different from the kingdom of God on earth. The church is uh is those people that are living out as an organism to be the body of Christ, the people that have been called out by Christ, but the kingdom of God is the rule and reign of Christ on the earth, right? And so the church is not trying to be the kingdom of God. How does he rule and reign? He rule and rain rules and reigns in all kinds of places. Like when when a businessman goes into the workplace and in the workplace he lives out his business in a biblical manner. then there's a sense that the kingdom of God is is uh is being manifested in the world. Not that it's ungodly, it's just I don't I'm not clergy. It's not, you know, it's probably a probably come with a better term than secular, but it's it's a non-church job. Sure. And as I do that, I do that for the glory of the Lord. And as a Christian, that's what I do. But as a d as a member of my church in my church per se, is is not to be a home appraiser or not to be a doctor. It it is uh to me that's where I think the rule and reign of Christ is seen, as he is the head of his church, as he is building his church, as he's calling people by his spirit to be a member of this church, of these living stones, as I think Peter called them in the New Testament. So I I think there's a I I think the church needs to get it uh and uh we need to have a little bit of clarity on the difference between the church and individual members of the church living out my faith. So like me being a good neighbor. You know, that that's not my church being the good neighbor. That that's me as a you know as a Christ follower. You know, serving my neighbor because Christ ultimately served me. In a sense, it is the church serving the neighbor, but it's not the institutional church. The and I think there's and I and this we're getting into I think that what you're talking about, what I'm talking about, and I'm not smart enough to get into it, but I think really what the root of that is is our eschatology. And what what do we th what do we see the church as and how is it is it it's kind of that's what they call like the now not yet. Christ is ruling and reigning. And he's doing that through his church, but you know, some of that is not yet. I mean he hasn't the second coming hasn't happened. He will come back and he will rule and reign. for eternity, uh, you know, on in a new heaven and a new earth. It's not yet. It's ha I mean, it's he's conquered it. He defeated Satan. He he as we said last week, I mean Easter was last week. He conquered the grave He defeated sin and death and hell and he defeated our enemy and he fulfilled all that what Adam lost. He he's given it to us, but we don't have it yet. I mean I I know that every morning when I wake up and I see the sin in my heart in my life. So I'm not in disagreement with any of that, but we got here how do we get here from apostles again? Oh, I don't know. How do we move in the church? I probably we're dealing with what is the church. Yes. I interrupted. Right? And we're dealing with with you know what what is an apostle? And an apostle is one that that goes out, you know, on a mission And do we need missionaries or do we need apostles? And and do we need prophets, you know, still on on the earth to speak the word of God in in a uh in a relevant and an immediate way? Did God stop speaking Uh no, he never stopped speaking, though we measure everything that God says against the Word of God. Right? And so we so uh if Ephesus uh was said to be to be a church that uh was good at testing apostles and had tested some apostles that claimed to be apostles but were not. Like like they had, you know, uh a reputation for being able to do that. Well, that gives me the again the impression that there there were additional apostles beyond the twelve that weren't apostles of Christ, that weren't writing the original scripture, but are continuing to do works that apostles do in addition to um, you know, just throughout history. And so an example that I like to give often is um when uh Saint Patrick went to Ireland, you know, with a brand new culture, you know, dealing with the Druids and in the context of that culture, he Apparently manifested some significant miracles, you know, raising people from the dead, doing different things. I don't know that he was there to do that. He was there just to preach the gospel, but there was a power struggle that went on. uh good friend of ours, um I'm gonna forget his name, the guy that's over in India doing all the ministry right now. Scott. Scott Zire, right? I mean the things that he hears about in a culture that is brand new to the gospel Where where he's on a mission, right? He's he's a sent one and he seems to be d uh e exhibiting all the things that any of the apostles in the New Testament ever exhibited in terms of miracles, in terms of of helping to establish doctrine in a new setting where it had never been s been established previously, which means new language, new cultural environments, these kinds of things. Well, he's doing the work of an apostle. And so I just don't have any problem with apostles because uh it you know, we're not yet perfected. These guys are still here, you know, until such time as we're we're perfected. But I don't I'm not of the opinion that I'm not of the opinion that as one apostle I'm not as afraid after your ex explanation. I guess the question the next question would be is do they do they have to exhibit some of the things that the New Testament apostles did as in like miraculous Signs. And before you jump in on that, Jonathan, uh first of all, everybody uh any anybody who's listening to this show is gonna know uh all the times that Jonathan's touched his microphone. Yeah, sorry about that guys. Just FYI. The more you touch it, the more static. Next time it happens, you know I'm the one that's doing it. With the other mic, just the one that you have for some reason. So anyway. Jonathan Sweitzer is a senior pastor of Cross Israelite Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner, and we're joined this week on the Faith Debate on WFMD. by Michael O'Helleran, uh who is a member of uh of the the body of Christ that meets at Fourth Presbyterian in Bethesda. Very well put um we're talking about this apostle thing and I will say this the word itself d uh all by itself doesn't scare me because words have no meaning outside of context. Sure. Yeah. So it depends on in what context you place that word. And I think why it's scared, at least initially it was scar and why it's not scaring him so much now is Jonathan placed the word in a slightly different context than Michael might have been thinking about originally, because sometimes you hear apostle and you hear Uh what's called to mind is some really fruit loop kind of stuff out there that's dangerous and not good for anybody, and people are claiming to be apostles who really Like Jim Jones, you said in between the shows, you know, this guy that that paints himself out to be the guy. I think there's a lot of people I guess you know, my years in in being around the charismatic movement it was some of these apostles would would really start getting like they they w they just I think they crossed the bounds of like, you know, hearing from God for me. And that just really, really and I guess that gets into the the prophecy versus uh you know, uh apostle and Yeah, I think that's known as the shepherding movement. Even not even that, just you know, yeah, I guess. Right, because they're hearing from one another, but it's like a lot of people. Of course the guy was like, Hey, you're gonna f get married and find a man in the next six months. Well, I mean that was like thirty years ago. Yeah, I in that spirit. Let's talk about right before I you know reintroduce what was going on here, he was asking Mike was asking you the question, uh, John, uh How closely should we identify who you would uh say are apostles today with the apostles we find this as the the most famous and preeminent of the apostles, like Peter and Paul? Right. Is there something exceptional about Peter and Paul and apostles like that? Uh actually moving it like that works just fine, John. Yeah, so if you grab it there, you're okay. If you grab it down there, it's gonna you're gonna get all sorts of static. So yeah, is there something exceptional about you know, the very first generation of the church and the apostles then with now or not. Yes, absolutely. In fact, I would say the same thing's true about the word prophet. Right? In the Old Testament there was an office of prophet that was really unique and significant in terms of anointing and calling and the role that they played. And its point was just for our listeners and me. Uh the prophet in the Old Testament was the one that God was using to call his people Israel back to himself Yes. Is that a good is that a good working definition? Yeah. Okay. Meaning that he tended to prophesy off of the Mosaic Covenant, the Abrahamic covenant before that, and calling the people back to himself. There appeared about the time of Elijah and Elisha to be a school of prophets that was growing, you know, and that that were all kind of working together at some level. So apparently there were lesser prophets and greater prophets and uh I think it's likely that that many that were a part of that school, maybe the guy that dropped you know, the prophet that dropped his axe head in the you know, in the Jordan River and in Elisha threw the stick and made it float Well, we don't know the guy's name, we don't know what what he was all about, but he was at some level or other a lesser prophet. Well, I'm of the opinion the same thing's true about prophets in the New Testament church. There's Agabus who prophesies, you know, the famine in Egypt. There's a guy that that uh was it also Agabus that that tied himself up to show that Paul was going to get tied up when he went to Jerusalem. uh you know that that are at a different level of being a prophet, you know, and the the prophets that were at uh Antioch working with Paul and Barnabas uh that you know were prophets together that that had something of a position of profit but then there's other people that are uh budding that they're coming into whatever it is that that they're doing and they may never be you know, any kind of a great prophet, but there's there's something in them of the prophetic, you know, and they they prophesy at different levels. The same thing true about apostles that that ultimately what's gonna w what are they gonna be judged by? They're gonna be judged against the word of God. They're gonna be judged by their fruit as to whether or not what they did produced fruit that remained with people that are coming to Christ. And when they get to heaven, Christ is going to say, Not depart from me, I never knew you, but he's going to say, you know, enter into your rest, you know, because I did know you. You know, you were doing what I called you to do. And so, anyways, all of that is outside of of structures that were rigid but were people that that were were working in a very dynamic environment. And so the apostles and prophets didn't make the final decisions. You know, like the big council in in Acts fifteen. I mean, uh, they came together and Paul was fond of saying that look, these guys have no control over me or my ministry. I mean he was fond of saying that, that that, you know, I was called by God and you know I'm doing but he went back to the Acts fifteen council when he was at the Acts fifteen council He shared and he mutually submitted to what was going on there and then brought back with him a uh a set of standards which a few years later and with the church at Corinth He's he's actually teaching something different from what those guys came down with. And he's saying, well, you can go ahead and eat food sacrificed to idols As long as, you know, you're giving thanks to God and not honoring the idol when you do it. I mean, he actually shifts the decision that was made in Acts chapter 15. My point is just that It was a lot more dynamic and there wasn't a sense of control, you know, at the center of it, but there was a sense of of everybody kind of mutually submitting to one another under Christ and I think it's a lot easier to set up a structure and to say we're going to work inside of the structure. I don't know that working inside of a structure is the best way to go in the long term. I I my sense is that the Church of Jesus Christ has has failed miserably in a lot of senses in in the structures have tended in the direction of uh joining together with government. to create, you know, Calvin himself, you know, had had some pretty um uh significant uh failures when when he got overly tied to government You know, the same thing's true in England, the same thing's true with Martin Luther, you know, where where in the name of their structures and and their their control orientation they were able to get away with things that The Church of Jesus Christ has no right getting a ra getting away with. And so the question is what what was it that the New Testament church was about? It wasn't about these structures, it was about the work of the kingdom of God. And so apostles and prophets, I'm comfortable with that. I did a lot of talking there. You guys just kind of let me go go for it. So does the word prophet scare you similarly, Michael, that the word apostle did or not as much now that you've heard Jonathan try to you know add some of the unpacked and things it doesn't scare me as much. I don't I don't think I agree with it Um but it's it's it's I think some of it's a little bit semantic. In the sense that you think they've passed away. Um I I think in yes. I know that that that that that's like a very kind of a scary thing to say. And the thing that bothers me and and I think Michael probably this is where you were kinda leaning Uh you never came out and said it this way, but I think kind of what was behind one of your questions earlier was this idea of people walking up to you as an example and saying, Hey I've got a word of God for you and speaking as though they're a prophet and speaking prophetically into your life and you're like, you know How do I know that that's a word from God? I God spoke to me today. He told me, Michael, that you and your family need to move to Gnome, Alaska. And if you don't move on Tuesday, you're in violation of his will. I just had to pa share that word with you And he's gonna be like, phe I don't regard that as a w word of prophecy at all. And so then what are the checks and balances that are? But a flake can be a flake by any name. He can call himself a prophet and be a flake and he can call himself You know how to get personal. Whatever he wants to be you know and call it a flake. Can I can I give it like a two minute story? Do we have time? Um can you give it ninety seconds? Okay, ninety seconds. I was twenty two years old. Our church had a guy come in who's supposedly a prophet. And he has this prophecy for me. And I'll just say that it put my life on a trajectory that was not very good. And I spent twenty some years trying to really figure that out. And it m it took a move to New Mexico, my wife's listening, I'm sorry, into losing everything I had to realize that it was wrong. And it was kind of confirmed by friends and things over the years, but it was completely wrong. What do you mean confirmed? Like the prophecy was confirmed? And it you know, it led me to try to pursue um a a role in ministry that was never intended. I I lost my business. And so I mean, not to again not to get too personal and emotional, but I I I think there's there's abuse in in the name of a lot of these charismatic things because there's a There's a sense of there is no structure. There is no structure of of submitting ourselves to the word of God. Right. And I can totally I I have to grant you that that that there is in the world where where people are trying to grapple with apostles and prophets in what scripture seems to say and saying, you know, what we see there is should be what we're able to see now. You know, there's no reason that we can't see now what we saw then. In that s gr uh group of churches, the bottom line is that Uh it's a little bit of an uncharted territory, and there's been a lot of people that have been victims of that. Uh however There's plenty of victims that were there at the beginning of the Presbyterian Church and the beginning of the Lutheran Church. And does that make it okay? Absolutely not. I just watched I just I just watched uh Tonya Harding, Nancy Kerrigan. I know, spending time with my wife And Tanya Harding was a total victim. She took no responsibility. I take full responsibility. I made all the decisions. I I don't blame him. I take full responsibility for what I did. But all my point was saying is that those that prophecy and that apostle I think is just, you know, without structure and without accountability and without checks and balances and without elders. I mean, it's just I mean, where do you go with it? I mean it was the prophet that said to Paul That you shouldn't go to Jerusalem. But Paul didn't pay attention to what the prophet said. Paul went to Jerusalem and the prophet said, Don't do it. And Paul said, Look, the Spirit has called me to do this. You're right. I'm gonna get thrown in prison, but the sc the Spirit's called me to do this. And I just got a word from the Spirit of God. The show's gotta end. Huh? Radio is so legalistic. How do you like rust structure? John hates structure. We got no life because of this Jonathan with No Life over there is a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. You have no life. Uh Michael O'Halloran is uh from uh Fourth Presbyterian Church in uh Bethesda. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate and sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating, how can we make you smile? What if I've been reading, I mentioned Ted Decker. When I had a little Ted Decker read binge. I can read sometimes three or four of those in a week. Obsessed. That was better than the The Blessed Series books, for what it's worth. Anyway, till next week. God bless