Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like ploughing pavement. Why? Why? Because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. That's why. This is the Project Face Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, a show sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? If you go to uh visit us online, wfmd. com keyword faith, you will find links to all sorts of interesting things about various world uh religious traditions, uh links to podcasts of This show, this very show via podcast if you uh wait about though I don't know forty eight hours or less from now. And uh And you'll see videos as a relatively new incarnation on the uh Faith Debate's uh website page. And we're on Facebook now too a little bit as well. Go to the WFMB Facebook page and you can keep up a little bit with what we have going on there. The last Four weeks and now back for round five. Uh we've been talking with Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, who's of course always on this show, and Dr. Pamela Blake, who is the minister at Strong Tower We've been talking broadly about racial uh kinds of issues. We got into uh uh terms and which terms uh can or should be used, if at all, and And we ended up h continuing to have a conversation on the tail end after we got off the air and Jonathan said, You know what, we need to do one more show and and make sure we beat some sense into Dr. Blake. And then Doctor Blake pulled me aside and said, you know, I'd be I'd be interested in doing like a thousand shows if that's what it took to beat some sentiment Jonathan Schweitzer And I said anything that involves beating Jonathan Schweitzer, I'm all for it. Whether it's on the air doing a show or not. So anyway. Yeah, I'm a violent guy. Yeah. I used the word that we used last week, but we're not supposed to yeah yeah. You're a bully. I'm a bully. Yeah. Now we were talking about labels and I learned something that I wouldn't have known if if we didn't have Dr. Blake on the show. Uh when I talk to Jonathan and I talk about somebody being a thug. We understand what each other mean. Neither one is offended. The people with w with whom we hang out aren't offended. They're like, Yeah, thug. That's he's we all have an idea of what we think we mean by thug. But apparently, uh i at least in certain, if not all, but at least in certain African American communities, uh they hear the word thug and y y you might as well call 'em the N-word. Y y uh they don't want to hear anything you have to say after that And so that's helpful for me. I'm not going to walk up to an African American person and use the N-word. Uh now if I'm an African American person, apparently I can do that. But it's a different it's a different social context. I h you hear uh black people call each other the N word all the time and they're not offended by it. But it carries with it a different kind of charge. an emotional charge and a cultural charge when I say it. And so maybe it's the same thing. I can talk about thugs with my my white friends, but I should be careful about using the word thug. uh with my black friends because they might hear it differently than I'm intent because I'm not meaning I'm meaning to be right, Jonathan? When you use the word thug, you're meaning to be descriptive. not offensive. Yeah. And yet, accidentally perhaps you're offending without meaning to. In fact this way, if I was ever talking to somebody Uh personally, you know, even in an angry scenario, uh if I use the word thug, meaning you thug like that uh I would come away thinking to mys I I would come away saying, God please forgive me, I I lost my temper and that was entirely inappropriate. Right? If I ever used it in a in a pejorative, you know calling somebody a name, you know, the the whole name calling thing. Uh I never feel like it's appropriate to do so. However, dealing with uh descriptive kinds of behaviors Uh, I I feel like there's a need to to define where we don't want to go and to define where we do wanna go. And um so we were we were having a little bit of this discussion, you know, in between and and you were just describing how how in the training in of your background to be uh w what is the term uh that you were trained to to uh it's a term that I Uh I'm forgetting right now. It it's a had to do with a peacemaker or a coal. A coalition. A coalition building. Yeah, coalition building. What what I was getting at is I'm a prejudice reduction trainer. That's what it was. Prejudice reduction trainer. Having been formally trained in that area. We don't go in and when we talk with people who are trying to understand one another, who are trying to hear one another's heart who are trying to hold one another's hurt. Yeah. We cannot come to a mutual understanding if we start with labels if we start with words that are going to break down communication. So if you a and I said this to you off air, Jonathan, when you use the word thug, I totally shut down I I did not hear anything else. And and that's what happens in life sometimes. If we're trying to hear each other's heart We have to be careful that we don't put up words right up front that's gonna cause a breakdown. Because ultimately we all wanna touch each other's heart. Okay, so let me ask a question. Uh I've I feel like I'm so driven to define right and wrong. And I fancy meaning I could be wrong, I fancy that that's the model that we're given in the Bible. Like I I intend, and maybe I'm doing a poor job at it, I intend to to let the Bible be my trainer, teaching me the right way to handle conflict resolution, the right way to way to handle life in general. And my impression is that the Bible from the beginning You know, the the first five books are called the Torah, you know, uh because they're they're defining right and wrong Right? And that even when uh when Paul preached uh to the Athens, he says, you know, I see that you are religious people. You know, he says, but but I worship the unknown God, you know, the God that created everything, and he commands men everywhere to repent. Right, like that was the the the opening salvo of his relationship with the Athenian people at the time. And uh and Christ When he came, he came preaching, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Right? And so the confrontational nature of that, um, I fancy that I'm following that. You know, that that I'm going out commanding everybody to repent and then showing compassion and uh and um understanding for people that are coming at whatever level they're coming. You know, and and so maybe I'm doing a poor job at that, but is it I would start with the compassion first. I I I in general when I'm talking to people and when I'm working with people, I don't want to start with uh your sin of repent. But I like to start Am I right in just in saying Right, 'cause 'cause maybe I'm wrong to approach scripture this way, but am I right in saying or am I wrong in saying that and there's that whole right and wrong thing again, that that Christ is presented to us in scripture as starting that way. That he went out into his ministry and this was his message. But he also was compassionate. He was he knew when to kick the table over and he knew when to say you know, where are those who want to condemn you. Sure. He knew when to come with compassion. Okay, but but I I'm asking a question I think back farther than that. Is it right for us to let the Bible be our trainer in terms of how we are going to approach Oh, we definitely have to use the Bible, but No, I mean as the primary trainer. Oh, I w I would not say not use the Bible as a trainer or the primary trainer if we're calling ourselves Christians. But I think we have to also look at the ways in which we can be use the Bible effective and use Jesus' um model effective. And for me What I find that is not effective is when I would go or have no I haven't, but when people tend to come out and say, you're a sinner. Well, okay, the person kind of knows that already. Right. But when you say Let me hear your story. Yeah. Tell me about yourself. Tell me where your hurt is. Tell me where your frustration was. So it's interesting because I don't know that we see Jesus anywhere ask that question. He does say to them, he says, What do you want me to do for you? And they would say, I need to be healed and then he would heal them. So And that's the same thing. I didn't say what do what do you want me to do. I said what I did ask who are you? Where's your hurt? Yeah, yeah And so Jesus definitely did come at the point, you know, I've heard a lot of discussion about this that he came at the point of their personal need. Absolutely. And and most people don't need to be beaten up with the word. They don't need to be beaten up with anything. Life has beaten them already. What what they want is somebody who hear them, somebody who will try to understand, somebody who will connect with them on the basic human level Yeah, to put this uh in a uh to frame this and make sure that we're framing it in a in a religious, spiritual, Christian context, because this is the faith debate and you know we've got uh Professing Christians and ministers of the Word, I hear uh in this panel, so I want to make sure that we do that. It does seem to me Now if you want me to proof text and come up with specific examples uh off the on the off the fly, I'd have a hard time citing a chapter and verse per se. But it seems as a general uh it seems a general truth to me, a general fact that we do find When Jesus is critical, when he calls someone a brood of vipers or says, get behind me, Satan, he is speaking to the religious leadership Yeah. You know, he's speaking to the Pharisees, uh, for example, when he calls them a brute of vipers or you're nothing but white whitewashed tombs. He's speaking to the religious leadership. When he says get behind me, Satan he's talking about one of the leaders of the disciples. Right. You know, uh Paul in uh in First Corinthians chapter six is uh pretty hard on his readers. Yeah. You know, says lists a whole bunch of horrible things. it says in fact that he lists these things and is writing this letter in order to shame them. Yeah. But but of course the context is so too were some of you. Meaning he's talking to Christians. So it's in it's in It it's among the the spiritual con those who are outside of that Christian claiming God and being within that milieu. It does seem that There's a gentleness and a compassion and uh you know, who here is without sin you can cast the first stone is the way he deals with the those who aren't part of it. And maybe that's part of the problem we have in America is we've confused uh Americanism and Christianity and blended the two and we expect a lost, broken, completely confused world to behave as though they understand God's truth and that they've accepted it as the truth, uh which it is, but they haven't accepted it as such. And so maybe we need to enter into their world and say, look First of all, law enforcement has to say, you know what, you burn down a building, you're an arsonist, that's against the law, to be an arsonist, you're gonna go to jail. I mean I think that th in that context it's okay to say something who lights fire to people's property is by definition an arsonist. But I'm not saying that we as a culture need to be having a dialogue or a conversation where we start there. My concern, and I think Jonathan w would echo this, is if we're not careful, we're afraid that we would never get there. We're spending so much time trying to understand somebody's story and almost start making excuses for what is unhelpful behavior. Dangerous behavior. I I can I can sit and When I approach understanding somebody, when I leave that person, I want them to know I may not have approved of their behavior, but I want them to know that they were heard And and I don't mean that with um fancy words or or that I'm just going to tomorrow your history. But when I make an encounter with somebody and I've had to encounter people as a minister and a and even doing prejudice reduction work But you always want to leave the person. You don't have to agree with whatever they did, but you can treat them and talk to them as humanely and as compassionate as possible. No, but what about in a contest where you're not talking to the individual or the individuals involved? You're having more of an academic discussion or a theoretical, philosophical kind of discussion, which is really what's happening here. None of the three of us were involved in any sort of looting or rioting or protesting in Baltimore or Ferguson or anything like that. And so we're discussing something we're not talking to them directly. Is it okay in that context to talk about to use labels? Uh to talk about, you know, the people who are setting for uh behaving as thieves uh and uh and behaving as arsonists and yeah I mean how how so what do we call the people who um No, I won't go there. No. No, I think you need to, because I'm in agreement. The point is is that there are greedy, oppressive business leaders in the United States. There are those that are um uh that are using positions of power in uh in uh I would have said thuggish ways, uh referring to uh you know, not minority people, but people Uh call C. Well here are some different labels. If you want to stop using thug and bully evil. Here are some biblical words for you. This is from uh the early part of chapter six of First Corinthians. These are words that the Apostle Paul The English translation of the Greek words that the Apostle Paul used. Yeah. Now those are those are pretty even dramatic. We're in this Build the Bird conference, you know, that and they're talking about how robots you know, are likely gonna take away a lot of jobs, you know, in this economy and we've outsourced a lot of the economy and and you know, there there's all uh the the reality is that uh we are at the uh whim of people that have power. And that being the case, we need to speak the truth to power and we need to we need to address issues of righteousness with them. uh consistently and and persistently so that uh they're held to account. And so I think that that needs to happen, that that needs to happen, you know, that we need to speak up for those that can't speak up for themselves. Um and so I don't know if that's where you're going, but I I think that that needs to be said and I'm in agreement with that. In fact, increasingly uh as a Christian in the United States, uh I feel like I'm one of those guys. When I showed up, my college experience was that my uh English one oh one teacher walked in and a um uh a the one of the tightest outfits I'd ever seen, you know, uh in in my life, you know, bright yellow with huge uh purple polka dots cussing, smoking, uh mocking Christianity and everything that I stood for before I even opened my mouth. And once I opened my mouth, she immediately labeled me as the backward bigot in the room and uh and uh mocked me and uh yeah again everything that I stood for openly uh the entire class. I mean it put me on the defensive and I never got out of that. Same thing happened when I went into a literature class where you're supposed to talk to get your grade. Your you know discussion is part of the grade. I raised my hand. I'm very excited about it. I love to talk, to discuss big ideas. Immediately she labeled me. I raised my hand the second class. She's like, oh our right wing bigots gonna gonna talk now. I mean openly. And so I I feel like more and more that I get what it means to be marginalized and to have my voice mocked and uh and put out to the side. That doesn't mean I understand uh the you know what what it's like for the African American community. I don't want to claim that, but I can claim definitely that that uh in large measure that that I've run up against, you know, powers that be that that want to get rid of what I represent. You know, openly. And so I think it's important for us to address that. At the heart of all this is the question of justice. And again, how do we define justice And I would say there's a there's a huge danger in the labels that we haven't even talked about yet, and I'll get to that in just a second. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of CrossFit Valley Church. I'm Troy Skinner and Dr. Pamela Blake is uh from Strong Tower in Frederick and we've been talking about all things racial and otherwise for the last now four and a half uh shows. Uh one of the problems with the labeling is Um in our culture, in our contemporary society, they have a tendency to stick forever. Uh look at what happened with the uh the Duggar family as an example. Now there's nobody here that's going to apologize for what he did when he was a teenager and he did. You know, what's that? He apologized. Openly. Apparently he repented. Well we're not going to w mean w okay, we're not going to look to excuse what he did and say that it was okay, it was horrible. But here's a guy now who is forever labeled you know, a m a molester of his sisters. Yeah. And our our contemporaries just will not let that go. He's been labeled such and he's not going to be able to shake that the rest of his his life. Uh uh and so there is a danger with that. And so I And I'm trying to figure out how I want to figure out how to take up for Dr. Blake's uh uh side on on this, and uh but it's not an exact correlation, so it doesn't exactly help as much as I would like But if somebody looks to you, John, and you just got done preaching a a message uh on First Corinthians chapter six, for example. You talk about homosexuality and men having sex with men. Okay. You're a hater. Right. You know, you're you're a fundamentalist hater. Yeah, totally. You know, and you don't you would reject the tone of that and if somebody did that to you, you would probably not hear a whole lot of what they had to say after that. Totally, right. It would be hard But one of the things that this is why it's not an exact for me, and maybe you can help me to uh have a better and more nuanced thinking about this, uh Pamela, is Jonathan in preaching that I know Jonathan. Now if he is Westboro Baptist uh in Kansas, they probably are haters. They're preaching on the same passage, maybe a lot of the same points being made, but they're doing it out of the spirit of hate. They are being haters probably in my in my opinion. In our experience in seeing what they've done on the news media. But Jonathan, I know this guy for twelve years now, uh thirteen years now. He wouldn't be preaching that out of hate You've been preaching out of love as a warning passage and as an encouragement to avoid those sorts of things because there's nothing but destruction for you in your personal life if you go down that path would be his heart. You can choose to disagree with that, I would argue against you on that, but But you could at least hopefully acknowledge that, okay, his intention here is to do good. And so the label of hater is completely inaccurate. What's a label for somebody that does a criminal crime where their act is not a loving act, where they're purposely meaning to be destructive What is a term that we could all agree would be an okay term to use? I don't want to use the word thug anymore, but I'm not comfortable describing what happened in Baltimore as mere protesters because that lumps an awful lot of appropriate protesting. It loves Martin Luther King in with th the But but you know, people wanna pimp Martin Luther King um and his quotes but remember now Martin Luther King also said that violence Oh I'm Sorry. But but she said that that people want to pimp Martin Luther King's uh uh you know as it l as as if somehow they own him and but he also said balance is the language of the unheard. But we don't quote that. And he he said violence is the language of the unheard. But he didn't say that. But then he went on to say, so America needs to ask What is it we have not heard? What have we not listened to? So when you're gonna start quoting him, let's look deeply because he fought against unjust wages Uh people forget why he was in Memphis when he was assassinated. He was in Memphis to protest with sanitation workers because they were not being paid a fair wage They did not have good hours. So when we want to start with him, let's look at the totality. He would not agree with this system. As a matter of fact, he did very little agreement with the systems in place in America. This is this is in a international context something that comes up quite frequently. You know, is someone a terrorist or a freedom fighter? Right. You know, who gets to decide that? And that goes to your point, Jonathan. You would say, well, we need to look to the scriptures and see how the scriptures would define some of those things, right? And if they're behaving in accordance with what God teaches. then they're a freedom fighter. And if they're not, then they're a terrorist. I don't think that's anybody and I I'm not trying to make it all about Baltimore, but that's so in our Yeah. You know, it's twenty five minutes away. We all know the story. It happened this year. You know, we all can relate to that. Yeah. And I'm s seriously, we've now this is you know, how many shows? This is the third show I think we've been trying to to I I'm I'm asking this earnestly, like seriously, what is a word that we could use when somebody is not heard and their response to being unheard is to do something that is not in accord with how God would have them behave, so they burn down somebody's place of business or they break into some somebody that might not even might agree with them for that matter. They might be on their side and yet their store got looted. Is it okay to call them looters? Should we call them criminals? Should we call what what is an appropriate fair but accurate word when it comes time when we we've had the conversation. We've met them where they are. We said, you know what, I want to hear you explain me. But let's say we have. Let's fast forward Uh let's say you were one of the people that did that, and you and I talked for days and days and hours and hours and hours, and we finally get to a place where you would acknowledge, you know what, Troy, you've heard me. And I say, okay, now that you've heard me, we need to talk about what you did. What is it that you did? Were you being a sub? Were you being a looter? Were you being a criminal? What was it that at that point they need to know that that what they did was not in accord with God? It's it's One thing to know I I don't I know that people know sometimes when they've stepped out of line. I'm not arguing that point. My point is even when we've talked heart to heart I want you to come away understanding what you did wrong, but I don't want to put a pejorative word on your actions. I want you to understand, yes, you were wrong. Yes, you should not have done this and you name the behavior. Let's be clear. I'm not saying you ignored the behavior. I thought so, yeah. But you name the but you don't have to be the majority of voice. Right. Yeah. And so the point is we could say it's wrong for them to loot stores and to set things on fire. Can we even call it looting? Can we say they looted the store though? Oh, you can tell they looted but again, when I talk with people and when I talk about people, I'm all for trying to look at ways in which we come together And I go back to when we use words that we know are hot button topics or words, we break down communication. No, but what I'm saying, once you've established the communication though, at some point It is okay to to affix a term of understanding to uh to a particular incident or or issue. Like let's use Jesus coming to Jerusalem. Can you do this in fifteen seconds? No, I certainly cannot. Jesus came to Jerusalem to to confront the Pharisees, right? In his in his confrontation there was very little gentleness. I mean, and his claim is that he was there to woo them, but that they were rejecting him. And so again my impression is that if he was there to make peace with the leadership of the Jewish nation, he certainly was doing using uh I think the wrong language. But that was leadership. Right. There's a difference when you approach and address and so those people that are leading uh the uh riding and there are people that are leading some some of those riding, people that are stirring things up uh those are the people actually that I hold the most to blame in those situations. 'Cause I think there is leadership that leads in the wrong direction as well as leadership that leads in the right direction. Well this country, how do we define leadership that's led in the wrong direction Um again I still am not going to close out being comfortable with labels. Um and and part of that let me be be clear, part of that is is as an African American who have grown up in systems where they label people easily. And it is not h easy once you've been labeled something to to to rise you have to work harder to rise above that that label. And that is not something I'm comfortable with doing with any group of people. Whether it's millionaires or whether it's people in uh who are marginalized. And that's gonna be the last word. This is the faith debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. Thank you. Dr. Pamela Blake, elder at Strong Tower, thank you. And thanks to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating How we Make You Smile. What have I been reading? A Biblical Theology A proposal by Brevard Childs. Another recommendation is five weeks in a row I can recommend what I've been reading. Thanks for listening. Till next week. God bless.