Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Grid Lack County, we're preaching with impact. It's like ploughing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? The Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com, keyword faith. So you'll find all sorts of cool stuff, including the Faith Debate blog, news items, links to religious traditions, to podcasts. Speaking of the blog, our blog is your blog, so email me, Troy Skinner at clearchannel. com. I post what you send me. 90 blog postings go up every week. It's 18 a day, Monday through Friday. And the only way I can keep up with that kind of volume is to take what you send me and just basically cut and paste. So you send me it and it's reasonably interesting, I'm gonna post it. Simple as that. So pop in, see what people are saying And uh if you see something interesting that you think others might appreciate, email it to me and I'll put it up there. All right. On the Faith Debate Show today, a Um another special edition. We've had a lot of special editions in recent months and if you enjoy them, well great, I'm glad to give them to you. And if you're frustrated like where's the panel discussion that I've come to enjoy over these past ten plus years Then I apologize to you. Trust me, I'll be giving you an answer um in short order, not today, not next week, but uh soon. I can explain to you what has conspired to make our conflict of of of scheduling so prominent and ponderous and pervasive in recent months, like the alliteration. So, we don't have a panel. No Jonathan Sweitzer, no guest, uh, although I encourage you to see what Jonathan's got going on. Follow him on Twitter. I think it's at Sweitzer Jonathan, if I'm not mistaken, you can visit his website, uh Crossroads Valley Church in in Frederick, see what he's got going on there, and keep up with John that way in the meantime until we get our you know a panel discussion show on, hopefully, next week. Um so we're gonna continue my I've I've mentioned a few times on the show I had a stack, literally a stack of stuff that was inches deep and it's now I would say it's probably less than an inch deep, and so we're making progress. Pretty soon I won't have any filler material. We'll have to figure it out from there. These are things I've saved, thinking I would bring up on the show sometime. Might be the kinds of thing we would pose for as a question for the panel or Um will be fodder that you know Jonathan and I could think about and would spark ideas of who to bring onto the show as guests and that sort of thing. And they've just You know, collected dust over the years and someone gonna share them with you, blow off the dust, share them with you, then crumble them up and throw them away and start collecting new stuff, I guess. Um Why did I save this? That's the weird part about this trying to save this. Huh. I keep mentioning this. This has come up a couple of times in recent weeks, the the the the the documentary For the Bible tells me so. I'm gonna have to watch it again Maybe God's trying to tell me something. Before the Bible tells me so, a documentary that uh talks about homosexuality uh claims to offer a fair and balanced view of what the Bible says about it, but that's just not true, unfortunately. It's not fair and balanced at all. Um but doesn't mean you shouldn't watch it. It doesn't mean you shouldn't agree with it, but it doesn't mean you shouldn't watch it. Uh let's see. What did we save here? Here's an Mm-hmm. Okay, this had to do with the earthquakes. Yeah, we've talked about this subject on the show before when earthquakes, natural disasters happen, tsunamis, uh volcanoes, uh hurricanes, whatever. It raises the question of, oh well did God cause that, or why didn't God stop that? Or is this evidence that there is no God? Or is this evidence that God is mad at certain people? And yeah, we've talked about that so many times, I'm not going to hope to talk about that now. We'll do that in a panel discussion again, I'm sure, next time there's a gigantic natural disaster. By the way, I'm taping this in advance. So if there was just a gigantic natural devast disaster within recent days I don't want to sound a complete idiot right now. Uh as I'm saying these things, I don't know about that eventual natural disaster that maybe you know about now. So, you know, give me a little grace on that one. Uh Let's see, here's something about Mormonism. They teach a different Jesus, why Mormonism is wrong if for no other reason. Uh Eric Barger wrote this article. Uh people are always writing questions apparently and they answer the questions about what it means to be an LDS. And you know, we have I have LDS friends. Uh we have people who are friends of this show. We've had them on this show, uh Mormons and uh Uh give him a lot of credit, the ones that I know, um, Glenn Beck who's on this radio show uh on this uh radio station is uh is a Mormon and I think the guys that do the show with him are Mormons as well. They are honorable in so many ways, uh upstanding moral uh Um family is incredibly important. I mean so much to admire, but their theology, um From a biblical perspective, from a Christian, you know, Bible-believing Christian perspective, their theology is wrong. And dangerously so, because so much of it is so close to the truth. um breaks my heart that people that could be so committed to a religion that they think is a religion of Jesus Christ and they've been deceived from from my perspective. Let's see. Now here's somebody writing saying that they believe that Mormonism has demonic roots, and here's the reasons they give. In studying the Bible, it's Clear that any revelations that come along after the Bible was completed must be tested by the Bible and what it teaches. Scripture teaches that nothing should be added or subtracted from the finished revelation of God's Word. That's slightly overstated, I believe, by the way, I'm deviating from reading this now for a second. Um It's not quite as clean and clear as we would like it to be in that regard, but as a very common perspective and it's certainly a healthy view. Even if it's overstating the point, it's a healthy and important point. And we should definitely check things against the Bible. It's just a little bit of an overstatement to say that the scripture teaches that nothing should be added or subtracted from the finished revelation of God's word. Even those who agree with that as a finished point of view, as as a that is their point of view, uh A lot of uh people who agree with that would say the scripture doesn't doesn't clearly articulate that that's absolutely the case. Uh anyway, that's a s that's a topic for another show. It's certainly true about Revelation, uh the book, uh, the Revelation, uh written by John, and it is the last book of the New Testament. It's certainly true that in that particular book, Revelation that nothing should be added to it. But whether you can ex uh extrapolate that and apply it to all sixty six books of the Christian Bible is uh Is questionable. Anyway, I've got a bug down there. So back to the letter It just makes sense that since you as a Mormon, he's writing this letter to a particular person, since you as a Mormon acknowledge that the Bible is the Word of God, that you should logically test any and every teaching that comes along claiming to be from God, by using the oldest and accepted revelation from God as the key. Basically they're saying take with Joseph Smith and bring them young and the subsequent Mormon prophets. uh teach, particularly in the Book of Mormon, the Pearl of Great Price, that sort of thing, and compare them and when you do, you're gonna find some some doctrinal problems. Um Let's see what we skip ahead. From Joseph Smith right through the current Mormon president, uh it has been taught and accepted that the traditional and historic Jesus was not the Jesus of Mormonism. Would you like the quotes by them, complete with footnoted references? And then they provide a bunch of them below. Interesting. I thought I I d uh I'm not going to cite them all now, but uh I mean that would take forever. I find it curious that this is something that no Mormon missionary has ever asked about. I have ever asked about this has ever known. Hm. Well, I guess I should probably try to cite uh in a minute I'll try to get around to citing some of these so you can look them up if you want. There is no way to gain God's favor, salvation, and eternal life other than through the shed blood of the Savior, the real Jesus. Uh-da-da-da. Please read the scriptures and then read Paul's warning to Timothy in 1 Timothy 4, verse 1. But above all realize that there is only one authentic Jesus. Do you have the right one, or one of the many counterfeits that Satan through his demons is perpetrating upon people today? My best to you, because the real Jesus is alive. Hmm. Alright, so here are some uh Here are some quotes from uh purported to be Mormon sources. All right. So this is from uh Apostle Orson Pratt in Journal of Discourses, volume 13, pages 62 and 63. The appointment of Jesus to be the Savior of the world was contested by one of the other sons of God. He was called Lucifer, son of the morning, haughty, ambitious, and covetous. of power and glory, this spirit brother of Jesus desperately tried to become the savior of mankind. Uh from See this from also uh uh excuse me two sources. I'm a little confused. That might be from Hunter, The Gospel Through the Ages, page 15, which is also cited, I guess, by this Orson Pratt uh journal um reference. Lucifer, our elder brother, who desired the glory for himself, stood up and proposed his own plan. This is from Pearl of Great Price, which is considered one of three inspired books by Mormons. Anyway, so I'm going to stop there. That's enough to make the point of what this person's trying to say. They say, look, it's a different Jesus, because you're claiming that it's a Jesus who's not the son of God, but one of at least two sons of God, and that he's on an equal footing with Satan and uh Lucifer. And if that's the case, well, does that mean that uh Lucifer, which is uh who is, a created being? Uh if he's the same as Jesus that means Jesus, the Son of God, the eternal Son of God, is a created being. Right there you have a fundamental foundational difference, uh divide between what's the word I want to use, classic, uh orthodox, uh Christian view, and Mormon teaching. Anyway. Let's see. Here's somebody that wrote a letter. I'm going to read it to you. This is back before I was taking whatever you uh send me and posting it on the blog. So I saved this to read on the air and never got around to it, so I apologize. says, Troy, you are my kind of guy. A radio salesman slash theologian and for good measure reformed. I have a friend who uh was a former Bible professor at a Christian college. He holds a similar view about original sin, which is to say that it is passed to the human race Through the Father he notes that Adam was first both man and woman until Eve was taken from his body. He has an interesting view of androgyny and goes a little further biologically than simply seeing Adam as male-female when created. This is self-evidently a little off the evangelical table, but he comes out of it thoroughly evangelical in his doctrinal positions. The view that original sin is passed through the Father is actually Luther's position. It addresses the problem of Jesus' sinless nature, even though he was born of a woman. My friend also has an interesting take on the seed of the woman in Genesis and the virgin birth. Too much and too heavy for this moment, but maybe one day we can toss it around a bit too. Thanks for the interesting thoughts about the reformed position on circumcision and how it relates to women. But I remain baffled by it. That too is probably a good subject for another day. So there you go. Yeah, it's uh case you're not talking about uh federal headship. Uh uh if if you want to kind of look into that, what that means about uh the sin being passed down from uh from Adam. You can go online, find some books that talk about the federal headship of Adam. There's some great resources out there to help you explain what's referenced here in this email. Anyway, it's nice to get that email from Tom. Let's see. And this was a response, I guess, that I might have sent to Tom if I'm reading this correctly. He said, I'll share with you my response. And if it gets uh too personal, I'll just stop. Hello, Tom. You remind me of a theological discussion the other day regarding the covenant sign of circumcision, what it meant for women. Um See, I spent time researching the question. So here we go. Some Bible commentaries. This is a uh this is a quote that I took from Christian Apologetics and Research Ministry. Some Bible commentators, with whom I agree, hold the position that the sin nature is passed down through the Father. Support for this position is found in the fact that sin entered the world through Adam, not Eve Remember, Eve was the one who sinned first, however, sin did not enter the world through her, it entered through Adam, Romans 5. 12, which says, Therefore, just as through one man sin entered the world into the world and death through sin, so death spread to all men because all sinned. The concept behind this is called federal headship. There we go. This means that a person, a father, represents his descendants. We see this concept taught in Hebrews 7, verses 9 and 10. And so to speak, through Adam, even Levi, who received tithes, paid tithes. For he was still in the loins of his father when Melchizedek met him. We see in Hebrews that Levi, a distant descendant of Abraham, is said to have paid tithes to Melchizedek when Abraham was the one offering the tithes, not Levi. What this means is there is biblical support for the idea that the sin nature was passed down through the Father. Since Jesus had no literal biological father, the sin nature was not passed down to him. However, since he had a human mother, he was fully human, but without original sin. Jesus has two natures, God and man. Colossians two nine says For in him dwells all the fullness of deity in bodily form. Jesus received his human nature from Mary, but he received his deni divine nature through God the Holy Spirit. Therefore Jesus is both God and man. He was sinless, had no original sin, and was both fully God and fully man. Here's what I'm going to say about all that. That is interesting philosophical discourse. And interesting uh Now, philosophical discourse is just that. Not necessarily theological truth. It does provide an interesting theological take, and that might be the truth. But the Bible doesn't explicitly say that. And so there's a bunch of implications that we're pulling together there. So I don't want to give the impression that that's exactly the way it is. But it's certainly plausible that that would be a way to explain how God um uh or how how Jesus was both man and human and was a human without sin. That is a way to understand that. It it's a logical uh kind of way, don't you think? By the way, this is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Oh, here's a no I'm gonna give a plug to a friend. Uh Dave Grieber wrote a book called The Lost Commandment. We had Dave on this show years ago, and if you didn't hear the show back then, you know what? Dave's an interesting guy with an interesting book, and he's a local guy, he's right here in Frederick. Um, so I'm sure his book's probably still available online. Maybe it's sold through Amazon. com for all I know. Go online, maybe Dave has a website, he sells it himself. Uh by the way, if given the option Try to buy from the author's websites themselves because the author makes the money that way and you know Amazon doesn't get a a big cut of it. I mean I'm sure the author appreciates when you buy it online from another source as well, but hey, if you're gonna buy it all the same and the money's about the same You know, help help feed the family of the guy who wrote it. So Dave Grever, The Lost Commandment. It's an i very interesting read. He's very thoughtful. If you run into Dave around town and you get a chance to uh to ask him his thoughts on things, uh I'm al always impressed by Dave. Let's see. Here's an article towards a reformed Israelogy. Ooh, I should give this to John Schweitzer to read. Can one be covenantal in theology that is believe in the new covenant community is spiritually Israel and as such is already experiencing in this age the promises of the prophets of Israel, and yet Still maintain in some way ethnic Israel is unique? Let us consider how the term Israel is used. John, are you listening? The word Israel is used in many ways in the scriptures, yet all the uses are interrelated. It means he who has struggled with God. That's a literal translation. Ultimately, God is the one who has the right to answer the question as to who or what is Israel. He determines who or what is Israel, not man or men's traditions Here is a provisional list of some of the uses, just some of the uses of the word Israel in the scriptures. In Genesis 32, 28, the man Jacob. In Genesis 46, verse 8, 48, verse 28, also in Exodus 1, verse 7, it refers to Jacob's physical descendants, the Jewish people. Refers to all Old Testament believers in Exodus chapter 12, in Deuteronomy chapter 23. Refers to both Jews and Gentiles in Numbers. 15 verses 13, 14, 15, and 16. Numbers 15, verses 13 through 16. Also in Ruth chapter 1, verse 16. The word Israel is also used to refer to the the land. Uh in uh Joshua 1116, 1 Samuel 13, 19, Matthew chapter 2. It's used to refer to the northern kingdom. See Isaiah chapter seven verse one and chapter nine verse twelve. It's referred to the citizens of the north. See Isaiah chapter nine verse nine fourteen, Jeremiah chapter three. Refers to the spiritual remnant among the Jewish people. See Romans 9. 6 maybe. 11. 1 maybe. 1126 maybe. Refers to all who are the Messiah. See Ephesians chapter 2, Romans chapter 4, Romans chapter 9. Romans chapter 11, Galatians chapter 3 and 4 refers to Israel does the ethnic or political Israel. You can see that in Isaiah chapter 19, possibly in Acts chapter 1, verse 6. Israel is certainly one of the nations in Revelation chapter 7, verse 9. The Messiah himself is referred to as Israel in Matthew chapter 2, also in Galatians chapter 3. You can see actually in Isaiah chapter 49 for that matter. So there are a number of possible scriptural meanings of Israel. But is there a most ultimate meaning of the word Israel? There is. It is Messiah himself. For all the promises of God have their yes in him. Jesus is the ultimate seed of Abraham. So Jesus is the ultimate Israel. And everybody who is in Christ is in Israel. Does that make sense? That was my a little aside there. Back to this article, and then I'll wrap this up. If the Messiah has a supreme right to the name Israel, then all who are in him also have that right, since we are joint heirs with him. See Romans chapter 8. Indeed, this is what Jesus gained in redemption, that the blessings given to Abraham might come to the Gentiles. God can raise up sons of Abraham from the stones if he wills. What else Can Ephesians chapter two mean? We are clearly told that Gentile Christians formerly had been excluded from citizenship in Israel and now, through the Messiah, are now fellow citizens. If Gentile believers are no longer excluded from citizenship in Israel, that means they are included in citizenship, that they are included in citizenship in Israel. It's that simple. How could anyone deny that this is the clear and obvious meaning of the text? I agree. John Schweitzer disagrees with this, and he's thoughtful about it, and he's articulate about it. I think he's thoughtfully and articulately wrong about it. But uh we've gone round and round off the air. We we've talked about it a little bit on the air, but I'd say We've been doing this show for over ten years. The first five of those years, maybe f yeah, maybe a little bit more than the first five of those years. Probably the first seven years I've known John. Let me put it that 'cause I knew him for a few years before he did the show. The first seven or eight years I knew John, our discussions were almost always loaded down with discussions with with the issue of um classic Calvinism versus classic Arminianism, uh the sovereignty of God versus um uh human free will. Uh does God save? Does man save himself? Does does God choose the person? Does the person choose God? Those sorts of questions. We would wrestle and wrestle and wrestle and wrestle. And I guess we wrestled those to a standoff and we've moved on. And now it seems like we spend a lot of our time off the air when we do have a chance to talk and about things. We end up talking about the what does it what does Israel mean? What does it mean when we talk about Israel? Anyway, I'm getting hoarse, so it's a good thing we're almost down to the end on this show. Because I don't know if my voice is going to hold out much longer. Let's see, what is this that I'm saving? How to defend creationism against evolution. Hmm. What does it say? Step one, tell your creationist friend to remember that faith is the evidence of things not seen. On the other hand, science deals mostly with things that can be seen, felt, touched, or in other ways, objectively observed. Uh yeah, but it's not blind faith necessarily. So Ask which biblical law or verse explains gravity. When creationists tell you that evolution is only a theory of mind and that much of the science propels the space shuttle into the Stratosphere and back to Earth is theory. No. You know, it's a fact that the shuttle went down and came back. But anyway, in science a theory is a complex series of facts that have been tested through experimentation and observation So you mean to tell me that evolution has been uh tested through experimentation and observation? Which scientists were around to watch evolution unfold? That would be my question. Forget about missing links. The idea of a single transitional fossil link between apes and humans actually came about as a result of a nineteenth century hoax by an amateur archaeologist associated with Britain's Museum of Natural History. So that's interesting. They're they're admitting, don't even try to talk about that. That's a hoax. They're they're giving that ground. Good for good for this person and to ign acknowledge that. Remind your creationist friend that every world religion has its own creation story. People believe in evolution do not necessarily subject religious text to scientific standards of proof. You know, the fact that all different uh um cultural traditions have their own creation story to me is an argument in favor of there being a creation. Even non-Christians, non-Jews, non-people of the book of the Old and New Testament have a story about their creation. Maybe it's because I don't know. It actually happened and we've all passed down through our various cultures of the stories of that creation. Anyway. This is long. Holy cow, how many pages of this did I print? This has to be twenty pages. Why would I have possibly printed that many pages? Most of it's not even interesting. Oh well. That was so thick it was hard to crumble. Let's do one more. What do we got here? One more Uh da da da da da Oh, this is the Avatar. I still have seen it. It's in my queue to to to to watch. Um but I haven't watched it yet. But the Vatican came out against Avatar. Be uh apparently because everything is reduced to an overly simple uh anti imperialistic and anti milit militaristic parable Um so interesting. I know it was very popular, people love that movie, but they movies have an agenda, so keep that in mind. So if you watch Avatar, what is its agenda? Well, the Vatican says that Avatar is wooing audiences worldwide with their dazzling landscapes and nature-loving blue creatures, but it's got some flaws when it comes to a theological point of view. Uh so they're trying to set the l record straight. So be warned. The movie is simplistic and sappy, uh with these special effects that might have you thinking more about uh I don't know, maybe the the divinity of of the ecology or something along those lines as opposed to the divinity of God and um Let me see. If you don't do this already, find out what your kids are watching. Watch it yourself. Watch it with them if you can. But if if they watch movies that you didn't know they were watching, oh what was that? watch it. Find out what sort of worldview is is being uh forced upon them by these directors and producers. Every movie has a point of view. If it doesn't have a point of view, there's no movie to be made. I mean seriously. It's an expression of something. What are they expressing? Their point of view. They have something to say. Everyone has something to say. Pay attention to what they're saying, what it means. Judge it fairly. Could they be right? Does it mean that something I've held to be true for so long might be wrong? Be fair. Give them a fair hearing But really listen. Give them a hearing is my point. And then help your kids figure it out. Thanks to our sponsor, Putman Fleming and Heating, helped me make you smile. What have I been reading? Forbidden by Ted Decker. Everything by Ted Decker is good. Till next week. God bless.