Welcome to the Bait Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Thanks so much for spending part of your day with us. We do not take that for granted. Whether it's live on the radio on Sunday or if you're listening to us via pop podcast, uh We very much appreciate your support on this show. I'm Troy Skinner, the host of this show and the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Of course you can connect with the Faith Debate at the radio station's website as well, at WFMD. com. And we have an esteemed guest on the panel again this week. His name is Dan Cox. Maybe you've heard of him. I don't know. He he gets out every once in a while and he has signs out there. There was a story out there years ago that he was peeing on signs. Maybe we'll ask him about that. I don't know anything about That story. Yeah. That was a story that people were stealing your sign and so you were gonna pee on 'em so they wouldn't steal them anymore. Fake news. I was gonna say that was like a kicker question at the very end, but we got it out of the way now. Anyway, that's Dan Cox. Uh you can f sign about his uh candidacy to represent the uh sixth district in in Maryland for the United States House of Representatives. uh coxforcongress. org. Uh Daniel Razvy, you can connect with uh him and uh the church that meets at Imran's house through uh conqueredbylove. org. And David Forcy, you can only connect with him through me. Sorry. I'm like his gatekeeper. I'm his secretary. I'm a glorified secretary. So anyway, uh Dan Cox has uh he's been a delegate uh in the state of Maryland. He ran for governor uh last cycle, uh was the re Republican nominee i i in that race, and now he's running for what was David Trone's seat in in Congress. And uh I want to talk about things specific to the race a little bit uh before th things are out. But we had some things that came up at the at the end of last week's show. So we'll start there. You talked about this very a little bit at the end of the show last time, Dan. you know, we've had a massive shift in the conservative movement. I don't want to say the Republican Party necessarily, but just the conservative, patriot minded Americans massive shift over the last several years where in two thousand sixteen you had such an overwhelming support for conservative ideas that even Amish, who never voted in the election uh we're turning out in tens of thousands to vote for Trump. And we've gone from that a complete one eighty such that there's so many jaded people now because of belief about cheating that went on or whatever, rigged and so on. There there's and people who believe rightly or wrongly a whole list of things that go along with that that are very patriotic and have always voted in every election for the last fifty years. Who have now vowed to never vote again because there is no point 'cause it's all rigged and it's all a a farce and it's all just a game and and it's all predetermined and wh why would I even bother? You know, I should just if I'm a Christian I should be still preaching the gospel and trying to build his kingdom that way, but why would I ever want to be involved in politics or vote again? And so y you have that I think I I think is a very large portion of conservatives who feel that way, who may be agree with you on every single issue, but think there's no point at all. So what what would you say to those Especially those Christians that that kinda feel that way. But just an anybody that that's more of a conservative mindset that it's kinda jaded right now. Well it's a fair question, but I would say that uh think of their children and grandchildren. Think of the fact that the Constitution has stood for a very s uh short amount of time. We haven't been around very long as a country. And countries that have stood firm and have come through severe trials. that are still upholding certain values that we would also want to uphold for our kids, uh didn't you know throw have their people throw the towel in uh completely. They might have had some of them might have had to escape And that's how we got America. But at the same time, think of their families that stayed back that continued to carry on and they have won the day. I think when you look at our Constitution, if you do nothing, you are allowing, like I said last week, the communists that wanted to destroy this country, to light a fire to that constitution. And if you do nothing, if you sit down and and you just simply shrug, uh this is not a game. This is not the WWE. This is your children's future. And we must, if we care about the, especially as Christians, about the mandate to be a salt and light. If we are going to obey Christ, then we must be involved. And the the way to legally be involved is to vote. And yes, uh there might be accusations that were not there yet, and I agree with those because look I have Indian friends, by the way, we had a very large and we still do have a lot of great Indians for Dancox, as well as other Asian Americans for Dancox. And they tell me they they've escaped China, they've escaped India, uh, or come from India, and they tell me they don't want America to become um uh uh you know, trampling upon the rights that they love here because there's no caste system. But one thing they brought out to me that was very interesting Well as they said, but here we are in India with what, um a billion people or more. One point five billion. I you can't remember the exact number, but it's a large number of people. And we don't have these vote fraud issues that you guys have, that America has. Why? Because we have voter ID. We have uh even I think they take fingerprints when they vote. I mean they're really, really strict per vote And look at France. You know, they have in person paper ballot hand counting. Look at Canada, same thing. Why? Because they know that shenanigans will happen if you especially use electronics. It's very easy to manipulate. And they don't want um foreign entities or uh alleged um three letter agencies accessing their voting machines so they go hand count only. We need to get to that, yes. But we don't get to that by sitting back and pretending that we're a pious Christian on our little couch. So is there a third option? I mean, because there are people that say, Well, it's it's already over. Nothing I do will ever make one thread of difference. And then there's other people who say, Well And no, I mean, there's isolated areas but, you know, you still should continue to fight and hopefully it won't get that bad as you say it is already. Is there a third option where like even i even if it's it's kinda too late that it's still worth doing something or trying to do something? I mean it's it's definitely w I mean our country's worth fighting for. I I was amazed at the thousand year history of Christian civilization in in England. Not perfect. Severe problems. Um and Oliver Cromwell, who's somebody I I would disavow on certain issues, particularly his hatred for Christmas. Okay, I'm a big Christmas fan. But Where holidays for you Where where is he buried? He's buried Westminster Abbey in a prominent location. Interesting. Where is uh what are the statues around Parliament? Very interesting. There's one major one. Oliver Cromwell with a lion at his feet, pointing to the lion. Why do the Brits do this who disavow some of his, you know, anti-religious policies? Because he was not a religious freedom guy like I would be Uh why why do they appreciate some of the things I think it goes back to the fact that it gave Parliament and the people a sense of ownership of their own government. They had had enough of these kings that were raping, pillaging and destroying and using their so called divine right of kings to hurt and kill people. Innocent folks, children even. And they were tired of it. It didn't matter anymore to them. And they came to the point where they established the Magna Carta by law and and they have Come through thick and thin. And so what I'm trying to say is over time they organized and they made sure they kept and upheld the law And it wasn't always perfect. It's a lot of times messy. We're in a messy stage right now, but we need to uphold the law and the Constitution and we do that by organizing. We do it by making sure that we elect people in our local towns that honor the constitution. I mean how many of us maybe ign you know, forget that, that it starts local. And I'll never forget, I mean I had the privilege of of serving as a town council president and I that was my first experience to be involved in local uh government and I realized wow there's a huge huge amount of influence and wasted taxpayer dollars if we're not careful that local officials can can take charge of and within their jurisdiction They have a tremendous ability to bless the people that are there. And so, I mean, we we were able to fix things without raising taxes. We did a lot of good And I learned a lot in that r experience, realizing that it's not just, you know, some boogeyman in Washington. Sometimes it's it's your local councilman. I think people forget that. They you know, they assume, well, okay, well the presidential election is all rigged as predetermined Well what about school board? I mean it it it's gonna be a lot harder s uh to make the case that every single local jurisdiction in the entire country is predetermined. Right. Like that would be a lot bigger of a good space. But there are concerns and and and accusations about that too, because of you know th all this absentee voting that takes place, so you can you can you can drop a whole drop a whole block of votes in and they can just keep counting until they get as many as they want and they're I I who's who who's to say how many of those you can prove? Mm-hmm. But I think you'd have to be an absolute idiot to not think that they haven't accomplished that in some way somewhere at some time. And we live and here's a b the bigger, the broader issues, the kind of thing we often talk about on the Faith Today show. We I'm persuaded that we live in a uh now live in a post-Christian, post modern, post-constitutional country. And I say it in that order because I feel like that's the way to really solve it. You know, Adams famously said that, you know, if you don't have a religious and moral people, the constitution's not gonna work. And we live in a post Christian environment right now. So we've got to be better at we God converts But we've got to at least get people steeped in biblical language, biblical ideas, a biblical worldview, so that it becomes part of the we used to talk about he's got no common sense. Well Common sense is biblical sense. And so it was common because everybody learned how to read by reading the Bible. So that what they were familiar with. It was it was the common you know, vernacular of the day. It's not common anymore. And so now what pass what passes for common sense now is that men can be women, women can be men. Right, you know, if we can redefine marriage, all those sorts of that's become the common sense. But we need the church has to step up so that we become less postmodern and get back to reality. So that then a legal document like the Constitution can have some teeth. I I I'm I'm hearing what Daniel's laying down there. It's very frustrating. You see it in the numbers. Right? There have been a number of special elections over the last few years. Voter turnout on the Republican side has been horrible and so they lost all these ballot initiatives and stuff. Uh twenty twenty two, a lot of people expected a red wave. It it didn't happen because rotor turnout was so low. You look at the primaries so far, the w well they had weather issues, but still The turnout in Iowa was four. Well it wasn't the point where they don't have to cheat now because the Republicans are already showing up. And then in New Hampshire the the the actually the the uh the the the votes were up. But if you back out the Democrats across lines to vote for Nikki Haley, the the Republican turnout was down. So it's depressed everywhere. Except I'm sorry. No, go ahead. Where's the accept? Without getting into the weeds, um That's true in certain areas, um, but not where there's voter uh ballot protection, where there's sincere voter um uh protection going on and this is why we need to never give up the fight. Florida had one of the highest turnouts in the history of Florida in twenty twenty two. And yet Maryland allegedly had the worst since nineteen eighty or whatever it was. I don't I I'm not here to to um get into that debate, but I'll say this. When you have secure elections you see a much more fair field and I don't know why. But I do think there's some s significant problems that are happening that we need to stop and the way we stop it is we get engaged. And one of the you know Republican one of the things that Republicans have always said is to overcome the cheating. you have to overwhelm the ballot. And so when Republicans do stay home, this is why I'm so adamant that you gotta go vote When you do stay home, you're giving them the pass. They want to suppress their whole reason. Um the establishment in DC and or uh just the you know different um uh liberal establishments around the state of Maryland, they want Republican conservatives and Christians to be Pessimistic into stay home because it's not about whether or not we win. It's about whether we speak And remember, as Christians, the scripture is very clear that when we speak, it's acting, Paul says, like death to the wrongdoer. It sounds like uh something in their ears that they despise. And so if anyone is a God fearing person standing up on what is right The uh the enemies of all of that is good is going to be opposed to it and want to silence those voices, period. Um, that's that's why they uh intend to create pessimism. And and the game, you know, is to m out to out smart 'em and to get out and overwhelm the ballot. I mean, if you were to have every Republican vote And by the way, an interesting little fact in 2022, you said that we had such a low turnout in Maryland and it was like, well, well, you know, they don't have to steal it. They didn't have anybody show up. Guess what? We had the highest Yeah. And that's that's what it looks like on paper for the general election. But in my primary we had the highest voter turnout for Republicans in the history of governor races as far back as I could find through um any any race. So And not only that, the highest bif uh the the highest unity vote, because I got over fifty two percent in the primary. Yeah. Larry Hogan didn't come close to the less concern on the primaries because I think the Republicans are hopeful that those will be legit and there was a lot of motivation to not have Larry Hogan in address be our nominee for for governor and so there was a lot of energy uh in in that primary, that's that was my read on it anyway. It was a clear establishment candidate versus uh non-establishment candidate and that got everybody energized. So I get that, but then in the general it's like, well that's the fix is in anyway. But let's assume that it's that it's all well you think obviously you can win you wouldn't be running, wasting your time. So let's assume that we can overcome any sort of margin of cheating and all that sort of stuff and and it's good. Let's talk about the primary and and the election moving forward. There was some controversi I'm not on the end on some of this, but uh you can't help but notice that um Neil Parrot ran twice for this against Trone and lost and there was some speculation he was going to run again, but you're running. I don't know if that was preemptive to him Running if you had a conversation. Where do you where where are you and Neil these days? Well I don't know where Neil is these days. Um other than I did have a conversation with him. I actually spoke with him throughout the summer. and see what his thoughts were. Um he kept um saying that he wasn't decided and and he was just leaning towards he had a lot of business work he was trying to focus on. Uh he may jump in. I mean I don't really know. Um I talked to him Friday. He's gotta be getting close to the deadline on that. Yeah, the deadline I think is uh first week of February. Um by the time this airs, this will be air in a few weeks. And and I so I talked to him Friday and and it seems like he he may be um still he's still considering it. So I don't know. I'm not gonna speak for him. I do know that apparently he may have purchased a poll and somebody told me that a poll went out yesterday Um and he had said in his emails that he wanted to do a poll to decide whether he might run. And um that's fine, that's that's Neil, if that's what he wants to do. I'm not I'm running to wind. I'm not putting my finger to the wind. I'm running it as not only a Christian but as a dad who cares as this is the moment we have to stand up. It may not be long till we have uh continued decrease ability to even speak in this country. The way things are going. But I mean I'm talking about I'm talking about to the point of things we've never seen before, like Communist China. Where, you know, if you jaywalk they find you and they they delete your b you know your bank account or whatever they do. I mean they have some severe repercussions in there the way they track their individuals. We're moving to a digital dollar. We need to stop that. That's going to be done in two years if we don't stop it. They're moving to um a a system of um you know digital uh tracking of people's spending through that digital dollar they want to do a central a central Fed coin All of this has to be prevented, I think. Now, uh what happens if we if we if it all became if they push it in anyway because that's their goal, you know, they're all Uh they're gonna, you know, crash our system and shut down our constitution and remake America. That's what a you know, Obama announced that years ago. He's gonna remake America. Well It doesn't change anything. I'm running to win as somebody who believes in our values because why? Because these principles don't change, gentlemen. They're gonna be here tomorrow. I don't care if communism, I don't care if if dictator X rolls in here and controls us, we are going to fight for these principles no matter what, and we're gonna use all lawful means. And right now the lawful means is uh for me anyway, is to serve as a you know, hopefully as a servant in my law practice which I'm doing and then for me, this is my calling, you know, everybody has their own calling and fight. um and to serving my church obviously first, uh my family first and my church to um encourage and support the community and to make sure the gospel is being support um uh taught and And uh the next generation is catching the vision for why we believe what we believe, why do we believe in God, why do we believe in Jesus, and why do we believe in respecting individual rights? It's because God is our creator. You know, those are things that are bedrock principles that a lot of kids aren't even getting in our churches nowadays. I mean they can't even equate sometimes in our Sunday schools um the importance of you know, of politics and government is more about the social media. And so we are focused on that in our church. And then long term I think You know, my service in in government has always been simply because I felt like, well, if not me, who? I mean I've been involved here and there and And this is an opportunity and not many people know this. No not many not many people know how to run and to win and I've been there, I've done that. I mean, I've been working for you know, my congressman, I work for Alan Keyes, I work for um And various other uh elected officials and then, you know, I've won um I I was look I was researching the other day, I've won um seven elections to date, I think. So a lot of times people think, well, you know, you lost the big one. Well, maybe so, but if you're looking at it, we're running the win. But the win is not just the s the taking the oath of office. That's what I'm aiming for. But either way you win. if you're speaking the truth to to the power. Yeah, and I and I like that perspective. It's similar to some advice I gave to a friend of mine that ran for office years ago and trying to make sure he kept his priorities straight and it sounds like you are, so I applaud that. Uh Heath Barnes doesn't think he can win. He entered the race and dropped out. Uh and he has thrown his support behind uh Brenda Cham because he believes that she can win. Uh so I haven't heard him say he doesn't think I can win. He said he would support any Republican. When he dropped out he said he's gonna be announcing who he'd be supporting and when he did it's gonna be the person I think can win. So he chose Brenda over you, which tells me he doesn't think you can win. Now I'm not sure what support or not getting support from a log cabin Republican means or doesn't mean. I have no idea how to calculate all of that. But um I don't know. What's your response to his endorsement of what is probably um unless Neil jumps in, probably your primary competitor in the primary? No, Brenda's a sweet lady. She's not a um likely to be a strong competitor, I think. Um not anything against her. I'm not dissing her campaign, but um she's She's certainly a a wonderful lady. Um her husband is, you know, I know them both. Um she's never been elected before. Um so this is a if she gets elected, it would certainly be a first for her. And that's a detriment to everyone in the race. No one else has been elected. I'm the only official who's been elected, and not just one time, but I was elected town council, I was elected delegate Um and not only elected but they actually haven't um now Brenda did receive the nomination uh f one ti I think for the last delegate race. So that was a good thing. But I don't think she ha I'm not sure if she had competition I've been in heavy, heavy competition primaries and and have beaten all the Republicans. So I'm hopeful that that will help me um not only to just, you know, to get the nomination, but to to beat the Democrat. But Brenda is um is a nice lady, but she you know, she has some negatives. She's not gonna beat me in the primary because she voted for she's the only Republican that voted um to take away due process from police. And I said it with all respect, Brenda, if you hear this. God bless you, you know I love you. I give her hugs when I see her. She's a sweet lady. But she listened to the establishment tell her that in order to win her race in Hagerstown, she has to vote for the Democrat anti police package, which was horrific. It took away the L O B R or the Law Enforcement Bill of Rights And it took away their due process. There's no way um the sixth district Republicans will want uh to have that as a uh a method of representing them because what it demonstrates is that when the rubber meets the wheel, when the rubber meets the road, I should say, um there's a potential that your nominee Could end up voting against a primary core value you have. Well this district is very uh pro police, especially Well they have a g uh a great relationship with the sheriff. I mean he he gets elected overwhelmingly in the time when there's a blue wave in this county, right? Uh and and of course there's been a whole bunch of smear campaign against him recently. in the last several months and so on. But I I think he's still very well liked, you know, pop very popular in the county and and uh F Frederick County seems to be a fairly law enforcement friendly county. Yes. So that's that's a little bit of a different I agree. And I think um Brenda's a dear lady um but um that's a detriment there. And then you know some of the other people that are running they've never been elected. Um Mariella's a dear friend, but she's she supported the statehood of Puerto Rico, which is a Democrat mantra that Democrats would control the Senate. Uh ad infinitum if they ever get statehood and the Puerto Ricans don't want statehood because they get tax benefits. And the other guy running, I don't even know nobody knows his name, but he's not even in the district. He lives outside the district, but I digress. Carpetbagger's not welcome here. So we didn't have time to get any of this stuff, but I think you're on record supporting the idea of a flat tax. You're a big gun rights guy. You've m made mention of abolishing the IRS. Yay. And very, very pro-life. Pro life, um uh pushes back against the climate change narrative, uh very vocal about the uh the mandates during the whole COVID era of things, has has spoken against the CRT stuff. So there's a lot of good stuff there. Uh um maybe off air I've got one more thing I was gonna ask on there. I'm not gonna have time, but I am curious personally what the answer is, so we'll we'll do that after. Sorry. Those are some of the perks and Bennies of doing the show yourself. You know what I'm saying? Anyway, if you have a question for him, you can contact him and ask him if answer you. Absolutely. And you can do that at coxforcongress. org. org. And there's a form and I get those emails and I do review them. If there's a personal question, I will do my best um to respond. Awesome. And uh David Forcy, Daniel Rasby, thank you for being on the show as well this week. I'm Froy Skinner. You can visit us online at WFMD. com or my church's website, Household of FaithInChrist. com. Until next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com.