This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The fate debate is on the World Wide Web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with a master of Divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the faith debate master of ceremonies. Oh yeah. Troy Skinner. We all probably have our own view of what things must be like in European countries. As limited as the This view might be, we can still venture guesses as to the politics, the economy, the scenery, the religious climate. But what do the people living over there Think about us. What is their view of America, our politics, our economy, our scenery, our religious climate? I'm Troy Skinner and here to help me hold up a mirror to America. Or the husband and wife team of Scott and Susie Wezma. They are Christian missionaries to Albania. And uh to set the stage so that you know we can have some uh reason to believe your your insights you're gonna be able to share You guys back in two thousand seven started raising money to become missionaries in Albania and um uh all of your children have gone there with you and have been with you in in uh I don't think all four of them were ever with you at the same time, but all four have been over there. Correct. Uh and you've done it in in tours. So you raise money for a couple of years, you went over there for a couple of years, you came back for like a year I think and had to raise more money, and you went back for a couple of years, you came back for like a year, raised the money. Correct three years. Yes. And now you're back this year. Yes. And you're going back for four years. Yes. Correct. Um and if you were to go back again you'd go back for five years? No, no, no. Four is the maximum they'll let you go for a stretch of time. Gotcha. So when it's all said and done, you will have devoted, I don't know, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen years of your life to either raising money to go to Albania or being in Albania. Right. And by the time it's all said and done, you will have spent um how many years is that? Two, four, seven, eleven years in Albania By the end of this next time. By the end of the next time. Yeah. And you've already spent seven years in Albania. Correct. And you continue to have contact with them even though you're in the United States now. So you've you're you have a strong sense of what's going on in Albania, I'm sure They feel they must have a strong sense of what's going on in America. Right. So they must talk to you about America. They do. And they ask lots of questions. And so what are the things they ask? Well, uh many of the can I say males that I've spoken to or who have spoken to me and asked questions Um th America is their dreamland and many of them try to even ask you if you can if they can go back to America with you whenever we go because they want to get jobs there and they want to live there or they want to bring their family there Hmm. Uh so we've been asked that. We've been asked to try to get documents for them. Uh can we help get visas for them? It can look really easy. Our immigration system is is is well oiled. Absolutely. It works well No, actually there I believe there's been an improvement in that because I know a couple of Albanian ladies that had just gone through the process, they filled out the paperwork, they came for a month to America, it was on the East Coast and They spent their time here, had a wonderful time, and then returned to Albania. So I think the process at this point, I'm guessing, could be a little bit easier, it sounds like. But certainly They think America's the dreamland. Uh and you had mentioned, I believe, Trump and they were really concerned, I would say almost can I borderline fear uh because they have a good relationship with America and they were concerned that America with Trump was gonna kinda turn their back or just not even view or look at Albania. Um because U America helps Albania from what I understand and see certainly military are military as far as what I understand help train the Albanian military. Uh from a businessman from what I've heard that America helps Albania uh with some business and I believe w I think with the stock market. Uh but anyway, financially America helps Albania I was trying to think of the other part that they helped. But there were at least three main factors where Albania excuse me, America helps Albania. Certainly going back into even their history with previous uh presidents that our presidents have stood up to assist Albania. Like Woodrow Wilson. We have like a statue of Woodrow Wilson. That's in one of the rockets. Really? Correct. How random. Yes. We have there's a whole street that's I don't think there's a statue of Woodrow Wilson in this country. Yes, yes. It's the whole like the corner, Shakey Wilson. Correct. And there's a school, I think believe named after him as well. Uh we have George Bush Street. We do. Really? Yes, he came to visit Albania before the bread shop that he went into and they just love you guys. They do? Yes, they do. Just because of who we are. Yeah, well yeah. And and and then track your Americans just above. Exactly. It's bonus. Yeah. So they look at America as the dreamland. They do. But what is that dream? Like what what what is it that they think is so wonderful and exciting? What you know if they could put words to it. If I'm if I'm thinking in their mindset, hopefully in general, their thinking is getting the getting to America having a job, um, and either sending money back to the family or depending if they're married with children, getting their family to America, having a job, a house, a vehicle. and living their life. And again, if they perhaps have older, let's say, parents or aunts or uncles back in Albania, then sending money back to their family to help their family. And and and because there is such corruption and so on in Albania as well, the possibilities of finding jobs is a lot more difficult. And even education. Um there's been a lot of student protesting uh recently um because you know if it's one of those situations where you want a good grade, then you pay for the good grade You know, and and you get a job based on who you know, not on what you know. And so I think you see the fairness of being able to come to America. I've got my education, I can do this, this, and this. and being able to get an actual job in your career. And so I think they see it as as a definitely an opportunity. So is it their their understanding of from their perspective, everybody in America has a job. Everybody in America is wealthy. Everybody in America has a big beautiful house and a big beautiful car and a big beautiful wife or husband. I think that's probably good a a a a fair assessment of what people would see You know, um uh as they look at us, I mean we definitely get um American prices as we go into different stores and stuff like that. Once they hear you speak in English The price goes up. The price goes up And so that's definitely even within our our apartment we had uh something going on, the landlord came over. And um he had to call somebody to come fix it. He said, Don't I don't want you to talk while the the man comes to fix it because otherwise he'll charge me more money if he hears you speak. Wow. And so definitely it's a situation where Yeah. Uh huh. You hear foreigner, you think they've got money. People don't mind stealing from you because well you can just buy another one. I can't. So why would you not give this to me? Right. You can get some more and I you know and so Actually you told a story about giving uh somebody oh uh It was blankets. Blankets, yeah. What was that story? Yes. There was a flood in one of the cities. Yes. And uh and one of the aid organizations we work with, the Convoy of Hope. um, in Europe gave us money to buy blankets and food and and we bought that for some of the people that had uh suffered damage, a lot of damage in their homes. And one of the women that were part of our church, she wanted to know where her blanket was. It's like but your house didn't flood. Yeah, but they got blankets. I should get a blanket too. But your house didn't flood. Yes, but they got it and you know So this mindset of like, well you have it, you should give me some of it. The sense of entitlement, kind of lots of jealousies, I guess. Yeah. And she actually left the church for a time. Fortunately after a long time she came back. But she did leave the church. She was upset. So are their opinions of America largely formed by what they see in the news or largely formed by what they see coming out of Hollywood or That could be a mixture. There's they certainly watch their music videos, they certainly see movies. Uh many times I talk to men even simply as getting gasoline from our vehicle and you know uh a man young man who asked me about me going or him going with us, you know, to America to get a job. Uh if I can help him in any way and they they in general they believe that Americans just have the money. You're American, you have the money Uh thinking of that even prices uh think obviously they're in liters for the gasoline, uh but the equivalent would be about uh seven dollars a gallon. If we convert that now that's significantly more expensive than here. That's like, you know, three plus times more than American prices. Yeah. Correct. So is that true for All goods? Are everyt is everything there like three times more expensive than anything? I mean like a fresh loaf of bread is will run ya like seventy five cents. Oh. You know. But it's only good for about two days. 'Cause there's no preservatives. Everything's fresh. So it's healthy then. It's healthy. Yeah. And warm and amazing and yes. And the fruits and vegetables are very reasonably priced. Um anything of fruits, vegetables. Oh my goodness, who pays five dollars for three peppers? So some of that stuff's a little bit of culture shock when we come back to America, some of the prices for things. And what about technology? Technology, you know, there I I I mean everybody's got an iPhone. You know, I mean everybody's got multiple cell phones. You know. Um we've gone and gotten dental things done and and some of the places we've g gone it's It's on par with everything in America. And their medical prices are cheaper then. Way cheaper. Way cheaper. So do they know that? Like when they're pining to come live in America. Do they realize that it would be to come here? Yeah. Oh yeah. I share with them because the men ask and I tell them prices. And I had one albany, I tried to tell them a price, but a speeding ticket here And it was so much more than he could think. He thought I was just he's like, No way, that's not ten dollars. Correct. I have paid ticketing ticket and it was ten dollars, which wouldn't yeah Well their money to our money is let's just say equal. Now in fairness to America uh and our economy, I mean the fact that some some things cost more means that businesses can employ more people and pay those people more than five dollars a day, like a lot of the You know, we don't have a third of our population living below the poverty line in the United States, so it's I mean there's that's part of how the the economic engine goes. Right. So um is there scarcity issues in Albania? Like are the are the grocery stores ever running out of food or No, not that I've ever discovered. The scarcity may be in the summertime with water, just natural drought. And so they reduce the amount of water that's given for a period of time? No. No, I'm just gonna say in general, I mean uh you have some bigger um chain stores, but a lot of it is mom and pop stores that are selling things. And things are just a little bit simpler there as well. We don't have as much of everything. You know, you you go in and you know, you can get your pasta sauce, you know, with maybe there's, you know, not as many varieties. You know, you come back to America and you s stand and you just stare at everything like Have you been to Redman's To where? Wegmans? No. No. So overwhelming. I mean it's like cereal treasures. It is. It's too much. It's sensory overload for me. I don't like going there. I mean people who love it love it for that reason. But I don't go there for that reason. It's like I Just give me some ketchup, okay? I don't need twenty-seven varieties of ketchup from which to choose. Right. But uh but as much as Albanians think that America is great, you know, is Scott mentioned we had some some ladies that we knew that came over to visit for a month just last summer. And when one of the women came back, she's just like, you know Like it was nice and everything, but I'd pick Albania. She says, you know, you Americans, you have nice homes But you're working all day long and that's all you do is work and you come home and you're tired and you can't do anything. Like I would rather be in Albania where, you know, we have time for each other and where we have time to sit down and have a coffee Like and not busy all the time. And is that they have the time because they don't have jobs or they have or the or the nature of employment is less demanding or rigorous and they have more downtime. I think it's just uh there's there's not that insanity to work So much. You know, I mean, like if you have a nine to five job, you work a nine to five job and then you're done. And then you spend your time with family and friends. Right, right. So It's not as as demanding, I think. So this is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner joined this week by Scott and Susie Wearsmo online at WFMD. com. So when they're paying attention to the politics, you mentioned at the beginning of this show that you know they were, you know, nervous about Donald Trump and they can jump on the bandwagon on that. A lot of people were nervous about Donald Trump. And and uh yeah And even today there are people who are nervous about Donald Trump, particularly in the Democratic Party. But even during the primaries, there were a lot of Republicans who were nervous about Donald Trump. And most of them are now supportive of Donald Trump, but at the time they were so everybody was a little nervous. Who is this guy? Right. Right. He's not a politician He's been this very big personality, high profile businessman, television personality, you know, guy. Like, what's he gonna do? Is he gonna you know, is he gonna blow up the world? Like people didn't know what to expect. And so I get that Uh so that's easy to to see how they would see that. But do they pay closer attention? Like do they pay any attention at all to the government shutdown? that took place, which is a huge deal here, does Albania pay attention to that and do they worry about what that might mean, like America's government shutdown? Like what is that going to mean for us? Or do they understand the differences between between the Republican Party and the Democratic Party or the Libertarians? Or do they How well informed on that sort of stuff? I don't think they're as as informed as as that. You know, as far as understanding the differences in parties and and so on. Yeah. You know, T V shows like Fox and CNN and MSNBC, they have they have that over there. They definitely have T V shows that are very much for the Democratic Party. They definitely have T V shows or T V stations that are everybody knows is more of the Socialist Party and so on. So And it's interesting because from an American perspective we're like, wait a minute, there's a difference between the Socialist Party and the Democratic Party. Right, right. I mean we have AOC now in the United States and she's basically, you know, almost leading the party it seems. And she's a admitted socialist and Bernie Sanders almost won the nomination last time and all that sort of stuff. That's interesting. That's actually kind of fascinating. Yeah. So do you have a sense of uh to what do they attribute the power and success of the United States. Do you think it's just some sort of fluky accident that America is this wonderful place that they dream of going to? Or do they have a sense of, you know, America's great because of this reason or that reason? Do you think they think about that? Uh you know what? That's an excellent question. If I answer that I would only be really guessing. I think they look a lot at the the World News and the President because the presidents over the history of American history are the ones that have been the influence um to help uh the alb the Albanian country as a as a people Uh but beyond that what would bring it about, they're probably just say the leadership, but again I'm guessing uh the leadership and more businesses that we have in in our country. You know, the well and the other thing too is I don't think that I don't feel like people understand how big America is as well. You know, you think Albania is always the in in terms when they when they compare it to, you know, the United States, they say Albania is about the size of Maryland And uh and so you know and Maryland is tiny. Yes. And so when the when you talk about America, I don't know that they can always comprehend just how big Yeah. Maryland's so tidy that when you look at a map of the United States, a lot of times the word Maryland is in the Atlantic Ocean with a line drawn pointing to the state. Exactly. Exactly. You know? There's not enough room in Maryland to put the word Maryland in there. Right, right. Yeah. So it's not so three million people um in kind of a tiny area. They have a military. They do. And they're and they're like our military, we're thinking in terms of geopolitical influence. Right. Right. We have to be the policeman of the world and be deployed all over what's the purpose of their military? Who are they afraid's going to invade them? Well, you know, I mean during Timeism they thought everyone was going to invade them And so they had seven hundred thousand concrete bunkers built all over the all over the country. That must be attractive. Yes, yes. And like little mushroom taps all over the place Um but otherwise, you know, I don't think that they have that mindset anymore. Um but they are part of NATO now and so they definitely, you know, are are part of supporting Uh but they're not part of the EU, correct? They're not part of the EU. They're candidates currently. Okay. So uh uh uh you know, in the process of it. and hoping to become part of the So do they have EU currency there? No. I mean well they use the Euro. Okay. You can you can pay in euro or you can pay in the Albanian lakh. Correct. Using larger amounts, for example your rent could be or if I pay enough, uh some gas stations will take euro uh for gasoline, which is considered preferable. Like if you give somebody a Canadian dollar. They like that's only worth like eighty six cents or whatever. Whether they prefer to get the euro or prefer to get the the Albanian currency I'm gonna answer that. Like if we're you're making a deal to rent a house uh or excuse me an apartment, for example, the landlords that we somewhat dealt with Would prefer Euroly because it has a higher value on the expensive rate. Right. And part of it too is a lot of the people that are renting out homes are living in other EU countries. Oh so they want their money in Euros, so then they have that because otherwise once I give it to them in lec, the Albanian leck, now they've gotta exchange it and they've lost money. So Okay. It occurred to me as um and maybe it's occurred to you guys too that um if you were i i if you get somebody who's enamored with America and they say, Oh, my dream is to be able to go move and live in America because it's I mean economic opportunity seems like it's the big driver, but do they also appreciate the freedoms? The freedom of speech, the freedom of a uh of religion, uh uh the freedom to ha to own property and have it protected uh by rule of law, the freedom to go, you know, vote and have hopefully a non corrupt government. You know, all the freedoms in this country are really probably the key to what has made this country uh thrive over the years, or they just see it as an economic engine. Right off I'm gonna say I'm not even sure if they think about that, all the freedoms that we have. Well I was thinking of even property tax. Once you own your house there, you don't pay property tax on that. Um and because communists fell uh they feel a lot more freedom to begin with. So the pendulum of society of culture has really swung to they s sense this freedom and they many times act on their freedom. Uh I mean they I think they see the freedoms to protest and you know, government isn't so big that they can't be brought down. Right. I think when communism fell that definitely gave them a sense of of power with that. I don't think they think about that stuff as much as just the fact of the finances that they can make. I'm wondering if there could be uh um a potential in with those people that are really excited about the opportunities that exist in America. uh t to take a moment and share with them well you know why that's possible is because America was founded on biblical principles right that that allow for certain freedoms right that aren't allowed in other forms of government. And because of those freedoms, it has economically flourished. It's flourished in other ways too, but it's economically flourished because of those biblical principles. And I'd love to talk with you more about those biblical principles. And then of course as you're talking about the Bible, you're pointing because the whole Bible um is about Jesus, you know. At least according to John chapter five and Luke chapter twenty four, the whole Bible's about Jesus. Right, right. Um and so as you're talking about the biblical principles, you could kind of get them to buy into the biblicism Mm-hmm. And then they get interested in that and then maybe you could talk more about the the the Christianity aspect. I don't know if that could be a strategy for some of those folks. Right. blessed is because they bless God and God blessed America and then Well, yeah, uh you could say that I'm not so sure I d that's the way I would say it. Okay. Because um You start getting into Manifest Destiny and uh and America as kind of a modern day Israel and you know, uh yeah, I so I I would be concerned about it being misconstrued. No, I think you're referring more to the like the Protestant work ethic, maybe. Yeah, the work ethic I mean that's that's huge. That's that's what uh that's really what pulled um Europe out of the out of the Middle Ages, out of the dark ages, and it's what built America. But that Protestant work ethic is based on physical principles as well. Um so anyway, I just struck me as that could be an interesting in maybe with some of those people. It could be and it would have to be somebody that understands enough English that we could explain it to them. Because I see if I can go back to the spiritual ground, uh in my eyes, it's still a point of getting them the simple gospel that they would understand uh and then once once they come to the Lord and develop starting to develop that uh relationship with the Lord, then explaining to them the work ethic. For example, some of the students that could be at the Bible college that understand more English uh and understand more of God and then explaining that can I say Protestant work ethic to them. And sometimes I have talked to them about look when you know, people over here can work, you know, fifty, fifty five, sixty hours a week uh and they're going and they're kinda half blown away like, oh my goodness. But in time, teaching them and them getting a true mental understanding of that work ethic. Yeah, we have about sixty seconds, so I don't know if you can answer this in sixty seconds. I think you can. I I'm sure on occasion you have people who will ask you about, you know, a and probably with an a a wagging finger ac uh of accusation at the church Oh comcause I'm bringing this up because of the financial economic stuff we're talking about. It's ridiculous that you as missionaries have to raise your own funding. That's nuts. Why doesn't the church just pay you a salary? So what what does what do you guys say to people who might have that attitude? Right. Um, that's I think one of the biggest part of of missions is, you know, some plant, you know, some sow some water, you know, that type of thing where everybody's got a part to do. And um us being able to travel around, we're able to share a message the Lord gives us. We can share about Albania, it brings awareness to it. And so uh more people that are able to just join and and pray for the Albanians and pray for us, we need a team behind us. Yeah, that's a good answer. I mean if you didn't have to raise your own funds you wouldn't have the traveling road show. Exactly. Exactly. People wouldn't hear all the things you have to tell them. So thank you, Scott. Thank you, Susie. The Wearsmas from Missionaries to Albania. This is the Faith Debate You've been listening to it on 930 WFMD, you can find us online at WFMD. com. Keyword Faith or the drop-down menu of the on-air shows Um thank you so much. Uh maybe we'll have you on again your next time you come back in in like four or five years. Thank you. Until then, and for you listening, 167. 5 hours from now, God bless.