Good morning. Thanks for spending part of your Sunday morning with us on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. Um joined this week. We were gonna be talking about something that uh David Forcey was very interested in actually and he couldn't make it so that we're gonna change some things up anyway. Uh probably it's uh it'll it'll be good that uh we change some things up last minute. That's always my favorite kind of show. Imran Rasby and Daniel Razby are on the panel again this week. They're with a church that meets up in Thurmont. The church is called uh church that meets at Imran's house. They have a uh not-for-profit ministry organization that's called Conquered by Love Ministries. You can find that online at conqueredbylove. org. And you can find me online at my church's website, Household of FaithInChrist. com. That's Household of Faithinchrist. com. And of course you can follow the Faith Abate at WFMD. com as well. So we changed things up last minute because as uh As they were walking into the studio, Imran was telling me how he had recently spent some time in D. C. And I said, Oh, me too! I spent some time in D. C. And I was just there, well, a as this airs, it'll it'll be like, you know, a month or two ago, but I was just recently there as we're recording this and Those who listen to this radio station uh and have for a long time would probably be familiar with David Barton. David Barton was been on he's been a guest on the Glenn Beck show for many, many, many, many years and uh he he I don't know, probably five, ten years ago came out with a founder's bible that uh sold a lot of copies, I think, and he's got a whole DVD series and online video series now probably D V D series sounds dated, doesn't it? Online video instructional series about the the the background and the history of America and our how our founders were good Christian men steeped in the Bible and all that sort of stuff and that's that's all good stuff. Anyway, one of the members of my church said, hey, you know, David Barton, he has an organization called Well Builders, and Wall Builders has uh like pat they call them pastors briefings And a couple times a year, uh, pastors are allowed to if if they can get to DC and for us it's kind of easy, you drive well, comparatively easy. No joke. Two hours in, two hours out, two days in a row, eight hours of driving round trip to go to this thing. That was rough stuff. And if you're not familiar with DC, it's easy to get turned around in that town. I mean it's it's a it's it's a tough road to hoe. Um pun intended? I'm not sure. Anyway, oh can I turn your mics on? There we go So um I was mentioning to Nerasby's uh my experience there and Imran said, you know, we should talk about this on the radio. I said, but we have these other things we're gonna talk about. He said, Oh we can get to that after we talk about this other stuff, because I think it's all kind of interrelated, so we'll find out if it is. So, first of all, are you guys Daniel, Imran, are you guys familiar with Well Builders, David Barton? Not really. Not really, but I I have heard of the Founders Bible and again it's patriotic, it gets your blood boiling, gets you all excited and interested in in our country and our Patriotism and all that stuff, and that's all good. But where does it lead and and what your experience there is is really what we're kind of disappointed with, the you know, is where does it lead? So I show up at this thing not really knowing what to expect. And it's kind of cool. I mean when I I I've been inside the Cap uh not on January sixth, but I have been inside the Capitol building. uh before. And so it's if yeah, if you've never been, it's a cool thing, right? Because it's historical and you've seen it on TV and it's kind of a fun thing. So If I had never been inside the Capitol before, I think that I would have been dobsmacked and wowed, like what a cool memory. So I'm not talking that down. But I gotta say, having been there before, it's like, oh yeah, I've been here before. It looks kinda familiar. They haven't changed it a whole lot since since I was here last. Um but so the really the cool thing other than the tourist aspect is they bring a bunch of legislators in to brief the pastors. And so during the um two days, uh if there's an evening and then there's a a day long portion the next day So over the two days, they ended I think they had like twelve or fourteen that were supposed to come and talk, if I understand correctly, but I think nine of them actually showed up. I get it, they're busy, they got things to do. dealing with a bunch of, you know, mindless pastors. So nine of them showed up and they you know they spoke anywhere from ten or fifteen minutes up to half hour, forty five minutes maybe in one case Um and so that was all nice. And they're talking about basically their intention, I think, is to give people like you, Daniel, and you, Imran, and me, Troy, and you listener, hope. America's not all gone. You know, we're a Christian nation founded on Christian biblical principles, and there's a lot of good still happening here here, and there's a lot of you know, good Christian men and women in the fight and we're gonna bring these people to speak to you, pastors, and show you, and you can be praying for these people and that sort of thing. And it's supposed to be encouraging and you should feel like, wow, yes. And you can go back and tell your congregation, man, there's hope still. And I'm driving home after the first night thinking, well I hope the second day is better. And I'm driving home two hours. Uh second day home. And I don't want to oversell this, but uh and I don't wanna sound like I'm just uh, you know, mushy emotional basket case, although maybe I am, I don't know. But I had to really be on guard and and try to convince myself not to be depressed. Because I was so discouraged. But but what I heard and and how I saw them handle now most of them didn't take questions, but some of the people who spoke, some of the congressmen who spoke, there was time for some questions. Um I had an opportunity to ask a question. I wasn't real satisfied with with the answer I got. And I wasn't satisfied with the answers that I got from any of them. And they I gotta tell you And a lot of this what I've said so far, Daniel and Imron kind of heard me share earlier. So this is new information for you guys. If I had gone to this even five years ago, certainly ten years ago, I would have been encouraged, I think. It's interesting. Right? I feel like my eyes have been opened to new things. you know, over the last five years that they weren't open to before. And so that that same song and dance that we've heard from the the GOP and the RNC all these years, you know Uh that you know, apple pie, baseball, you know, Americana, good republicanism. Empty promises. Yeah. And I'm telling you, it's all the sloganeering All the j all that Christianese and jingoistic kind of nonsense that really resonated once upon a time, at least in my life it did, and maybe it probably still does in a lot of people's lives. It just rang hollow because I was like, I've I've I've heard this before. My whole life I've heard this And I'm not a young man anymore. You know? Yeah, but you're also on the other side you're experiencing what's happening in the political world and how uh the it's really been weaponized and and going after people and you know what happened with january sixth and the craziness of it. So, you know, your eyes have been opened to what the government's actually doing. And then you're thinking How am I supposed to be encouraged if I n see w what actually is happening and with the empty platitudes these people are saying, they're not showing me any results, they're not really even showing me their Christhood, their their ability to be in Christ. Now I will say that they again, you know they they talk a good game, right? And maybe it's not just talking a good game. I only had a chance to interact one on one with with any of them very, very, very briefly, so that's not enough of a gauge to to get a read. But they knew all the buzzwords. They do all the things like if you're meeting somebody for the first time and you wonder if they're a Christian and after you talk to them for five minutes, you're like, oh yeah, they're probably a Christian. Or at least they're probably a churchgoer, right? Because they they know all the lingo And they they know how to quote key verses and things. I mean seriously, it was um one or two of them, I think it's possible they knew the Bible better than some pastors I know. But so what? The devil knows the Bible really well too. Like you know what I mean? And I was like, where's the fruit? And that's what I was hoping to see. I was hoping that they would say, Look I know you guys gotta be frustrated. I know as pastors you've got to be concerned. You're probably hearing the the the aches and the pains of your congregation, wondering what's going on in the world, and is there any hope for this nation? And I can tell you It's going to be hard, but we can do it because here's what's been happening. Here's how we've identified it and we're working to correct it and moving forward. This is our plan. It's going to be a five-year ten year, fifty year, hundred and fifty year slog, but whatever their plan would be, but this is how we're gonna get there. None of that. It was just the same there I don't think there was almost anything said during this wall builder's event. That couldn't have been said in 1995. Wow. It was all the same stuff. It's the stuff that W ran on. It's the stuff that Romney kinda rammed on to, to be honest with you. You know? But mostly uh it was it was that compassionate conservative evangelical George W. Bush thing. That's twenty years ago. Come on. Yeah, the lack of plan really seems to hit home. I mean there It's mostly reactionary. Uh it seems like the Republicans for the last forty years have been reacting to the left going further left, further left, further left And they have no plan of their own. Now Newt Gingrich had a plan and he did uh implement that and that went pretty well for a for a short period of time. But it seems like there hasn't been any leadership to have any kind of cognizant plan for five, ten, or fifty, or hundred and fifty years to really move this country in the right direction. There's nobody moving in the right direction. is that the laws and the government actions are not done by Congress or the President. The President has very little power. Congress has even less power to do anything. It's the staffers that work there. It's the bureaucrats that are career uh in government making the r they make all the rules. Yeah. I mean just just recently the uh um Uh DOL uh the Department of Labor in my industry for the r retirement planning, they just enacted this new six hundred page monstrosity of a rule. that will uh completely upend the financial industry and so there's g I'm sure there'll be a lot of lawsuits about it. But they worked on this for months and years. They've been trying to do this and there's no law that was passed. The Department of Labor just decided that hey we're gonna st um m make a ra regulate the way that financial advisors get paid even for things that Department of Labor doesn't doesn't have any jurisdiction over. And that's how that that the but is it's uh unelected bureaucrats that are making these decisions. The administration, you know, can be f if favorable or make it a little more difficult for bureaucrats, but there's not a lot that they can do. You can't just fire everybody. There's job security in the federal government Yeah, uh and I hear by the way, that's the voice of Daniel Razvy. Before that you heard the voice of Imran Raz Razvi. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. And I hear you. That it is I mean, yeah, it's it's a behemoth and these people they're unelected and they have jobs secured almost impossible to fire. Uh however, Congress, particularly the House Uh they have the power of the purse. So if you want to turn if you want to have that um that that albatross stop controlling everything Stop paying them. So they were oh we can't shut down the gov shut down the government. Let these guys all be out of work and go find another job in the private sector. And then we can start over maybe. Whatever. Have some will to do something. It's so frustrating. This is why I was I was hoping I'd hear somebody actually somebody did uh bring up the issue and it was in my opinion uh unsatisfactory way of bringing it up. One of the challenges we have but y you're right, Daniel, I mean, it's not as simple as elections because there's thousands and thousands and thousands and thousands of unelected people that are running the show. Even the staffers though, that they're the ones that write the bills. Congress votes on them. But the staffers tell them what to write on what to vote on. And then they're told how to vote Exactly. And then they're giving all this pressure, like, oh I don't think I should vote this, and then you know, seventy-five of their best friends show up and say, You gotta vote this, you gotta support this. Uh okay. Like that's that's really what's going on. They're not To be honest, like you you can't blame 'em. The bills they're incredibly long. Who wants who has time? Right? You could be a speed reader, you couldn't read all this stuff. It's impossible. But Um one of the challenges we have, if elections mean anything anymore, and that's debatable, um there are some irregularities uh that have occurred in the last at least a couple uh election cycles, uh meaning the two year election cycles. I I think the last one was a little bit weird and the one before that was clearly weird. I'm trying to keep us from getting canceled on social media here. Anyway, one person, one of the congressmen, uh actually addressed one of the nine actually addressed that issue, which is a huge issue. We talked about this on the show not too long ago, however, uh when Dan Cox was on and Daniel asked the question, like, what are you gonna do, Dan? People are depressed about voting. Like turnout's gonna be depressed because people don't think their votes matter anymore because they're just rigging everything anyway And so this congressman stands up and says, Now people have concerns about the elections and stuff. Now do I think the twenty twenty election was stolen? I'm thinking, Oh, this could be good. Let's see what he says. I don't think it was stolen. I didn't think it was rigged, but I think it was stolen. Wow. What does that mean? It means he doesn't want to be canceled. But what is the what's the difference between stealing and rigging an election? What does that mean? Well stealing is is is bad. Rigging is okay because they haven't canceled people that said it's been rigged But they have canceled people that said it's been a good thing. And this was yeah, and you know what? They have a rule at these meetings. You can take photographs No audio recordings, no video. So this is a off the record meeting, right? Mm-hmm. In that context, where he's talking to a friendly audience. He can't say look, you know I still no backbone. I couldn't be saying this uh 'cause I'd get canceled, blah blah blah, but in this room I can let you guys know what you already know. Yeah, I think we're still Now I would have more um what's the word I'm looking for? I w I I would I would feel better about a person saying, look I just don't think it was rigged or stolen. You know, I've looked at the data, I've analyzed it to now there were irregularities, but I don't think it amounted to enough to make a a change in the thing, and this is why I think so. I can think they're wrong on the facts But at least they're they've they're standing up for saying what they think is true. Right. And they have a backbone. That Oh, I don't think it was stolen, but I think it was rigged. Oh my gosh. So just To be to be fair to the guy, I don't know who the who the guy is, but I've heard of somebody uh uh uh uh uh Ben Shapiro, for example, on his show re recently has said something very similar honestly. Um and I disagree with him too on this 'cause I you know but he says, look, uh he doesn't believe that there was actual uh cheating of votes being changed, but he does believe that it was rigged in in debt uh the um all those laws were changed to allow all these mail in uh ballots and things like that went which very vastly favored Democrats. and all this ballot harvesting that was going on, which is technically illegal but very different than anything in the past, and they really pushed that through. And then the media was all in favor of uh uh of Biden and so on and so therefore All those factors were still stacked against Trump and that that's why it was rigged, but that doesn't mean they actually changed any votes. And he said maybe some votes were changed, but that is not enough to make a difference. Yeah, it's gonna sound arrogant for me to say this because Ben Shapiro's got a huge platform, he's a very bright guy and all this, but uh I I can only imagine he hasn't seen what I've seen because uh it clearly numbers were flipped. But whatever. Or the same problem is he has such a big platform and he's afraid to be canceled and and labeled and and ostracized Because so many people have. I mean even if you got a text from somebody on January sixth, they arrested you and and tried you. Come on. Somebody that wasn't even there got a text and they said no So how do you trust the government like that? Yeah. So anyway I don't want to make this an overtly J six political thing, but that was one of the things that was brought up. It's one of the things that people who who are quote unquote conservative, whatever that means anymore, uh quote unquote Republican, whatever that means anymore, the kinds of things that they are concerned about. Another thing that people who think like we do and believe like we do are con concerned about is abortion Right? The slaughter of children. We're worried about that. Definitely. And so during one of the QA's, uh I uh the I was actually probably the last I didn't think it was Quint. uh almost positive it was a coincidence. But I think it was the last question. Yeah, but I think that's a coincidence. I think 'cause I was la my my reason I didn't bring that up was I was kinda laying back. I th I don't want it to be about me. Um I'm not really feeling this the vibe of the room. Uh I didn't get to talk to all the pastors, I got to talk to a handful of them 'cause the they weren't interacting with each other was shocking to me. It was like you're in a room with a bunch of pastors Nobody wants to talk to other pastors. I don't I don't understand. Compare notes, what's going on in your part of the world? People were from all over the place. You know, Colorado, California, Oklahoma, um, Ohio, I mean all over the place. In fact I was the only person from Maryland, I'm pretty sure. Um but I'm so talking to 'em and my general sense is boy, I'm gonna get canceled by our listeners. Uh uh whatever, what do I got to lose at this point, what do I care? There's a certain flavor of Christianity that I've come to recognize as the TBN style. Trinity Broadcast Network. Yeah, that kind of Christianity. It's a different flavor than than um than others. Uh and I just got a sense that there was a lot of that in the room. Um but anyway, that aside I had a chance to talk to some of the uh talk to some of the pastors and I I got a read on the room and thought, you know, I'm not gonna ask a lot of c I'm not gonna ask questions, I'm not gonna make it about me. But I wasn't liking the questions that were being asked all that much Uh I wasn't liking the answers or getting to the questions. So I thought, well, I'll take a shot. So one of the congressmen was uh I don't I I'm horrible with the names uh of Out of state congressmen, but one of the congressmen from Oklahoma. And I don't know which one of them, because there's several obviously from that state, but Uh he was a state legislator for a while, uh for quite a while before he became a a congressman at at uh in uh in in DC. And so I thought, okay, I'm gonna ask him the uh you know kind of uh I don't know. A litmus test question, yes, but also maybe it could be informative. Like, I really want to know, like, why is it the way it is? Maybe you could help me understand. So my question was, you're from Oklahoma, you're in the state legislature for all those years. Oklahoma, I mean, it's got a reputation for being like truly conservative, buckle the Bible belt, right? It's it's red, red, red, red state. um overwhelming, like veto proof, overwhelming uh uh you know, uh Republican representatives at the in the legislature. I mean, they can do whatever they want. So why is it in a situation like that that a state like Oklahoma has been unable to make child sacrifice and that's how I phrased it. to um uh to make it uh to outlaw, as I said. How is it that Oklahoma's been unable to outlaw child sacrifice? That was the question. And he gave me I think it was like a seven minute answer and he kinda sort of tap danced and, you know, said a lot of fancy sound and political words, and like, wow, what a great answer. But he didn't answer my question. And that wasn't the problem with all the answers to the questions. To be clear. Very impressive words, but they didn't say anything. So your you know your question was why haven't they not made it a crime to kill your baby d such that the woman would be prosecuted also, right? Because In Oklahoma law does prohibit all abortion currently except for the life of the mother to save the life. Which is basically wouldn't be an abortion at that point. You just Yeah. Yeah, I'm I'm I'm uh an equal protectionist, right? I think that all humans should be protected equally, including those humans that are in the womb. Right. So what we're talking about is abolition of abortion. Yes. Which is different than just b banning it and saying it's a it's a misdemeanor or it's a fine or maybe the doctor gets punished. But we're actually we want it to be treated like murder. Now I know not everybody who listened oh I'm gonna have to uh c just be distracted for half a second here. Oh no, I got a minute. Okay. I have I'm taking your technical stuff too. I understand that, you know, everybody who listens to this show doesn't think like I do, like you do, right? But they should. And there are people who will listen to this radio station, at least in the past, I don't have access to the data anymore. But Uh back in the day, you know, about a third of the uh listening audience uh votes Democrat. I don't know if that's still the case, but it once upon a time was the case. There's probably still some Democrat voters that listen, you're like hating me right now. Okay, I get it. I'm not asking why California hasn't outlawed child sacrifice. I'm not asking why Maryland hasn't, right? I I understand. But help me understand Oklahoma Come on. Oklahoma. I'll tell you, it's the pro-life lobby. The pro-life movement does not want any punishment for the people who to commit abortions And there have been a number of bills introduced in in twenty twenty three across the nation in many states, not just Oklahoma. Alabama was another one, Mississippi, I believe. And there's uh several states the abol abolitionists introduced and they all got shut down not by the Democrats but by the pro life lobby. Well you heard what happened in Louisiana. Yeah, with Mike Johnson currently the Speaker of the House. Yeah, well okay that's well yeah. A as we're recording He's still the speaker. Yeah. Um Mike McCarthy, we might as well call him. I mean, they're the same guy. One of them claimed to have a biblical worldview, but they're the same guy. I don't understand. That's the point of my question. All about compromise. And the thing is there is no plan. That's what we talked about a little bit earlier. It seems like the Democrats have had a plan and they've moved the country continually to the left for the last hundred some years. And the Republicans have no plan. They don't even have a five year plan, let alone a one year plan or a fifty year plan. They have no plan to take this country back to where its roots are. They have no plan to protect the innocent. They have no plan but just to survive. And that's the problem. Yeah, by the way I in in fairness, uh anybody who hears what I just said a second is like, Well, what happened to Louisiana? So Louisiana had a chance to Abolish abortion. They had a bill. They apparently had the they were rallying the votes. It looked like it was gonna pass. They actually treated it like murder. Yeah. And the only way it wasn't gonna happen is if somehow the governor would get squeamish, right? But as far as the legislature was concerned, it looked like it was gonna pass. And right at that moment when it was gonna come out of committee and go for the vote, Mike Johnson called all of his pathis to serve in the Louisiana legislature. So he knows all those guys He started calling all the power players, all the power brokers and told he got a vote no. And he flipped a whole bunch of votes and because of Mike Johnson, the bill didn't pass. Mike Johnson! Biblical worldview, Mike Johnson! What is going on? Well, it would make his life more difficult than Congress and uh Supreme Court has that. It's never the right time. When is the right time to murder somebody? Yes, when is it the when is it ever the wrong time to do the right thing? Right? Anyway, so that's So we're going to pivot from this in next week's show and we're going to talk about what are the marks of a good church and uh and church and Christianity in general. We know that it's not what marks a good Republican these days, right? They're totally different. So we're gonna be pivoting into that next week. I think unless you have more you want to talk about on this subject, but I've I've invented I've shared my grievances. I'll just say this is what caused uh in in Roe v. Wade we lost the case uh in part because the court said you guys don't even think it's murder. You don't want to prosecute the woman. And so I think the pro-life lobby needs to get us back together and be abolitionists. And even after the abol uh the the ending of Bro v. Wade, the fourth leading cause of death in this country is planned parenthood abortions Fourth leading cause of death in this country. Even after. It's all pills now at home, right? Do it yourself, abortions. But anyway. Uh Imran, Daniel, I'm Troy. You or you, thanks for listening. Find us online at householdofate in Christ dot com and W Till next week, 167. 5 hours from now. God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com.