We deny the conformity to a given recommended course of medical action. Oh, have you this one already? No. This is new. Way to start the show off. I'm in the right place, and you are too. This is a Fate Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Thanks for starting part of your day with us here on a beautiful Sunday morning. I'm assuming it's beautiful. I don't know. We're reporting this in advance. So why don't I start over again since we're recording that? Because we don't do that. So we're uh working through the Warranton Declaration, I'm doing number twenty-nine, Article twenty-nine. We deny the conformity to a given Recommended course of medical action is made to be civilly or morally obligatory by appeals to an alleged majority of expert opinion. or available medical data. So that's the kind of lingo we'll parse that out for you and put it in more uh you know regular speak. Uh I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for listening to the Faith Debate. You can follow me online at household of faith in Christ dot com. And the next voice you hear is Daniel Rasbees. Hello. Oh, let me turn on your mic so they can hear you. There you go, say it again. Hello. There we go. Uh Daniel Rasby is the pastor of a church uh in Thermont area and um involved with a ministry called Conquered by Love Ministries online at conquered by love. org. And David Forcy, he's the next voice you'll hear. Hello. And he's also a pastor. He's got a church that meets in like a I don't know, like five or six different locations. They just it's like a rotisserie league. Uh it's like a traveling team. Right? Traveling league. It's like uh there have been years in the past when like It's like circuit preaching except it's circuit hosting. There you go. Okay. Yeah, there's been years in the distant past when teams like they had problems where they didn't have a home stadium or something and they just played all their games on the road. That's David Forcey. He's playing all those games on the road. Although sometimes it's at your house, right? Sometimes sometimes. Maybe maybe once or twice a month. Does that feel strange? What do we do at home? All right. All right. So anyway. Article Note 29, conformity to a given recommended course of medical action cannot be made a must-do. just because some smart people or supposedly smart people say so. That's what they're saying here. This really flies in the face of what dominates pervasively in the culture today, right? The The they're yeah, they call them experts, although they're not that smart and they're not always always the experts that they made out to be. So I've gotten in the habit of calling them the the credentialed class. They might not even be credentialed in the thing that they're claiming to be an extra. That's true. A strange thing. Yeah, you got a degree in like, I don't know, uh economics and you're making medical decisions, right? Yeah. Right. I mean we have humanity wants a god. They want gods. And if you don't have god you're gonna have somebody else to worship, and that's why we care so much what celebrities say. That's why we care so much what experts say. Look, you can crash the experts all you want, but don't you go picking on my favorite celebrities now. That's the that's the thing. It's a very pagan religion, right? Lots of lots of gods, lots of little g gods. Right. And and that's why you the people follow influencers, people follow celebrities, people follow I mean, the you s uh XYZ actor who's extremely talented at acting opens their mouth and says something about politics or about religion or about this or that and where he's Oh he's one of us like he agrees No. He doesn't have any any expertise on that subject specifically so he just Same as anybody else, right? So you don't but be people just assume because someone powerful and influential says something that you need to follow it. You know, b between sh uh last week's show and this week's show we had a conversation uh mostly Daniel and I, I think David might have been part of it too. We were talking about naivete of certain people in the public eye and that sort of thing. I gotta tell you though I was pretty naive. When this whole social media influencer thing started to become a thing, I don't know how long it had been a thing before I even knew it was a thing. And when I st when I heard it was a thing, I said That can't be real. Who's gonna pay attention to some knucklehead on a social media platform? There's they're not influencing anybody. And then my daughter taught she schooled me. She said, Dad They have like hundreds of thousands, millions sometimes of like people that follow them and if they recommend a shampoo or or whatever, favorite food or something, I mean it they sell a lot of products. They really are influencers. I'm like Really? People are that like lemming like? Apparently people are. Well, there's just a yeah, there's a there's a lack of I don't know, people people have a a lack of of who to look to to lead them. Are we influencers? We do the Faith Debate show every week. We have at least I don't know, the three of us listen, right? That's at least three listeners. While while we're talking, I don't listen after. That's true. That's true. So that might not count then. We might not have any listeners. That's true. So on the one hand you have the influencers and the celebrities who really don't have any expertise at all on the subject that they're talking about. They just happen to have a lot of people that watch them. And so they say something and everybody follows them. And want and want to be like them, I think. And they want to be like it. That's a piece of the temptation there. And then on the other hand you have the people that Do you have all these credentials and supposed experience or expertise in various subjects? And many of them have actually I mean not always economists talking about vaccines or Sometimes it is actually somebody who spent decades in that field and you may happen to disagree with them based on the data you read and whatever. But the the point is they actually do have experience and knowledge of the subject matter that they're speaking about. So they are experts. And I think you can't discount that entirely. You can't just say, oh well I don't want to believe anything any expert says. No. Take absolutely take with you know If there's a legitimate reason and you know, but you don't want to fall prey to the trap that you as the average person are too dumb to understand why somebody says this. No. I mean i you should be able to explain it so that any person can understand it in most most concepts. At least dumb it down enough that it makes sense and it's logical. Not everything is magic and uh and fairy dust, right? Although the science is not like that. There are certainly very very advanced scientific concepts that require extensive uh uh high mathematics and and all sorts of things and years of study to fully grasp just like there's in theology there's y you know, many huge treatises have been written on the the nuances of the Trinity and how is it possible to be three and one but a two year old and a three year old can understand that God is three and one. You can explain it to them and they'll get it. There's even been declarations about medical mandates and things like that. Yeah. So I I think I think you don't want to fall prey to either one of those two injecting all experts or following everything they say without just blindly. Be a Brian, search this like for a theology, search the scriptures and that kind of storage apply. I remember back you know when the whole thing started back in twenty twenty and people who disagreed with how I was understanding what was happening in the world. They really thought it was a mic drop moment. They said, Who are you to question Anthony Fauci, the world's foremost authority on such matters? And they're like My argument has just been won. It's unassailable. And I was like, what, he doesn't have any sort of uh political biases, he doesn't have any holes in his game, he's He hasn't been out in the field practicing medicine like maybe in his whole life, I don't know, but f if he ever did, it's been a long time. Is he a is he an expert data uh analyst? Is he an expert in all of those things? He's not He he's not the final word on these things, but no, he's the final word if you question it. And even Dr. Fauci himself, right? If you question me You're questioning science. I represent science. I am science. You know, so it it gets it gets a little bit crazy. Anyway. This is next you have anything you want to say something about? Well I you know, I I think sort of uh the biblical principle I think is comes out in in a particular proverb that okay, I'll I'll paraphrase it in my own words, but it's It it just says, you know, uh the the first person sounds right until the second person comes right and presents their case or questions them. And so I I think the Bible promotes uh the policy of trying to listen to all sides, find out all the information. And and then another thing that I think is is relevant here is we're just as human beings, we're drawn to uh we're we're drawn to the people who affirm what we want to hear. Confirmation bias is what they know the people and the and the people that that tickle our ears, you know? So People say that and they accuse us uh uh in i who have minority medical opinions of confirmation bias. Oh, you only want to look at the one study that if that affirms what you say. Well bother these hundred studies to show the other say other side And but it works the other w uh uh either way, right? Either whatever you want to hear, that's what you're gonna be most happy hearing. And you're gonna forget some of the things that don't quite agree with your own beliefs. And because we're the minority we are greatly oppressed, but nobody cares about our oppression. Our minority status doesn't count. Number thirty, we deny that an individual Christian's obligation to the weaker brother compels any Christian to violate his or her conscience regarding the wearing of masks or injecting a substance into their body. Such action may be regarded by Christians both as contrary to sound and loving health practices for themselves and their family uh specifically with masks which are worn visibly on the body, Christians may also have concern in their conscience about the message they believe wearing a mask sends to the world. They may regard the wearing of masks as bearing false witness, or as an unloving, tacit endorsement of what they see as uh propaganda surrounding their use and enforcement. upon their neighbor. I think you can apply this same passage to use of uh preferred pronouns or calling somebody by the name that they aren't actually um or shouldn't be called. I mean any and anything Uh i you can't say, oh well you're just loving your neighbor, you're just uh you know, uh you're uh uh honoring the weaker brother. No, at at a certain point You can't uh i i especially in case of sin, you can't just forgive or or uh y you know, that forgive is the wrong word. You can't just overlook and and not care about sin. And the case of what's gonna cause you harm and injury, I think that's a that's not good. You don't have any obligation to just lay down your uh for the weak weaker brother there. And why doesn't it work the other way? Why w why Can't the the the other party be the weaker brother? I I why can't the people who want to force the mask say, you know what, David, he doesn't want to wear the mask, he's the weaker brother, I'm just gonna You know, I'm not gonna I'm not gonna make a big deal about it. Why doesn't it work that way? Well Troy, y you're you're not a vegetarian, are you? No. But if if a vegetarian comes to your house and I like to eat meat. But if a vegetarian comes to your house and asks you, Can you please have a vegetarian dish for me, you might say, Oh sure, I'll I'll make this for her. But when you go to their house, why don't they serve you meat? Right. It's basically the same thing. Yeah. It it's it's the you know for fur foods. And I don't know why it doesn't have to work both ways. It if you're gonna be loving on one side, you should be on one. Now the last half of this really is speaking my language. Because this was this was a uh this I'm not making this up. This was a huge issue for me. This more than anything else is why I had a problem complying with putting some sort of covering over my face to go to the stores or do whatever. Because if they're actively I'm participating in a lie, I'm reinforcing fear in the minds of those that are looking at me because they think there's this horrible thing to be afraid of and I think that they're off their rocker for thinking so and they need to be rescued from that fear. We don't want people living in fear. And but all I'm doing is reinforcing that fear, messaging to them. I'm wearing that pagan talisman over my face. I felt like I was participating in a false religion, that it was i it was it was such a core uh uh conscience kind of issue for me. I um I end I w I uh personally I ended up two times uh having a uh a mask on my face. Never again. After th I was like, I'm I'm not doing this again. I am not doing it. It was hard to live your life. And if they come back or by the time this airs, maybe they've come back, uh, mandates for those sorts of things. It it's hard to to figure it out. But what do you do? If if you're if you're persuaded that to do so is to actually sin against your neighbor. You can't do it. R right? Right. Or you shouldn't. You shan't do it. So anyway, anybody have anything did you guys feel the same way at all? Uh well also you but you do want to be persecuted for the right reasons. Like don't d pick the hills you're gonna die on and you should be it should be obvious that when you're being attacked it's because you're And not because you like this specific thing that you want to do and you want to keep doing it regardless of what somebody else is gonna try to stop you. So if you can really tie the mask to uh witnessing as a Christian, then I say, Great, go for it. But you know, at at a certain point, just because you think something is wrong and unlawful and and and silly and and all that doesn't necessarily mean uh sometimes it's more important to I if if if it furthers the gospel to comply in certain situations, then you you do so. And I don't think it's necessarily going to be cut and dry for every believer that's listened to this. I I think one thing they said really early on in this statement, uh, when talking about how do you respond to authority that's overstepped its bounds. They, you know, they sort of laid out, okay, biblically, like sometimes it's okay to go along with authority that's overspetted's bounds. Uh there may be different reasons why you do that. Um but uh it's not it's not a princip there's not a biblical principle of no matter what, every time If authority oversteps its bounds, you tell it no and refuse, you know, to the point of death. Okay, I'll go to the next one. 31. We affirm that those who seek to bind the conscience of the believer by insisting that conformity with mask or vaccination they used the vaccination word this time. They didn't talk about injecting substances or whether it was a that was a slip or what that was there. Uh is that these such a s these sorts of mandates The only way for a Christian to fulfill the command to love one's neighbor as oneself, people say this are treating the traditions of man as the commandments of God. These individuals are themselves guilty of twisting the scriptures and are effectively subjecting the law of God to the ever-changing and conflicting whims of public health agencies, the latest medical study, or majority opinion. Yeah, I think that's a helpful biblical principle to to bring in here is uh is that we yeah, i is is uh you know, and they reference Mark there. probably Jesus talking about the Pharisees elevating the traditions of men, right, above the commandments of God. Yeah. And so, um yeah, I think that's that's something that Christians should always always be keeping in mind is because to follow the traditions of men and to start prioritizing those things not even necessarily above the commandments of God, but sort of making those things equal to the commandments of God, uh, then you that that's a pretty direct route to just becoming a worshiper of the gods of the peoples around you and falling into the idolatry of your culture. Nothing else from Daniel on that one? By the way, this is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner and the one you s heard speak the m uh well L most recent voice you heard was Daniel's, but it was just a quick nope. Before that the voice you heard speaking longer than just a word was David Forcey. So um Where are we on number thirty-two? We deny that choosing to respectively decline a church officer's request to wear a mask. is in any way evidence of devices. Respectfully declined. What did I say? Respectively. Oh respectfully. There are there's still a difference. Yes, yes, there's a difference. Um We deny that choosing to respectfully decline a church officer's request to wear a mask is in any way evidence of divisiveness or rebellion against ecclesiastical authority. since the ecclesiastical office does not hold jurisdiction over personal or familial health decisions. Now, this is touching on something that Daniel's pushed back on every time we've this sort of thing's been alluded to. He thinks that that the church does have some authority and and they're consistently maintaining it it doesn't. Um but let's let's let's role play this a little bit in in a practical sense. Somebody shows up and they respectfully say I know that actually let's make this a little more fun. A church says you're not allowed to wear a mask. And somebody shows up and says, Respectfully, sir, I'm going to wear a mask. That's not them being divisive, is it? It's not them being in rebellion, is it? Or is it? It's that it's them having a uh Uh it's then not agreeing. And uh this is something something interesting to think about is that it's it's okay to um is that you can have unity among brothers without having full agreement. Right, without unanimity. Right, right, right. And and so I I think that's all it's an example of is that's an example of uh disagreement, but there can still be And and and that's going to create some kind of barriers to, you know, deeper uh deeper unity I suppose, or it it can. Yeah, but it can also provide opportunities for iron sharpening iron, right? Yeah. to think through what your positions are and why, grapple with the scriptures more, challenge one another. Kind of like what we do on the faith debate show. We have a a diversity of opinions here, and yet we're still in unity uh together as brothers in Christ. Um diversity is our strength. Uh that's a rather controversial phrase these days, but anyway. You do what do you think? Do you think it's being divisive or rebellious in any way? I mean uh there's certain things that about a church service That while not specifically biblical prescribe, I think that are the purview of the odors, they can say we we this is the way we do things here Right. For let's let's forget Mass for a minute. Let's say you have a order of worship and you know, uh and you pray first and then you sing and then you preach. Just for two kicks. Well if I come and I want to sing first and then pray. I just start singing before you pray. But I'm not d we you know, i i i at a certain point well yeah, nothing wrong with praying first or singing first. I'm not sure that fits into respectfully Yeah, but you say w uh you know, or uh and uh if I say well respectfully I want to sing the song first. I'm like, Well no, we're not gonna do that. And uh we're either gonna do it or not and I think at a certain point that's Yeah, because I think that that is definitely something that speaks to the orderliness of the gathering and it it does speak to the spiritual health of the body. And so that is more more solidly in the church's purview. But wouldn't it be with Bassus the same way? I mean you can't sing very well when you're wearing a mask You can't be understood very well. It's not very clear your voice and so if you're not if you are speaking then you're not gonna be understood. So there are uh actual practical reasons why Yeah, I think what uh the point I was mak that was beginning to make is that the the the church has the right, if you will, to go about doing what the church does. But the church can go about doing what the church does whether I insist on wearing a mask or I insist on not wearing a mask. The church can do what they do whether I so uh that's where it's not necessarily infringing upon the the the elders the leadership of the church being able to do what needs to be done. Well what if it's one of the elders that's supposed to take part in the worship service and lead the prayer or the or the preaching or whatever. Well obviously that's a that's a discussion that the elders should be having, you know, uh in advance of of of said meeting, right? W uh worship gathering for sure. And I and you know what Th I I know of some cases where pastors left or other church leaders they they could not come to agreement on things and Yeah. On these kinds of questions, yeah. Uh a very high profile example is Joe Webin. I don't know if you know Joe Webbin. He was pastoring a church in California and Uh they navigated the whole COVID lockdown mandate thing as best as they could and it didn't blow up the church, so that they held it together to not destroy their church. But after having navigated it, you know, relatively successfully, you know, like like at the end of twenty twenty, ish, I don't know the exact dates, but you know, Joel's like All right, this this is not sustainable long term. There's been too much damage done to these relationships. We s we're just not seeing eye to eye. If I if I stay here I'm gonna be unhappy, I'm gonna become divisive, they're gonna be divisive in response. You know what? I'm just gonna go plant a church in Texas, and that's what he did. So there's one very high profile example, and there's others, but that's That's the most high profile example I know. That's a name a lot of people are beginning to know. He's got a pretty big social media presence. Uh I think he gets a little more credit for being s uh smart he's a very smart guy But I think he gets credit for being right more often than than he probably is. Uh because he was very good on some of the COVID-related questions back in 2020. He was early. He was a he was kind of a leader a thought leader. And so you're like, oh, he's really smart. He knows what he's talking about. But um just 'cause you're good on one or two issues doesn't mean you're good on issues number three or four when they come down the pike, sadly. So I think we're gonna have time for me maybe to read um this this next one and then uh we'll have to talk about it next time. But it's a l a lengthier one, so I'll get it out of the way, the reading of it. This is uh uh Article number thirty-three. We deny that all instances of requiring masks for church meetings are necessarily sinful or divisive. In such cases, that's italicized, I believe. where the meeting is held at a venue where the property managers are not the local church and such property managers require mask wearing for entrance. Interesting nuance. This is a Property issue. In such cases, those who choose not to fellowship because of the mask mandate at the meeting venue should not be said to be in violation of any biblical commands regarding regular regularly meeting with the saints. To the extent possible, church officers should seek to secure a meeting venue where the local congregation will not be forced to exclude non-masking individuals due to the whims of the building owner. And uh you might be tempted to jump right in because that's kind of an interesting article that they've got there, but uh we've got less than sixty seconds, so I'm gonna put a wrap on this. Daniel Rasby, thank you so much. You can find Daniel again online at uh conquered by love dot org. David Forcy, you can find him online by just connecting with me and I'll put you in touch with him. And I'm Troy Skinner. You can find me at WFMD. com of course. And the best place probably is kind of a one-stop shop, a hub for everything that I'm involved with. Household of Faithinchrist. com. That's household of faith in Christ. com. And if we have time, maybe next week is a teaser. Somebody asked the question of On social media, is it sinful to block someone? Maybe we'll maybe we'll try to address that question if we have time in next week's show as well. It's just kind of a uh a short little conversation. Anyway, till next week I want to thank you so much for spending part of your Stay with us. We know your time is value. There are so many listening options and the fact that you chose us it's humbling and we're honored. Till next week. God bless.