Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD or on your favorite podcasting source. I know a lot of people listen via the streaming services are out there as well. If you're curious where that is, I think we're on iTunes and uh and and uh Omni um And I don't know, the the regular places people might go and find podcasts, but I make sure that we are on sermonaudio at sermonaudio. com. You can find the Faith Debate uh on the household of faith in Christ portion of Sermon Audio. Also on Odyssey, that is a a platform that's kind of like YouTube or kind of like Rumble Um it's not as well known as those clearly. Um but it uses blockchain uh technology for uh how they manage the inventory and so even when they want to censor things It takes them a lot of hard work to do so. So they don't really censor almost anything at all. I mean there are gross things, you know, uh illegal kinds of things or forna pornographic things that they will hunt down and take down, um but they they gotta really, really, really work. So they're not just like algorithms knocking you off their platform. So that's why I like Odyssey. Anyway, this is the Faith Debate on Troy Skinner joined by Daniel Radzi and David Forcy. David's a pastor of a church that meets in a variety of homes. uh kind of on a rotation basis throughout the uh tri-state potomac area. And uh Daniel Razby and his father Imron they have a church uh in thermont a house church and also a ministry they've been involved with for a number of years that helps with family kind of matters, parenting and marriage and relationships, those sorts of things. It's called Concord by Love Ministries online at ConcordBylove. org. So if you were listening last week, I I read into the record, as it were, Article number thirty-three of the Warrington Declaration, which is talking about medical mandates and government authority and that sort of thing. And it was a long one, but the gist of what they were saying, they were c trying to give some space for if a church would require their members to wear a mask because they have a landlord, like they're meeting in a like a you know, government owned school building for instance, or a strip mall or something that they don't own and the rules of the building, the property owner are you gotta wear a mask in this building then in that case it's not a sin for the church to say, Okay, we we gotta abide by what the property owners say. I'd be curious to see what we think about that. And but at the same time the church should be busy figuring out some other strategy to meeting homes or something. Is it not a sin for you as the congregant to say, Well, I'm not attending such a church And you're and the church could s could tell you, Oh well you're in violation 'cause the Bible says to meet regularly. You can't say uh are you you you're not necessarily in sin because you don't attend I don't see the attendance part. That's what it says. Uh i uh in such cases those who choose not to fellowship because of the mass mandate should not be said to be in violation of any biblical ma commands regarding regular meeting with the state. Oh yeah, yeah yeah further down. But the opening line is we deny that all instances of requiring masks for church meetings are necessarily sinful, so that would be on the church Right. Either either way. Either way. That's that's pretty open. They're saying, you know, like there there might be times and, you know, if you don't have anywhere else to meet and the place that you meet requires it. Maybe that's okay. But then what Daniel is saying further down, you know, but then the church shouldn't discipline people for not coming if they think it's wrong for them to wear a mask. Right. And it's it's I haven't really thought about drones for for breach of contract with the lease if you're late. And it's always kind I mean, I haven't thought about but I mean these these y you start to think about different ways that this could apply. If you have to do what the landlord says, then what about all the renters who are living in apartments or condos of some sort or renting a single family dwelling? If their landlord says it's my property, you're gonna wear masks do they have to listen? No I I hadn't thought about that question until like this moment, so I don't know that I haven't uh formulated thought on it but uh uh in in American law, you can't um you can't force a tenant to to wear or not wear something, for example, in a dwelling. But commercial tenants are a little bit different and so the church will be a a commercial tenant and you can enforce a lot more than you can enforce of residential. Now there are other countries such as Australia for example where the government did mandate wearing of masks inside your own home. Um and they would come into your home to enforce that. Um but that was that was the government doing it also, not landors necessarily. I think there is definitely a difference in legally speaking between a dwelling tenant and a commercial tenant. Um also also there you know there might be the issue of uh of a shared space. Right. Right. So if the landlord is managing multiple groups that use the same space Can they sort of make rules about the usage of that space that everybody kind of has? And this would have implications for business owners too, who are renting shopkeepers who they don't they don't own the space that they're doing business in So if their landlord tells them all or something. So the government wouldn't even have to mandate it. Right. Well that's what that was what was ending up happening because the federal government didn't really mandate a whole lot. during COVID and never really did for the m uh they just offered guidelines. Yeah. And then everybody appeals to those guidelines. Well I I I'm just doing it 'cause the federal government said I agree with this whole uh instance. I was uh uh I guess what they're saying is that let's say such a rule is in place. Have you go about following or not following it, whatever I I I think what we're getting out of this conversation is that the rule shouldn't be in place. The property managers and landlords shouldn't have the authority to do such a thing because it ends up being de facto government. That that's what um the DOL tried to uh use OSHA to to cram down the mandates and stuff. But most times It was they were just providing guidelines and then individual businesses. The one thing they did was the public transportation and the FAA for for the air travel. But even th a lot of that was even recommendations, not official mandates. And there was never any federal vaccine mandate. There was never a any state level vaccine mandate. It was all individual ch churches or schools or colleges or buildings or you know, those types of things. And each county was doing their own things and state level they were doing things. You know, a couple of shows ago David was if making the point that, you know, once you lift the horse out of the barn, then logically you're allowed to, you know, do certain things with that horse. Is that language or is the gist of the the thing, right? There's if you if if A then B can logically follow what makes sense. And so I won so he so the point you were really making, if I remember correctly, David, was So we gotta go back further in the logic chain and get to the root of the issue. And and and also say if uh if it is wrong for the horse to run around the yard. Maybe it's wrong to let the horse out of the barn in the first place. Right. And so do we have the is that an issue here? Do churches need to be th rethinking how wise is it to put your congregation In a situation where they'll be subject to the whims of a landlord. Right. As far as we're for anything. Exactly. Maybe there's noise restrictions. You can't be loud well, should you be forbidden from singing out at the top of your lungs to worship God? That's another very common restriction in the in the tenants, uh, land or setting is noise restrictions. Right. So I think it very it this this kind of gets to the core of why I believe that the house churches is are the way to go. I don't really think I'm not a big fan of buildings in general. It's one thing even if you own the building, I'm not a big fan, but especially if you don't own the building. I am I'm definitely okay. It has a building that they're going to use as a multipurpose facility, like they're going to use it for schooling throughout the week or as as as as some sort of community center to to be involved with people's lives or whatever. So it's not just it sits vacant you know, one hundred and sixty seven hours out of the week and for one hour, you know, it it's got forty people in it. Uh i if they've got a building that's if that's more useful that There could be some wisdom I think in that having good gathering places for people to come together for us to have community and potlucks and whatever. But if yeah Other than that, it's I mean it's all the overhead and having been in a more traditional church model, you have too, David. I'm sure you remember some of those leadership meetings. It's like a four hour meeting and three and a half of the hours have nothing to do with the spiritual health of the church. How are we going to come up with the funds to fix the uh HVA because you know big church building has a big HG VAC unit. You know, it's not your typical household unit, which back in the day you could get a new one for like ten thousand. I'm not sure where they are now. Back then you couldn't get a church one for ten thousand. Because they were huge 'cause the churches of square footage were gigantic. And so you spent all these times worrying about your finances and worrying about that like you said, who who who's gonna coordinate this and coordinate that and what has to do with maintenance of the building, who's gonna mow the lawn That's just a distraction. It's really something the deacon should be doing anyway, not the elders. Right? Because th that that's why they have to do that. And that back to the sort of the issue you know, at hand that they're addressing and and it is it is very specific. You know, they're they're talking about a very particular sort of situation here. uh in the in the statement. And we're you know trying to say, okay, what are the principles in play and and that kind of deal. Um You know, and I mean I guess the the question is, you know, if they're and and they're saying, Okay, so a church can't uh should not say because you don't want to wear a mask if you don't come, you know, you're breaking you're breaking fellowship. Mm-hmm. Right? And uh and they're saying that the churches shouldn't shouldn't do that. But I mean the a believer should also take into consideration if If a church is requiring you continually to do something that is against your conscience, may maybe there ought to be a break of fellowship. Right. Right, then they're not really speaking to whether the landlord should have such a restriction. Right. They're just they're saying if it if it exists, you know. Yeah. I know I just bunch of issues all tangled up in this one particular item. It's when I read at the end of last week's show, it was a wow, this has got a lot going on. This would be an interesting one And we ended up talking about it for like the first uh ten, twelve minutes of today's episode. Yeah, we affirm that maintaining personal health and personal health decisions, including decisions about which medical interventions to adopt or forego. are the role and jurisdiction of each individual and their family. It's a family issue or a personal issue or both. Well but it's not a government issue and it's not a church issue. We've talked about the church one uh a number of times. They keep bringing that up, they're reinforcing it over and over again, which I'm sure is like, you know, uh pricking Daniel a little bit. Yeah. Oh no, I think in in all cases except specifically what's prescribed, symptomatic uh you know, quarantine. But other than that, it should be the family. I wonder if this is a way to think about that, as opposed to uh because it it's not just a a uh a personal health decision at that point. It becomes a community safety issue. Right. Right, so it's a different there's something di when you're symptomatic you're and you're carrying something that's deadly or ser a serious illness, like well we we don't you don't want people getting that. Um it's not just personal health at that point. So if it crosses the line to being something that's more than personal health and you could demonstrate, somehow prove, make the case that David is a risk to Daniel and Troy. He shouldn't be in the room right now, and I can say so because and I can point to very specific things, there's a case being made. David has a pet tiger. uh who he keeps uh uh you know walking around town with him. You might make the case that the tiger is not sufficiently uh protected from escaping the leash and mauling somebody and you could ask David to keep it on the other side of town You know, maybe. There is a law about that in one city that's still on the books. About tigers specifically? I think it might be lions. Lions? Well the at least have a bad experience. And by the way, by the way, this is a a a big gun rights person uh who's making a distinction here. It's not a different than a gun because a tiger can act on its own. The gun can't act on its own. So the rabbies have lots of animals. They're like Doctor Doolittle. But I don't think they have tigers and lions. No. No bears either. And he likes guns, but I don't think he has a bazooka or or a grenade launcher, although I'm the I'm not gonna put him on the record with that. I I think every American should own bazookas and F-16s with hellfire missiles. Hear here. Sounds expensive. Who's got the money for that? That's why they tax you as the way that they do So that you can't afford to buy an F sixteen. And an airfield. So back to medical things. Alright, let's read the next one. Article thirty five. We deny that parents are guilty of neglect or abuse if they choose to forego a given medical intervention such as a medical procedure or again they use the vaccine word of surprise they were inconsistent. They had different writers involved in some of these articles. due to the fact that they are not convinced of the short and long-term risk profile or effectiveness effectiveness of the action. This remains true regardless of what recommendations they have or haven't received from a doctor. So if They're saying par parents are ultimately to be responsible for the the care of their children. And and I don't think this prevents parents from becoming guilty of neglect or abuse and this being one of the factors that's used to determine whether they are, but you can't have a presumption that just because you didn't take a doctor's recommendation, therefore you're abusing your child. Right. You can't start with that premise. It could certainly be, you know, y you know, you could take a case of malnourishment. Oh, you haven't fed your child in three months. Um, you know, the doctors do recommend you feed your child. Well okay, that's one reason, but also I it's obvious to everybody that the child eats food, right? So I I don't think they're saying that you can't ever hold parents responsible for abusing and neglecting their children. But I think th you can't start with that premise. Now this uh they did not because they're they're sticking very closely to their topic, which is d uh COVID basically, but you can definitely apply this to so called uh gender treatments, mutilations. and uh and and uh hormone blockers and yeah those yeah the th the logic would play out the same. One thing that they s are steering clear of either they didn't think of it or they just didn't want to go there. But they're saying if a parent says I'm not going to let my child get that shot or take that medicine or d per or participate in the way the government is saying that that that they should or whatever that I can't be But what about the parents who give their have their kids get the shot? Could there ever be a case? I'm not talking specifically about the shots that are marketed for the COVID thing. Right. Hypothetically in the future If there ever were a shot of some sort where e they injected a substance of some kind uh into people and there was some sort of a demonstrable harm caused Well, and it became known as a cocaine or heroin, right? Those exist. Those are substances and people parents do sometimes inject those into kids. So if the kids usually they go to jail for doing so. So can the parents be Uh but in that case, yeah, that's that's use that as a that's an interesting example. So a parent decides that there are medicinal benefits to injecting my child multiple times a year with heroin. And the evidence, the data would seem to indicate otherwise, but they're persuaded I'm inject I'm gonna go find somebody somewhere who's gonna give me the heroin so I can inject or or or they can inject my child for me. Could they be s charged with abuse? I I think the answer is probably yes. I think you have to I think I think you have to be able to prove that the action caused a specific harm. And then you prosecute just like any other criminal action that causes specific harm. Prosecute for the for the harm. For the harm, not for the yeah. So what if a parent gave a child, you know, uh in in uh flying in the face of data and evidence, some sort of uh medical quote unquote treatment, quote unquote. Uh that caused a brain aneurysm or, you know, problem with the kidneys or inf inflammation around the heart, something like that. It it was a direct connection I think would have to be demonstrated for there to be a a prosecution right of the action. Would reports on something like theirs be demonstrable evidence, I wonder if there's another cocaine in cough drops and stuff. Yeah. Coca-Cola apparently is You know, and depending on the case that has to come into play is like, you know, w was this w did they do this knowingly? You know, did they did they have the evidence? You know, was it not available to them? Was it not made available to them? Was it impossible for them to know that this would be What about parents that send their kids to public school? They will be held responsible by uh by God for for the things that the that the allowed us to be adopted. Let's let's uh do the last one here, number thirty-six. Affirm that it is anti-scriptural for a parent to categorically deny all medical inter uh interventions to their children at all times with the rationale that all medical intervention is as a category evidence of a lack of faith in God. some sects and some cults that believe that and I think they're specifically trying to combat those and like Christian science, which isn't Christian but Right, but that's a specific thing. They'll do a a lot of other stuff that were blood transfusions. Yeah, I I I think they're just trying to make sure that people don't Accuse them of being whack whack jobs here and they're like covering a base or they're gonna accuse them anyway. Oh yeah, what are they is this uh is this proof text? Where Paul tells Timothy to take a little wine. Yeah. Yep, it is. I'm sure the Baptist love that So this whole thing ends with this. If you are not sure where your local church officers and community stand on these issues, do not be afraid to raise questions in a respectful manner. If you have good and godly leaders, you won't be criticized or dismissed for raising them. If you have been neglected or mistreated by your current local church on these grounds, And appeals have not been heard, we encourage you to find a community where medical liberty is understood and practiced. I think that's needs a whole lot of extra excitement. made your way back to a church sense 'cause some people they feel very disaffected, right? The church attendance is down like big time across the board. Uh if you if that's you And maybe you don't like me, you don't like Daniel, like David, I don't know if you have no taste in people if that's the case. But if you don't, you can still reach out. I've helped people find other churches. Yeah, it doesn't it doesn't have to be our church. If you're looking for a church you want to know who can I who can I trust I will help you figure that out. I desire for you to not neglect gathering together with the saints as so many are want to do these days. So Um so I I teased this last week. What do you think? You're not on social media, are you, David? No. Not really. Not really. No. You're not really either. I'm not. No So this might just be a theoretical question. If if somebody you know comments on your stuff or tries to hijack things where it's very offensive or whatever. You can actually block them so that you don't see their stuff. They can't see your stuff. Not on Twitter anymore. Okay. Well but it just they just removed that ability. Is that right? Okay. Well you can on Yeah so we'll say I pay pay attention to pay attention to these things. I've I've blocked two people ever. Uh in one case it was because the person kept uh insisting on hijacking every I don't care what the post was about. It c it could be about what we've been talking about on the show the last number of weeks. And he would put a comment in there about the earth being flat. a and stir up people and the whole thread of conversation would then be about flat earthism. And I said to him a and he was, you know, f kind of not not a friend, but friend I knew him personally, wasn't just a social media contact. And I reached out and I said, dude, you gotta stop Stop. If you want to tell a flat earth, fine. Do it on your page. Don't be hijacking every single post. And he refused, so I I blocked him. And then there was somebody else who got rather uh kind of a jerk in in my in my view. But not I mean towards me, but whatever. I I I can handle that. But was very jerky towards other people who were commenting under the post, you know, people who are Facebook friends or Twitter followers of mine or whatever. Give them a heart I said, you know what? Uh and I reached out to that person too, used to work with them once upon a time. And I said, Look, if if you're gonna keep badgering people and being that disrespectful and that foul with people, then you're not welcome on my page anymore. So this is your last warning And he he didn't change, so I blocked him. Those are the only two people in all my years on social media that I've blocked. But somebody asked the question if if it's a sin to block someone, and I'm not sure why they think it would be So I have a verse that that goes with that while you're talking. Proverbs twenty six. It's got two seemingly contradictory verses in a row. I'll read them both. You know what I'm talking about. Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest thou also be like unto him. Next verse says, Answer a fool according to his his folly, lest he be wise in his own conceit. And then he goes on and says, He that sendeth a message by the hand of a fool cuteth off cutteth off the feet and drinketh damage. So I think there are times to deal with fools by talking with them and there are times to deal with fools by cutting them off and not talking with them. And use you should be using the guiding of the spirit and discernment to know when those times uh are now. Um but they both times exist. It's not a contradiction to both answer and answer not a fool. Uh and I I think that's what I would say to that. Yeah, I I think we're on the same I wasn't sure where he was coming from. I think in some ways you're you're responsible for what goes on on Like on your page. You know, within the platforms allow you. Some of them don't allow you a bunch of policing po power, but and so uh you know, if something not good is happening there, it is okay for you to stop that and maybe is your responsibility to stop that. Well I mean think of it forget Yeah, social media. I mean if if you you and I and d David and we all go out to the to a um a restaurant together and we meet a whole bunch of other friends and one friend is just kind of being a jerk, I mean we might just choose to go out somewhere else next time and Not invite them. Right. You can do that. It's not it's kinda like. And there are other things too, uh that you different platforms allow you to snooze someone for thirty days, meaning that you know you're just gonna take a break from seeing their stuff for a while Uh you can mute someone where they you're not blocking them, but they're not gonna be you're not gonna see their stuff. I'm not sure if they can post on your stuff. I don't know. And there's other times you can just informally, like you know if somebody is just You don't feel like they're playing the game straight, you just stop interacting with them. You don't block them. They can still come and do what they want. You just like, you know, I d I don't have time for the for what feels like nonsense. Whether it's nonsense or not, you know, my you could be wrong in making that determination, but Anyway, all right. Well, thank you for helping me uh answer that question. One of our listeners asked that question, so we gave him a group answer. Daniel Razby, he he he went to the Bible, that's his habit, gave us uh he gave us a biblical answer on that, that's good Uh David Forcey was glad that we went to the Bible. That's his his way as well. I'm Troy Skinner, and I'm glad you listened to the show. Till next week, 167 and a half hours. Turn up my mic too soon. God bless.