I am announcing today my candidacy for the presidency of the United States. I do not run for the presidency merely to oppose any man, but to propose new policies I run because I am convinced that this country is on a perilous course, and because I have such strong feelings about what must be done And I feel that I'm obliged to do all that I can. I run for the presidency because I want the Democratic Party and the United States of America to stand for hope. Instead of despair, but reconciliation of men, instead of the growing risk of world war. I run because it is now unmistakably clear that we can change these disastrous divided in policy only by changing the men we're now making them. Our candidacy is uh going very well. I took a poll amongst my children. It was very encouraging. I I received four votes. My uh brother Edward received two votes. It was a secret And then my sister uh passed received two votes. And then there were two that were uh reassessing their position to see what they should do. This is an important election This is going to determine what direction the United States is going to move in. This is the year 1968 when we're going to discuss openly the issues. Not put them under the rug. Not act as if they don't exist. But discuss openly the issues. The issues that divide us as Americans. That divide us from the rest of the world and what we can do about them. That's what I intend to do in this campaign. That's what I've tried to do in the state of West Virginia, and now I ask for your help. You can make a difference. I run for the presidency of the United States because I think we have compassion in this country. I think we have I think we have feeling for our fellow citizens in this country, that this country stands for something, that we can deal with our problems with candor and with truth, and we can make progress with them. We can make progress here at home. We make some progress in South Vietnam. And we can make progress in our relationship to people all over the world. And that's what I intend to do. What we need in the United States is not division. What we need in the United States is not hatred. What we need in the United States is not violence. and lawlessness, but is love and wisdom and compassion toward one another, and a feeling of justice toward those who still suffer within our country, whether they be white or black. whether they be black. Martin Luther King the shot and the kills night. Martin Luther King dedicated his life to love and and do justice between fellow human beings. He died in the cause of that effort. Is the firearm which turned the Streets into battlegrounds. It is guns that change the demonstrations into a war. The riots in Newark and Detroit and elsewhere have made it plain that the basic weapons of those who participate in mass disorder are rifles and shotguns. Senator Kennedy has been shot. Is that possible? Is that possible? Is it possible, ladies and senator? It is possible. He has not only Senator Kennedy. Oh my God. Senator Kennedy has been shot. Possibly shot in the head. He still has the gun. The gun is pointed at Peter at this moment. I hope they can get the That's it, Raper. Get it. Hold him. We don't want it over else, Walmart. Everybody please come right here. If there's a doctor in the house, I want to stay right here. Everybody else, please stay back. Please stay back. Everybody else, just please stay back. Just a doctor, come right here. Well the doctors now on the scene trying to see what they can do. Now here are Kennedy Apes moving everyone out of the way. I'm on a table in a corner away from the crush of people looking down on this scene of tragedy. Here's one of the Kennedy sisters now getting to this scene. On this concrete floor. Behind the ballroom in the Ambassador Hotel. What did you see? crowd you can't see the inside action so we come out here Josie Grew and I got the guy right about here. And shot I came by the center and he fell blood pouring off his head, you know. You you don't see any more at night. You know you gotta get in there and stop Inside the hospital, a team of neurosurgeons working to Take the bullet from the brain of Senator Robert Kennedy, attempting to save the life of the Senator and return him to health if possible. The outside of the hospital Bathed in floodlights now, a core of newsmen standing across the street, keeping their vigil until word of the surgery's results is released. It's still nighttime here in Los Angeles It's been a long and tragic night for those of us who have followed Senator Kennedy's campaign. Senator Robert Francis Kennedy died at 144 A. M. today June sixth, nineteen sixty eight. Time to stand still again this morning in this tiny village of Highland Port on Cape Cod, as tragedy has again struck the famed Kennedy family. At this hour, the par parents of Senator Robert F. Kennedy are still asleep. They have not been advised of their son's death in Los Angeles. Seventy-nine-year-old Ambassador Joseph P. Kennedy himself had Inluth and speechless for six and a half years, sat in silence before TV cameras throughout most of yesterday, again watching and waiting for the good news which never came. Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate's online at WFMD. com keyword faith. There you find Links to all sorts of cool stuff like podcasts of this show and various news items and the Faith Debate blog. Our blog is your blog, so email me Troy Skinner at clearchannel. com. I post what you send me eighteen times a day, Monday through Friday has 90 blog postings a week. Encourage you to check out what other people are saying, even if you don't want to send me an email. On the Faith Debate today, a special edition of the show. Jonathan Sweitzer, of course, is the is here as my partner in crime. This is this is a crime we're gonna do this show. Uh Jonathan Swiss, a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. Last few weeks, uh Gina Carroll from the Morning Show was on with us, and she's not here this week, but Part of what we were doing the last few weeks was listening to old audio archives from way back when when I had a different uh responsibility in the radio biz. And we listened to some some stuff from when I was a DJ. We listened to some stuff when I was a sports talk radio host talking about religious issues, even on a sports show. And back in nineteen ninety-eight, on the thirtieth anniversary of RFK's assassination. Yeah, this is where this comes from. Yeah, I was working in Syracuse, New York at the time. Okay. Most of the stuff we heard earlier in the last few weeks was when o I was in Orlando. Florida. Uh we did a special show about RFK, locally produced show, and that was the show open that we used for that special show. Kind of a snippet of all uh a whole bunch of snippets, a collage of audio throughout his campaign leading up to the assassination. Very intense. Dramatic stuff. Man man. If uh if you're old enough to remember that as an actual happening, uh I I 'Cause I I I was alive but not old enough to remember what was actually happening. That's a brutal decade. I mean you had JFK killed, you had Martin Luther King killed, you had RFK killed. Right? I mean was there other killings? And then of course all of the uh the the hippies and the riding about the Vietnam War. I mean everything was in turmoil. Malcolm X, you know. The people that would go on to uh become part of the Obama administration. Yeah. I say that jokingly, but it's interesting, before we played this, I said I'd be curious to see how RFK would sound in today's context. Right. Robert F. Kennedy, would he sound like a Democrat? Yeah. How would he fit with Obama's policies? And ahead of time you didn't think that he would. No, I was to be honest, I was expecting that he wouldn't, because I would think of Jack Kennedy as being somebody that might not be really welcomed in a democratic party as it stands today. Right. He was you know, he would fit more with the listen to some of the day. Yeah, we'd have to listen listen to some of JFK's But given that audio, d that that sample size of five to seven minutes worth of stuff from RFK's campaign, man, it sounded like it could be the Obama administration, didn't it? Right down the line. Social justice, anti-gun Uh America's got to uh you know passion, take care of those that are uh needy and our middle. Get along with the rest of the world. Yeah, yeah. You know, find our way in the world, our place in the world. Uh I mean given the context of Vietnam and all the unrest and all the stuff that was going on, I mean I can understand Is this the cradle of what will become the Obama administration? Would he have been Barack Obama back then? If he had been elected, if he hadn't been killed and actually won the general election, beating Richard Milhouse Nixon, if that had happened What would America look like today based on what we just heard? And of course it's such a different time frame. I mean the Vietnam War was was very different from the Iraq And uh, you know, the Iraq war and how we handled ourselves. I mean, we went in and dominated in Iraq, but Vietnam, we were bogged down in a big way. And the changes that were going on at the time. Uh, you know, even he kept saying again and again this whole issue of we need to talk about things openly. And it is true that the previous generation that came back from World War II, the greatest generation that were uh, you know, in leadership positions before Kennedys were uh those guys kinda had a reputation as a as a whole generation of being less able to open up and talk forthrightly about things. Right? So when he's talking about we need to talk about these things, uh I can't quite get a sense for exactly what he's referring to. But it is true that Obama came in saying, hey, you know, we need more transparency. even though he seems to have led one of the least transparent administrations in quite some time. Maybe ever. Yeah, I'd be curious to know how he would have governed 'cause that's one thing thing to campaign a particular way. We've seen that on both sides. You know, Barack Obama said a lot of things in his campaign that he did not follow through on. Of course he said a lot of things that he has followed through on, unfortunately from my perspective. But even George W. Bush campaigned in a lot of things that he ended up not governing in that direction. He campaigned way more conservative than he governed, for example. So I wonder if RFK seizing the moment sounded much more radical to energize his base than he maybe would have actually governed. He would have had to because he wouldn't have had Congress and the will of the American people at his back, you know, pushing his sales along like Barack Obama, uh, the way things came together for him and his policies. Don't you think? Yeah, I mean you'd have to be a historian. I'm not enough of a historian to grapple with uh you know what I'm saying. I'm just uh you know going not uh easily into the night. Uh I'm gonna fight it. But y you know, how many of our presidents through the ages used certain rhetic rhetoric when they were trying, you know, to be elected and ended up governing you know, from a different place. I mean it's kind of expected at some level that that's gonna have to happen because once you're sitting in the in the seat you're getting, you know, the information that uh is And sometimes circumstances just just hijack your your agenda. I mean that's what happened to George Bush. Yeah. Yeah. He he campaigned primarily on social issues the first time around. And about what, eight nine months into about eight months I guess into his presidency. Nine eleven nine eleven happens and that social agenda stuff that compassionate conservative stuff went out the window and it became all about foreign policy, which ironically was his weakest issue point when he got elected. That was the thing people most were most concerned about. Is he going to be strong enough on foreign relations issues? And and that's exactly what he ended up having to focus on almost his entire presidency. So And so it's a little bit hard to go back and kind of see, you know, how would they have how would you have ended up uh actually ruling. We've got a little more audio. This was in the middle of this uh special show that we did back in nineteen ninety eight. How how did you guys use the RFK audio at the time? Like you broke into a discussion of Uh politics? Yeah. We did we we c we dedicated the entire afternoon show. Uh it was a it was a news talk radio station, very similar to how WFK died. It was the anniversary, 31st anniversary. Thirty year. And thirty year rather, yeah, thirty days, thirty years anniversary. And kind of like on WFMD, three to six is a local show that Tim May and Frank in the basement now, mid-Maryland Live. Uh we had a show at the same time slot, three to six, and we dedicated that three to six show to RFK. Yeah And we opened the show with what we heard a few minutes ago. Yeah. And then we uh had little th little bumpers, little uh sound bites and musical things that we use coming out of commercial breaks. And the rest of it was we brought on uh uh l lot of interviews, a lot of guests. We brought on the um United States Senator from uh from uh New York, is the the station is in New York Batch and some of the the the the the the political the bigwigs Um and people who've been around the block a few times to give their insight. And we took a few. It wasn't w it wasn't a show that dug into agendas and If it had, I'll tell you this, if it had, RFK is uh yeah, in New York you've got to be careful when you're doing a show like that. Even if you're conservative and you want to recognize that RFK is not, there's enough of a Kennedy legend going on there that you had to kinda walk a tightrope. and almost apologize for his liberal tendencies and give him more credit for being less radical maybe in his in his ideology than perhaps he even was. So he was considered less democratic in New York at the time you're saying Less liberal. Well less liberal. Less that we partisan. I think yeah, I think that uh he became more of a martyr. And less of an ideologue. And so to pay attention to the words he was saying, what they stood for and where they would have led us was not the point. The point was the tragedy of the Kennedy legacy at first JFK, then RFK and then the disaster that is uh Edward Kennedy and his Plus it wasn't it was right around that time. They would talk about in New York at the time that Edward Kennedy was a failure. No, the Edward Kennedy th the the Kennedys were were good. Oh. The whole Camelot idea. The Kennedy legacy was still, you know, going strong. And this was right around the time, if I if I'm not mistaken, this is right around the time right after I think the um oh what was his name Uh the nephew, RFK is n he died in the plane crash. Right. That was his name. Right. So the whole curse of the Kennedy clan. Yeah, so that was it was very yeah, so to say a negative word about the Kennedys was not very in vogue. Yeah Here's let's see if if that small sample size was enough. Well here's another uh couple of minutes of snippets of RFK and RFK and him speaking. Let's see if we can pick up any other uh buzzwords. And if you want to jump in, let me know and we'll we'll pause. Okay. I I I haven't listened to this in years. This is a bit of a blind shot. So see what happens. I asked the question, in what way does the war present courts advance the security of this country, the welfare of Vietnam, or the cause of peace throughout the world. Yeah. We're Afghanistan. And you could say that the exact same stuff is being said today by by politicians. Right. And the reality is that in uh the conservative party there are plenty of those that are of the opinion that uh going to war or attempting to create uh nations that support us, you know, nation building uh is very ineffective and unproductive, you know, in terms of our long term purposes. So the point is is that uh Foreign policy is not necessarily a clear divide between Republicans and Democrats. I interrupted the montage, but let's See if if if I rejoin this in a place that makes sense. I say that it does not. And I say that we have to have a change. I think it's uh still wide open as I say I Yeah, I would if I can gain the support of some of those who would so support Ascended McCarthy, some of the citizen groups. Because I think it's going to be very difficult to uh keep Vice President Humphrey from gaining the nomination for the Democratic Party. Senator Kennedy has been shot. He's been shot? That's right. And I I think you better send somebody over here. What's the address there, please? What is the address? We're at thirty four hundred. It's an unbelievable sight. Uh How calm that that whole transaction right? President Kennedy's been shot Oh he has, well what's the address? Weird. Yeah. He's trying to transition. Almost for real. That was odd. Oh I don't know. Did they have nine one one back then in the sixties? I don't even know. I don't know if that's a nine one one call or just a call to the police dispatch. And was RFK referring to Senator Joe McCarthy at the time there? He was referring to McCarthy It's very interesting to me because he doesn't paint him out in the way that people paint him out today, is like this great, you know, boogeyman. You talking about the uh McCarthy who was uh Joe McCarthy on the uh conserv on the uh communist uh witch hunt kind of thing? Yeah. I mean if that's the McCarthy he's referring to, you refer to him in a to be honest, I didn't catch him saying McCarthy. Sure. Uh Senator who a moment ago just stood in triumph giving his uh thanks to the people who worked so hard for his apparent victory here in California. And then came down in a great rush, people congratulating him, moved through the Back door the anteroom just off the podium. And there apparently a someone, uh Lord knows who Uh fired the shot. Sirhan Basharis Sirahan, the man accused of shooting Senator Robert Kennedy is being held under close surveillance in the Los Angeles County Jail. He's in a maximum security cell. There is a guard with him at all times, actually in the cell with Siran, seated on a chair, keeping visual watch on Sir N twenty-four hours a day Isn't that one of the all-time great villain names, Sir Hansurhan? It's one of the all-time great names for a villain. I mean, I know it What not to name your six years later, so I can joke a little bit probably about it's not too sacrilegious, right? Yeah. Well uh i I mean is what you're referring to, I mean, uh like what what is the nature of the background of that name? Is it is it Yeah. What is it? I don't know. I mean it sounds repetitive. Yes. It sounds definitely very exotic and oriental. And I mean even the fact that you say that it's that way. I mean, doesn't that make you racist anymore? You know that it's not American, it's some other group. I'm even afraid to say what it sounds like. Right. But Syria and I grew up in Chicago where I mean every ethnicity on the planet lives there. Right. It's the melting pot inside the melting pot. So no all names are American as far as I'm concerned. Sure, but back in that day and I want to say this that It strikes me that the guys who are uh that the newscasters they they speak in a way that they are kind of expecting the audience to to f to all be unified with them or behind them. Like Like, it's a time where even the newscasters and in the way that they presented themselves, they weren't hyperpartisan There was a little bit more of a sense that they're kind of speaking for all of us. Or for that matter, any of you know the conservative. Or yeah, Randall Maggie, or anybody Although I think that you know, when somebody dies, yeah, you know, when the tragedy happens, whether you agree or disagree with them politically, you're gonna you're gonna rise to the moment, I think. Most of us hopefully would rise to the moment. Anyway, this is the tail end of that montage on the way. Monday morning at nine thirty, Sir Ann will be taken into court for a preliminary hearing, and the police have served notice security around the prisoner will be as tight as they can make it to avoid any Jack Ruby type incident As yet Syrin has not said one word about the Kennedy shooting, nor has he said a single word about himself. John Coleman at Los Angeles Police Headquarters John Coleman. John Coleman, I think, went out to be a weather caster in Chicago years later. You know, you have all this inside information about these Forget the tragedy for a moment. Again, it can seem to be crass again. I mentioned this off the air to you earlier. This is just really fascinating to listen to just this audio archive. Really, this is radio history, right? It's fascinating radio stuff that we're being privileged to somebody had the foresight to save all this stuff in a way that it wouldn't get ruined. And here we are 46 years later listening to this audio. It's it's really compelling. I wonder if we were to listen to what happens in radio today, forty years forty-six years from now, if it would strike us as compelling or rather trite Yeah, it's the first write of history, the first edit of history as they say. Yeah. So anyway, why don't we end uh today's show with uh how we ended that show. Um ninety-eight was that. Uh, sixteen years ago. Yeah. We'll end today's show the way we ended that special radio broadcast sixteen years ago with the show close of the RFK stuff. And it's It's actually pretty moving. I hear what your politics are. You hear Edward Kennedy do the eulogy and you will if you're really paying attention, you'll get choked up. And again, just just quickly lay the foundation. Why is it that we're doing this on the fake debate We just had an election. This is the weekend after the post mortem postmortem show and the election, and rather than get into what just happened in the election, let's Let's look at the broader picture. We do that on this show. Let's go back forty, fifty years and look at what the landscape was back then and how that impacts our culture today, which ultimately will have an impact on how we deal with faith matters. So that's kind of the the the the hook. The entree that allows us to talk about such things. We'll get back to present day stuff next week. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks to our uh sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating, How can we make you smile? You're listening to 930 WFMD, and I think this is a Hard start. I don't think there's a musical uh thing, so I'm gonna have to speak quiet and hit play. So here we go. Ready for next week. God bless. We know that until we act to cure the ills of our society The seeds of further violence will remain. But if we pass laws to control guns that kill, we can save lives. If we do not pass these laws, We sign the death bond of more policemen and more children who will be caught in tomorrow's court fire. What I think is quite clear is is that we can work together in the last analysis and that what's just been going on within the United States over the period of the last three years, the divisions, the violence, the disenchantment with our society, the divisions, whether it's between blacks and whites, between the poor and the more affluent, or between age groups or on the war in Vietnam, that we can start to work together. We are a great country and a selfish country and a compassionate country and I intend to make that my basis for running it over the period of time. During his life he knew far more than his share of personal tragedy. Yet he never abandoned his faith in America. He never lost his confidence in the spiritual strength of ordinary men and women. He believed in the capacity of the young for excellence and in the right of the old and the poor to a life of dignity. Our public life is diminished by his law. He dared us all. He dared the grieving not to retreat into despair. We dared the comfortable not to be complacent. We dared the doubting to keep going. Today the entire world Shares our grief. A grief which is made even more poignant because these two remarkable brothers have both fallen to the assassin's bullet. There are, we understand, only the family and the clergy, and immediate friends of the family, inside the church at this time, offering their special prayers Hoping that the soul of Robert Kennedy is accepted graciously into heaven. And so the body of Senator Robert Kennedy is now inside St. Patrick's Cathedral. Robert Kennedy, the man who represented New York State for a scant three and a half years, has come home He has come home for all the last time. As we remember and respect it, may the good Lord hold Robert commit us close. And may we too Hold on with our hearts and minds to the example of his life and the continuing meaning and challenge to all of us. Since five thirty this morning more than fifty thousand have filed past the beer of Senator Kennedy. The rich, the poor, Catholic, Protestant, the humble, the proud. Special names who kept the vigil for a time included actress Sidney Poultier, singer Andy Williams and his wife, civil rights leader Charles Evers and World Bank President Robert McNamara, and of course some unknown names but friends of the late senator nevertheless. Police estimate about one half million will pass through St. Patrick's Cathedral before the Requiem High Mass tomorrow morning since the family changed its plans and the cathedral will remain open all night. My brother need not be idealized or enlarged in death beyond what he was in life. Be remembered simply as a good and decent man So wrong and tried to write it. Saw suffering and tried to heal it. Saw war and tried to stop it. Those of us who loved him and who take him to his rest today, pray that what he was to us. And what he wished for others will someday come to pass for all the world. As he said many times, in many parts of this nation, those he touched and who sought to touch him, some men see things as they are and say, Why? Why? I dream things that never were and save why not