Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County, this is the Frederick Faith Debate brought to us by Equipment plumbing and heating, how can we make you smile? We're joined this week by two good-looking fellas, one of them dressed like a lumberjack, Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel The other one looking rather professorial. That's because he's Dr. Brian Lee, pastor of Christ Reformed Church. Um I am Troy Skinner. I'm your host and moderator. I am uh I feel like a lumberjack, but I'm dressed rather professorially as well today. Very conservative with your gray suit and your gray tie. Very uh very nice, conservative, classy. Now this is gonna give away how far in advance sometimes we record this show. But I gotta ask because I don't know and I think that uh you know our one listener is gonna care about the answer to this question. Yeah, where'd we end up uh on Project 48? Uh at this stage of the ballgame it looks like we're gonna hit over two forty. Wow. But um but some of that's still coming in we should know by the end of the week basically. Wow. Frederick for for the uninitiated, Frederick 48. Last year the Frederick County Commissioners had to cut all the uh county government support for the not-for-profit agencies because of budget restrictions and that sort of thing. John Schweitzer led a spearheaded uh an effort last year to try to meet that shortfall. I think that they they needed a hundred and some odd thousand dollars Flash yeah. Basically it was fifty thousand that was cut. Fifty thousand cut? No, no, no. I'm sorry. Five hundred thousand that was cut. Over four years. Over four years. So the first year would have been a hundred and twenty five thousand. We kinda wanted to cover that last year and we only got twenty-seven thousand dollars total. But this year But John was depressed and ready to give it up and like I'm a failure. Yeah, yeah, and everybody else God has no plan for my life. I am a disaster. It wasn't that bad. But people rescued him from the depths of depression and uh he he he went after it again this year with a lot of help from uh Debbie Williams. Yes. And I've got to give him this props to the first time. And so now your two year total is going to be somewhere around two sixty, two seventy, two eighty, somewhere in there. Yeah, our two year total and and the the key to that is that this year in particular then the cuts from the commissioners would just this year be two hundred and fifty thousand. And so basically we're covering this year what we needed to cover for this year. Whereas last year we didn't come anywhere close. We were like a hundred thousand short. But this year we're meeting that particular goal, which is I don't know that that was our only goal. You know, really our goal was to help those that are really needing the help. Right. Nevertheless, that's that's an interesting little figure. So anyway, congratulations on a on a great idea. And next year, maybe we'll do four hundred thousand. No pressure. That's the goal. You get the right people. You know, I guess I mean I want to give God the glory. He's he's really given favor on a lot of different fronts and and I feel like uh he ultimately made the difference. I really believe that to be the case. Alright, now let's d let's transition into the debate part of the program. Okay. Um Jonathan Schweitzer for years has has made it no secret of his his belief that God is still active in blessing and cursing nations today. uh he has argued pretty uh pretty strongly. I don't wanna if I'm putting words in your mouth you can correct me but he has argued pretty strongly that America was founded as uh as a is a Christian nation with a Judeo Christian foundation. Um there's a important qualification to that. So do you want me to say it now? Um well y y you can if you feel like you can't wait. Um yeah Uh the the key qualification to to what I say how America was founded is that it seemed to to have two major taproots. One major taproot was clearly a Judeo-Christian uh worldview uh that comes down even through through an English system of uh of government that that was decidedly not French in its approach, is more English in its orientation. uh and had a sense of uh of of a bill of rights at the center of it, had a sense of of law and order at the center the center of it. Uh and then the the second major taproot that I argue for is that was that of political science, uh that came out of the Enlightenment and that that proved to not have uh much tie to the belief in God whatsoever. So within, you know, seventy, you know, sixty to a hundred years uh the political science taproot uh had had moved away from any commitment to God whatsoever and was following Hegelianism and and Darwin I mean uh Dar Darwin was a big part of moving that away. But um uh uh Marxism and uh Nietzscheism and and had moved decidedly away from um uh an orientation towards somehow uh a God foundation being a part of the world view. And so that political science orientation uh coming down through Thomas Jefferson, you know, where you cut out the parts of the Bible that that have anything to do with the miraculous, uh, is clearly well represented, say, in the o the Obama administration, you know, where he ta where his approach to the Bible is decidedly Jeffersonian as opposed to uh something that would be a little bit more orthodox. And and so I put kind of both of those as foundations, which means that I don't think that we were founded as a as a solely Christian nation and that the that the seeds of our of the potential downfall of the nation w was there from the beginning in this political science orientation. So am I throwing you off? Am I in a different place? But but generally speaking you have argued and unless you're gonna change your position now, you have argued that America has been an exceedingly blessed nation. Yeah. Because it there's something exceptional about us and what's exceptional about us is we have and a a nation that was founded with God honoring principles in mind. Right? Is that not where you've been? Uh-huh. Or is that not where you are now? No, I I think it is, but there's always qualifications. And I want to let the doctor speak as well. So Uh so uh generally yes, but when I you know, if we split enough hairs, you know, even a Calvinist and Arminian can uh be in agreement. Let me let me turn turn to Brian, Dr. Lee here for a second and say okay, he's g he throws a bunch of caveats into this. Generally speaking, we're favored by God as a nation, and generally speaking, we might want to say we're a Christian nation. Would you say that give even with the caveats that that would be a fair theological place to land, or would you say no even with the cave I'll grant you the caveats and still say I'm not going to buy it. Or do you are we going to end up getting into a hair splitting discussion? No, I don't think it will be a hair splitting discussion. I think the short, unqualified answer is no, we're not a Christian nation because What would it mean to be a Christian nation? Christianity is a revealed religion and a revealed religion of redemption. Um so I take it that the caveats take us in a direction of broad Judeo Christian tap root to a a a worldview or a series of ideas. Well We can talk about that and historically there's no denying that Western Europeans were at the the basic foundation of, you know, drafting the declaration, the constitution, whatnot. But uh but that's not Christian in any in any meaningful sense. And in fact the drafters of those documents, most of them weren't Orthodox Christians, weren't Christians in any sense of the word. They denied the deity of Christ. Uh they denied the Trinity. Um so to say that we're a Christian nation that was uh founded by uh an elite leadership, the framers or the founders who on the whole were not Christians, uh, seems like a very strange thing to say. Then then to back up and given all the qualifications, I would say that that biblically We have uh no nation um on in the history of the earth other than Old Testament Israel that has had a unique relationship with God, that has had specific covenantal, theocratic relationship with God such that she was blessed and cursed. based on her obedience and faithfulness to the covenant. Um in the New Testament Jesus says, My kingdom is not of this world. Uh when asked about paying taxes, uh a trick trick question about taxes and as Mitt Romney knows every question about taxes is a trick question um as the IRS knows. Um it It was asked, you know, should we pay taxes? You know, is Jesus going to be a good Jew, a good uh zealot, and say that Rome is an illegitimate oppressive occupying force, or is he going to uh say uh what what Caesar and Pilate want to hear. Well yeah, of course you pay taxes. He says, Well who you know, whose image, whose name is on the coin? Render unto Caesar's what is Caesar's And this is this is the principle we we see throughout the New Testament. Peter, Paul, John were strangers, were foreigners, we're pilgrims on earth. Uh Abraham, the book of Hebrews tells us, was seeking a city with foundations, a heavenly city. So the Christian view consistently expressed through the New Testament is that that Israel served a specific temporary role as a type, as a shadow, pointing forward to Christ. And with the coming of Christ, there is now no more a specific nation. Now Is God in control of history? Yes. Are all nations, all people, subject to blessings and curses from his hands? Yes. Um but that's that's the working of God's providence, and I don't know God's mind. I don't know if uh if, you know, a a a plus thousand year in the Dow Jones uh industrial average is a blessing or a curse. It depends whether consumerism is a good thing. uh whether fruitfulness is a good thing or or whether it's a bad thing. But I know that that America can't be Christian, to take that word as an adjective, in any meaningful sense, can't be redemptive. Can't save anyone, can't uh bring anyone 'cause there's nothing that does is Christian in that sense. Are you in agreement with any of that, most of that, all of that? Well uh I'm I'm in disagreement with quite a bit of it. Um but I wanna make it very clear. You know? Um I I wanna make it very clear when I said was that we are a nation that was built on Judeo-Christian values, two tap roots, Judeo-Christian values and and political science. Right? And so so I'm not arguing that that our nation is a Christian nation. Um th to to summarize it in that that direction, uh uh I feel like just turns it a little bit into a uh to a straw man. I think it's easier to knock that straw man down. We are God honoring. I mean those are arguments that that you hear. Clearly. And then you hear them and they and they use as proofs, right? Historical proofs. Well, it's not just America. Look at uh you know uh the island of Hispaniola. You've got, you know those uh those Satan pact making Haitians right next door to the uh Dominican Republic and the Dominican Republic's doing just fine 'cause they're more God honoring and the Haitians they've turn their back on God and so see there's an example. And look what happened in these European nations. The ones that they become increasingly secularized, God removes his favor from them. And these become proofs for that's why America is so great. The pilgrims came here and they were religious people. Yeah. Right? The the question I that I have to ask along those lines, there's um there's a a series of questions that I feel like are important questions. Number one Is it true that God reveals in Scripture a basis upon which he seems to judge nations or not judge nations? Yes, in the Old Testament, but there's a there's um in the Old Testament where Israel and the nations that Israel is opposed to. are determined by their fealty to the idols or their fealty to Yahweh. And so when uh Jeremiah in chapter eighteen talks about nations that will rise up or that will fall Um that is all operating on the level of type which is operative in the Old Testament. Each nation is identified with its God, but the ultimate reference there is Jesus Christ. Um you know Now the now w in when we have the Book of Revelation, which is a a commentary of sorts on Old Testament um prophetic literature and apocalyptic literature, and and the book of Revelation is is basically looking at the church And how the world, I would say what Paul calls this evil age, the entirety of the world is arrayed over and against the church. And indeed, then the book of Revelation has in view Babylon the Great I don't think he's she's talking about, you know, Saddam Hussein in Iraq. I I think the book of Revelation is talking about the church run off the rails, then become occupied with the world in its power, in its riches, in its wealth. Um so I I think ironically uh the book of Revelation is actually talking about a church that's become uh uh somewhat intoxicated with with political and and financial power. Very interesting. That's the uh well the very interesting voice that's Jonathan Sweitzer Sr. Pastor of Crosswords Valley Chapel, the voice right before that giving the the lengthier uh answer before the that's interesting comment was uh doc that of Dr. Brian Lee. I'm Troy Skinner, this is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Now in the past John when I've had these discussions or others have had this you know somewhat related discussions on this And and uh and the point gets made about well that's the Old Testament, you've been quick to say, well what's changed from the Old Testament to the New Testament? Am I anticipating what your next question is gonna is that going to be your next question? Absolutely. is that when I read Isaiah uh or I read um uh uh any of the prophets about the other nations, um I see uh consistent basis upon which God juds judges nations. Uh those nations, right? And so he clearly uh had a covenant with Israel and he judged them based on the covenant. But in in fact I see more than that that that he gave certain nations uh uh uh you know, he decided which nations we're gonna live where and you almost get the sense with several of these nations, Edom included, Ammon included that they they failed to live up to what God had given them the opportunity to do, which is to be a nation. And then uh with with several of them he says you will no longer be a nation. You lost, as it were, even the right to be a nation uh because of certain things that you did. And and it seems to be uh from my study of that, which is probably less than yours, because you have a uh doctorate in theology. Nevertheless From from my little bit of study of that, I see a consistency in all that. Now, we turn then to the New Testament, and the question is, is there a place where God says, I'm no longer interacting with the nations on that same basis? And I can't find one. Uh what does the New Testament say about the nations? Uh the New Testament uh I mean all kinds of things about the fact that, you know, God is reaching all nations, he's sending us to all nations. He's he's uh he's calling out of the nations, you know, his people. Uh and it's interesting that you went into Revelation in particular, because um You're you you you chose a particular eschatology about Revelation that I think kind of looks at the Roman Catholic Church uh as as one of the parts of the body of Christ that went Babylonian. I was actually thinking of the of most Protestant churches in America today, but um if you want to take it to Rome, that's fine too. That qualifies. But I'm of the opinion that the majority of what Revelation stood for was the nation of Israel at 70 AD and the fact that God was uh that that was at least For those that lived in that time frame, that was the initial fulfillment of Revelation that that the religious system that was represented by Israel had become corrupt and that, you know, it th there was there was the beast. Uh, and then the beast is ridden by the whore and so the beast hates the whore, but but the whore, you know, kinda seems to control the beast, and that's why the beast hates the whore. uh and the the whore representing the religious system and the beast kind of representing a a nation that has given itself uh over to uh wickedness instead of walking in the purposes of God, right? And so all that being the case, uh yes, I think every generation lifts up its eyes from Revelation and says, okay, where's the whore? And as we look around, there's many uh churches I think today that that fit that, not just the Roman Catholic Church. In fact, it could be argued that uh that there are some things that the current Pope is doing that seems to be leading uh back in the direction of of what would be considered biblical orthodoxy. uh though he's got a ways to go. So I'm not I don't want to overstate that case, please. Uh but you know uh Episcopalian churches, uh pre Presbyterian churches, uh a number of Methodist churches that are choosing to embrace uh ungodly, clearly ungodly uh approaches to scripture and are no longer teaching the gospel. I sat down with one pastor, it took us two hours to define our terms, and he agreed he was preaching a different gospel than what I was preaching. from his pulpit and that he preaches against the gospel that I preach. He actually agreed to that. Right? So I lift up my eyes. You know, clearly those guys are are whores in the sense that they have they have given themselves over to other nations. So I follow all that Um and I'm comfortable using that kind of language. You know, the beast is whatever group of people has chosen to not follow the purposes of God, you know, and and receives its power from Satan. Uh does that mean that every nation out there though is a part of the beast I don't feel like we have to go that far. I I I I feel like every generation has an opportunity and the people in that nation, uh, to to Choose the purposes of God or walk away from the purposes of God. And in our generation, just like with Abraham, the question is, how many, Lord, do we need 500,000 in the United States that don't bow their knee to Baal? You know, how many do we need in our nation in order for God to bless? And we're given we're we're given insight. That Abraham himself walked God down. And when it was less than ten, Abraham said, You know what, God, you're right. I guess you should destroy them. And we're given a basis upon which God is judging. uh uh Sodom for that matter. But then we're told if if the miracles that had been done in Jesus' time uh in Beth Seda had been done in Sodom, that Sodom would have r would have repented. Right? We're given this sense of of how God is interacting with nations and groups of people. And we're not given the sense that that changed but just that we now have a clearer sense of what we're calling people to repentance to. Well no no no I I would I would caution you strongly there. I'd say the only nation that's judged in the New Testament Is Israel for its unbelief in the Messiah that has come. And with the coming of Jesus, what has come into fulfillment of all the types that Israel represented is Jesus says it's not a literal temple built on top of the temple mount. My body is the temple. The kingdom is a spiritual kingdom. So i in the book of Revelation, in the book of Acts, the nations are are no longer viewed in their geopolitical aspect That was the part of the Old Testament type. They're talking about peoples, ethnicities, all the nations who are flooding into into Jerusalem. So for instance, when when Paul comes back to Jerusalem with his offering, that is a central part of all of his epistles, when he comes back to Jerusalem with that offering He is very much so, and he does so times it to the Feast of Pentecost, he's very much so fulfilling the Old Testament prophecy that the nations, the kings of the earth, would stream into Israel with their riches and with their wealth. into the temple with the and but but it's it's not it's not the nations, the actual kings or delegates of those nations who came to see, for instance, Solomon or King David. Now who's coming but Titus? Representatives, elders from the churches that Paul has established in Corinth in in Lystra, in Philippi. Um so the church now is coming in, the the peoples of the earth are are no longer considered as as nation states. And even the book of Revelation. The whole aspect, and this is framed up in the opening letters to the churches, it's the seven churches whose lampstands will either preserve and be maintained, the spirit will either stay with them or not. And so uh I I I would s say that that what the New Testament says about the state is extremely limited. It's Jesus' submission uh to Pilate and to Rome. My kingdom is not of the earth. It's what Paul says in Romans, which is is Romans thirteen, which is really a a remarkable passage. Where he says, every civil authority is a deacon, a minister of God, a servant of God. He's talking to the Roman church. about the civil magistrate who is over. He says, be subject. Subject yourself to them. And who are they? This is the Rome ruled by Nero. He says, pay your taxes, honor them. Why? W what are they you know, we have debates today whether taxpayer dollars can go to abortions. I I think abortion is a is an abomination. There's no doubt about that. Yet Paul says pay your taxes because The civil magistrate has been appointed by God. Every civil magistrate ever has been appointed by God for this purpose, to punish the evildoer and to protect those who do good. So the church should be a protection uh the the state should be a protection to the church so long as the church doesn't break the law. Now Paul is basically saying Fund the armies that are oppressing Israel, fund the centurions with your taxpayer dollars who nailed Jesus to the cross because they are ministers of God for God's purposes. That's an incre you know, and people say, well, nations are going to be judged on how God honoring they are. How God honoring was Nero's Rome? Not very at all, but that's exactly what Paul's describing. So I have about uh twenty responses to all that. Um uh I I I'll just try to kind of pick one for now and pick the best one. I'll kinda weed in. Um my understanding is that is that we don't make doctrine from silence in Scripture. And if uh the New Testament doesn't directly change. It is it is true that that God uh Pentecost, the the languages, the people from every tribe and nation, uh he's talking about the ultimate fulfillment of all things. But nothing in the New Testament tells us that there's not going to be nation states, and nothing in the New Testament gives us an indication that God has stopped judging those nations the way that he did previously and if I understand Daniel correctly the Roman Empire is the the fourth iron beast that that the the kingdom of God was going to hit and destroy it. And so if that's the case then then there's not like this this no more nation states. In fact, uh the you know, w there is reference uh to um uh I'm gonna forget the terminology to uh Russia and uh the peoples of Russia and several places there in uh Revelation which is very interesting to me. Magog and Magog and Magog and Magog that that continues to this day to be an area of the world that won't submit to any kind of righteousness and that that that hangs on to, as it were, a rejection of the things of God. Now, you're right. God is sovereign and he's working things out according to his sovereign purposes on the earth. But he's the one God is that that shaped Egypt up so that he could destroy her by uh for his own glory. And Is there any reason why he can't do that now? And if he's doing that now, if he's doing the same thing that he did back then, meaning that he's allowing a beast to rise up And when the time is right that he's going to destroy that beast for his glory, well that doesn't mean that that the whole world is a beast. It means that there's a there is a world system that that uh that is beastly when it gives its power over to the enemy. We we saw several of those in our generation that Totally kicked God out of the nation in in in a uh very blasphemous kind of way. Russia was one of those. China uh Mao Sei Tung You know, you go right down the list of nations that totally rejected the purpose of God. And interestingly enough interestingly enough, within forty years, these nations didn't have enough food in their own countries to feed their own people. Well first of all, it's not an argument from silence. Again, Paul is describing Rome, uh a magistrate that's established by God, and he doesn't foresee any removal and he puts no limit on the time in which the Christian is to submit to that. So it's it it is a legitimate minister of God. Okay, can I r can I respond to that? Sure. Uh actually you know what can can you make a note to yourself? Yeah go ahead and I know you too well. You're not gonna be able to respond to that. Did you by the way, did you have uh uh a button that you wanted to put on your thought that you were in the middle of, Brian? Um uh well it first of all it's not an argument from silence and uh Second of all, that's the part I disagree with. Second of all well, I just gave you the text where Paul describes a nation-state, a civil magistrate, one of the few times that occurs in the New Testament and gives it a positive role and doesn't give an end to it. But second of all, um w w to flip it around, what is it that America has ever done from seventeen seventy six onward that constitutes faithfulness. And you have to construe that in in Christian covenantal terms or you have nothing. Sounds like that would be a great place to start. We'll talk about the whether or not it's arguing from silence. And uh we'll talk about whether or not America really has been godly and uh uh godly enough to be considered a a Christian nation. Uh this is the Ben the Faith Debate, Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. What have I been reading lately? Between two worlds. By uh John R. W. Stott. You've probably read that, right? Both of you read that? Brian says he's read some or all of it Is that what he said? Yeah. Yeah. Anyway. Uh our sponsors at Putman Plumbing and Heating, How Can We Make You Smile? Visit visit us online. I'm tongue-tied today for some reason. Visit us online at www. WFMD dot com, keyword faith. Till next week, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from now. God bless.