Preaching with impact to a following pavement because people continue to put their faith in unsatisfying things. This is the further great debate on Fletch News Radio 930 WFMD. Broadcast by Putman Plugin and Heating Help We Make You Smile. Accounting and insurance, a proud supporter of New Life Preaching Academy, and Cruz Hollidays, who's sending Bob on a big trip, and maybe you're gonna go with him. Uh visit us online, WFMD. com, keyword faith. That's where you'll find all sorts of links to all sorts of religious issues. also find the daily updated, at least weekly updated uh Facebook blog, my blog is your blog. So you can email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. And this show probably sounds a little bit different to you today than it does normally because for the very first time they've let us out of our box, out of our cages, or on the streets. And you're listening to this, I think, as we're approaching the holiday season, and yet right now live, in person, this is in the street, the in the street festival in downtown Frederick. So this is the first time we've done radio in like people can see what we look like and so that's a little bit dangerous that they can also see us and hear us because you know it's just not as nice when you have to look at us as well. But now that they've seen us the ratings will go up for many years. Yeah, yeah we'll see how that plays out. That's the voice of John Jonathan Sweitzer, he's senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel and the founder of the uh Frederick 48 initiative, which uh had another massive success this year. So congratulations on that. Thank you. And we're joined this week by I'm gonna do it once, just because I feel like I have to, because Jonathan called you this originally. Dean K. Meyer. So it goes like K. So from now on she's K Meyer. She is the director of pastoral care at Frederick Memorial Health Care System. Nice to be here. I'm happy to think she's been doing that for uh around around a year now, I guess. Well I no, I've been the director at this hospital for Three years. I have been doing this for thirty years. Thirty years. Yes. All right. A year, thirty years, what's the difference? I think I might make a career of it next year. Um you were before you came to work for the hospital, so you were uh pastor of a church, I guess? I have served six different hospitals. Oh six different hospitals? Six different hospitals and six different uh congregations. Okay, very good. Well, so you know, name a year, I'll tell you where I was. When I go into a hospital environment and I and I see people that are on the verge of crisis or in the midst of crisis all the time. It's one thing to serve a congregation where you get a couple calls and a few people that are in crisis, but you're dealing with people that are like everybody you deal with. are people that are in crisis and they're not just people from the same uh uh faith background that you are, but they're people from all kinds of different faith backgrounds all at the same time. And so you've got just such a complex environment to deal with on a regular basis. It's it's uh it is, but it also is uh one of the richest environments to be I I think it's a fabulous environment to be a part of. Uh we serve people of all faith traditions and no faith traditions. And interesting enough, uh though Being in a hospital in itself is a difficulty for many people that is the most controllable part of their life when they enter the hospital. Interesting. And what is uh really on their minds are a number of other things. So we try to meet each one of our um uh patients or family members from the perspective of uh an open agenda because my assumptions are sure enough not going to be the right one. Right, right. Now you are uh your background you're Presbyterian Church United States of America. USA. Right. So PC USA. So you are um you know Christian, devoted to, you know, believing in Christ and the truth of the Bible and that sort of thing, and yet you're asked in this in your job that you're setting to meet the spiritual uh needs and requests of people that would reject Christ, reject the truth of the Bible. What sort of a challenge is that for you and for your staff? Yeah, that's gotta be unique. Well actually in more than uh being a difficulty it's a great opportunity. It's a fabulous opportunity. Because um issues of faith really are from the heart. It's not about getting it right. It's about living out of your heart. And if we can help people do that, it's really not my job for to get people to think the right thought. It's for me to help people find who they are in this moment and where they can honestly take a step of faith. After that It's really up to up to God. So why should I take on jobs that aren't mine to begin with? So so the way that you approach it is is that you're encouraging each individual to kinda define their own way. 'Cause it is true absolutely that the different groups uh are very concerned about their unique beliefs. And so like if you were to if you were to come into a Muslim situation with a Christian response, or come into a Jewish situation with a Muslim response, like that's that's also going to be a p not just a faux pas, like you're gonna start angering people in that environment. That's right. And so you get so so while at the same time you've got an approach that says that you're just gonna be more open to where they're you know to where people are coming from, you really have to serve each each one of those groups. The question really is who sleeps with being met here? Mine or the patient. Yeah. And my job is to be there for the patient. Sure. So, um and what I find is if we won't have an open heartedness towards our uh relationships with these folks that we have an opportunity to serve, it'll go better than what I could ever have uh orchestrated. My my ideas are really pretty limited. But there is some that I believe in that's called a process. And if I'll stay true to that, uh you will see the work that needs to be done accomplished. So what do you mean by by stick to process? Like in the context of of being a director of pastoral services at Frederick Memorial Hospital. Uh what do you mean by process? I mean people are there, they're in the midst of crisis, they need some kind of spiritual help. What do you mean by process? Um, let let me be clear about there's a couple of thoughts running through my mind. One of the thoughts is be very clear. If someone has a faith tradition and they are interested in having someone from their faith tradition there so that they can practice uh their religion in a certain way, we will do everything possible to make that contact on their behalf and work as as their advocate. But what I mean by a process is we find that if I will really listen to what that person is saying to me, there is a level of um connectedness that will begin to build And what we're really most interested in is helping people find a place of trust. That is that is the medicine that is going to be the best for them at that time. You know, I was just telling my wife the other day, I feel like people don't know how to just connect with one with with other people in a uh in a social environment anymore that that there's a little bit of discomfort you know that people have that they don't just know how to connect about the weather or they don't just know you know how know how to connect about about things you know. that are going on in society and everything turns into a you know a big conflict or something, you know, you just wanna kinda be quiet and not really connect. And yet there's a whole number of ways that you can connect with people about whether about what they're going through right now that is very common to what it means to be human and uh it seems to me like that's what you're describing that there's a process of communication that you can connect at the whether you're in agreement about religious things or not. Yeah. Um the first of all you you just gave be a great opportunity. We uh have an accredited appro uh we have an accredited program called clinical pastoral education. Uh we have three tiers of training. Uh so uh this is at the hospital that's right providing clinical training for pastoral services? It's clinical training and pastoral care and counseling. Um we're uh actually I I start the residency program Monday and we start the interim program uh two weeks from Monday. Um so So if you're interested that that's an opportunity. But trying to get it right. Yeah. The first thing I am pretty sure of at the moment I need to get it right, I'm getting it wrong. Trying to get what right? See if if if I think it if talking to people and connecting to them is about giving the right information, the right answer, the right religion, I am definitely already doing it wrong. Huh. See now I come from a very different perspective along those lines. You and I test based a little bit about that. People tend to identify me uh you know like in their uh not so kindest moments, you know, as like a fundamentalist Christian, you know, somebody that that believes in certain and absolutes and uh and so I tend to to to uh approach questions of the truth from a direction of saying that there is an absolute truth, that there is a that that there is a place that we get to in terms of truth that is that it's important to get to. And so you and I are are actually in pretty different places on that particular issue where you're saying that that that that the truth isn't necessarily the most important thing. What's the most important thing is the process. And and and I would tend to argue that yes I agree that the process is good, but that there's also a a a truth that we need to get to that is important if we're going to be able to interact with one another in society. Like for example, um I have a neighbor who is the who is the a Muslim imam that is a chaplain down at Georgetown University. Right? Imam Yahya Hendi. And he lives in my neighborhood. Because he and I talk and I know where he where he's coming from on things, then when something happens in in the community and he responds a certain way. I understand why he responds that way because we've talked about what it is that is important to him in that situation. And so so I view that as we're having an honest conversation about the truth. He sees it that way, I see it that way, and because I understand how he sees a certain situation, like if two people get in an argument, depending on on what your religious perspective is, you might agree with one person or the other. But but how you view that argument, if I know how you're going to view that argument, I tend to be able to trust you more because I know what's going to happen. I'm not living in this blind spot where I just don't know what's going to happen. It seems to me Like that's probably true for you in the uh hospital setting that when you interact with a Muslim family, you need to know what is important to a Muslim family. When you interact with a Jewish family, you gotta know what's important to them, otherwise you're gonna end up doing things that in the concrete cause them to be offended. Is that true? I'm I'm tying some things together there, I realize, but the question is is whether or not the truth is important uh in the context of interacting with one another. I'm agreeing with you that there's a process that we get to to the truth, but that ultimately we gotta know how people are dealing with the truth, otherwise we're not gonna know how to get along with one another. Before Kay jumps in with a response to that, let me reset what's going on here. This is a live in the street edition of the Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WSMD. That was Jonathan Sweitzer just speaking. Uh he's the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. We're joined this week by Kay Myers, who's the Director of Pastoral Care at Frederick Memorial Health Care System. And uh you wanted to give your uh Response now? I think that was a great moment. Thanks for giving me 'cause usually I have to kinda take a moment. Totally. Yeah. And um I think on the air you're supposed to keep the keep sound coming through. But I'm I'm not real good at sound always just keeping sound going through. I think what we're talking about here is the difference between thoughts and feelings. Okay. Thoughts are fine. Yeah. And again, I want to be real clear. When someone is um a part of a faith group Uh and especially a house of worship. The job of that house of worship is to teach that tradition. Yeah, right. We are for that. And that tradition I m uh would you agree that that each tradition is defining reality? for the people underneath that that tradition. And how should we view somebody did that and we should view it that way, somebody did that, we should view it as good. Somebody that we should view it as that that that they're defining reality in that sense for those groups. But underneath it all, I really appreciate it that you gave me kind of a uh a a little help there. That's somebody that w that was just walking by, just spoke up and said something encouraging here to Kay. But underneath it all, the question is how do I relate to this person from a position of compassion? Yeah, yeah. Because it's very clear I'm Christian, but if I really listen to the teachings The teaching says coming from a place of compassion will be a reflection of something greater and higher than me. Coming from a position of deformation of God for God is In if I come from a place that I think I'm supposed to provide the right information, sure, I have already missed it. So that's very interesting. So so information to you because I I wasn't thinking so much information but you you you're going the direction of information. I was saying that that how we define reality, like like what I see, how I define what something is, what something isn't, you know, what's good and what's bad, you're saying that that has to do with information. Like that's the language that you use that that has to do with information, not with compassion. Okay? So can I can I challenge that? Right? Because when when I see one person, if my assumption is that that person is doing something that is wrong and and as I interact with them I get the impression that what they're doing is wrong is something that they are unwilling to change, then I tend to not be as compassionate. But if somebody else is doing something that I view as wrong but but they're doing it wrong and in and they're just uh it's just by accident. They're not intending it to be wrong, then I tend to have compassion. And so my information uh informs my compassion. Now I'm still going to be loving towards everybody, but if somebody's doing doing something specifically that's wrong, then the way that I show compassion or love or do right towards them uh means that that I gotta I gotta call 'em on it. Like if I see somebody doing drugs, I gotta I I if I love 'em I mean in comp I'll look them in the eye and I'll say, You're screwing your life up. Why are you doing that? You need to stop doing that. And so so uh my my definition, my information uh informs how I go about communicating my my compassion. Would you agree? agree with that statement or or do you feel like I'm confusing the issue? I'm not trying to confuse it but I I think it might be a little bit later stage than what I'm talking about. Okay. Because the stage I'm talking about is if if I see something and I have trouble with having compassion there then really the first place I need to start working on compassion is in my own heart. Now see I'm in agre agreement with you on that. And it's really about learning to have compassion with who I am at that moment. Because until I do that work I have I'm not ready to reach out and to compassion. Okay, now I think I see where you're going with that, and I and I think I tend to be in agreement with that. The point is is that my ability to respond compassionately towards somebody oftentimes has more to do with th what's going on inside of me than what's going on with them. So even though they might be wrong or they might be right, my ability to respond correctly towards them is largely a function of my ability to process my own soul. before I go to interact with them. It is always about my own soul. Yeah, yeah. Always about that. Yeah. And so if I will take the position that my first work is to have an open heart. And that means to be a have an open heart to when I do not have an open heart. Yeah, yeah, I'm with you. That is my first work. Sure. And really the kindest thing I can do to a person is to say I'm not clear about your need. Yeah. I'm not clear about your life. Right. Will you be my teacher? And so there's a person right in front of me. Something is bothering them. I'm not sure and I understand what it is. So because I don't understand what it is, I'm inclined to react with negativity, with judgmentalism, with uh with unkindness. Whereas oftentimes what you're saying, the process for a professional in the context of a of a um of a hospital who is providing pastoral services is to first and foremost say, well wait a second, I'm not sure that I understand. Let me listen first. And so that's what you mean by process. The process is is identifying My heart, knowing myself, right? Uh Know thyself. Uh, if anyone doesn't know himself, what what's the quote? It's just know thyself. Isn't there a famous quote about knowing thyself? I think if one doesn't know thyself, they don't know thyself. Yeah, well I don't know the quote about knowing me. So here, here, right here. We have somebody from the audience. Say it again. To thy own self be true. To thine own self be true. Well that's not the phrase I was looking for, but but it goes along the same lines that that we gotta know ourselves that by knowing ourselves It prepares us to respond to the situation that's in front of us. In fact, I think again I'm Christian. I follow for myself I follow Christian tre teachings. And one of the teachings that I think is illustrates this is the Good Samaritan story. Okay. It doesn't matter where that's a it doesn't matter where that other person is coming from. It's where I'm coming from. The Samaritan based the difference. Her person. Yeah. saw a Samaritan. Yeah. And needed and they saw somebody who they didn't believe was living the right way. Yeah. But the first place they came from was that they that they had to come from their own heart and they had already done that work. Now that raises some different questions for me, right? Because um, you know, as a more conservative Christian, um, you know, who defines the truth a little bit more precisely in terms of what I believe is true and not true, what I've noticed is that society in general is less willing for me to be a part of the solution. Like for example, up in Boston, uh the Catholic community is no longer uh free to provide adoption services because they have a conviction having to do with homosexual marriage and homosexuality. And because of that conviction about homosexuality, the state has said unless you're willing to to also serve homosexual communities which they're not willing to do by conviction then you can no longer help with providing adoption services. And in Boston, the Catholic community was the most the strongest provider of adoption services. And so it seems like there are there's a couple of people that are clapping here right now. Are you Catholic? Yeah, and you're they're giving me the thumbs up. The point is that there's situations in society where people want to be a good Samaritan, but when we go to be a good Samaritan it feels like we're told that we have to muzzle ourselves and we can't say what we really believe. We lose our First Amendment rights if we're going to help out the some the uh the hurt person on the side of the road. And my question is uh in a society that is religiously free should we be obligated to shut down our communication about our convictions, meaning our First Amendment rights, in the context of helping? And if so, isn't it likely that we're gonna we're gonna shut down a whole lot of good Samaritans that are ready and willing to help? But because they have to leave their convictions at the door, they end up losing their passion for helping in the midst of tough situations. I was actually talking with a with a uh African American pastor uh from Wayman um African American. Yeah, okay, he's from Africa. Anyways, he's African Methodist Episcopal, he's an African American pastor, and sure enough, um, he tells me about situations where the church back in the fifties and sixties were more involved in and providing social services but because it started to be um considered politically incorrect to bring your beliefs with you into helping those that need those services, he said he watched as they were regulated out of the helping out uh because they're no they they had to leave their convictions at the door. And so my question is in that scenario the information that the society is d is the defining and giving means that I I'm no longer able to show compassion in various situations and I and I feel like I get stuck in that scenario and I'm not sure quite what to do. And again I feel like in in the United States we want to allow freedom for everybody to worship as they please. There shouldn't be any kind of arm twisting or manipulation, you know, there shouldn't be um uh cruelty and unkindness. However, it's uh it's dangerous I feel like to uh to shut people out of that process. I don't know, what do you think about all that? You're doing a lot of thinking you're being Yeah. Um you're a very thoughtful person, I appreciate that. All I know is that in I can't take I can't take on every situation and have a very good response to it. Sure. What I do know is the work that's put in front of me. If I will take one step, that's all I'm supposed to do. Because it's from taking that one step Yeah that I will be at another place and I really believe that the next step will be revealed. I'm not asked to do any more than be here, be now, and that is the work to be done. This is this is what you've been saying from the beginning of the show here this morning, is that process is important and for you you're working that process in your soul of being here now of of examining your own soul so that your response to what's happening is Is is well prepared as is is not judging in scenarios where you just don't understand, but where it's providing the opportunity for you to to respond right even if you don't necessarily feel so right. Uh I absolutely it really isn't about if this situation makes me comfortable. It's if am I willing to live in discomfort because I am there to serve. Yes. Um speaking of sitting in Comfort. These tools you brought us, John. Do you like these? We should have had some cushions or something. Yeah, and there's no back to it, so after a while we're gonna be hurting for sure. This is the Frederick Fade Demate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WSMD. Uh this week we have Jonathan Sweitzer again, uh senior pastor. Crossest Valley Chapel. I can ask you by the way, I saw something where the church was referred to as CrossFest Valley uh church. Are you guys Professor Chapter or Process Valley Church? When we moved to the new facility, we decided you know we're changing the website. We decided to go from chapel to church just because we So we are actually Crossroads Valley Church now. That's like a change it. Thanks for letting me. What's your name? Harold Snout. Harold Snout? And what do you think about what we were just saying? Can't really say. But you're shaking my hand, you're giving me a thumbs up. I have a problem when I hear African American. Yeah, this guy's telling me that he has a problem when you hear the term African American because he's from Africa. I'm African American. In in uh in And so he's an African American uh from Nigeria Johannes. And yet the color of his skin is white. So I used that term earlier and he's saying, Hey, we need to uh realize there's more to that than others. Okay. Thank you, Ed. We appreciate it. Uh was it Ed? Howard. What was his name? Uh Howard Snout was it? I thought it was Howard. Yeah, I apologize. Anyway. I'm Jonathan Swanes. We're joined this week by Kay Myers, Director of Castoral Care at Frederick Memorial Healthcare Services. I'm Troy Skinner. What have I been reading lately? I know you care. I've been reading uh Mark Beaver. And uh follow out Xanders and Deliver Church, building your ministry on the gospel. Good church uh good book. Anyway, visit us online, WFMD dot com keyword faith. I want to thank our sponsors, Footman Clumping and Heating, how can we make you smile? BMC Accounting and Insurance uh proud supporters of New Life Christian Academy and uh food's holidays. Thanks so much for listening until next week. God bless