Broadcasting live from the center of Big Brother City in the heart of Bridwag County, we're preaching with impact, quite plowing pavement because people continue to play girls in unsatisfying things. This is the Breather Dream Debate on East Radio 930 WFMB brought to you by. Equipment, plumbing and heating, how we make you smile, cruise holidays, and BMC accounting and insurance, uh proud supporter of New Life Christian Academy. Encourage you to visit us visit us online, WFMD. com keyword faith. There you'll find the Faith to Fate blog. And it's not my blog, it's like called the face blog. My blog is your blog. So email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. Whatever you send me, pretty much, goes up on the website. Uh nine postings a day, so forty-five blog updates per week, Monday through Friday. Uh this week of Jonathan Schweitzer. Back on the show for another go at it with Kay Myers, who's Director of Pastor Care at Correct Memorial Health Care. Kate just took her uh jacket off now. Her sunglasses are ready to go. And Jonathan Schweitzer is no longer the senior pastor. That's right. Minor change just makes it a little bit more orthodox, I guess. I think that means his his his uh congregation has acted at puberty. They're now a real full brother. I think that I think that could be a loss issue as well. So we are totally live in the street at the Industry Festival in downtown Frederick. And I just gotta tell you, Troy and Kate, y you get to watch people as they're walking by and people are really funny looking aren't they? All kid different kinds of haircuts, all different kind of sizes. No no that's the mirror I saw. A guy walked by just a minute ago and his hair had to be like uh two feet high, you know, and here's a guy that I know, he's dressed in an orange shirt and he's got plaid shorts. I just love the people watch, man. People are really unique. This guy's eating his pizza, drinking his drink, he's waving at me. These guys are uh out here, there's supposed to be some fifty thousand people out here today in downtown Frederick at the end of the street. And I'm just glad to be It's really nice. Last week, if you listen to the show, you heard us talking about um how to navigate through or how how Kay and and her philosophy and the approach that the hospital takes on how to navigate through the different religious and spiritual needs. of those in the hospital. And Jonathan was uh was trying to clarify his point of view on the the importance of having a distinction of truth and um And specifically compassion. How how do we go about showing compassion? I don't think it's about showing compassion. I think it is about being compassion. Sure, sure. I think it's about learning to accept. Yeah. And that is uh it's a daily exercise. It's a daily Really disappeared. Okay, so I have to ask this question. Are there times when you come home at the end of the day and I saw your husband out here, where your husband is helping you to work through situations where you interacted with people where you just had to say that for for all of your effort to be in a place of compassion towards them that you felt that genuinely there was something about what they represented or how they handled things or treated their spouse that you that you had to say in your heart, you know what? I realize they're going through hard things, but I can't accept that. I will I th I'll tell you a very regular scenario at the hospital. And uh we you know, i the reason you have a chaplain is because you need somebody there at the bad and the sad. That's right. That that's my place. The bad and the sad. Um in those glasses it's bad takes on different meaning. I'm just saying there's a really bad glass. Yeah, I've getting gli a lot of glare. No totally. So my place is to be with the bad A lot of times it's very difficult for sometimes when you're working at with an end of life issue, there's no more that medicine can do for this person. And there's somebody in the family who just cannot say I accept that. They want one more round of chemo. They want them to stay on dialysis. Yeah. They want they want more of really what's becoming a feudal ethic. My job is first to reach out to that person and hear what's really within their heart. Sure, because so often people want more because they're just having a problem processing their own soul. And so you're saying in that moment you take the moment to listen and to hear what's going on inside them because they're stuck and they're wanting to hang on to something that maybe they gotta let go of. Because it's a very miserable thing to have. have to address. Sure. It's it's sometimes I say, you know, you meet people on the worst day of their lives. Right. So this is a real situation. And sometimes they say, No, I I can't be okay with this. No, I can't say it's time to say goodbye. I just can't go there. Okay. My job isn't to say, well, that's wrong but it's a very painful experience to hear that. But I have to say to that person, I have to hear you. I have to my job is to accept you right now. And you may never get to that place. But I still need to be a place of acceptance. Now that doesn't mean that there isn't some ways to find a path. You take small increments on that path. So yeah, uh so there's sometimes I work with a case and I look at it and I say to myself, This this this is really going bad. is really going into a very sad and painful place and I wish I could prevent it. But I can't. And but and by by going into sad and painful places because people that are in the relationships are just not connecting the way that they need to connect. in order to process that they could connect you know that that what I see the most are two things. Number one, it's because they don't have a relationship with their own feelings of hurt and pain. Okay. They they don't have a relationship But they and so they're rejecting that. Relationship with their own hurt and pain. Yeah? Okay. Do you feel like you connect with that? The point is is that is that they're honest with themselves about how they're doing and they have some kind of uh internal resources in their soul to process those emotions. And hopefully what some of us can offer is I will I will listen to it. Yeah. I will be a part of that experience with you right now. And you know, it doesn't I'm not saying that we have I don't have any answers. But it's amazing that when someone really feels that who they are, where they are, is accepted, that is the change that happens. Yeah the Bible talks often about being quick to listen, slow to speak, slow to become anxious. angry it talks about even a fool is thought wise if he keeps his mouth shut now I might I might have seen this happen a million other times. I mean I've done this for thirty years. I may have seen this done a million times in other places. It doesn't matter because I've never been with this person at this moment in their lives. Sure. And so your goal in that moment is to help them to process what is happening and and how do you know when it's been processed for them? Like is there a sense of peace? Is There's a sense of subtleness in them, that that they're facing a death of a loved one, they're facing some kind of a of a chronic illness that they didn't know about. And so in that moment, you're helping them to come to peace with what it is that they're facing. So processing means coming to peace. peace with what they're facing. And if I can offer a moment of acceptance it it is at least setting a a context in which they have been accepted who they are, where they are. And here's the crazy thing. It works. Here's the crazy thing. It isn't because I know more or I have an answer. It's because Because that person is valid. And so in that moment, right, you're in a hospital situation, they're in the midst of the crisis. Your job is to get the bottleneck out of their soul so that they can go back to processing things. is to accept them. And that is the change. But but in doing so, you'll know that they've gotten a place of processing it because they've come to peace. Perhaps I I mean some don't, right? I th I don't think you're I don't know what the the I'm not looking to create um it isn't the outcome that I'm working on. Yeah. I'm not working on an outcome. I'm working on being Present. Just being there with them. Being present authentically. But you're doing that because you're wanting to help them to process. Because I want that person to have as much spiritual resource as their lives are capable of having at that moment. Let me jump in for a second. Um this is picking up on something we talked about a little bit last week too. The idea of process and being there for them and having a relationship and that sort of thing. And there is a time crunch in the hospital. Yeah. You know, Jonathan can spend years sometimes trying to develop relationship with his neighbors because they're gonna be living next to each other for a long time. Right. Uh and Kay has sometimes minutes or moments uh in the church and so there's not a lot of time to develop relationships. But that is But ti but that is n having a rapport with someone is not connected to time. That is a fallacy. That is an illusion. So the process can happen in an instant, I guess. Absolutely. Okay. Okay. But my my my I guess the the the point I'm saying is the time can help. Maybe it's not necessary but time can't help. But it can also be as much of an obstacle because I think I have met this person before. I haven't. I have not met this person in this moment. Right. And we c and the focus on the mo is really kinda where I'm going. The focus on the moment and the here and now is critically important and we want to have compassion for people in that moment. But beyond that, when you're talking about spiritual, metaphysical things You're talking about something beyond just the mere moment. You're talking about the the eternal consequences of decisions and things that happen in the here and now. Absolutely, I have taken my myself out of what has been given to me. There is a work that's been given to me. That is not the work that's been given to me. Right, but the the the for the cr all three of us here, you know, professing Christians, so I'm going to use that as the context. Yeah. You know, professing Christians are Yeah, absolutely. The Holy Spirit is is the one who does the work. God changes hearts. You know, God takes the heart of stone and places with a heart of flesh. We don't do that work. But God does give us work to do. He he charges us with proclaiming the truth, for standing up for Jesus and what Jesus said when he says, I'm the way, the truth and the life and we are to make disciples, we are given work to do, but the ultimate work is done by God. And I think we all agree with that or maybe we don't, I don't know. Well, sorta. Sorta. Because the ultimate work that I'm here to do is not to tell truth because how do we get that? Nobody know has all of that. My work is it isn't about logic. It's about being in this place. The only thing that is real is what is here now. That's all that we've got. If I can accept that, I can be where So when you're present with somebody, they're you know, they're on their deathbed, the family's around, whatever, and you're being with them in the moment. Um at the same time in your unspoken thoughts, are you saying a prayer for their eternal salvation to somehow God would do a work to change their heart? I think being present is a prayer. That is prayer. Okay. Wow, it opens up a whole can of worms for me. There you go. Um because prayer is not about Uh we're to use uh kinda maybe uh it's this might get us off on a tangent, I don't mean to, but I know like Alcoholics Anonymous is famous for their you know, their steps and their higher power idea. So would you would you be in you'd be in tune with that idea? the idea of a higher power without necessarily worrying about which higher power is that is I love that because I think that AA is the greatest is the most successful spiritual movement in the history of America. Wow. Bigger than the Great Awakening or the Second Great Awakening? Yeah, I did. Uh why limited to America, what would you would you say where would you I mean I would say the biggest spiritual awakening in history happened approximately two thousand years ago. Well that was in Israel. Yes, she did say in America. But I'm saying but that would wouldn't that trump anything that that's happened in the last two hundred years? I and here's what I love about the Twelve step program. The first step is to say I am helpless. Sure. The second step is to say, I need help. I don't think that's always about the other person. I think that's about the spiritual caregiver. Okay, and what's the third step? Um to surrender to who or what? It's surrender into uh the hands of my higher power. Okay Right, and so uh the definition of prayer, right? Um my understanding of prayer is that the word in the Bible is used as often for one person talking to another person as it is for a person talking to God. Meaning prayer is appeal. Like when I if I go to you and I say, hey, uh can I borrow you know something of yours or or hey could you help me out with uh this fundraiser that I'm doing in Frederick? You know, I'm going and I'm and I'm appealing to you. And I agree that there's sometimes that I can go to somebody without saying anything and and I can appeal to them to interact with me, I can appeal to them to treat me, you know, with respect or to treat me with with justice. Right? So there's no words, there's there's just being there uh, you know, i in the moment. But would you agree that that prayer has at its root an appeal for help? I think prayer is um an experience. Yeah, so it's it's obvious to me, and I think we addressed this earlier, that you and I, even though we both identify ourselves as Christians, that there's a watershed split in how we define s some of the things that are that are more important. And in the context of of the hospital, you know, there's certain things that you're doing as a professional in that environment that that have to do with serving everybody that comes through. That uh that the process is something that I think I I'm in agreement with you about. But that as somebody that that that uh has moved a different direction in definitions of truth moved a different direction in definitions of of uh prayer or other things, then as a result, um, there's there's certain parts of how you handle things that I'm just gonna be less comfortable with. That others aren't necessarily uh, you know, uncomfortable with And I wanna be real clear. Yeah. Two things. Number one, I'll go back to the issue of prayer. I think prayer and some Meaningful prayer can be when I make myself silent. And I think that is a real prayer. And when you do that you're doing that to hear from God? It is so that I am silent. And I think silence is a way to be present. Right, and so so uh when I hear that, you know, I go to the Bible and I say, Be still absolute and know that I am God. So that being still isn't just being still for being still sake, but there's this additional part of it that says know that he is God. Right? And but I I don't necessarily hear that in what you're saying. What I'm saying there is being still will open up a place that nothing knows can a place for what what happened what's happening inside of that stillness um because there's something there that you value after saying be still you're saying it's good. What is it that you're valuing in that moment? Clarity is a way so that all the thoughts and all the feelings can settle and I can have a clarity that wouldn't be available to available to me otherwise. See now clarity's interesting because that comes back to the word that you were talking earlier. about which has to do with um which has to do with information. Like how I see what's happening around me and how I see things around me. Is that what you mean by clarity? Let me be very again let me say a couple of things though. Let's might as well just kick it out of the ballpark. Okay. See, people think that truth and what's going on is out here. Yeah. Neuroscience that says what I see out here is because of what is in here. Sure. In other words because of the meanings that I get to what's out there. In fact, the very things that I believe are the very things that I will see. Sure. So perception becomes reality is what you're doing. I will tell you an experiment that's happened a million times. Yeah. And the the the experiment that's happened a million times is they have placed like a word the word R E D but they have placed it in green letters and people cannot read it. Right. Yeah, fascinating. There's a whole show on television right now that like grapples with all these ways where our mind sees what we want to see and and play with uh you know um optical illusions and this kind of thing, all of which is grappling with this idea that somehow uh we we are imposing on the world certain definitions that may or may not be um inherent in the world. Is that what you're saying? So what's the pro what's the point of stillness? What's the point? What do you get out of it? Yeah What you get out of it is it gives your inner life a chance to be clear of all the thoughts and all the feelings that are stirring around and actually creating what what you will see and what you will hear. Sure. So why not try to bring some stillness and perhaps something that I would not have been able to be in contact with will be available to me. Clarity is a word that that I feel like ends up confusing me. Isn't that ironic? Right? Because when I think clarity, you know, when I quiet my soul, I'm in the place of quietness, you know, I would say in quietness before the Lord. and I come to a place of clarity. The clarity means that I better have a grasp on on what's going on around me. When I open my eyes, I'm able to handle the situations in front of me for what they are and Sometimes for what they are means that somebody is treating me really wrong and doing really uh cruel and unkind things and my clarity gives me more strength to confront that. And there's other situations that my clarity gives me more patience with some that uh that I can't seem uh that that I can't fix in the moment, but that continues to do something wrong. Uh that that is hurtful towards me or hurtful towards other people. And so the clarity uh when I is for when I open my eyes that I'm able to m to move with strength and some kind of wisdom about what I'm facing in life. So do you agree with that? Absolutely. And so then the clarity is connected to the definitions of what's out there. I'll tell you, I think it's the way of connecting to Um, for me it be connecting to God. It's a way that I can lay aside my thoughts, my feelings, and have a different place that I'm coming to. See, and this is where uh w there's so much agreement but there are significant areas where there's some disagreement and this would be one of them. I agree and I think Jonathan's been agreeing. We I think all three of us agree that we all have a limited perspective on the world, on our understanding of of what the truth is and all because because we have a uh a limited perspective. We're not omnipresent. We're not everywhere at once. That's right. We weren't around at the beginning. So things that happened before us, we have no way of knowing what that is except to trust somebody else's retelling of it for us. Correct. There are things in science that you know we're still learning and growing and there's things we think we've learned and grow. The more I know the more we got that one wrong. Let me let me fix that. Oh, sorry, I what you got from the side. Saying hello. Saying hello. Say say hello to our audience real quick. Say hi. Hello. Did you want to say hello as well? Hi, Frederick. We're here at Frederick. Give us all that question. Fifty thousand of my closest friends. I'm I'm Okay, we have another guy from the audience that wants to ask a question. Yeah, go ahead. Okay. I I'm w interested in your personal faith. In your personal faith. Personal faith. Because I've read a little bit. I've read a little bit. And um a a lot of uh a lot of the things one of the things that Interestingly when you were talking about the the parable of the good Samaritan, which you did not attribute to Jesus. Um no you didn't. You said someone said, someone thought, someone saw. Okay. I don't know that I I read that as her trying to avoid Jesus over that. Well she doesn't seem to hear. Nevertheless. And um and you're talking about clarity. What is the difference between your personal faith and Zen Buddhism? I have no idea. I have no idea. Well let me uh But but I did say I am a Christian and from my Christian tradition this is well the same. Let me uh let me finish my thought from before and we'll put a both I think as we're running out of time. Here we have And the princess is walking by in very nice oh and she's not talking. Now she's talking. Say hello. Hello there. Who are you? My name is Belle. Oh she's she's Belle from Southern Belle. Wow. Yes. And who are you? And Princess Caroline? Princess Caroline? We have Valentine's. Where's the beast by the way? Yes. My castle. I'm not quite sure where it is though. Well I'm looking at him right now. His name's John Sweiser. He's senior pastor of the Valley Chick Church. See the beast. Be afraid. Well thank you. Well let's get your autograph out here. All right, you guys. It's nice to have you guys out here today. Alright, I guess I'll save my thought to start the next show. The weather out here is beautiful today. A great weather But I've got about two minutes, so I'm going to ask Jonathan to exercise and discipline. Give me two minutes to wrap this up. I'm not sure if we have time to start the next show with this. So I want to get my thought out there for what it's worth. So can we say maybe we'll have you back and we'll dig in on some more of this in the studio when we get a chance. Is that okay? Sure. Okay. Sure. That's good. I think there's an agreement that this nice to see everybody, nice to be here. Yes. I'm gonna go find something uh to eat and uh enjoy the bed. Kay Myers. She goes by Kay Myers. Yes, she goes by Kay. So There was a lot of agreement here. There was. But where there was an area of disagreement, I guess, was on that final, the importance of the final step. Yeah. Um you have the perspective that we all have a flawed view of reality. Right. We all have mixed understandings, even if we think we know the truth, even even our understanding of the truth is gonna be a little bit off. Right. Right. At least in areas. At least sure. And so that therefore we become dependent on something outside of ourselves to reveal to us what is true. Sure. And so if all we're doing is leading somebody through the labyrinth of their own maze, I'm concerned about where that leaves them. It leaves them lost in an unsettled place of not really knowing the truth. And so if we could point them to the word of God and the person of Jesus Christ and His work, that then they're getting something from outside of themselves. Uh and that would but we don't have time to go back and forth and I wish that we did, because sure we had bells stop by and all that. Alright, so I'm not sure if you're not going to be able to do that. That has not been my experience. Sure. And so in your experience, people don't need an outside help in order to find the truth. That has that's been my experience that people just get lost in a maze. What they do seem to do is get very be able to get more than a lot of people. saying there is no way for us to know the truth. No, what I'm saying is that has not been my experience is that and it isn't a philosophical it's a it's an experience and my experience is that they that they don't get lost. They they find what they've always known But they haven't acknowledged. So the okay. So that is ripe for unpacking when we get to have you back. That's a whole conversation. Yes. Alright, we are out of time. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMV. I want to thank uh Kay Myers, Director of Pastoral Care for Critic Memorial Health Care System, for being on the show. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Rally Church. Not Chapel anymore. That's right. That's correct. You can follow him on Twitter at SweitzerJonathan. Follow us online, WFMD. com keywords. Faith, I'm Troy Skinner, thanking our sponsors, Footman Funding and Heating, Happy Make You Smile. BMC Accounting and Insurance, proud support of Blue Life Christian Academy and Cruz Holidays. Until next week, God bless.