Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavements. Because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things, this is the Frederick Faith Debates, brought to us by Putman, Climbing and Heating, longtime sponsor of the show. How could it make you smile? The faith debate is online at WFMD. com keyword faith. There you'll find all sorts of interesting things, links to uh various religious traditions, podcasts of this program, uh occasional news items, and the faith debate vlog. That's a vlog with a V We've started taking videos uh behind the scenes shots and some of them have actually turned out pretty well, some of them kind of a waste of everybody's time. I apologize. We're getting better, I think. I think we've gotten to the point where They're almost never a complete waste of time, which is something to aspire to. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer is the videographer uh uh for that, and so there won't be any videos of this because Jonathan Sweitzer is is uh not part of the panel today. In fact there is no panel today. We're in Advent season and pastors are very busy this time of the year and so I'm doing as I'm reaching back into my bag of tricks As as you know if you listen to this show for a little while, uh I on occasion am invited to speak at uh at area churches and chapels uh on occasion to deliver a message uh from God's Word. And I've had an opportunity to do that uh in the not too uh distant past a few times and have not made use of that audio yet on this show and so we're going to uh jump into uh a message that was delivered, I guess it might have been last summer, I guess it probably might even be uh uh in the spring, I suppose, a message called We're all in this together, based upon Romans chapter twelve. verse uh verses uh three through eight. We're all in this together. The message is long enough that it's not all going to fit in today's show, so what we're going to do is we are going to uh listen to the first half-ish of it today and then listen to the second half-ish of it next week. But hopefully the two halves will stand alone well enough that you'll get something out of it Either way. So without further ado, here is we're all in this together, a message again focusing on Romans 12, verses 3 through 8. Wonderful to be here with you again this morning and have an opportunity to share God's word with you. We've uh spending most of our time in Romans chapter 12. So if you want to turn there now and get yourselves ready, uh encouraged to do so. And speaking of obedient Encouraged, I know that there are some here. There must be some here that are chomping at the bed, Sunday after Sunday, waiting for permission to cry out during the sermon. To participate. But is it not isn't that good? Not on? Is that better? Is that better? All right, for those of you who are listening online to the podcast, you just missed the best joke ever told. So anyway, some of you I know every week are like pulling back in the bridle. I don't know. Uh this church maybe doesn't seem like they're encouraging or welcoming of participating in the sermon. So I encourage you today, you have permission to participate in the sermon. Woo! You have permission to do that every Sunday as far as I'm concerned, but today for given this topic that we're talking about, it is gonna help make the message more meaningful and have a greater impact for you and for those around you. So for what it's worth. And if one of those who likes to sit on your hands and uh I don't care what you say I encourage you maybe one time in your life you could have an exception to that rule, and today maybe it could be that day You've heard me speak here before. You've heard me say this or words to this effect before at the start of a message that I share with you, and that is, I am a sinner. A dirty, rotten scoundrel of a sinner saved by grace. How about you? Are we in this together? I have been set free from sin's grasp, and yet I still grasp at sin. How about you? In this together. I don't deserve to be alive. I deserve to be dead. But I'm not. How about you? We're in this together. If you're trusting God by faith, Then you are a dirty round scoundrel sinner saved by grace through faith in the Messiah, the Christ. This is true for all of God's people. It has always been true for God's people. Jew or Gentile, Old Testament, New Testament. Circumcised or not male or female, slave or free, if you truly are believing in God and what he has done to accomplish your salvation, then you are his. You are Israel. You are the church. Now, not all who say that they're Israel, not all who from the outside give the appearance and act like they are the church are really his. But if your Lord and King is Jesus of Nazareth, then You made righteous in God's eyes and no longer have the status of dirty, rotten scoundrel sinner. And that's me, praise God. How about you? We're in this together. If you're like me, then you and I our status as dirty rotten scoundrels, sinners, is replaced by a new status, the status. Child, children of Abraham's faith, children of God. This is who I am. This is who we are As Christians. We're in it together. In the first eleven chapters of Romans, the Apostle Paul instructs us that all men are sinners without excuse We all need a Savior, and his Savior is the Lord Jesus Christ. Faith in Jesus and his resurrection saves God's people from the consequences of sin. That's the nice way of putting it. Faith in Jesus saves God's people from death. From being dead, as in not alive. That's what Jesus does for his people, he makes them alive. And in the process, he makes them one. If you're a Christian like me, then we are in this thing together. No need for us to bicker with one another or other Christians, to think that one's better than the other. Absolutely not. We are to work together, to complement each other. This has been true for God's people in the past. It will be true in the future. It is true today. Now everything that I've just said so far is pretty much a recap of Romans chapters one through eleven. The Apostle Paul's Magnum Opus, Romans, can be broken into two halves, two flops-sided halves. The first half is eleven chapters long, and the last half of this great work is five chapters. Now imagine these two The halves is two big land masses. Right? So over here we have the continent of eleven And over here the continent of 11 is where Paul works at explaining doctrine. And then over here, we have the continent of five. Where Paul spends his time working at applying the truth to our Christian practice. And then in the middle, connecting the two, is an isthmus. You know what isthmus is? It's a fun word to say. Try saying it three times fast. It's a narrow piece of land that connects two larger pieces of land, a land bridge. Now, Romans chapter 12, verses 1 and 2 is this epistle's land bridge. And so if you can continue this visual concept with me, just when we're about to step off the continent of 11, We have this glorious four-verse doxology that is how Paul puts a wrap on the first half of his epistle. And then we walk across the bridge, verses one and two. And then we're about to take a step onto that first step onto the continent of five. So you understand where we are, where we're placed in the context of this letter that Paul has written. And that's where I'm taking us today as first step onto the continent of application. So please turn with me if you would to Romans chapter 12, we're going to be reading verses 3 through 8. In these early verses of chapter twelve, Paul is setting the stage for detailing how we are to behave now that we have a new status. As saved Christian. And I'm interested in hearing how Paul continues his transition from explanation to application. How about you? In this together, right? Paul, writing the Word of God, says, For by the grace given to me I say to everyone among you not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think. But to think with sober judgment, each according to the measure of faith that God has assigned. For as in one body we have many members, and the members do not all have the same function, so we, though many, are one body in Christ. and individually members one of another, having gifts that differ according to the grace given to us. Let us use them If prophecy in proportion to our faith, if service in our serving, the one who teaches in his teaching, the one who exhorts in his exhortation, the one who contributes in generosity the one who leads with zeal, and the one who does acts of mercy with cheerfulness. Before we continue, let's pray. Father, you are a magnificent God that we can only begin to comprehend and understand. And what we comprehend and understand about you is only possible through the power of your Holy Spirit, through the life of your Holy Spirit Your Son Jesus Christ and recorded for us and revealed to us, illuminated for us in your written word, the Holy Scriptures. We ask for your Spirit to move among us powerfully today. That your name would be glorified, that our need for you would be amplified, and that we would be encouraged to lay hold to what you have given us freely. Given to us freely, but at great cost to yourself. It's in the name of your son, Father, by the power of your Holy Spirit that we pray. Amen. So right out of the chute today, I overviewed the first eleven chapter land mass of Romans, and again the passage I just read to you that we're examining today is that first step off the bridge. On to that next land mass of Romans. So let's take a moment to overview this last five-chapter continent, the five-chapter finale to Romans. It details our responsibility to love. And what this looks like. We are to have love of our enemies. Love in the context of government authorities. Love due to those who are weak and to those who are strong. Paul even expresses his own love for the believers who are far off in Rome and personally draws attention by name to specific individuals whom he loves. I love all this love. I'm supposed to love enemies. Love authorities. Love the pitiful. Love the well-off. Love believers in far-off lands. Yes, I can do that. Or at least I can say that I can do that. But do I really? Can I even love those in my immediate midst? Can I love you, for example? I mean when I acknowledge that I need to love all of these other people, can I also show it to you? And can you show it to me and to one another? And Presbyterians. And Anglicans. And cessationists and charismatics and twenty-something youth leaders and Long and the tooth second career dinosaurs, like I'm quickly becoming. We are training in discipleship together. We are serving God in the same region together. We are all, believe it or not, preparing for servant leadership roles together in Christ's church What does this look like? What could or should this look like as we do this together? Well, it should begin with humility, as Paul Said in verse 3. It begins, For by the grace given to me I say to everyone among you not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think. but to think with sober judgment. So right here we have a key half of a verse. Paul begins this sentence by demonstrating the very thing he instructs in it. He demonstrates humility. He doesn't say, listen up, do you know who I am? Instead, he says, listen up, do you know whose I am? He's an apostle, that's true. He's a noteworthy missionary, that's true. He's writing scripture here. That's true. But it's all true only by God's grace. Paul does not think more highly of himself than he ought. He began this epistle by calling himself a servant. And now he speaks only on the authority of What's it say? Grace. Not thinking more highly of himself than he ought, but rather exercising sober judgment All while telling us that we should do the same. Be humble. Paul is repeating a refrain that is an overall theme in the book of Romans. Early in the book of Romans, Paul tells the Jews. Not to get too full of themselves, not to think that they are better than the Gentiles. In chapter two he writes, If you call yourself a Jew, the one who is not circumcised will condemn you who are a lawbreaker. Later in chapter 11, he talks to the Gentiles, telling them, regarding the Jews, did God reject his people? By no means. They are loved on account of the patriarchs. And all throughout Paul makes the point, like he does in chapter three, that Jews and Gentiles alike are all under sin. And in chapter ten, for there is no difference between Jew and Gentile in the context of Christ. The same Lord is Lord of all and richly blesses all who call on him. Since we're all in this thing together. We have no reason to be anything but humble. And this humility is in accordance with the faith that God has assigned to each of us. This is how Paul ends, verse three of chapter twelve, each according to the measure of faith that God has assigned. And then in verses four and five we read, For as in one body we have many members, and the members do not all have the same function, so we, though many, are one body in Christ, and individually members one of another. The body of believers are in union. Praise God. Thank God for this. We're different. But we're one. Some are Jews, some are Gentiles, some are apostles dictating scripture to a scribe named Tertius. Some are readers of this dictation, as now known to us, is the book of Romans. Some have particular gifts from God. Others have different particular gifts From God. And Paul's going to list some of these in a moment. But as Christians, we're all in this together. Praise and thank God. We are all united to each other because we're all united in Christ and to Christ. As Colossians 1, verse 18 says, and he is the head of the body, the church. We are to function together. What is true for the spiritual body can be seen to be true for our physical body. It doesn't take a genius to know that if members of our physical body don't do its part, then bad things can happen. I know it doesn't take a genius, because I know this, and I'm no genius. I actually saw this play out right before my eyes over the past few years. Uh you probably know what diabetes is. It's a blood sugar problem. Do you know Why the blood sugar gets all whacked out for a diabetic? It's because I'm told the pancreas doesn't do its job. A big bag of MMs dumps a load of sugar into the bloodstream, and the body needs insulin to keep that sugar from running amok But the pancreas for a diabetic is on strike. Doesn't feel like sending the right amount of insulin into the bloodstream. And this can damage the kidneys, the extremities, the eyes, the mind. Cause all sorts of circulation problems to pop up. Water is retained, blood pressure increases, wounds don't heal, the brain can get fried. Whole mess of trouble comes a knocking when the pancreas says, you know what, I think I'll sit this one out. Well, a member of my extended family has just this sort of pancreas. To maintain a measure of anonymity, I'm not going to identify the family member by name, but I'm going to tell you Her story, this number of our family lived with undiagnosed diabetes for years. As a result, she had many Mini strokes until finally she had a big stroke. Knocked her flat. Darn near killed her And now she can barely walk. She grunts more than talks. She gets depressed. Depressed, sees lots of doctors, takes lots of medicines Her body is wrecked because one member of her body is, for all intents and purposes, missing in action. The pancreas. Not the sexiest body part. Jennifer Aniston and George Clooney aren't multimillionaires because of their pancreas. And yet, without a good pancreas, they might currently be in an assisted living facility. Unable to think straight or bathe themselves or communicate with any clarity. So maybe Jennifer Aniston is a famous movie star And George Cluny too, at least in part, because of their pancreas. And we'll pause there for now. We'll have to listen to the last part of the message. on next week's program. Sorry to have to split it in half like that, but I only have so much time for this show. You know what I'm saying? Um again that message is called uh We're All in This Together, based on Romans chapter twelve, verses three through eight. And we will have Um, hold on a second, I have to do three things at once and I can't press buttons and pay attention to the clock and talk to you at the same time. My brain just doesn't function as well as it did years ago. Anyway What have I been reading lately? I've uh been reading uh this is kind of an insider thing, that's the thing you'll find very easily. But if you're interested, how to write an exegetical paper by Dr. Peter Y. Lee Uh Dr. Lee is an awesome individual and uh and uh does a great job of teaching all sorts of things, not just how to write papers, I guess. Um I would encourage you to visit us online at WFMD. com, keyword faith. And uh again, I want to up I want to say again, I don't think I said it yet at the beginning. I meant to and I didn't. Uh you might have noticed at the very beginning of that uh first half of the message that we just heard, the audio was a little bit weird. Uh unfortunately I um I didn't have the main mic turned on and and and uh it took a while for them to get my attention to turn it all the way on. Fortunately Most of it was captured on tape anyway, and you had to suffer through uh a minute or two of of struggle to hear, but hopefully it it made it through okay. I apologize for that. I had an opportunity to uh preach at the uh Fairview Chapel. Wonderful people there have me uh speak there u usually about once a year. And they don't have any electricity there and so I've never had a chance to record anything. I tried to bring a recorder with me the last time I was there, the audio quality was really suspect. I'm gonna see if we can clean that up and if so, maybe we'll listen to that on a on a future show and give the Fairview Japle folks a another plug. Uh I know uh Debbie Williams has spoken there. A lot of people actually uh that I know around town have uh spoken there at least uh once over the years. So Anyway, Jonathan Schweitzer and uh all of our rest or rest of our uh colleagues that are sometimes on our panel will be back uh probably when the holidays are over Next week we'll have part two of We're All in This Together, and then the week after that, and the week after that, we'll listen to a message in two parts. the impeachment of God, which is based on uh um Exodus chapter 17 verses 1 through 7, but we're getting a little ahead of ourselves. Again I want to thank our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How if we make you smile. They've been sponsoring the show for over ten years, I believe. Uh or at least nine anyway, maybe maybe not quite ten. Want to thank you for listening. Um I want to thank uh John for putting up with me and and and for being willing to to scramble to put together the show on such a regular basis and uh for your indulgence. uh during those times that we can't get a panel together to listen to these messages uh that I have the privilege and opportunity to preach. Uh we're gonna let the music play out. We got about uh thirty, forty seconds left and I got nothing left to say. So uh wanna thank you again for listening until next week. One hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from now. God bless