We affirm that God, who is just and loving, has a special concern for the poor in their plight. We affirm that God calls for responsible stewardship by his people of both their lives and resources. Those are the first two affirmations in the wealth and poverty section, Article 15 of the Chicago Statement on Biblical. application that came out in the late nineteen eighties. We've been working our way through that. We took a bit of a pause. We but about two thirds of the way through it and then we paused for a couple of months at least. And the last couple of shows we've been back at it. Me and David Forstey uh going through this. And right off the bat I I gotta think about this. I I might agree, I might throw rocks, I don't know. I I promised last week I'd throw a lot of rocks this week, so if if I'm if I'm in the balance, I'm not sure which way to go, rocks are coming. I'm seeing some uh I'm seeing some Some trigger words there already. And uh and David promised before we started this show that he was gonna try to Jesus juke me, so we'll see if he can get that in before the show is over. wheatgrass uh beverage or grape juice. Grape juice. There you go. All right. So this first one oh by the way, uh I don't know if I properly introduced him, David Force he's a pastor in the area, uh leads a house church that meets in a number of locations because he's got people in his church that like to host and so they just kinda rotate it and and uh share the pleasures and the burden of of such hosting. And I'm the pastor of a church that meets in my house and we don't have people that uh that that share that burden. So if you come to my church, you're coming to my house. So anyway, if you'd like to learn learn more about either one of us and our churches, you can go to Household of Faith in Christ dot com. So we affirm that God who is just and loving, I'm agreeing with that. Okay. special concern for the poor in their plight. Are they in are they accidentally intimating that God shows partiality? Uh I would say that he has a special concern for the poor in spirit. Do you think that's what they mean? Well, this is in the section under wealth and poverty. So probably not. And we have been talking about material things as of these last few articles and money, so Uh maybe I mean maybe the poor have a particular the the materially poor do have a particular way in which they uh draw our attention to uh our our spiritual need and lack. But they're saying that God has a special concern for the poor. Yeah, I trust me, I I don't want to come across as like just this hard case. We should be concerned for the poor. Right? I would if you took out the word special, right? We affirm that God who is just and loving has a concern for the poor in their plight. I'm signing off on this. Yeah. But special seems to make it sound like he has more concern for the poor than he does for everybody else. But God, the Bible tells us he's not a respecter of persons. He he commands us not to show partiality for the rich or the poor So why would he show partiality for the poor? Like it I I I don't think I like that word special in there. Is it uh are they Yeah, I don't know what they're doing there. I mean certainly it it seems clear in scripture, uh, and probably in our own experience too, that our we are tempted to pay more attention. Right. You go through you go through Proverbs, you look at you know, read James. Right, you know, we're it's clear that we as people who love are tempted to love the things of this world are tempted to love those who have a lot of those things in this world. Where we are tempted to pay them special attention. So are they you know, in this statement is the idea that Um God is is it pushing against back against that sort of tendency? Or is it an early leading indicator for what has now come to be known as social justice. Right. Right? It feels like that to me. So We affirm that God calls for responsible stewardship by his people of both their lives and resources. That was the second part of what I read at the start of the show, and I I think that's totally fine. No no rocks are coming on that one. We affirm, this is the next one, that sacrificial effort to relieve the here we go. Poverty Oppression and suffering of others is a hallmark of Christian discipleship. Yes, I Yes. However, right? Is it just me? I mean those are buzzwords. So I think they've become buzzwords anyway. And that that that that makes it uh maybe we have to get past that. I don't know. Uh I mean it's uh so it you know, certainly uh the poor will always be among us. There's a reason why that is, and it is so that uh you know we will always um have that picture of poverty and so that we can continually be You know, those of us who are not poor can continue to try to uh meet meet needs of others. So uh I'm I'm reminded of okay, Jesus is J Jesus when he's talking to the Pharisees, he says when you uh when you throw a party Invite people who cannot invite you to a party. Invite people who, you know, do do things for people who cannot pay you back for those things. You know, is that is that sort of what they're getting at here? If we want to give them the benefit of doubt then Yes. I think I like doing that. Okay, so let's give them the benefit out and say yes. However, again, this has been a theme now, this is a third third week in a row now where we've been working our way through this where Lack lack of clarity? Yeah, I I I want to give them the the benefit of the doubt, but now in hindsight. Right? Let's see. Now now seeing where we've come in It's been thirty-five years since this came out. And 35 years. I mean, a lot has changed and a lot of people are asking the question, particularly over the last like five or six years, people are asking the question, how did we get here? And then you read something like this like, you know what? I think I see some of the little seedlings that were planted that helped us to get to where we are. Because we weren't careful in how we articulated things. We we seeded too much ground in a desire to have I'm all about a big tense, so that's not the phrase I want to use. To um to soften That's not the right word either. What I I I guess I it might not be fair, but it certainly feels like there's a self-conscious uh attempt to heighten social considerations. Okay. In these affirmations and denials. Okay. That we should have concerns in those areas. But they're so self consciously aware that they've heightened it and I think they're out of balance with what the Bible would say about such matters Right? I I I'm again I'm not trying to be a jerk. I'm just, you know, it's the way God made me. I can't help it. Well, uh you know, I mean it was uh it was kind of a hallmark of uh you know, in the old testament Right, like there were even in the laws particular ways that God said, you know, that they should harvest their fields, uh, you know, in order to help provide for the poor, the The sojourner. Right. Um And one of the things they're not going out of the way here is is to uh make any sort of additional call for the the brethren to care for the body. Hmm. That's interesting. That's missing from this. Because that what made that click in this plate when you mentioned Israel and there are laws that's about Israel taking care of Israel Right. And there's no sense of th you know, the church taking care of the church. You know, when Paul's taking up the collections for This is this is very very general, broad sort of Yeah. Christians in other cities. Yeah. Mm-hmm. Right? So that's that's missing from this wealth and poverty section. Unless it's I don't uh I'm scanning, I don't know that I see it. in the next few, so let's see where it comes. We affirm that just as the wealthy ought not to be greedy, so the poor ought not to be covetous. That's horribly written. The wealthy shouldn't be greedy or covetous and the poor shouldn't be greedy or covetous. Why are we Do we think that the wealthy are are uh are those not uh Are the wealthy incapable of being covetous? What's that? Are the poor not capable of being uh greedy? They are. Yeah, so that's horribly written. Maybe maybe it's uh maybe they're trying to uh show that that there are particular ways that uh discontentment come out. But they're In in the wealthy and the poor. Ought not to be covetous and the poor ought not to be covetous. The wealthy nor the poor ought to be greedy or covetous. Ah, okay. I like that. That's better. See, we just improved this. That's what we're here for. Just pencil that in. Alright. We deny that we may rightly call ourselves disciples of Christ if We lack active concern for the poor, oppressed, and suffering. Here it is. Here it is, especially those. of the household of faith. By the way, that's from happy about that. That's from Galatians chapter six, and that's where we got the name for our church, by the way, Household of Faith in Christ. Okay, nice. Nice. Yeah. So We deny that we may rightly call ourselves disciples of Christ if we lack active concern for the poor, oppressed, and suffering. I guess as in we should be Compassionate people? Yeah, I don't know what active concern even means. That that is uh is a little vague. Yeah, that's the problem. Like if if if I put like the right kind of meme on my social media profile, like is that active concern that I showed that I'm solid with them, solidarity? Are they talking about uh I virtue signaled in just the right way, active concern? Are they talking about you have to having the right feelings? Are feelings active concern? Or is uh by active do they mean action? And Do they mean particular kinds of actions or whatever actions you feel like doing or Whatever actions you some people are able to be more active or less active depending on their means. Now, again, we can category things, but you know, this is a theology show. And so Think about it. You got a y your pastor of church, right? You got a member of your church and or or or they want to become a member. They you know they they they they they they say they're a Christian and they want to be baptized And so you're gonna you know s you can just try to suss that out a little bit. You're not not gonna run them through the ring here, but you want to get a sense of uh are they kidding themselves? Am I doing them no favors by baptizing them and getting a false sense of hope and resturance when they shouldn't have it. So I want to ask them some questions. Is one of the questions we asked so are you showing an active concern for the poor, oppressed, and suffering? I don't know. Right? It's are you demonstrating some fruit of the spirit in your life? Do you right? Do you have Love, are you peaceable? Are you gentle? Are you kind? Uh do you have self-control? Are you are you at least desiring to have increased self-control? Yeah, not just the poor. Right. See that's the part that's stuck in my craw. I'm not sure what a craw is, but it's stuck in there. Seriously, I don't know what a craw is. I have no idea. Uh I'll have to look that up after the show. Unless you know. Do you know what a craw is? Nope. Yeah, I've been saying it my whole life, right? I don't know what that means. Stuck in my craw. But Why we should show an active concern for all people, including the wealthy, including the poor, including the well to do, including the oppressed. Right? Including the healthy, including the suffering, everybody. Like what this is the t in today's terms, we're using intersectional language here. I I I'm I'm not liking I'm not loving this. I'm not digging it. So we all are spiritually poor, oppressed, suffering. Now is the the those who are outwardly poor, oppressed, and suffering, they they bear that image, they put that on display. And so uh so maybe maybe part of what's going on here is they're you know, in the statement they're saying if we're If if our attention isn't drawn to those things, if we're not aware of those things and concerned about those things, then maybe we're not uh oh maybe we're not concerned like we should be about spiritual poverty and oppression. I guess if I want to give them more benefit of the doubt than I my instinct has been I'm I'm looking at it w with what we know now, thirty-five years later. However, uh authorial intent is g is gonna have something to do with the contextualization of the times. And think about it, late eighties. I mean this is this is greed is good. This is yuppie. Everybody's driving a beamer. Everybody's lit I mean the economy's booming at the end of the Reagan uh um presidency and everybody became very Hm. Uh c commercialism was was at at a high level at that point, so they might have been speaking to an issue of their moment. Right. Interesting. And and maybe We should learn from that as we're speaking to the issues of our moment to step back and say, Okay, we spoke to the issues of the moment, but now how do we talk about it let's say fifty years from now our moments differently or how would we have said this fifty years ago with the circumstances are different to have a better uh w cho uh a combination of words thrown together to to say the same thing, but to not be so locked in with one narrow view. 'Cause I think now I think about it, the eighties is all about I was money. I was barely there. It's all about money. Okay. Yeah. So I'll I'll bet you that's what that's what they're reacting to. Just like today we we r we would react against the uh the SJWs, the social justice warriors. All right? These guys are are are are reacting against You know, greed and selfishness and consumerism, those kinds of things were a big, big deal in the eighties. So that that that's helpful for me to think about that. Hopefully it's helpful to the listener. By the way, Craw It could be the crop of a bird or insect. What's the crop? The thing on top of their head? No, it's where they uh where they store their food. Oh, like in their in their uh like their throat? Uh no? Maybe. Uh I've got to look that up. It could also be the stomach of a person or an animal. Yeah. Yeah, i uh it's place of place of digestion of sorts in a in a bird, the crop is. Okay, so it's something in their like in i inside their belly, so it's not top of their head. See I totally I didn't know what it meant. Yeah, I th I think the crop is like the um Eat a bunch of food and it it goes into this pouch in their uh sort of in their throat and then later when they don't have to be afraid of predators they can digest it. So it's saying, you know, that makes my stomach turn or it gives me indigestion or it made me, you know, something in my mouth Interesting. That's a horse of a different color, I have to look that one up now. Where are we? There's one more here? Two more, I think, right? Okay. Yeah. We deny that we may always regard prosperity or poverty as the measure of our faithfulness to Christ. Okay Well anti prosperity gospel then. Yeah, but you put always or never in anything and it's like right? You're always gonna deny. If it's always or never. So uh prosperity or poverty is the measure of faithfulness to cr Absolutely, right? There are people who are incredibly faithful and they and they're really rich or they're really poor. Or there are people that are completely unfaithful and they're really rich or they're really poor. Like that's not And and it's interesting, right? There's there's there's a there's a prosperity gospel out there, but there's also like a poverty gospel out there, right? That's true, yeah. Taking a vow of poverty. Yeah, well yeah, the the all the monks that went into the monasteries and stuff and took a vow of poverty, gave up all their stuff and and uh the the aesthetics who live. Lived out in the desert and so both of those are alive in Malta Day as uh as you know, unhealthy tendencies. Yeah Yeah. And we and what they're t talking to here is the measure of faithfulness to Christ. So if somebody has a lot of stuff and you're like, oh he can't be a faithful Christian. Look at his house. Just because God blessed him with a beautiful house doesn't mean he's not faithful. Right. And and the Bible does. It's like you you read the Proverbs, th those are general truths, they're not always specific truths in every situation. But generally speaking, if you do good things, you're gonna prosper. Right. And so then you look at the poor person and say, oh see, they're not faithful, they wouldn't be so poor. Well no, because again it's proverbial truth. It's not always gonna work out that way, so you can't gauge things by that. So that's a that's a good helpful reminder. We deny That it is necessarily wrong they like that word necessarily. We deny that it is necessarily wrong for Christians to be wealthy or for some persons to possess more than others Yeah, I think we're kinda just saying that and and I agree with that. You agree with that, don't you? Mm-hmm. So they're also saying it it could be wrong. Sure for Christians to be wealthy. I guess if they got it the wrong way. Right? It's being a Yeah, so again it begs the question why the word necessarily is in there. We deny let's take it out. It says we deny that it is wrong. For Christians to be wealthy or for some persons to possess more than others. Why why does the word necessarily have to be there? They like that word. Yeah. Yeah. Too many philosophers were involved in writing this because that's a favorite word of the thing. The state of for of a Christian being wealthy is is never wrong because that that a state in and of itself is not right or wrong. Right. How how you may have gotten there may be right or wrong. Right. Right, but uh how someone has gotten to poverty may be right or wrong. Exactly. You know. You may have ha done wrong things and that led to your poverty. And uh you know, and so neither one is necessarily Exactly. So they they they somebody's a little too worried for their own good. You know, we got a Uh about four minutes left. Let's start on the next one, because the next uh Article sixteen has quite a few more affirmations and denials than uh the wealth and poverty section. So it's moving from personal stewardship to Uh global. Global planet Mother Earth. Environmental, as they say. Yeah, Article 16, stewardship of the environment. We affirm that God created the physical environment that's an interesting way of saying it. For his own glory and for the good of his human creatures. Yeah, physical environment. That's an interesting way of saying it, isn't it? Well I going back to you know, what last week when we were talking about, you know, uh well uh maybe the week before we're talking about uh work and leisure, right? They're using maybe non biblical terms here to to describe things and uh maybe to help people who aren't biblically l as literate to understand what they're talking about. I know. Maybe to connect it to current issues. Yeah. To speak to current issues. Okay. Maybe this isn't as timeless as we were thinking they were going for it. The creation. The creation, that's a better that's a more biblical term, I like that. Deputy. Deputiz, that's not a biblical word. You got a badge? I ain't got no stink we don't need no stinking badges. Uh get the reference, that's from a movie. It would it be Badges We don't need no stinking badges. As if God is the sheriff here. We were given dominion. Right. Well we're s we s squandered it almost immediately. Tas tasked with the the job. Uh yeah. You know. Alright, well here's some fighting words for some people because they will disagree with this one. Okay. We affirm that mankind has more value than the rest of creation. What do we mean by value? I think if you had to make a choice between, okay, I can save David Forcy's life if I cut down that tree. Cut down the tree. If I cut down that tree, it's gonna die. And you know what, who's to say that that tree is any less valuable than David Forcy? Oh. Okay. Right? Uh I I agree with where you go. Right the the the the pinnacle of the creation, the thing that has the most value. I mean there's there are prohibitions against killing people, humans, because of their value, because they're image bearers of God. There are no prayer prohibitions against, you know, slaughtering the fattened ox to have a nice meal. Okay. Right? So That's true. I I I I I affirm this, I agree with this one hundred percent, but I know in today's world, you know, with everybody's you know, vegetarian and vegan and all that sort of thing, and if that's you Yeah, I feel sorry for you 'cause those steaks taste really good. But uh I I wasn't meaning to be offensive, I'm sure I just was though. So send all your hate mail to David Forcey. All right. Let's see Just g just give Troy the benefit of the doubt also. I appreciate that. All right. So we'll we'll pause there. We've got a handful of affirmations and some denials in this Article sixteen that we'll get to next week. We've got about you know, a a a minute or not even a minute left in the in the show. So we'll wrap it up. David Forcy, thank you for being my partner in crime. I'm sure we've we've we've broken lots of laws today. Uh I am Troy Skinner and uh this is the Faith Debate. You can find me and David online at household of faith in Christ dot com That's Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Uh also you can go to the radio station's website, find the faith debate page there. That's WFMD dot com. And I always do this uh, you know, at least once a month or maybe once every couple of months because I it's fun. You can find us on the World Wide Web at www. wfmd. com. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from oh right about now. God bless