The bodies of men after death return to dust. And see corruption, but their souls, which neither die nor sleep, having an immortal subsistence, immediately return to God who gave them. The souls of the righteous being then made perfect in holiness are received into the highest heavens, where they behold the face of God in light and glory, waiting for the full redemption of their bodies And the souls of the wicked are cast into hell, whether remain in torment and utter darkness, reserved to the judgment of the great day Beside these two places for souls separated from their bodies the scripture acknowledges none. And there you have the first section of chapter 32 of the Westminster Confession of Faith of the State of Men after death and of the resurrection of the dead. It's the longest chapter title. In the Westminster Confession. In the shortest chapter. And or is that just the beginning? It's no well there's only there's two more sections. It is one of the shortest. It might it might be the shortest. It's certainly one of the shortest That's the voice of Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Joined again, we're talking about Westminster Confession. So who's here? Let me guess. Is it, oh I don't know, Dr. Jay Froders? I am here. From Foolsville Baptist Church, thank you for being on the show again. My pleasure. All right, now right before we went on the air, so get out of your system. Go ahead. Comment. That is a marvelous Tie. Utterly It says where they where they remain is utter darkness out. Uh dark. Utter I'm wearing my utterly on his uh red tie. No, this this isn't Moo Yeah, yeah. That's it's very sad. Yeah. Well we're gonna keep this going as long as we can. We're gonna milk it for all its worth. I'm embarrassed to even be here. Well goal one, check that one off. Embarrass Kate for being here. He loves us. Alright, so we're we're we're heading down the home stretch here. This would be the part in the race where the guy at the stadium house would say here they come spinning out of the turn. Right? Heading down the home stretch of the Westminster Confession, the last two chapters. And this is a long enough race that we're almost competing with secretary himself in order to be able to get done with We're trying to catch him. He's 29 and a half lengths ahead of us and we're going to catch him. Here we come. So what I just read, by the way, word of the week this week, I think this would be a good one. Redemption. Redemption. Redemption, word of the week. Who wants to give us a definition for redemption? I get all the cool Hebrew ones, so we just redemption is when you have been taken from being worthless as a result of sin. And you have been made valuable once again. And you are redeemed from the past. Um a phrase that I think we often use with that is that the Lord will restore the years that the locusts has stolen the sense of God taking what was destroyed in our lives and and redeeming it back to a place of value, which of course he did on the cross. Wow, that was some depth. I would have just said something like bought back or delivered from. But it's way better. Yeah, yeah. Well you have the the short like uh cliff notes version from Jace or the the long poetic meaty were redeemed from slavery. Yeah. People in in Egypt were bought back and freed or delivered through the Red Sea. Redeemed. Yeah. Okay. So slaves no longer. So it's it has nothing to do with bringing in your coupons for redeem redemption? No, it's got everything to do with that because that worthless little piece of paper is actually worth something. So you redeem what is worthless. at a specific place of value for something. Yeah. Okay. All right. Very good. I like it. Anecdotes. Yeah, anecdotes, but illustration. That was illustration right there. It was a sermonette. It was a sermonette. Very good. Not a sermon, just a thought. You gotta think about being a pastor. Alright, so what I just read at the beginning of the show, here's the you know, the uh layman's version of that. Right, after people die, their bodies decompose. But the souls of people are immortal and do not die or even sleep. At death all souls go immediately to God where they are uh where the saved await their renewed bodies and the unsaved are tossed into hell awaiting final judgment. So there is heaven and there is hell, there is no in between, like purgatory. This is such a ripe idea, the theological doctrine out there because uh a gentleman just in the last came out. Uh the guy at Mars Hill One of the Mars Hills. Apparently the but there's a bunch of them. Yeah, not the Mars Hill in Seattle, which would be Mark Griscoll. Yeah, it's the other guy. He's in Michigan, this one? Or so somewhere in the Midwest, isn't he? Rob Bell. Yes, but I don't know where. Yeah, yeah, this is what it means to be American and and uh try to know geography. You know about a hundred miles in every direction and that's about it. So he's west Somewhere. And the point is that is that he has come out claiming that back up for a second, we have a general sense, three of us, who Rob Bell is. Rob Bell is a relatively well known evangelical quote unquote um pastor. He's considered to be he had up until recently been considered to be a Bible believing kind of conservative leaning, you know. um Protestant preacher. Which has tended to be what evangelical has meant, but unfortunately it is changing, it's morphing, it's evolving. And he recently came out with I guess a new book or a new video series or something, right? And he's promoting it. I think it's a book. A book. And now you can explain what it is that's the thing. And what he's arguing is that Uh if God is truly just, then it would be unrighteous for him and somehow inappropriate for him to let people suffer in hell for eternity. And so he is advocating, I believe, a form of annihilationalism that after a certain period of time they will be annihilated And so they will not live forever in hell, but they'll be there for a period of time and be tortured and then it'll be done. Of course his main point is even bigger than that because the annihilationists uh part of it is such a small percentage of the people that that that would even happen to, you know, like point zero zero zero one percent or some ridiculous. point server or what that will be the but everyone else will get such a second chance even after death that they will be tool then. type orientation. I think he has it more of a soul sleep kind of an understanding, not that they're actually in hell and being purged and then they come out of it. Well the point is we don't we don't need to necessarily talk about Rob Bell's book. I mean Jonathan was just making the point that it's interesting we're talking about this particular chapter in the Westminster Confession at this time because in theological quote unquote evangelical circles it's a hot topic. Right. Might not be a hot topic in your household. Right. But it's a hot topic in the households of the Schweitzers and the Broadhurst. Theological blogosphere lit up about it. Yeah. So um but you throw out some words, so we've got some people that say that There is uh no eternal suffering for those who are damned, that they're just wiped out and cease to exist. They're almost like entering nirv it's almost like entering nirvana, right? They cease to exist. It's a Buddhist dream, uh uh almost, I guess. That's how I would look at it. Sorry, sorry, that would be poor Buddhist doctrine. If I could if I could uh split the hair out of it. If I'm gonna be a Buddhist, I'm gonna be a poor Buddhist. So good Buddhist doctrine, you you do lose your identity uh but you get swallowed up in the great Akman, the great nirvana that's out there. And so uh that would be a little bit different. An an annihilationism would actually say that you completely cease to exist. Buddhism, Hinduism has a sense that that you lose your identity And basically cease to exist. So I think it's kind of the same. Sure. It is. It's similar. But anyway. So you got people that think that. And they've got some people that say, well, the universalism idea that you're talking about. These are some big words, that's what I'm trying to make sure we touch this. Excellent. Is everybody goes to heaven. Everybody's gonna be God is so loving and so loving and mercy filled and it's just that's the way it is. And then you've got you guys and me that uh would reject both of those. Yeah. Some go to heaven. Some go to hell, and for the three of us in this room, I think we're in agreement, right? Hell is a place of eternal torment. Eternal separation from God. Yeah. I'm nodding my head and I'm sure Peter. Yes. So So and this is what the Westminster Confession of Faith is saying. Yes it is. So anybody wanna for I don't know, you feel comfortable for forty-five seconds trying to play devil's advocate um and take up the merits of the other views, of the universalist view and of the annihilationist view The universalist view, let's see. See, there's different versions of the universalist too. So you have universalists non-Christian, just everybody goes to heaven, which is great. And then you have the Christian universalism, which is Everyone goes to heaven, but it's because of Jesus' blood that has penetrated everyone. It's it's still through Jesus, but we don't have to believe in Jesus. So we're start you know, we start to talk about um exclusivism or inclusivism. So everybody's still involved. So if you were to argue for that, you'd say, well Jesus died on the cross and his blood made it possible for all to go to heaven. Not only made it possible but demanded that all of those would go to heaven, regardless of who they called on, they were still being saved by Jesus. So And they would go like John three sixteen, for God so loved the world that he sent his only son, so they have to do that. Well that that's forever believes in him though, right? So we can't say that. Well you love the whole world. There's uh a passage in Peter where it says it's God's will that none should perish but come to a saving. So that will So they would try to hang their hat on some scripture to to undergird their argument. Yeah And they would though uh honestly my sense is that the people that have tended to argue in that direction uh have not uh uh been vigorous or rigorous rather is the right word with their use of scripture in um and that they seem to even like you were saying they seem to they seem to come to their uh annihilationism or universalism uh in a slide from uh rigor with scripture. I don't know. Do you find that to be the case? Well yes, anybody who disagrees with me I find it not dangerous in their understanding of scripture. So I've said that about you several times, Jonathan. So uh you know. But you love it and you keep coming back from the torment. Now let's challenge I'm so not rigorous. Let me spin this for a minute and make it m more um More doctrinal. If somebody has an idea that the human soul is immortal and and will last f for eternity, right? Yeah. Then they're gonna have to have a you're either in heaven or you're in hell forever view. But if you don't believe that the human soul is gonna needs to necessarily last forever, well then you can have an annihilationist view, right? You can snuff it out and make it go make it go away forever. So what would be the the scriptural argument if somebody comes to you and says, you know I got a friend who says that, you know But when people die and they're going to hell, they're just wiped out and there's no pain or something they they just cease to exist. But I told them, no, that can't be true because the human was created to their have their soul exist forever. How do you defend that I'm putting two pastors on the spot. Yeah, yeah. But it's it's related enough. Yeah, yeah. So ask it one more time. You believe, I bel I think, that this is true, Jonathan and Jason, myself, all three of us. I think we all believe that the human soul lives forever. e once we die physically, either live forever in heaven with God, or live forever eternally, separated from God, in hell. Yeah So the question is how do we back that up? I mean a big passage of course is Matthew twenty five, where he was talking about the sheep and the goats, and he uh gives the impression that the sheep will enter uh he says it, uh will enter to eternal life And that the goats will go to eternal punishment. And that's um a pretty clear phrase, I think. Okay. Uh that would have to be dealt with in the context of, you know, you have an option. It's either eternal life or eternal punishment. So I think any of the passages in the Bible that talk about eternal life have to ask the question of whether there's a soul or not, because everybody watches the body. So it's kind of a practical answer too. It's just an obvious answer. Look, that body is right there. How can it be an eternal life? So there has to be something else if we're going to argue for eternal life, which scripture does throughout it. So even Revelation, the souls around the h you know, around the throne of God are crying out, how long, how long. There has to be something else. So what you decide to call that, a spirit, a soul the essence of a person, the jaseness of me, whatever it is, has to have gone somewhere. So you asked for the script of the case. That's a cooler word to say with your name than with mine. The Jonathan-ness just doesn't roll off the tongue. That's much longer. But Troyness, that's that that that kinda works too bad. I think it's better with his before it. Yeah. His his troyess. His troyness. Destroying us we here. Here to serve. Yes. You need definitely need to take that tie off in. The thing is is that Revelation Uh I think when I've studied this out with a uh friend of mine that is a uh annihilationist, um doesn't actually deal with the question of where the souls of men go. It grapples with it says that the beast is going to be grabbed and thrown into the to the lake of fire with eternal punishment. And I guess you could talk through what you think the beast is made up of. And it says that those that have received the mark of the beast will suffer torment during the days of God's wrath. And then it talks about the uh the dragon being grabbed and thrown into hell forever. But I don't know that Revelation actually um grapples specifically with the souls of those that refuse to believe. Well yes, but that wasn't his question was what are we talking about? So I'm just grappling with the passages of scripture. So the other passages of scripture that come to mind are uh the different places where Christ uh brings it up. He brings it up in Matthew eight, where the uh those that um are the subjects of the kingdom that don't end up coming to the feast are going to be thrown out into the darkness, whether it be weeping and gnashing of teeth. In Matthew 13, he deals with the parable of the weeds, where those that are weeded out of the field are thrown into uh the fiery furnace, whether it be weeping and gnashing of teeth, right? And then again when he when he talks about the net that's let down the the the people that he's gonna pull out to be separated are gonna be thrown into the fiery furnace where there's weeping and gnashing teeth. There's a couple other um parables that Jesus deals with that are pretty clear that it's not a nice place to be. It's described as a fiery furnace and it's eternal. Well I'm gonna assign myself some homework because I mean I didn't anticipate asking that question. It occurred to me as we were having this discussion, but I realize now I need to go grab a systematic theology book. Precisely. And see what it has to say about the doctrine of man and and and the human soul and and and uh freshen up on exactly because I believe it But I can't argue it very well. And that's it so I you know uh so anyway, I think I got us off on a derailed track here. That's right. Ecclesiastes talks about the dust returning and the spirit going to be with God. Yeah. I'm not sure that would be our It's a little bit of hermetical stretch to use that in this particular place, but your question was, we just need proof that the soul exists, right? You were going to being thrown in hell, but you were just Yeah, if the soul exists as if if the soul as it exists needs to continue to exist forevermore. Right. Then you can't be an annihilationist. So that would be a clear-cut argument against annihilationism and say, well, you can't be right. As much as I'd love to agree with you and say God is all merciful and loving, it can't be true because the Bible says the human soul lives forever. You can't get around that And so apparently the Sadducees wouldn't even be able to make that argument. Apparently the Sadducees at the time of Christ, who were known for not accepting the prophets, but really wanting to just focus in on the law uh as being uh the only inspired scriptures. Uh they did not believe in the resurrection because uh the apparently the idea of eternal uh either salvation or the soul being eternal doesn't show up in the Torah. But it shows up later in David. Certainly in the Psalms, there's a couple places it shows up, and it shows up in the prophets as well. Uh so the Pharisees were very comfortable with the idea of resurrection. Hence the Sadducees' question about if a woman dies and she's had seven different husbands, who's going to be her husband when she gets to heaven? Right. Like Elizabeth Taylor, for example. All right, so I'm gonna read the next two sections and I'll rest three sections of of chapter Uh is that a prayer for the dad right there? I'm wondering if you'd catch it or not. At the last day, such As are found alive shall not die but be changed, and all the dead shall be raised up with these self-same bodies and none other, although with different qualities, which shall be united again to their souls forever. Okay, I'll translate in a minute. Uh the bodies of the unjust, this is uh section three, the final section. Bodies of the unjust shall by the power of Christ be raised to dishonor the bodies of the just by his spirit unto honor. and be made comf uh conformable to his own glorious body. By the way, this is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Join Again this week by Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor at Poolsville Baptist Church in Poolsville, of all places. Alright, so uh here's kind of uh a quick Modern American translation of parts two and three. At Christ's second coming, here's the deal. Those alive won't die, but will have their bodies immediately transformed. Those dead will be raised with their renewed bodies. The bodies of all will be reunited will be reunited to their souls, and this will be remained the case forever. Again, everyone gets their bodies back. Only renewed bodies. But the damned remain lost, and the saved are glorified with a body like that of Christ's resurrected body Is that a proper understanding of those things? Actually I think you go beyond what they're meaning in this particular section. In this section they're dealing specifically with the with the state of men after death and the resurrection of the dead, but they're going to go on to judgment you know, uh I think which is gonna deal more thoroughly with like eternal damnation and those kinds of questions. So he doesn't actually deal with uh in that third section, some are raised to dishonor, others to honor, but it doesn't deal with eternal damnation in this particular section there at the end. But I gotta say I never really think about it very much about those who are damned getting renewed bodies. That's that's kind of a new idea. I know I don't think about that ever. Yeah, the white throne judgment. That one is in Revelation. Um and so um it seems almost like a waste if to to give them a uh renewed body if then so they could be thrown into hell and and be burned for eternity. Is it because you can't be disembodied? Is that I mean i is it is that to e to be human is to have a body, so they they need to have a body? Is that is that what that Need? I don't know. I feel like that's a a human argument. Can you be human without a body? Uh the question is what does scripture teach us about these things? Right. Well scripture seems to teach Uh, I don't know that you need to have a body, but it seems to teach that they'll be raised uh for the judgment and then they'll be judged All right. I I I'm not really sure how to respond to all this. Um I think we're asking questions that uh the text doesn't care about. And the the fact I maybe I'm saying the same thing you just said. Yeah. Um They humans have bodies. That's just I mean, you can't define them otherwise. That's who they are. They have bodies. So when they don't have that uh the whole the it's not the way it's supposed to be. So we're just waiting for that moment when everything gets restored to the way it's supposed to be when bodies are brought back. Um can they be destroyed without bodies? I mean, we're just we're talking about a world that I don't have any inkling of even thought about. What what is try to define God? Um God is a spirit and has not a body like man. I don't even know what that means. That that concept is so beyond me that even having a conversation about what a spirit is is just I I I don't even I just let you guys talk because I don't know what to talk about. Maybe I'm not sure. Maybe we'll all just breathe together. The spirit ruach of God. Yeah. The goal is that we'll all be restored to our bodies. That's the that's the great joy that we will all follow in the same path that Christ felt you know, the first fruits of the resurrection. He got his the same body back There's a continuity, there's discontinuity between the body, but we're all going to get it back. That's the great joy. The problem was Plato messed it up for all of us in his thinking that the body was somehow evil and the spirit was somehow good. And I think they I think they're at least trying to say the body getting returned is is what the goal is. Because this is God's ultimate goal, is to restore all creation to the way it was. Adam had a body, he wasn't a spirit. So we're all looking for that body to come back. That's a good thing. If you hate your body, uh, you know, that that's not a good thing. You should you should enjoy your body. You should love your body. It's a good thing. Not worship it. But there's nothing bad about body, good about soul. So so in that sense you you get the sense uh that Westminster is responding to some of the Gnosticism that would argue that the body is bad and just to be thrown away and that we should just emphasize spiritual uh whatever and not care about the body, that there's a little bit of a uh desire in Westminster to speak to that in this sp specific spot. Yeah, I think it's probably more assumed. I don't know that they're how now trying to get it. My question is why are they so intent on the bodies? 'Cause that's what that's the language that they use. They say Um the bodies of the unjust shall by the power of Christ be raised to dishonor. are raised. And and is there a Catholic doctrine that that they would somehow be speaking to that maybe they're trying to react against something in po purgatory? It just seems a little bit like a child. Well they're definitely speaking against purgatory in this chapter. Yeah, right. That's the first section. Yeah, the first section is definitely speaking against that. So they addressed it there, so I don't know that they're speaking against purgatory in the last two sections. But they deal with this body spot, right? Talking about the body being raised and resurrection of the dead, what is sown is perishable and You've always got a better quote memory for the case. Doesn't that talk about it? Yeah, it says that it's raised imperishable, but it doesn't talk about Um that some are raised to honor, some are raised to dishonor, does it? I mean I'm not seeing that I thought that was in that like chap verse forty three, forty two, forty three, for four. Uh-huh. Now we know No, because it says it's sown in dishonor, it's raised in glory. It's sown in weakness, it's raised in power. It's sown a natural body, it's raised a spiritual body. Yep And so um lots of body conversation. There's a lot of body conversation, but there's nothing that says that there's anybody that's going to be raised their body to dishonor. There's nothing in that in that particular passage that says that. And so I'm just trying to figure out where what what is their concern with the bodies of unjust being raised to dishonor, the body of the just to honor. Because it does say in that passage that we who believe are going to be raised to to honor, but I don't see anything that says that that the unjust are raised To dishonor? I mean yeah, I mean it talks about the just and the unjust being raised in acts, so we know that's happening. Um I guess it makes sense, but the whole idea that the importance of the bodies of the unjust raised a dishonor. Yeah. Anyway. You're dying to know the answer, aren't you? Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Cross Rose Valley Chapel, Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. I'm Troy Skinner. By the way, I forgot to thank our sponsors at the beginning of the show. Pul Putman Plumm and Heating Help We Make You Smile and Deer Valley, Landscape, Hardscape, and Masonry. Thank you for sponsoring the show. By the way, book you should read, John MacArthur's The Truth War. I high recommend. Till next week. God bless.