For the better government and further edification of the church. There ought to be such assemblies as are commonly called synods or councils, as magistrates may lawfully call a synod of ministers and other fit persons to consult and advise with about matters of religion. So if magistrates be open enemies of the to the church The ministers of Christ of themselves by virtue of their office, for they, with other fit persons upon delegation from their churches, may meet together in such assemblies. If belongs to citizens and councils ministerially to determine controversies of faith, and cases of conscience to set down rules and directions for the better ordering of public worship of God and government of his church to receive complaints in cases of maladministration. and authoritatively to determine the same, which decrees and determinations if con uh consonant with the to the Word of God are to be received with reverence and submission Not only for their agreement with the Word, but also for the power whereby they are made, as being an ordinance of God appointed thereunto in his word. And there you have the first three sections of a five-section chapter in the Westminster Confession of Faith, Chapter 31 of Synods and Councils. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930, WFMD brought to us by Plumman, Clumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Our word of the week this week couldn't decide, went back and forth should it be synods and maybe we'll we'll talk about that too, but I decided magistrate. I just like saying magistrate. Magistrates, magistrate That's our word of the week, magistrate. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, or would he be the magistrate at Crossroads Valley Chapel? I don't know. He would not be, by the way. Uh Jay Dr. J S Broadhurst is the senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. Um who wants to uh cover uh magistrate and maybe who wants to cover synod? A synod is like a council, right? A gathering uh a ruling body, people coming together to make a ruling. So a magistrate would be a f other than a fun word to say, magistrate is Oh are you defining it or you want us to I was waiting for somebody else to define it. Um a leader? A uh generally a civil authority? There we go. That's what that's my understanding of the word. And I think that's the that's the intended meaning in the Westminster Confession. Yes But by exception. Well, I don't care about the exception. I say, yes. Let's talk about that. What say you, Jonathan Schweitzer? I say that you do not like the idea. And uh You, sir, would be correct. Nothing more need be said. Yeah, I I uh A call, may lawfully call. Uh is call the same thing as requiring or forcing a Senate of ministers? I mean if seems to me if the government in the ruling body says you guys are gonna get together and meet, uh they're telling you to do it. Well but but look what he's calling it for. He's calling a synod or council to con consult and advise with about matters of religion. So like if if President Obama wants to call together a bunch of ministers and say, look, you know, I just kinda wanna wanna understand, you know, some issues here and how best to you know, to handle something so that I don't offend the religious sensibilities. I mean, it sounds like that's part of what they're saying there. Yeah, no. I d uh the whole idea that the the seven the civil authorities would tell the church what to do ever just it goes against my grain. Like you wouldn't believe. Well calling people to consult and advise with. That's not telling them. They're consulting and advi at least what it's saying there in in number two, the one that you're so offended at. Yeah, I I think uh this has to be here because well Westminster is a called assembly that's been called by the magistrates to discuss these things. We're dealing with Presbyterians, we're dealing with Congregationalists, we're dealing with Erasteans, all who have come together to um to unify around something. So if you say otherwise, then they basically they're saying well, I I I don't know how to put that politely. They're saying no to themselves. Yeah, to the people who have called them to this and that they think is important to do that. uh there was there was no ability for them to even consider there being Jews living next door to Muslims living next door to Presbyterians living next door to Baptists, living next door to atheists, and everybody kind of doing their own thing. I mean uh contextually, if you were a magistrate of a certain area, there is a there was uh a There was people fighting, killing each other over over certain issues, and so there was a need, you know To call them together to call them together. I mean there was a there was a prudent issue there that that in context, absolutely they may lawfully do it. Never. Maybe I'm reading too much uh into the maybe there's maybe the context doesn't does not say this, but I'm reading it as saying that you know large governing bodies of the church should meet on a somewhat regular basis and that officials of the civil government should be the ones to call these meetings together It's their responsibility to do this. But if they don't, then leaders within the church should organize such meetings themselves. It's like the primary responsibility for calling these meetings together would be the civil authorities. Um if the magistrates are open enemies to the church, then the ministers of the church can themselves call a meeting. But otherwise It's primarily the civil governments. Number one, for the better government, the further edification of the church, there ought to be such assemblies that are commonly called synods or councils, belongs to the overseers and other rulers of the particular churches by virtue of their office and the power which Christ hath given them for edification and not for destruction, to appoint such assemblies, and to convene together in them, as often as they shall judge it expedient for the good of the Church. I think that's the major thing. The church people are supposed to do that. Yeah, now where was that that you were just reading? What's number? That's the first one. For the better government and further edification of the church, there ought to be such assemblies as are commonly called sinners or councils. That's number one. Right, and I just kept going. Well it belongs to the overseers and other churches of the particular sorry, I I realize you had five sections in yours. Mine only has four, so I guess that first one is split into two. Uh in your version of it. I don't have the Overseers line at all in mind. And it belongs to the Overseers and other rulers of the particular churches? I don't have it. Okay, well I'm not sure what to say about that. We need to do some text analysis and figure out uh What is what. But I like your version better. Well, it seems to be the main argument is that the churches are supposed to first do it. Well then I I like that much better. I'm still not sure that I like the g civil government sticking their nose in, but If they wanted to say, hey, we're having some problems here, would you guys mind gathering together and figuring some things out for us? That's one thing, but that's not how I I read this. It's almost like they could require But Constantine, you know, back in the day, you know, required the councils to meet, and I have a problem with that. Yeah, I would just I would stick with what Jonathan said. I wouldn't have a problem with it in its context because of that. I mean, don't worry by the way, Jonathan. We are recording. So you can play that back whenever you want. Jace saying that he will stick with whatever you said. Whatever you said. This particular instance of what you said. I am on board. All right. Well let me read the next one. you know, as somebody that is the civil authority and m very likely that happened in a significant way. And I think that's what you're concerned about. Not that they would call it but that they would try to influence the outcome in a certain direction or or another that that would be politically expedient for them. And you know, maybe I should oversimplify. I agree with you, but I would I would have a problem with that You know, I I've been in in office settings, you know, most of my career. I've been in sales and stuff, and I g I gotta say, who if if if you're gonna meet together with somebody and you're gonna discuss something of a serious matter, whose meeting is it? The person who was called or the person who did the calling. The person who schedules the meeting and invites others to the meeting is their meeting Right? It's their show to run. Unless unless they uh are Is Frank listening to this? Is your boss listening? Unless they're not uh unless they're unable to handle that meeting and the meeting gets out of control and and by default somebody else takes over, becomes somebody else's meeting. But basically the person calling that meeting it's their meeting. Well no it's so Unless they call the meeting with the express intention of other people getting together and then they go do whatever it is they're doing. Like, you know, a a civil magistrate might say, You guys need to meet Come on these dates and meet and work this out. I got I got things run I got the state running to do. You guys work these things out. So it comes there. So I think we're all saying in an id ideal situation it's okay. But We don't live in an ideal situation and considering uh politics of the modern workplace, whoever calls the meeting is gonna end up running it, and it certainly was true in Constantine's day. And probably was true in other situations as well. So ideally not a problem. Unideally And it's important because this is what happens in said uh assemblies and uh synods or councils, right? It belongs to synods and councils ministerially to determine controversies of faith and cases of conscience, to set down rules and directions for the better ordering of public worship of God. and government of his church to receive complaints in cases of maladministration authoritatively to determine the same which decrees and determination. So I mean I read that before but The point is these aren't just, hey, let's sit around and have a cup of coffee and some some uh some triskets or something. This is the point of the meeting is to clarify doctrine on the tough issue, to provide structure for worship and church government, to handle complaints and to rule on them And these rulings, as long as they grew with the Bible, are authoritative and must be adhered to by the entire church, keeping in mind that the councils can make mistakes So, uh, you know, you ingest need to ingest what they have to say, but uh um uh but take with a grain of salt. So that these are these are important meetings that the several government can say, you guys are gonna come together I don't know. I just if there were those sort of sorts of issues in the church, the church should, I think, of its own accord say, you know what, we need to get together on these issues. We shouldn't have some potentially non-believer Calling a meeting of believers to take care of their own problems. Right at this point. Right, but this is the the difficulty of the Middle Ages. In the Middle Ages everybody in the state Was supposed to be a believer. From Constantine on down, you were baptized at the point of a sword, maybe even You know, everybody's a believer and so that includes the emperor, that includes everybody that at the end of the day is considered to be, you know, author uh uh a a king and s and or considered to be a believer rather. And so Um again contextually believers are calling it no matter what. But that's the point is that who's gonna call a synod in a council now? The l the the most recent one that I can recall um that that uh there's there's the la Lausanne people that are attempt attempting to to bring people together from all across the evangelical world to come up with some um some sense of like uh one issue they were grappling with was whether or not um there was a um uh whether or not freedom in the Bible and our living for freedom fit with liberation theology you know, that uh that is taught down in South America. What elements of of liberation. It's it's a pretty complex issue, it's a pretty deep issue, and there's sincere people on both sides trying to understand what Christ means for us today. Right. They're grappling with those kinds of issues. But another one then was uh was up there the Manhattan Declaration that was attempting to bring together Actually that one was was I think not even just Christian. That was Judeo-Christian, wasn't it? I think it had Jewish people in it as well. Yeah. Moral document. More of a moral document. Nevertheless, a significant one because that's that's a divide that's right down the middle of the church as well. Um and ends up being pretty much. Um what he's arguing is kind of that those are kind of councils, which is true, they're they're kind of, but they have really no effect on um Christianity at large, uh unless you decide I mean I'm guessing most of the Christians listening to have no idea even what documents you're talking about. But if you go to, for instance, a Presbyterian church or a Roman Catholic church then there would be a council that would meet that would have more authority, very specific authority to that. Um Eastern Orthodox Church if they were to meet, that would that would come down with great authority where these other documents have to be a lot of things. I would say that the other documents like Lawsanne and the other one have that they do end up affecting the person in the congregation, the average person in the sense that that they'll find their pastor willing to work with other pastors a little bit more openly because those pastors who are aware of those documents uh ha use those those kinds of documents. You know, like I know where you're at on abortion and different things. I know where you're at on uh on uh the authority of scripture and it causes me to feel a lot more comfortable saying, look, if you're looking for a Baptist church, Poolsville Baptist is a great place. I would recommend them very highly. You know, and so then there's a sense of of people in my congregation when when your name comes up, I'm like, yeah, you know, Jace Broadhurst, he's a good guy. I really like the guy. He's he's really preaching the word of God over there. You know, a and then I might break into, you know, in terms of you know, some theological issues where in it were in different places, but when it comes to the to the gospel he's in a great place. So I feel like those those like LaZanne and some of the other ones have done quite a bit of um they've carried a lot of water in terms of trying to help to clarify those kinds of issues and provide a context for clarifying those issues so that people that are trying to determine who the churches, pastors, who to work with or not work with, you know, can do so. And I guess as a independent congregation, maybe I live in the midst of that a little bit more than you do. You probably spend a lot more time around just Baptists and or reformed people where um I don't know. I don't know if that's the case or not, but I guess I find that I'm interacting with all kinds of people and so I have to you know, like in the church of the city, the one in Christ group, we've had to be very careful you know, well what kinds of people are we choosing to work together with and which ones are we not choosing to work together with. Now there are you know there are conferences where people come together and there's like a a voluntary agreement like, hey, I agree in spirit with that kind of thing. But that's a little bit different than what these citizen councils which are making r you know rulings that are binding. The a good example would be if if you didn't like a certain part of the Manhattan uh declaration or whatever or or something else like that You could agree to disagree with that part of it and still maybe embrace the rest of it. But if you're in the Episcopal Church and you disagree with the ordination of an openly uh practicing homosexual clergy member, Hey and they're gonna rule on that. You gotta live with that ruling and and y you know what I mean? Or you gotta abandon the church. Yes and no. Yes and no. It depends on how the ruling has gone. There's some issues that you can take it or leave it and they they in their synod in their council internally will give you freedom to you know to go with your conscience. There's other issues that are driven to a higher level where they say either you're in or you're out based on where you stand on this issue. And so I mean most sentence and councils have all of those kinds of things And so maybe you could call like LaZanne and uh and and uh the Manhattan Declaration voluntary. Um uh identification. Like I could voluntarily like I could I could, you know, volunteer to somebody, hey, you know what, I'm I'm behind the whole Manhattan Declaration. And if somebody else, another pastor says, You know what, me too? You know, then right there I know okay, this guy's, you know, gonna tend to be um very conservative in his approach to morality and and scripture and that sort of thing. So we can make sure that we cover this whole chapter in today's show. I'm going to read the last half here. Um four and five. All synods are councils since the Apostles' times, whether general or particular, may err, and many have erred. Therefore they are not to be made the rule of faith or practice, but to be used as a help in both. Cynicism councils are to handle or conclude nothing but that which is ecclesiastical and are not to in uh intermeddle with civil affairs which concern the commonwealth unless by way of humble petition in cases extraordinary or by way of advice for satisfaction of conscience, if they be thereto required or thereunto required by the civil magistrate. By the way, this is Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putin Plumbing and Heating. Help we make you smile. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church, and Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel in Frederick. That last part there is saying that the church's uh meetings are to address church matters. They have nothing to do with deciding civil government matters unless circumstances are extraordinary. Uh have to parse that word, I guess. The uh decisions are nothing more than advice, uh and the matter at hand is one of conscience, or the civil government requires the church to rule on a civil matter. So here we have a situation where at the front end we're talking about you know, the civil government sticking their nose in in the church's business. And here now we're talking about the church maybe ha where they're allowed to stick their nose in the civil government's business. Again, historical context puts both of those comments about three or four hundred years in the past and not not in a context that is American in any sense of the word. This is British monarchy. I mean, but the point though is they're not trying to tell us what you know, what the they're point here isn't this is what we want to do in our context, right? Isn't there a point is this is what the Bible teaches and and this is going to be doctrine for the church and we and it So for all times wouldn't they be making wouldn't they make the argument that for all times it's appropriate for this civil uh church intermingling? Well no, because they're they're they're m they're not to be made the rule of faith or practice. All sinners in council I mean that's number four, whether general or particular may err, and many have erred. I mean I think they're recognizing that they're for a specific time in history and to address certain issues and, you know, that we're to take 'em with a grain of salt. I mean I guess that's what Yeah I think they're even saying that all all along that this is is not to be a rule of faith. It's supposed to be something that is helpful and good. And they're supposed to help the civil magistrate when that's necessary to advise them. Um there might be a case, uh even a court case or something like that that could happen that they'd need the ruling of uh and I think that could still technically happen. Um you know they in order for them to have an answer for something, they'd have to have the the churches people come together and say, Here is what we actually believe on this. Now this is relevant how in this particular civil matter. In one of the uh ministerial associations in Frederick, right? W I forget which one, but you're president and vice president or sergeant at arms or whatever you're Right. The evangelical minister of fellowship. Would that is that uh it would that fit loosely into an the idea of a council or a synod in your mind? Based on how you were describing Uh I would say that that we're we don't decide anything but but we came together around a basic evangelical statement of faith. And if you're not comfortable with that, then you're probably not going to choose to associate with us. But based on that statement of faith, um we choose to try to find ways to work together for lifting up Christ and Frederick and to, you know, promote good things like, you know, convoy of hope and things like that. So, um no, it's it's certainly not a body that is gonna attempt to make make a ruling on something, though it is likely that an issue could arise in that context. that would divide us and that some people would say, look, you know, we feel like this is an issue, make or break issue for us and so we choose to voluntarily no longer be with you. And that's that seems to be the case in the United States. I mean if you wanted to you could step away from the Baptist denomination and you would fight through well, I guess you already o own your own congregation so you can you're you're you're you have congregational government so you're not So if your your church is not owned by the denomination. Correct. So if you as a church decided to move away and to associate with a different council or synod, you could choose to do so. Right. Which brings up the whole question of polity, which I think is a background issue of all of this. I mean this is where the Presbyterians get their uh their style of government, you know, that that there is someone above them. So it's it It's both congregationally run and um top-down run. There's it kind of both at the same time, whereas Baptists uh just like you are are relatively autonomous. Um, we make up our own mind on things. And it's it's a real danger, I think, too. Um Yeah, which is why I I like the voluntary thing. uh the language because uh like my dad constantly is going to what he calls apostolic councils, which is people that that care deeply about uh more fine issues of faith and theology and grappling with, you know, how things play out. And so these guys will come together and they'll talk together and they'll persuade one another. They'll they'll, you know, argue for this or for that and and and they'll come out of it maybe being in agreement with each other, maybe not being in complete agreement with each other, but but they're providing a context and a place whereby they could say, yeah, I associate with that guy. Yeah, I associate with that guy. you know, where they where they can know more deeply what issues are most important and uh and where they fall on those particular issues. And so, um, you know, I guess we're all doing that at some level here in the United States. We're all voluntarily, you know, opting in and out of these kinds of things. Uh is that a voluntary thing? Is that a top top down thing? Right? What I mean what how do we how should we understand that 'Cause that would be the model we should try to figure out how to follow, right? Do you mean was it But we can't get back to that because there's no unity. You cannot have that a Jerusalem model I've thought about that often. You cannot have a Jerusalem model unless there's some commitment to unity. And there's not. Ever since we broke with the Catholic Church, for that matter when the Catholic uh broke with the uh Eastern Orthodox uh with the Orthodox community, you know, we we had two different groups and and there's no way to have a Jerusalem council in today's environment. I would agree with that simply because uh the Jerusalem Council contained the apostles, and so they're not here, and so now we base it uh at least in my understanding, on the apostolic confession, not on the apostles themselves, but on w what the apostles hence the reason why the early councils were s are are considered so authoritative because uh there was still a semblance of authority across the body of Christ. And so uh at that point in history they were still all coming together, all parts of the body of Christ attempting uh to come together to to make a decision. In They understood something that we've forgotten, that it is one church. Yeah. And uh it it's kinda sad and I you know, I don't know how to get back to that. Like you said, I it's not possible. But um yeah, I I feel like we're missing it. hasn't been one church for a thousand years, right? Like this is a part of the reason I'm so committed to doing Church of the City things, because I think that that we should be trying to find ways to be in unity and that there's certain issues that that even though we would hold them deeply and sincerely that are not issues that would have to divide us in you know, here in the United States because everything has gone voluntary. We don't have a state church, we don't you know, and haven't for so long. Um I mean do they still have state churches in Europe? I get the sense that they're probably zero a little bit of that. Certainly. England. They might, but they're all empty. Other places. Right. They're all emptied, right. Right. And so the United States mo model of voluntarily choosing has become the model which at some level we seem to think is more appropriate because people choose according to their conscience. Well, we thank you for choosing us. The Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. I want to thank our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I encourage you to visit us online, WFMD. com, keyword faith. where you'll find uh pretty much daily uh updated blog there and links to other cool things. And if you scroll down toward the bottom, you have questions about I don't know, Buddhism, Hinduism, uh atheism, whatever, and you're like, I don't know, what do some of these people p uh think and believe about things? There are links to sites that do a pretty good job of uh representing what those other uh points of view are uh there as well. By the way, what am I reading? Because he likes when I mentioned the Old Testament so much, uh Ernest Lucas is exploring the Old Testament You know Ernest too? Is he a good friend of you? I do not know. All right, anyway. Where is he from? Thanks for listening. God bless. Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putman Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred plumber. Povin plumbing, how can we make you smile