Welcome to Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD brought to us by Putman Plummy and Heating Hell can we make you Smile and Deer Valley Landscape, Hardscape, and Masonry. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Dr. Jace Broadhurst, senior pastor at Poolsville Baptist Church. on the panel again this week. And last week we were talking about chapter thirty-three, the final chapter, or is it, of the Westminster Confession of Faith. And we read it all into the record, so that's good. And we had a really good discussion hardly at all about chapter thirty three. But we're going to take care of that this week. And here's what you missed. Or here's I'm not going to read the whole chapter again, but I'm going to give you kind of the synopsis of what the chapter's all about. So you can kind of follow along, all right? There is a day coming, already determined by God, when every person who has ever lived and every fallen angel will be judged by Jesus Christ for what they have done, what they have said, and even what they have thought. There is significance to the judgment day in two ways. It demonstrates God's mercy in saving his people to live in love with him forever. It demonstrates God's justice in forever separating his favorable presence from those who want nothing to do with God. Christ wants us to know there will be a coming judgment as a deterrent against sin and a source of comfort to those who loyal to him. But Christ has not told us the exact day of judgment because he wants people to be consistently vigilant and not simply coast through life until cramming for the test. at the last moment. Alright. So uh the movies last year two thousand twelve, notwithstanding, we don't know the last day of the end of the world according to the Westminster Confession of Faith. We'll see if these two fine pastors agree, or if they go the Hollywood route. So you can't do both. What's that you, Donovan? Yeah. Let me ask you. Westminster Confession or Hollywood? You choose. Oh come on, Tim Tim Lack. Come on. Tim Tim Lay went the Hollywood route, you know, with a biblical attempt. Yeah, well, okay, I arrest my case. I think all uh eschatologies should be produced in a Hollywood form so that we can all grapple with exactly what we think things are really gonna be like. Because all good fantasy novels at the end of the day are expressions of our theology. How's that? Is that good? Wow. All good fantasy novels, which I guess turn into movies, are Inspections to express our theology, our thoughts about what is ultimately true and I would say that all movies, whether they're fantasy or in all books, whether they're fan everything that we do is an expression of our theology. Right? Okay, fine. Just minimize what I just said. Thank you for that. I'm amplifying it. I'm like the amplified version of the Bible to you. I'm just amplifying. I'm not trying to minimize. If you're gonna class, let's be loud already. So sorry. Who was that? Who who was uh channeling on that one? Uh from uh from the uh Good Morning Vietnam No my goodness, wow, that's a old one. Yeah, yeah, remember that? Freelay says who this is a movie but it He says if you're gonna if you're gonna fight clash, you know, don't Don't try to melt into the don't wear camouflage when it goes into the souls. Oh yeah. That's right. Wow. Did you see that recently or something? How do you remember that? No, that particular part just you know always stuck out with the problem. Okay. Okay. So we all have our Robin Williams moment. Yes, we do. Yeah, that we remember. So uh back to uh away from Robin Williams and his soul. I said it again. Oh he's still alive, isn't he? Yeah worthwhile stuff. I mean his career maybe isn't what it once was, but come on He's dead and according to Hollywood. Okay, so you were saying just for the record, he could die between now and the time the show airs. Because we are taping the show a little bit more than the other thing. So if if he dies, it's your fault. Is this prophetic? Yeah. I've got things to say, but I'm not gonna because we're trying to get to Jason's point here about it. I just thought we'd talk about the Westminster Confession of Psych for a while while we're gonna do it. You said we needed a word of the day. Eschatology is what Jonathan just used, I think. I think we may have used that before, but hopefully uh it's been a long enough time that people have forgotten. Yeah, let's redefine it. And especially let's redefine it. Yeah, I'll make up a totally new wave wave on the case. Um Which is what Jonathan likes to do with words. Oh, so much time. I feel like we're giddy here at the end of the Westminster Confession too much. Never have to come back. So eschatology usually translates something like last things or the end times. But for some reason, Christian evangelicals, the pop culture, seem to think of this as that time in the future being the last time. So when we talk about eschatology, everything is in front of us. And I think last things or eschatology should should encompass all of scripture. It should all be dealing with the the ages of of um how the Bible sets up these different ages. So it's the last age, whenever that is. And I think for me at least, and we might disagree on this, but I don't know how much we've got to get into this, that's already begun. What I still think there's future of course, but with the cross that next age has begun. So so when I talk about eschatology, I actually say all scripture is about eschatology. Adam and Eve's story is about eschatology. It's about how it will all resolve itself. Everything is looking forward to the cross from Adam and Eve, and everything's looking back at the cross from now. So the cross is this The crux of Ohio Whew, yeah. Is the uh is the middle point of everything and so eschatology is uh I I generally think past the cross. So we're in the middle of, in some sense You know, I just want to observe that that we started talking about last days, but the Westminster Confession does not talk about last days. It talks about uh the resurrection of the dead and the last judgment. And it doesn't really get into specifically that definition of last days. Yeah, good. So let's stick with what you were talking about, which is fine. Something in the future Yeah, that's good with you. So the judge okay, so in that sense in that sense you would say that even though the last days is this whole period, and I I think I'm generally in agree agreement with you, but I tend to be kind of a partial preterist. So I'm of the opinion that there was a that there was a significant um uh f Fulfillment. I'm writing that down, so that'll be next week's uh word of the week, partial predators. I uh I have received a shake Uh under the table from Jay Sproghurst on the air here at the end of the Westminster. Did you really apparently uh things for the other thing? Although well no but in fairness to your assumptions I think that Jonathan would say that maybe even three years ago you might have said that about yourself. Yeah. Yeah, I've been that way. I think I've been that way probably for a good ten, twenty years. Wait, you've been what way? A partial pressure. Oh no, okay, well then I misunderstood. I was thinking that you would be more in line with uh with the dispensational view. I don't think I've ever been that Oh. Well then I misunderstood you too for all these years. Well not all these years. No, no, no I knew that I think I think you you s thought that because I graduated from the Messianic Jewish Seminary and those guys are strongly. Yeah, very much Uh yeah that way. And so I think that you just kinda lumped me in with that, but I've never have been. Neither has uh my dad. I think we've tended to be omillennial or premillennial. Uh And uh the implications that that have kind of led naturally into a partial preterist direction as a result of that. So I'm millennial or premillennial? Which are complete rank opposites of each other? I mean I mean millennial post millennial. Yeah. Yeah, not premillennial. We need to do some eschatology conversations. Well you tried it. But you tried to get me to that conference and I was thinking that that if I would have been able to get there that I would have probably been in a lot of agreement. Cool. Okay. So I guess nobody knows what we're talking about right now except the three of us, but this is fun. This is fun. the end times, Matthew 24 and Revelation, were fulfilled with the fall of Jerusalem in A. D. seventy and the uh the intense um uh suffering that was experienced by the Jews in Jerusalem at that time, bringing in the new age that is the age of Christendom, as it were, in the age of the church And so uh that the age of Christendom would have begun with Christ and uh and moved beyond the end of the other age that that was coming to a close at seventy. So there's kind of that forty year overlap as it were, or thirty. seven some year overlap between the two, leading us into the final days. And so the the the end times began with the arrival of Christ on the scene is what you were saying in Uh yeah. Is through time. I'm gonna agree with you, so I'm confused as why you would ever consider yourself post millennial. Do you think Jesus can c could come back right now, in this instant as we're talking? Um I'm trying to get my head back into all this. Uh help me define again the difference between the a millennial and post millennial. Can you do that real quick? You're pointing to me. Okay. Ah millennial does not mean, like we say, that there is no millennium at all. It simply means that the millennium is representative of a long period of time. So we might even consider ourselves to be in the millennium currently even though it's two thousand years long. Post millennial generally would say after that period Um you guys uh we don't I don't do eschatology. Christ in relation to the millennium. So if you're pre-millennial, you're saying that Jesus comes pre-millennial, before his millennial reign. Yeah. Postmillennial means there has to be a millennium thousand years of of heaven on earth. Yeah. And at the end of that Jesus returns. Yeah. And I can't I can't envision you at all as that. But maybe you have some Leanings that way that I'm unfamiliar with. I do lean in the direction I'm I can't say that I have a firm uh commitment to to postmillennialism over a millennialism. Um uh my sense is that is that we're in something right now that is that is the coming of the kingdom and that we're not waiting for something to happen before that's going to begin. Coming of the kingdom. He just used Herman Ritterboss, yeah. All right. We we might Book of the Week. Herman Ritterboss? Way not Ted Decker. No, we'll let this be one of those. No, no, no. It's light bathroom reading the words. It's light bathroom reading, yeah. It's a good beach read. Right. Yeah. So to fall asleep to at night. It might be helpful. This is has nothing to do with any of this probably, but now I've last year too. But I can't help it. It might be helpful if we define what we mean by the millennium. What does a millennium mean to you? Well that's precisely the point. It means something different to to an omillennialist, uh, to a post millennialist, and to a premillennialist. or slightly different. You know, the premillennialist tends to think that there's going to be a specifically thousand year reign after Christ returns. that where the uh where the dead are going to be raised, uh the the righteous rather will be raised to rule on the earth for a thousand years. Uh a millennial uh would tend to not be so specific about how long that is. It just means a big period. And um but the what Jesus is currently reigning. But how long what is? I guess that's what I'm saying. Fair to equate the reign of Christ with the millennium? That's how yeah, that's you. So that's why I'm a millennial I think Jesus reigns right now. So if he reigns right now, the millennium must be right now. And so the only question way to simplify that down is everybody has to agree with you now. So yeah. I mean that's but that's why I that's really at the bottom of the end of the difference. At the end of the day, that's why I'm Avalon And that's why at the end of the day I can't understand why all Christians aren't. All Christians would say at the end of the day, millennialism is a discussion of the end of the day. That's all I got to say. Very nice. Well played, very I mean seriously, all Christians I know, if you ask them that question, do you believe Jesus is reigning right now? They're gonna say yes, every single one of them. But then you ask them if there are millennial view, well I'm pre-millennial but How are you possibly pre or post millennial? Okay, so uh to Premillennial means he's he's he's not ruling right now. He's gonna start to rule at some point in the future after some tribulation and all that other stuff. Post millennial is we're somehow going to have all this peace and prosperity without him ruling, and then he's going to come to rule. I don't s I don't see how that works. Say that again about post millennials. Plo post millennial is there will be a millennium. Yeah. And I don't know that it has to be a literal thousand years, right? It can be any length of time, just like the omel om millennial position can be any length of time. It's figurative or whatever, that there will be this time of peace and and Christ's church ruling for a thousand years, whatever that means, and then at the end of that time Jesus comes back. Come in judgment. Yeah, and and your point is that you don't think that that could happen without Christ returning. Well I'm saying we're saying we're we He's at least a millennium away from ruling. No no post millennialists are of the opinion that that the saints are ushering in the kingdom precisely because Christ is ruling and reigning in them. But Christ already ushered in the kingdom. The kingdom of God is at hand. Repent. Right, but that's but that's your point, is that is that uh that that's where I feel like your your definition of of millennium is not quite accurate. Your definition of millennial uh works for premillennial and amillennial, but not for the postmillennial um uh theory or uh theology. Post millennialists believe that Christ is reigning in the saints, and so as a result, the saints are redeeming the earth. Right now, that that we are winning back the earth, that we are preaching the gospel, and as we're doing so, we're helping to bring it back under the reign of Christ. So we're ushering in the kingdom. So once that's fully accomplished, then Christ will return to a fully restored, redeemed, as it were, uh human race. And then do the do final judgment where he raises the dead and he and he works that out. And so in that sense, that's able to happen because he's already reigning in the church. Which is bringing in that rain into the fullness of the earth as we speak, so that he can return to a to a earth that is already saying, Yes, Lord, Maranatha, altogether. And so that would be postmillennial. Is that correct? I think that sounded pretty decent actually. Yeah. Uh obviously there are there's no such thing as premillennialists, amillennialists and post-millennialists like there's three groups of people. Even within postmillennialism, there's five thousand different groups and within Amillennialism, so we don't want to f obviously we're simplifying for the point of this. So I'm sure many postmillennials say, no, that's not what I believe at all. We could but split hairs for hours. Yeah, we've done shows on this subject before, so maybe you know Uh maybe we shouldn't just be labor or something we've covered. We should maybe try to cover chapter thirty three. Oh, confession. So all that's saying. Well here let well we've got Ten times Yeah, we w might not finish this chapter. We might have to do another show to finish this last chapter or is it? Uh it's the last chapter. We just need to record. It's like a Stephen King novel. Well apparently there is like some thirty fourth or thirty fifth chapter that's But there's some more the church wrote a another one or two chapters I can't even remember on the Holy Spirit and something else. All right. Oh we gotta do those. Oh we can't not do those. Looks like you're coming back, Jace I apologize for that. I know that you were, you know, thinking looking at the number of I love it. Do you understand that to be Christ and his believers? The tribunal? Standing you know uh people standing in judgment before the the who's the trib right, will the tribunal be us? Are we the ones that help him to judge? It seems that there's a scriptural argument that might support that, that we're gonna judge even the angels. Yeah. So is that what they mean there, do you think? Uh I would say yes that the tri tribunal there seems to represent of course I don't haven't studied the Westminster as much as others but um that that would seem to represent the saints that have risen with Christ to to rule and reign as it were, I guess for a thousand years to judge the living and the dead. Um there does seem to be uh a sense that it's a specific group of believers. that that will be the case in Revelation. That it's not all believers rise to that, but it but those that uh the word is that are martyred for their faith, that that their witness that has gone to to a certain level of um you know that that they rise to rule and reign for a thousand years. So again that gets in the whole millennial discussion. Keep bringing it back there, don't you? I do. Um I I have no question that we will judge angels, that we will reign with Christ. I wish more Christians understood that concept that that we will reign, that we will be kings, kingdom priests. I don't think the tribunal is talking about us specifically though. Okay. Um I I I I to be honest with you, I I don't know that I've looked at this ahead of time, but likewise all persons that have lived upon the earth shall appear before the tribunal of Christ. So I I think this idea that we're coming before the tribunal, which is I guess perhaps the Trinity, uh the judgment seat of Christ. Okay, Revelation twenty, verse four. John says, I saw thrones on which were seated those who had been given authority to judge. I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded because of their testimony for Jesus because of the Word of God. And it says, They c they came to life. And to uh and reign with Christ a thousand years. This is the first resurrection. So then the thousand years are over, then the great weight throne happens after that. And so I would think that that the tribunal does not repres tribunal is a word for Christ's judgment, I would think. Okay. Did you just agree with me? I think he's agreeing with you. I did. He's agreeing with you. It's happened a couple times. Wow. Okay. Well holy cow. This isn't gonna be fun anymore. It is time to wrap this series up. All right, so there's not a whole lot there on in the first section. The second section, um God has appointed a day. That yeah, his judgment is going to be for his glory, uh a manifestation of the glory of his mercy. That's an interesting way to to phrase that, right? His judgment is a manifestation of the glory of his mercy I don't disagree with that. But I think it's an interesting way to phrase that. We don't typically think of in terms of God's judgment being merciful. But it is an act of mercy, right, for the righteous. Yeah, vindication of righteousness is what we're longing for. Um Revelation says that we're crying out how long? It's what we pray in thy kingdom come. We're looking for the vindication of of our works. We we followed you, Lord, can show us that we were right. And this is something that the universalists who think that everybody's going to heaven 'cause God's so loving and merciful he couldn't ever cast judgment on anybody, they miss that point, right? That What's merciful about no vindication for righteousness, right? That the bad guy got a got away with everything? What was the well, why didn't I just go be a hedonist my whole life then, right? What's the what's what's merciful about that? Yeah. Right? Yeah, I I I think I think one thing w uh I know the the people who listen to the station, you have a ri wide variety of people who are listening. Um We've got to remember the justice of God and we can't uh we can't just look at his mercy. When you look at the character of God, if you just talk about love, compassion, mercy then you're missing a side of him that that that I think was required in his character. It's who he is. He is a just God. It's kinda interesting to me that Westminster said the of the glory of his mercy, but didn't add that little phrase in there for his justice and of the glory of his justice. It would have seemed to pa parallel really well and would have fit for me that his justice is still glory. I mean, this is who he is and it's a good thing. Um that's the first time. The vindication of the righteous. Mercy represents what happens to the righteous. Like mercy isn't what happens to the wicked. They get justice. They don't get mercy. Yes, I think we agree. Okay. We're in agreement with that. I think we were saying it. But because the wicked are judged that's an that's a form of mercy on the righteous. Um I don't know. I I I I I'm not comfortable using that specific word mercy for that because mercy for us is that uh is that we don't get what we deserve. And what we deserve is, you know, hell for eternity. What we deserve is is to be rejected by God. And for us to be v to to receive vindication, um I think vindication is a good word You know, 'cause that's what what we're gonna get. We're gonna get vindication, but our vindication will not be we were so righteous that we got vindicated, but our vindication will be that we put our trust in Christ and Christ was vindicated and his righteousness was magnified. But I don't feel like that's a that's a mercy word. That's us uh us being given grace, maybe, to to get what we don't deserve, you know, and grace means that we enter into the glory, maybe in the vindication, but um mercy I feel like to try to stretch it that way is not something I'm comfortable with. I guess the point I I'm I think you were just imply I I was just going with where you were going. But I I agree with what you're saying. Loving to do both of these things. Yes. Yeah. Yeah, and I and I probably didn't set it up very well, but I think part of the point I'm trying to make is you know there's not these huge polar opposite distinctions in the character of God. I think that you know his his mercy and grace and love and justice And wrath and all those things are all intertwined and th they're all representing the same God. Just from different perspectives. So on one hand you say, well, that's the judgment of God, but at the same time, that's also the mercy of God, the love of God. You know what I mean? Like we can't sure uh so we want to create these these categories and say, well this is this part of God's personality and this is this c part of God's personality. And I think that depending on the perspective that you want to look at it, it's all In fact, I kind of get the law that's given us in the Old Testament. You think, oh, there's all these do not, do not, do not, do not. But that's a loving thing that he's doing. It's not you know what I mean? After my wife and I got married. For the first time she began to read the Old Testament in uh you know with with uh intent to really read it, and she became impressed by reading the Old Testament that God was way more merciful than she thought that he was, having only read the New Testament up until that point. And that was the Old Testament that that gave her that impression. Yeah. In fact, I feel like I feel like the angels of the wrath of God come out of the tabernacle. And the tabernacle is a representation of the mercy of God. And so I think God is so angry. His wrath is so strong because they have rejected his mercy, which has been so, so be above and beyond what any of us deserve. And the fact that they rejected that is worth wrath. I mean How could they reject? Now you don't know this is true, Jonathan, but those last few word 'cause you don't have headphones on, but those last few words were exceptionally spiritual sounding because the music you've got music underneath you. It sounded almost like a prayer. Wow. You know? Powerful. The way that we manipulate the mind here on the Frederick Faith Abandon. Is that anywhere in our last five seconds? Jonathan Sweither, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks to our sponsors, Putman Fleming and Heating How can we make you smile and Deer Valley Incorporated? Landscape, hardscape, and masonry I think we need to maybe come back and put a final wrap on the Westminster Confession of Faith thing w with one more show next week, so we'll put this panel together again for one more go-round and I'll be back. All right Appreciate that. Fair warning, Jonathan. He's coming prepared this time. A governator. Come next week. God bless