God is appointed a day wherein he will judge the world in righteousness by Jesus Christ, to whom all power and judgment is given of the Father. In which day not only the apostate angels shall be judged, but likewise all persons that have lived upon earth shall appear before the tribunal of Christ To give an account of their thoughts, words, and deeds, and to receive according to what they have done in the body, whether good or evil. Symphonic Faith Debate brought to us by Putman Plummin Heating. How can we make you smile? And Deer Valley Incorporated, landscaping, hardscaping, and masonry. On the panel again this week, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Dr. Jace Rodhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. Word of the week this week is apostate That's uh something that sometimes elderly gentlemen have a problem with. They go to meteorologist too far. But that's not right? That's not apostate? I don't think so. Oh. Okay, what i what is apostate? It's the opposite of a pastor, right? An apostate. Falling away. That's my simple one. He's probably gotta you know No, the opposite of a pastor. If he's a good pastor. Someone who has fallen away. Someone who's fallen away. Okay. Someone who's apostate has fallen away. Falling away from the faith. Okay. Good. And they may or may not need to see a urologist Right. I mean that's totally uh extra. Well that's what we're gonna get into. What exactly is the body that we're raised to assume to go directly? And last week we were having lots of discussion and and Yeah, kind of a halting discussion trying to wrestle with uh you know the human body and whether you know wh why would the wrestling confession it last week it talked about It specifically says that those who are damned forever they get a new body. Like, why? And and how is that really defended in scripture? And I wasn't real sure and And a couple of them And Body Comes Up Again Today it's right here in this first second. A couple of months ago Troy had encouraged us all to read a book by Ted Decker Called the Slumber of Christianity, which grapples with this uh w which basically argues that the church is asleep because we don't spend enough time thinking about heaven and thinking about what's going to happen after we die. So here we are doing it and we're proving Ted Decker's point that uh apparently we are asleep. Jace will speak for himself. But apparently I I've been asleep 'cause I I just don't know this stuff as well as I should. And and I think it's true that the body of Christ has so much emphasis on here and now that we don't spend the amount of time that it appears the apostles did uh in the in the early church, because they were consumed with the hope of heaven and this living hope that they seemed to spend a lot of time thinking about it. In fact you were talking, Jace, about a book by Randy Alcorn. What was that all about? Yeah, Randy Alcorn wrote a book called Heaven. Um you know, just brilliant titles they come up with. I'm sure it has a subtitle that's That's equally brilliant. But yeah, we were talking during the break that that we've got this um you know where that line is between theology and speculation about what the what it looked like later. And I thought he did a decent job at really half of his book was very s systematic theology. So you can pick up any systematic theology. Yeah, here's what scripture says. And then he tried to use it and interpret it well. And you might have some differences of interpretation. interpretation, but at least he's trying to give you a real hard theological line here. And then the second half was more, um, I can't remember what he calls it, but kind of a celestial imagination. You know just kinda just kinda just thinking, well if we have these points, how does this apply to will there be animals in heaven? How does this apply to will I know my friends? How will it And he was just kind of good C S playing. But yeah, yeah. Kind of what Teddy was like the Great Divorce. Right. The Great Divorce, C. S. Lewis, where he goes not into heaven, but this bus trip there Where all the grass is a little bit harder. Yeah, yeah, yeah. They're almost phantom beings and the birds are. But it's that much more pleasurable and enjoyable and like that world, then it becomes more pleasurable. In the meantime, it's not because you're not quite human. So C. S. Lewis's idea is that we're becoming more and more human until we're in heaven. And we become fully human. Which is I think very smart. It's actually what I think scripture talks about a lot. That hell is kind of that becoming less and less human being. And C. S. Lewis's story, it's almost like a purgatory kind of a thing that you could go there after you die or choose not to, you know, based on But he was a universalist at the end of the day. Um you got me on that. I wouldn't have to do that. That's my understanding that he was a universalist and that's one of the things that that people warn about with C. S. Lewis's uh theology. I didn't know that either. Yeah, I would I wouldn't call him a universalist. I'd call him probably more of an Arminian, but not a universalist. But anyway, um Cool, am I like that? Would you say that about me? Of course. Not a universalist. No, no, I mean just like CS Louis. Now Universalists, somebody that likes to watch movies made by Universal Studios. Right. That's what I was talking about. Uh-huh. And Armenian somebody who's from Central Europe. Right. Armenians. That's right. Good. Arminians are non-Calvinists. Those of you who've been listening to Westminster Confession for a long time. Universalists are people who believe it. Everybody goes to heaven. But the key point all of this was what happens afterwards? What what should we be thinking about our bodies? And I think scripture is clear that we are raised with the same body. Now, same is a hard thing. I mean, because Jesus' body isn't recognizable in some sense at least. I think that's the key point though, that our bodies are like his. He's the first fruits of the resurrection. Ours are supposed to be like his He has scars, he eats. I think all the gospel authors are very specific to tell you that he still eats, that he can be touched. He eats and then he also walks through walls and he disappears at will. Right. Yes. So there are some distinctions there into whatever the spiritual body is. But it's a body that at least has some of the same properties. It has to be the same body. And I think there's a theology that that's not simply just like a New Testament theology, but a but a redemptive history theology. So when we look at the Adam Testament scholar, yeah. Yeah, I'm the old testament guy, that's great. I dumb GHC from from ten years. Um working on the this j just this idea that Adam and Eve in in scripture, you know, walking and talking with God in the garden. Um bodily, regular, no, they're not spirits, but they're walking and talking. They're removed from the land, and then all of the history is this desire to get back into the land and to be back into the presence of God in the same sense. Okay. So heaven is that. Heaven is a desire. It's that it's that that goal, that ultimate goal. In fact, we shouldn't even call it heaven, because heaven's just a resting spot. So we shouldn't even talk about heaven. We should talk about Life after life after death. That's how N. T. White talks about it. Life after life after death. Because the heaven is not what we're looking for. We're looking for the heavens and the new earth, j New Jerusalem to come down to Earth. And then creation is restored. Jesus is not only interested in his elect, despite what Westminster might want to say here, he's interested in the restoration of the entire cosmos, all being made right. That's destruction of some, that's restoration in a positive way for others. But the key is that we're being brought back to what the presence of God is in Genesis chapter 2 Right? This is this is perfection. So what will we be doing, people ask? I'm and in the end answer, I'm gonna have the same answer as you. I don't really know what all this looks like. But speculating, I I don't see heaven as being tremendous I I I have to be able to caveat this afterwards, but tremendously different. I think there will be trees. I think there's not gonna be golden walks that we get to walk down. I think it'll be we could be gardening, we might have jobs, we might be building buildings. So you think the picture in Revelation is a metaphor of what it's going to be like? Yes. In a in a highly symbolic book where almost every word is symbolic. All I know is that all the gold for my taxes goes to the streets in Frederick. So our point we're dealing with that problem. What about the cherubs on the clouds? Uh yeah, no harps, no singing. You're not gonna have to just sing all day long. I think this has destroyed a lot of people's conception of what Chris is. As we're worshiping. And that might be, but I just don't think we're going to be constantly standing on a cloud with dispirited bodies, whatever that even means, playing a harp, holy, holy, holy all the time. That I I think we're gonna be working. I think what did Adam do? What what what happened there is where we're going to be returned back to, where earth was made good. So he's gonna restore it like he restored it after the Genesis flood. There's a destruction. I think That this is the case, that there's going to be the the a new heavens and a new earth new new earth. A a restoration of how to talk about the regular star just entered the studio. How to live our lives, you know, that that will be returned to what we were intended. But the difference is that whereas they were innocent, we will be righteous, we'll be we'll be like Noah, that we have come through rejecting wickedness and choosing what is righteous and therefore receiving the grace of God. And whether you're Arminian or Calvin, you can define how that happens. But nevertheless, that's what happens in then we're given this eternal life in the new heavens and the new earth. Right, so I'm so I agree with you on all of that and I think that based on that it's likely that there will be animals there. So I don't know that scripture comes out and says there will be animals. Right, but we should assume based on same based on the idea of Peter versus Genesis chapter six. Genesis six he destroys the world with a flood, and Peter it says he's going to destroy the world by fire. Both of those are not destruction of the world, they're purging of the world. He saved animals then. He'll probably save animals. I mean he created animals. They're good. He didn't say animals bad, man good. He said both are good. Man's special. Man in my image, in fact we are told that the line will lie down with the lamb, and there's a sense that there's a messianic prophecy, so in that sense You know the wolf. The new heavens and the new earth, yeah. And the viper and the king. But not necessarily resurrected animals, right? Like new, fresh animals. W well yeah. At at that point we start speculating. I I don't know. I I just know you're not going to be sad because you're missing your dog. I don't think. Um so he'll either give you your dog back or he'll change your whole thinking about what I'm saying. Um in First Corinthians fifteen, where he he makes some pretty strong statements that we have to tie together with Okay, I agree because I agree with you that we're going to be somehow like Christ. Christ is the first fruit. So whatever the resurrection meant for his body, that's true. But Paul makes some pretty strong statements that that seem to lead in the direction of trying of I don't know that he's trying to give us a clarification, but he's he's trying to grab our attention and draw us like Ted Decker as it were, to this understanding of of what we're made for, what this is gonna be like. And so Ken Decker's loving you right now, by the way. Just give me some raw And so, you know, the body sown perishable will be raised imperishable, sown in dishonor, raised in glory, sown in weakness, raised in power. sown a natural body, raised a spiritual body. And so I guess what we're saying is that whatever the difference between the natural and the spiritual body is, Because he doesn't say it's raised a spiritual slash b natural body. He says it's raised a spiritual body. And he says if there's a natural body, there's also a spiritual body. And he goes into this whole definition of uh the first man Adam became a living be being the last Adam, a life giving spirit, spiritual did not come first but but the natural he goes into this whole discussion here that seems to be clarifying that there's a difference and that when we get there we're gonna be that second thing which is the spiritual body. Which is the thing that's I would agree between physical and spiritual here. No, it's not a good thing. So I don't think we're talking about a ghost body versus a non-ghost body. That's all I was saying. There's tangibility going on. What is it natural, you know, because we're not supposed to walk in the flesh, we're supposed to walk in the spirit. And so you're saying that somehow that definition would come into play. Uh sensual is the way the King James Version uh translates it. Um so the lower bestial nature uh seems to be what Strong's says is is the key there. So that would fit what you're describing, which I honestly have never really thought about on these levels. I mean I feel like Uh the doctor here is patiently leading me through things that I've never really uh in Westminster for that matter that I've never really thought. What is the natural is the the present age Right, and then spiritual be the next age. The present age and the next age And the flesh or the spirit. So it's a it's an interesting thing. continuation age where everything hasn't reached the not so much in between the two, but in both ages at the same time. put off. Right. You know, and better to die, better to be with Christ and to die than to live is is uh for Christ, to die is gained. You know, all these ideas that that grappling with that sense that he'd rather be in the renewed spiritual body that you're saying is not necessarily not flesh and blood, but is is a body that is similar to Adam, is that what you're saying? I would I would just say and this w what Paul is getting at, it's a it's a conform to the spirit body. It's it's one who has reached what it's supposed to have reached, the one we've been working for. It's walking down that path that we're supposed to be doing now. We're supposed to be coming more and more conformed. I I mean Christ ate whatsoever. And he still had the the holes in his hands. So does that mean that I'm gonna have the scar that I got when I was five on my chin? You know that we'll still be there at some level, even though it's the the glorious body. Does that mean that even though I'm not so good looking, good for the radio now, but that then I will be gloriously I think you're beautiful. I don't know the answers to any of this, but he's blessing now. I don't really know. Can you feel it? That's what makes you good passengers. You see anybody beautiful. The good doctor is Dr. Chase Broadhurst. He's a senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. I am Troy Skinner. This is the Project Faith Debate on Friday's News Radio 930 WFMD. Before I read this uh next section Uh I wanted uh right before we started the show. Yeah, I don't know, we'll swing back to part one of the things. Well I'm gonna read part section two and then we'll talk about one and two many together. But uh right before the show Jonathan was making a point I was re uh And I thought it was a good one. And it was related to a recent experience. I recently had an opportunity to uh lead a Bible study like Sunday school class. And I kinda asked and and we're talking about uh you know, the person of Jesus and you know he's got he's fully God, fully man, he's one person, two natures. And the rest of You know, and you got and and how do you understand two natures? How's that possible one person has two nature? How do you understand that? And so we were grappling with that as a group going back and forth and I thought it was a good discussion. But afterwards when I kinda replayed some of the that whole session in my mind, I thought, Yeah I don't know if I played that very well because I left the impression that we should try to try to we should try to understand these things. We should try to understand the that word should. As opposed to, you know, here's what the Bible informs us Based on that, we can speculate. Yeah. But maybe we shouldn't always speculate, at least not or feel a pressure to speculate. He only goes so far, and at some point you have to admit, I don't know. And I don't know Because Scripture doesn't tell me. And if Scripture doesn't tell me, I can't know. That's the whole point, right? Should and I hadn't I couldn't put my finger on why I was uncomfortable until Jonathan said what he said. That was it. I was talking about, you know, I think we should try to understand these things better for the sake of those who have questions, our children, unbelievers, whatever are going to challenge us. We should think about these things so we can answer them and Should was the wrong word. See this this is the problem I feel like that that I end up uh It might be helpful to think about these things better than you should think about these would be a good description of of where I come down theologically on a lot of things. I feel like at some level, I feel like Calvinists go beyond just the clear teaching of Scripture and they they promote some doctrines that I feel like aren't aren't quite clearly delineated in the scripture I definitely feel like the Catholic Church has a number of those that they came up with over the years that are things that we can think about that it's okay for us to speculate about, but that I feel like at the end of the day go just a bit beyond the clear teaching of Scripture into speculation that uh that They're not evil doctrines, but at the end of the day the fact that we make them evil I mean the fact that we make them a doctrine lends themselves means that they're lent in the direction of of uh being pernicious, you know, causing causing disunity, things that are unnecessary. Experimenting perhaps in a safe place. I don't know if the radio is the best safe place. No as long as we're clear that this is an area where we're speculating in nothing what we're saying. should it should in any way be construed as doctrine, but as just us trying to grapple with what it might be like to the to the Calvinists, feeling pressure, and the Calvinist movement over the last you know five hundred years or or thereabouts Um and you Jace uh might be better equipped to say whether I've got a right understanding on this or not. I don't think the Calvinists are out there were out there, maybe some of 'em are now. But I don't think they started out trying to pick fights, doctrine fights with people. I think the Calvinists said, here's what we believe and then they started to play like we are, saying these are some reasonable conclusions from what we know to be true about Scripture. And then the followers of Jacob Arminius, probably not Jacob himself, but his followers certainly, didn't like some of those conclusions. And they went on the attack and the Calvinists, the followers of John Calvin, responded and maybe started to make some of these these holes a little more solid to defend their turf and say, No, no, no, no, you can't attack us because what we're saying really isn't that far off. Here, let me show you and try and maybe tried a little bit too hard to muscle in and prove their point and And now we have more division than Jacob Arminius or John Calvin would have ever hoped for. Right? I mean I don't think that John Calvin would be a Calvinist by today's standards, probably, and Jacob Arminius wouldn't be an Arminian by today's standard. And I'd love to have Jared Alvin on the show and ask the guy, you know, 'cause he you know, he could school us all in every sense of the word. You know, ask him, look, where do you feel like the line of clear teaching of scripture ends And even of some of the things that you wrote, where do you feel like you move into some things that could be, you know, called speculation, where you would say, okay, we don't quite know, but it seems like it might be, you know, reasonable to conclude. See I don't think the problem is that John Calvin had these thoughts and wrote them down in his institutes. Sure. I think the problem is that there are too many people today that would take the the four books of Calvin's Institutes and make them the sixty seven, sixty eighth, sixty ninth, and seventieth books of the Bible You know, that's when we have a problem. Well come on, seventy is like a number of perfection. What's so wrong with that? By the way, doesn't that bother you? At some level Yeah. Doesn't that bother you? No, I mean the mathematics. Yeah. Sixty six. Six No no no no wait wait six the number of sin, the number of incompletion. 'Cause it was it was uh it was pinched on both sides. Did you read this? There's some book that came that that was just discovered. It's uh anyways, clearly it's not. Please everyone out there just ignore. It's all lies. Now I'm not saying I'm not saying you should pay attention to the can be attention. I'm not saying that there must be the four more books in the Bible books. I sure would feel better about it somehow if there were forty books in the Old Testament and thirty in the New Testament. That would make me feel better. It would make me feel mathematically complete. Well the Catholics have more than sixty six, so you're happier with them. But they don't have to be a different thing. I mean you can take out first and second Samuel. It was just one Yeah. So we can bring it down to sixty five. Chronicles do the same with Obi. Seventy is a good number. I know! Isn't it great? All right, we have a couple minutes left here. What I'm gonna do, I'm gonna read into the record So what we're gonna do is I'm gonna read into the record This is uh read it into the record. Yeah, reading it into the record. Because there are people that podcast these and stack 'em up and they they're paying attention, they're hanging on every word. I only know this because people have told me that they're doing it. Yeah. So we're gonna read it into the record. Alright, hold on a second now. I gotta start this. I can't read and start this at the exact same time. That's too much multitasking for me. Go. Okay. Alright, this is part two of chapter thirty-three of the last judgment. The end of God's appointing this day is for the manifestation of the glory of His mercy, in the eternal salvation of the elect and of His justice, in the damnation of the reprobate, who are wicked and disobedient. For then shall the righteous go into everlasting life and receive the fullness of joy and refreshing which shall come from the presence of the Lord. But the wicked who know not God and obey not the gospel of Jesus Christ, shall be cast into eternal torments, and be punished with everlasting destruction. From the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power. And then the last part of chapter thirty-three, the last part of the Westminster Confession of Faith. Uh is it the end? As Christ would have us to be certainly persuaded that there shall be a day of judgment, both to deter all men from sin and for the greater consolation of the godly in their adversity So will he have that day unknown to men that they may shake off all carnal security and be always watchful, because they know not at what hour the Lord will come and may be ever prepared to say Come, Lord Jesus, come quickly. Amen. Maranatha. Maranatha. We've got to talk about that. Yeah. So we will talk about all of the power of the Lord will come. We will talk about all of that. In twenty-six minutes next week. Ryan, you know the hour? Yeah, jet yeah, the month of the Mayan calendar I think is okay. May twenty first, zero camping set. Yeah. Alright, so uh I wasn't going to I was gonna mention a different book but I uh but because we spent so much time talking about Ted Decker. Uh oh Are we allowed to do that again? Well I'm going to take a moment to explain something. Sorry, Chase. For those who are become who are going to become Ted Decker fans because of all this, first of all, really quick, I got you know ten seconds here. I stumbled upon Slumber of Christianity by Ted Decker. Never heard of Ted Becker before. Apparently he was very popular before I knew who he was, but I'm living in a cave somewhere. The the title caught me. The description of the book caught me. I thumped through a few pages. Seemed like it was good stuff. Young no buy this book. I read it. Loved it. I would highly recommend the book, Jonathan's Reading, I know. Highly recommend. Yeah, I slumbered into it too So as a result, I was like, okay, I'm gonna read some other Tedzacka. Well, almost everything else he's written is a novel. And he's gotten to this big long series of seventeen books, which I d hadn't known it was seventeen books, there I might not have started the series. But anyway, it's all a ho it's a collection of series combined into one giant series. So it makes it very difficult to know how to read the series. They're all intertwined and whatever So here's my word of advice. This this is the point I wanted to get to. If you should decide to start reading Ted Decker and you start reading these different series, read Green Blast. When you read the History of the Chronicles books or the the Lost Books or the Color Books, Red Green Butters. Troy is going to put up on his website a map of how you should read these. The Paradise novels. It'll be there. After you read all of that, read Green Last. If you don't read Green Last, it's got too many spoilers in it and screws up the whole rest of the series. And Ted Decker won't admit that. Bugs me. And just to keep things exciting. Put them in heating you should not read any of them. And uh and Deer Valley Landscape, Masonry and Hardscape. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer, thank you. Jay Sproadhurst, thank you. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. Till next week. God bless.