We are involved in a war. Whether we want to realize that or not, truth is under heavy attack and there are few courageous warriors willing to fight. There's no shortage of people willing to kill for a lie, yet few who seem willing to speak up for the truth. Our duty in the Truth War is not only to oppose false teachers, but also to rescue those who have been led astray by them. This is not warfare against people, it's a battle against ideas, confronting error with truth. Truth is not any individual's opinion or imagination. Truth is what God decrees. And he has given us an infallible source of saving truth in his revealed word, and he commands us to participate in the battle. Sometimes it is even necessary to wage civil war within the church. Of course, when conflict proves unavoidable, we are not to adopt a mean spirit And there, with the help of words from John MacArthur, we have the foundation, I think, of what is the Frederick Faith Debate. Welcome once again, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church Our sponsors this week and for many weeks now, Deer Valley Incorporated Landscape, Hard Screescape and Masonry and Footman plumbing and heating, how can we make you smile? We have uh Jonathan and Jace back this week because we have yet to finish the Westminster Confession of Pastry Chapter thirty-three. I think this is the thirty-third show on chapter thirty-three if I'm keeping loose count. So spiritual about that number. Yeah, three and three is six, so not good. Not again. Not good. Oh my goodness. By the way, I don't think we well, we did an unofficial uh what I'm reading, because Jace recommended a book. Yeah, last week. Herman Ritterbach, yeah. Yeah, Ritter Herman Ritterbach is chasing. Seriously, Herman Ritterbach, good But just know what you're getting yourself into, okay? If if it's the first book on like religion or something you've ever read, you're not gonna have fun. Let's put it this way, about every five words you're gonna have to go to a dictionary, and even when you go to the dictionary, you're gonna have to use another dictionary to define the words in the dictionary. quite that bad, but it's almost yeah. It's it's a it's I wouldn't say it's that but I mean I I I not my personation. What uh education level do you think somebody would read that book and feel comfortable reading it? Um I know has to read it. So that's college at least. Post-college. Yes. There you have it. Post college. So there you go. Speaking of other, you know, this is not quite as challenging, but I think uh that Jace would would appreciate this. Um Biblical history of Israel. You read that? So there's something you might want to material What's that? It was worth its wait just in the introductory material and the arguments between maximalists and minimalists. I thought that was I mean it's half the book is just the introduction before it even gets into the Is that Old Testament Israel or new or like uh you know modern days? Okay, well now you don't have to read it. Chase just gave it whole the whole thing away. Ancient Israel. Anyway. Okay, so let's see here. Um Chapter 33. I think we covered the first two thirds of the chapter enough anyway. So let's focus on the the fun part at the end, right? Because it's not three days to get to the third third Can I add one more thing break before we get to the last little section? Just because it seemed like last week we talked a lot about you know vindication of Christ's righteousness, eternal torments. and those kinds of ideas. And we've been talking about hell and annihilation and just from a pastor's perspective, we've got a couple pastors here. I'm sure we have listeners that are probably hearing this, and this just sounds so ridiculously foreign to their thinking. It just you know, that that God would do these kinds of things. And I think we've made a somewhat of an argument for why, but I I want I kinda want people to hear the other side of this too, from a pastor's heart. This is what makes our message so urgent. This is why we do what we do. This is I mean, we feel like we're pleading for people to hear this, that God is a just God, that He calls from to come to Himself. He calls the whole world, come, come, if you just come. And and i it there's mercy and grace here at the cross and just I s I feel like almost this need to plead. I want to do that in the last five seconds, but you cut me off and it was too But just to plead with people to hear the stuff and heck with Westminster Confession. I don't care that much about the Westminster Confession, but To come to the cross, to come to Christ and to see that this is the cross is the crux of the matter. End of the day. Cross is the crux. I appreciate that, yes. Which I think was good. Right. Yeah, I mean it stirs me. I could like go into a whole thing. Yeah, yeah. I mean we're in the flow. Turn that music back so that we can break out and first introduction there, I I that was some The truth matters. Whether you can handle it or not, baby matters. Yeah, baby. Okay, so So when will God come back? Yeah, that's basically what we want to know. So you guys, you know, went to seminary and lead flocks and tell them the truth. So when they come to you and say, So when's God coming back? You say, Well I know about eleven thirty Uh December 2012, I believe, was the answer. Is that what you gave during the break? Yeah, December I said that? Yeah. No, he said that. Oh Troy said December 2012. His royal Troy ness. I was talking to somebody recently, but literally recently like within days. who were joking, but I think the whole mind counter thing. Yeah, I think maybe uh I don't know this person that well, but you know, profess to be a Christian, I have no reason to doubt that at this point. So you know, uh a p a Christian person who's Seriously asking, do you think it's possible? I'm not saying it is the last day, but you think you think it's possible. The Mayans got it right. You think that 2012 December is it? I I had somebody come prob it wasn't even a month ago in my congregation, pretty strong Christian, said we need we need to talk about this from the pulpit because I think I mean I'm I'm in the school system, she said, and there's this is a regular concern of everybody Christians and non-Christians, they're all looking at this like this has some serious Wait, just just to uh you know reinforce my concerns about the c uh the public school system in general. They're actually talking about this with our children. I don't know if the teachers are talking about this with the children or the children are just it's a common concern. We only have another year and a half. Right, and if that's the case The adults aren't allowed to say anything because they're not supposed to deal with religious stuff and so it's just a free for all I guess in the school system. Anyways. But I guess Christians aren't aren't spoken. Yeah, yeah. We have a good slate now, I guess. Anyways. But Christians have our we have our own I mean we might not be looking at the Mayan calendar for our answers to things, but we've got our own guessers and prognosticators throughout history. It seems like constantly, every ten years ago so something comes up that's huge. The thing that's weird to me about it, and I said this to this you know, to this uh woman that was asking about it, and you know, the the two thousand twelve thing. And I said, Well, she was asking with some concern in her voice and on her face. And I said, Well, let me just encourage you, if the Mayans got it right Praise be to God. Yeah. Even so, come Lord quickly, right here. I mean he's a day that's a good day. If you're a believer, if you're in Christ, that's a good day. You don't worry about that day. That's that's what you're pining for. Like please, what are you waiting for already? A kingdom come. Right? So we're waiting for it. So why is it, do you think that so many Christians are worried about that day and fixated on it like, I gotta know 'cause I'm I'm nervous. Is is this the sign of the end? It's so it's gonna get so bad, isn't it? Why are we so What what what are we not getting? What part of the message are we missing? Okay, I feel like what we're missing is precisely what Christ said. Christ said, Watch out that no one deceives you. Many will come in my name saying I'm the Christ and will deceive many And then he says this you will hear of wars and rumors of wars, but see to it you are not alarmed. Such things must happen, but the end is still to come. Nation will rise against nation, kingdom against kingdom. There will be famines and earthquakes in various places, and all these are the beginning of birth pains. You know, Christ's whole point was was that look, this stuff is gonna happen and it's gonna happen and it's gonna happen. So don't be alarmed But I feel like what everybody does is they read that in the context of Christ saying when the end's gonna come. And they get alarmed, like, oh Christ said something about that. We need to be alarmed. And so they it's precisely they they don't read it And so they see all this stuff and they get alarmed and so I think it's just bad teaching. You know, I think I think the church just needs to do a better job to help everybody to know l that look, there's gonna be tsunamis And uh there's going to be wars all through the Middle East and there's going to be, you know, stuff that that China and uh you know, for that matter The United States is probably going to end up not being, you know, the most powerful nation in the world anymore. And there's some famous tires go down. All that is stuff that we are not Right. In fact, the senses we're supposed to almost ignore that as being irrelevant to the actual timing of Christ's coming. That's my sense is that he w what he's saying is don't look to those things Ignore those things, don't be alarmed by those things, but focus in on this other stuff that I'm going to tell you about as being important. People that have prognosticated the end caught within the quote unquote Christian community and gotten it wrong. Back in the mid eighteen hundreds, I want to say eighteen forty four, William Miller guessed that I think in the springtime Christ was going to return, people sold their possessions, got all ready, didn't happen. Oh wait a minute, I missed something. It was off by six months. It's gonna be October 1844. That came and went the whole the Millerites they were known and it was a famous miss. Present day. Um Harold Camping. Yeah, nineteen ninety four. Then are you ready? He's missed he's he's now got his third one on next year in his training. No no, May twenty first. Oh that's probably got you've got six more weeks. As we a as we record this. Oh yeah, sorry. Uh one more week. Yeah. Well no, as we record if you're hearing this He was wrong. That's got to be encouraging for all of you out there driving this. If you're not hearing this, then well where was Jesus somewhere, right? I mean uh but Harold Camping is, you know, reasonably well known. He owns a bunch of radio stations, family radio and all that sort of stuff, and he's got this really weird voice in it. And uh That's what we need to be to be famous on the show. I think we've got our share here. So my question though, here's where I'm going. My question is Miller, camping, guys like that, are they Christian who just Don't understand something important about the Bible? Or are they false prophets that have uh that we just shouldn't trust in a whole bunch of potential to fall into heresy and and those kinds of things? Could happen to any of us, hence the need for us to be uh to to watch our life and doctrine closely And if we're not vigilant on those things, I think that any one of us could get caught up in pride and caught up in in uh spiritual, uh selfish ambition and uh and go the direction of uh, you know, trying to make things happen. Who's this guy down uh down in Florida that burned the Quran? You know, now he says he's gonna put Muhammad on on trial. I mean, at the end of the day, the guy is um he's He's in a place of apparently his church has fallen apart. Nobody wants to be a part of it anymore. Everybody. All of them. Yeah. And he only had like thirty to begin with, right? He didn't have and and so uh you know, it it could happen, I think, genuinely to any one of us. Because uh you know spiritual pride has the potential to do that. I think this is this is the whole point of the book of Jude. Um don't follow. Be careful that you haven't been duped into them and that you even start teaching these things, and be careful of these false teachers. And they're in the church. They they've crept in from the outside, but the idea is you gotta guard against them because you're about you're following them and you're gonna be doing the same thing they're gonna be doing soon. So I I'm I totally agree with you. Yeah. Well how do we explain I mean Jesus says you're not gonna know the day and the time. Yeah. Only the father knows, not even the son knows, right, the day or the hour. Yeah. So basically don't worry about it. And yet, at least in America Seems like that's all we worry about. It's all we care about. You know, if you're whether we're nervous about it or not, some people are worried about it With pleasant thoughts of oh I can't wait, but they're fixated. What is this fixation? If you're a partial preterist, like I tend to be, you're of the opinion that a significant element of those end times came and went with the fall of Jerusalem and that it was a really big deal and that it's worthwhile for us to spend time studying what happened back then in order to see how there was fulfillment A prophecy in the generation of the apostles that fit uh the warnings that they were giving to people about what was going to happen Uh but then on top of that, I'm of the opinion that there have been major uh comings of days of the Lord throughout history. Uh uh there's no doubt in my mind that there was a major transition that the Lord was doing at the time of the bubonic plague. I mean at least a third of everybody in Europe died. I mean, if you don't think that that's the end times and that something significant is happening uh in that there's a major transition going on and clearly right after that time within was it uh seventy years the uh the Gutenberg printing press which changes the dynamic of the entire world. You know, that now we can print books and we can we can you know, that there's a shift that went on there. You know, I think World War Two was clearly a day of judgment that came where there was a beast that rose up that was uh that was Hitler and for that matter in the aftermath of it uh you know Pol Pot, Mao Say tongue. Stalin, you know, that went around the world that were these beasts that rose up lining up with Revelation's teachings and that we're probably going to see more of that kind of thing happen. And so we're not to be concerned, but we're to be um using biblical language to describe what we're seeing in history. Beast. Is there a beast out there? Yeah, I think there's a beast out there. And in uh to my mind, Islam represents A beast that that is one of those that is rising up that clearly is is hateful to the gospel of Jesus Christ and therefore uh hateful to the truth and uh oppressing people in a big way. And so there's a beast. And is there gonna come a day of judgment for that beast? I think so. And I think it could it's gonna happen before the return of Christ. And that in fact there may be other um beasts that will rise up after Islam that will do that as well. What's amazing in this current time that I think grabs everybody's attention so much as the fact that Israel has become a nation. And so these other things about the abomination that caused the desolation, you being set up in the in the holy place, you know, and all these kinds of things um uh happening that I think again that that grabs people's minds like, oh no, something's happening. Because there's just a broad sense that things are out of control. You know? I certainly feel that way, you know, and and I've got a strong faith in Christ. But I can't control the economy. I can't control the government. I can't control what's going on over in the Middle East. I can't control the nuclear uh uh radiation that's leaking from uh Fukushima. If I said that right. You know, I I can't control those things and so that being out of control, I've got to trust that God is somehow taking care of those things, and I think the best way to do that is to use biblical language, even revelation language, to describe what's going on so that we can uh so that we can trust God, so that we can have discernment as to how things are playing out when they're playing out. So I don't know that that the when is so important. You guys are just sitting there giving me these nice satisfied looks. Like there's no there's no fight here. Yeah, I'm not disagreeing with really anything that you just said. Um everyone's looking for one big huge thing, I think is what you were saying. And yeah, I I'm kind of with you that much of that was taken care of and now everything else is just a picture of what had already happened and perhaps a picture of something that will happen later too, but these are all things that that all point back to that. So Antichrist, is there going to be a big one? I don't I don't know the answer to that. But John says there are many in Antichrists and they're among you. So earthquakes. Is there going to be a big one? Yep. I may but there are many earthquakes and we've seen them and they're going to keep going. So I'm I'm with you on Uh whether we use revelation language, I think we have to be careful. If you use it the way you just did, I'm happy. But you know I don't want to say er I don't want to say everything that happens well. Oh, the sun is blotting out and the moon is turning to blood when the nuclear reactor's going down. I I want to be careful to use that well. Yeah. No, I'm in agreement with that. But but using the language like like I feel like revelation is given to us so that we can discern the times, right? And how do we discern the times? By identifying who's the beast. Is there some some group out there that that seems to represent the great prostitute? Well, I think so. I think I think that that's good language for us to use to identify what's going on in the world at any given time. Is there a group of people that seems to be the bride? I think so. And I think it's good for us to be clarifying who's a part of the bride and who's a part of the prostitute. And who's who's bowed their their knee to the beast and and is is living, as it were, to glorify the beast and is enraptured with you know with the beast. Well I think literally in every generation since Christ There's been at some level or other those things going on, and that that that's what we're what it means to watch, to be in prayer, to be discerning what's going on in the signs of the times. Yeah. Oh well, by the way, this is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. That's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Dr. Jace Broadhurst from Poolsville Baptist Church is also on the panel again this week. I'm not so sure that I want to get into uh tit for tat on this, but I'm not sure if I would agree with you that I think that the primary purpose of Revelation is so that we can discern the times. I think the primary purpose of Revelation is to provide comfort to the believers that we know who wins. Jesus wins. Because I think the times are sick like we were talking about. There's sick there are There are Antichrists and earthquakes and wars and things all of the time. Yeah. Back when the Apostle John wrote it. And today. So no matter what the circumstances and how it looks like it's out of control, we can have, as believers in Christ, can have confidence that The victory is already won, that Jesus meant it when he was on the cross and said it is finished. I think that's the primary point of revelation. And I think we get into trouble sometimes when we try to use it to discern the times because then we get into all this We've used Tim Lahay as a whipping post on this show. It's unfortunate, but he's had the uh he and Jerry Jenkins co-wrote the Left Behind series, which was marvelously successful. Uh so yeah, millions and millions of copies. And and and they do use revelation kind of as a way to discern the times, I think in an unhelpful way. Right. So so the the difference with what I think I'm recommending is that we we see Revelation as a manual for spiritual warfare. And so then then then we're using it to help us to see what is happening in the world so that we can be comforted, so that we can be at peace and know that God is working things out according to the way that God works things out, and He's in control. He's going to take care of the beast. He's going to take care of the prostitute. He's going to take care of these things that are out of our control. And it and that that it's good for us to to discern what's going on and to recognize that there's a spiritual battle going on and that some people fall in the direction of being a part of the prostitute. Some people fall in the direction of being part of the beast. Some people fall in the direction of being a part of the bride in that that it you know as we're as we're identifying those things then we can be reminded oh even those things are even though those things are out of our control they represent the justice And the righteousness and the mercy of God, and God is accomplishing his purpose in the midst of all those things going on right in front of me Yeah, I I think I'm comfortable with the idea that revelation is a manual for spiritual warfare as long as we're not going to limit it to only that and that we're all also not going to limit that that's the only part of the Bible that's true about it. I think the in the entire Bible is partly a manual for spiritual warfare. But it's certainly not only that, right? It's it's um It's far more that that's a maybe an important aspect of it. I don't and I think you're saying the same thing, but s for the one listener we have who might be confused by that I wanted to clarify. We have a few minutes left before we're gonna be done with this show and probably I think the series. So um Not that I want to play uh graduation music in the background or Oleg Zine or something like that, but but uh we've been doing this this series now. It's been over a year since we started the series, I think, because it's taken us Wow. We've had some breaks in between and and and some of the chapters took us more than one week. I mean there's thirty-three chapters, but we probably did forty shows and we had some breaks in between, so it's been a little over a year. And so you guys have probably had some time to reflect a little bit. Are there Have there been points of frustration in this series like, man, I wish we had spent more time on that, or I wish I hadn't have said that, or th or um things that maybe you've changed your your thoughts on since eleven months ago. You know, now that I think about it, I don't know if I said that. Have you had any This is your chance to have a second chance. I'm sorry this out there. I recall several times leaving going, I wish I had said that. Unfortunately, that we've been working on this. That was a really good point that he made, specifically you, and Jonathan, and wanting to go home and work on it and then being wrapped up on other things and then like even asking you later, do you remember how you said that? And never quite getting it. Getting it on there. I I felt like there was good dialogue. I feel like I learned something even in doing this Um I don't know if my I don't know if I had a major mind change, but every time I talk with somebody who's thoughtful, I'm I'm shifting my perspective. I'm I'm rethinking new ideas. Rethinking new ideas? Can you rethink new I'm thinking about new ideas and rethinking old ideas, making them new. Um so I mean I find dialogue, I mean this kind of the debate. helpful if it's courteous and which it generally was. I mean we yelled at each other a few times but I don't think so. For the record. say at the end of the day. That's been a big shift for me in the past year. At the end of the day, I don't say at the end of the day anymore. So I you know, I I don't know, I feel like Jace says that well. I Okay. Um so you had similar angst after some shows like, ooh, I wish I had said that differently or better or not at all. I remember a couple times I came in here, I I felt like totally inadequately prepared to defend anything. And you were like on a roll and I was just left going, I I so messed up. I mean Westminster Confession was beautiful there. And I said nothing. I I couldn't think of a verse. You know, I d I didn't defend anything. As I read back through it, I got all your new ideas. That's your takeaway. You just need to keep the computer. I need to keep the computer next to me instead of just a paper copy of the Westminster Confession in front of you. Yeah. Okay. So well in if you can, if you were to grade, I'm really interested to hear Jonathan's response. I think I'm going to know Jace's. as to its adequacy in representing what scripture presents to us. What what grade would you give it? Hmm. Um I think that when it was written, I'd probably give it an an A. uh for it dealing with issues that it felt the need to deal with at the time and I think for today that it has gone a bit stale and so I think I'd have to go with like a C plus. Okay. Yeah. D's into failure. I I wouldn't give it that. I'd give it a passing grade. Maybe a B minus. Just you know, I mean in terms of Calvinism, clearly it it describes it well, and if you're a Calvinist, I think that that it's still pretty accurate to today, but for for me and where I stand theologically uh and it having aged as it were, though it's still a good wine. Like I still enjoy reading it, but there's elements of it that that weren't as biblical as I think they wanted them to be that went beyond scripture that I feel like those parts uh didn't age well. They went a bit stale and proved themselves to be uh overreactions to Catholicism at the time. How about you, Jace Flettergrade? Um I I would probably start at the same place you did. I would have definitely put it in A for the time, and obviously so does most of history. It's survived for these hundreds of years for a reason and it's the the basis for so many uh churches that are out there. Um but I agree uh you know something this old Needs to needs to be reworded sometimes. I wouldn't give it a barely passing grade though. Right. Because obviously the theology is mine. I've I've come to own most of this. So, you know, it might have an A- or something in my book. But I do think we need to rewrite, we need to rethink these things. I don't think they went outside of scripture. Uh Rather, I think they did that for the purpose of trying to explain scripture. Um you have to do that, which we've had this battle a thousand times in this. You have to use new words in order to describe things or else you're just saying the same thing. So I I'd probably give it a good A minus or something like that. I I'm still kind of in love with it. Okay. I'll give it a B plus. I would give the effort to go through it. Uh I I think it's a great exercise and and I would do it again. It's Johnson Sweiser, Senior Pastor of Crosswitz Valley Chapel, Dr. Jace Broadhurst, the senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. Landscape, heartscape, masonry. Thanks for listening, God bless