The Lord Jesus as King and Head of His Department of the United States. The church has therein appointed a government in the hand of church officers distinct from the civil magistrate. To these officers the keys of the kingdom of heaven are committed, by virtue whereof they have power respectively, to retain and remit sins, to shut that kingdom against the impotent uh impenitent, uh both by the uh word and censures and to open it unto uh penitent sinners by the ministry of the gospel and by absolution from censures as occasions shall require. So there we have parts one and two of chapter thirty of the Westminster Confession. of faith. Happy Resurrection Sunday to ya. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Panzer of Crossroads Valley Chapel. He has risen. He has risen indeed. And I've been up this morning since uh six o'clock down at uh Carroll Creek You guys missed it, the uh the Resurrection Sunday service. Worshiping out with uh six o'clock. It it certainly looked like I rose from the dead before I headed out there this morning, but uh yeah. And uh also on the panel, Dr. Jace Broadhurst, senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. And we decided we agreed right before the show, right officially we're going to censure peeps That's right. Saved. Yeah. Censured. Those are good for nothing. Now I will say if we're going to censure something, we should understand what it is we're doing. So word of the week? Censure. Censure. So who wants to tackle that? Censure. I'm I'm sure you do, please. Oh me? Yeah. Uh censure I don't know that I can give an official uh definition of the case. It is when you say that somebody has done something wrong and needs to be um uh needs to be told that they did something wrong and uh officially so and possibly even put out of the church for it. Is that correct? Yeah. So we're talking about discipline of some slap on the wrist Yeah. And things escalating from there. Right? That's right, yes. Okay, so we're gonna s have to be possessed on the rip. I'm violent. I'm I'm I'm the problem. Let's not even go through the methods of discipline, let's just move them right from the store. Bang, done. Burn the people. Careful, people might think we're talking about people. No, we're not talking about people. We're talking about those irritating marshmallow Easter Goodies that are not good either evilly. By the way, I didn't do uh you know what I'm reading last week. I'm gonna bookend the show. You'll you'll be able to connect the bookend afterwards, you'll see what I'm doing. So Uh Encountering the Old Testament by Bill Bill Arnold and Brian Bayer. Alright. I like Bill Arnold. He's a good guy. I saw him a couple months ago. uh the show. All right. So uh let me let me just finish reading because this is a short. So let me just finish reading the rest of chapter thirty so that we can just have a n nice long uninterrupted flow talking about what's going on here, right? Church said this is uh for those reading along at home. Uh they're all doing I'm sure. Yes. It's just part three. Church censures are Oh wait wait a minute, I'm gonna let you find it. Chapter thirty. Page ninety four of my book. Alright. Okay, those of you driving, stop looking. I'm doing all the pastor tricks to buy time while people find their passages in the Bible. Alright. Church censures are necessary for the reclaiming and gaining of offending Uh Breaths? Is that brethren? Yeah, mine already has a line underneath of it because it opens up the Microsoft Word, so Word doesn't accept that. What is that word? We'll say brothers. Brothers. for deterring uh of others from the like offenses, for purging out of that leaven which might infect the whole lump, for vindicating the honor of Christ and the holy profession of the gospel, and for preventing the wrath of God, which might justly fall upon the church if they should suffer his covenant and the seals thereof to be profaned by notorious and obstinate offenders For the better attaining of these ends, the officer by the way is the home stretch now. The officers of the church church are to be preceded by uh are to proceed by Admonition, suspension from the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper for a season, and by excommunication from the church according to the nature of the crime and to merit of the person. So, what's all this saying? Alright, parts one and two Jesus is in charge of the church. He is employed leaders to govern things in the church. And these officers are distinct from government officials. And I'm going to spend I want to spend a little bit of time talking about that. And these officers have the power to rebuke church members and even kick folks out of the church and of course bring people into the church. This all depends on exactly what circumstances and behaviors are at issues. So let's talk for a moment about that distinction and and and uh why they n uh going out of their way to make the point that there's a distinction between civil government leaders and church government officials leaders. Okay. And why that's important. If you think it's important. If you agree with them that it's important. Let's start there. Do you think that's a good distinction to make? I for the record say yes. Yes, I don't I don't think I want my uh congressman deciding who's going to be a member of the church. Why? They they make good decisions in other areas? I'm sure they do and uh let them have those areas and they also make poor decisions sometimes, which is true of church leaders as well. Sometimes you make good, sometimes you make bad, but the keys of the kingdom have been handed over. So yeah, I think I think what all this is arguing is that there are church leaders and they have authority. I'm good with all that. There's a huge discussion to be had dealing with, you know, like like the difference between the the government that we have in the church and the authority that we've been given spiritually and political government and a and authority that um that could take you know, ten shows if s if we so desired. But clearly there there is authority that's been handed down to us in the church spiritually and it must be administered and and uh there's been set up a government inside the congregation to administer that authority appropriately under Christ. I think the church is um Man, this has become a a doctrine that's just become an abomination to the people of God, and I don't really understand it totally. Have you ever uh excommunicated somebody? Um I I I would say yet more than more than a few times. I've only been a pastor for five years and uh we have many and and I'll I'll explain some of the reasons Perhaps as we get into these things. I have as well. But most churches I I I can still remember um just meeting with somebody for a Bible study coming into our home when we lived in Philadelphia And them saying that they'd left their church because they they heard a pastor come up and say that they were going to be removed from membership. Um and it was a period of months and months. It wasn't something like, Oh, we don't like this person if we're removing. I mean, it was it was done well, but they were just so offended that they that the church thought that they had the authority to remove people from membership. Like like who are they to judge me? And um and and seems that's where our evangelical church is going now. And don't judge me. But then they'll turn around and they'll say they'll say, Yeah, but you uh but the church is just full of a bunch of hypocrites um hypocrites and liars and thieves. And so why don't you guys discipline yourselves more? Yeah, well hopefully And so they don't like us when we do and they don't like us when we don't. Hopefully we're always about discipline. And I think this is a a uh a problem. People think, well, the authorities are disciplining the people and they mean by that excommunication, but there are several uh lines of discipline before you remove somebody from a church. So let me let me uh summarize part of that. I never excommunicated my son out of my family. I've used other kinds of discipline within. I felt like that should be said. Okay, thank you. Part three of chapter thirty, uh, in summary was is the gist of the saying that the church discipline is required because It helps unrepentant unrepentant Christians to snap out of it. It warns others that there's more where that came from. It it holds at bay the spread of cancer within the church. It maintains Christ's reputation and the reputation of the gospel message, which Jonathan was alluding to a second ago. It keeps the entire church from having to withstand disciplinary correction from God himself. I mean If you if you if the church leaders aren't going to take care of these little small problems, God will take care of it maybe in a bigger way. Yeah, and you don't want that to happen in your church. A church. And then the last part is when disciplining church members, the official leaders of the church should follow a stepped up program. They should first issue a verbal warning. And if that fails, they should suspend the offender from participating in the Lord's Supper. And if that fa 'cause that should get their attention, right? And then if that fails, kick him out of the church. And it all depends on the seriousness of the crime and the seriousness of unrepentance. So you might not kick somebody out of the church because um why? Because they use foul language occasionally? But if they're stealing from company coffers and they're unrepentant. I mean is that what they're saying? Okay, how about how about the abortion issue? Should priests give communion To senators that vote for instance. If you want to name names. You know? Is it is it appropriate for the church to uh, you know, use a tool like that. No, that's the case. It's a hot topic. Well in that particular case it's a Roman Catholic context, and so the that church is very clear. Uh there is a lot of people. But our church other churches And might be a little bit more m you know, mealy mouthed about their view on abortion. So then they're not so you're you take a firm stance on abortion. So the um look, I'm pointing at Jonathan like You can see me doing that on the radio. And now I'm going to point at Jace. And you also take a very, you know, firm stand on abortion, right? That it's uh it's completely sinful and wrong. Uh it's it's the murder of the unborn. It's and so it's a Horrible heinous sin. So that's a biggie. So if somebody's gonna have an ab if somebody has an abortion That's forgivable, right? But if they repeatedly have abortions and and you tell them, look, you gotta stop having these abortions and they keep then yeah, you gotta you gotta do something about that, right? Yeah. No, if if I'm dealing with an individual, I mean, yeah, I'm gonna deal with them about the context of abortion, but But if there continues to be an issue where they're, you know, getting pregnant and they're wanting to abort, um, there's all kinds of other issues you know, to deal with in the person's life. Clearly the ab the abortion is murder and it's a and it's uh it's heinous and it's wrong. But um you know, likely there's sexual immorality going on, there's there's extramarital um sex going on, there's um there's activities that that already you know, lean in that direction. And so I you know, if it's somebody that's that's inclined in the direction of um, you know, an an abortion, oftentimes, you know, there's other issues that I would have already looked to address with that person. Like we had somebody in the congregation that was claiming to be a believer but was engaging in an obvious extramarital um involvement, uh of an intimate nature. And uh we went to them and we said, Look We want you to know that the Bible's very clear about that issue and that if you're not willing to stop, then we have to ask you to no longer be a part of this congregation. And it hurt them and they left. But Now did you keep them away from the Lord's table for a while before that step? Did you do the second step as as the Westminster uh confession outlines it. Did you go from the verbal warning straight to the we're gonna have to kick you out or Yeah, but the verbal war warnings were, you know, over a period of months, you know, so it was uh for that matter years. And uh you know the context was um anyways, I don't want to get into into too much. Let me ask this then, so I can s I can spare you of uh any temptation to go into the detail there. You both said that in your churches you've had to basically, you know, say, look, this church and you no longer together They came back and they said, You know what, I'm so grateful that you said that. You gave me the strength to finally do the right thing. I'm not going to be coming back to your church. But But I I realize now how important that issue is to the Lord and um and it's really helped to put a little bit of backbone into my own commitment to the first time. Oh it's too bad they wouldn't come back to your church. I mean you think that they would if that That's the ideal, yeah. Well that's the idea. But they were embarrassed. I've never told somebody that they cannot. We you mean before they've been removed from the church? Well, that's it. The way Westminster has it? Um no, we haven't. And uh the reas uh to be honest with you, as as I'm reading this, and I read it right before I came too, this is kind of the first time that I've seen that they separate those two steps. So I'm gonna have to do some more thinking about that because Matthew eighteen doesn't seem to Right. I follow Matthew eighteen, not the Westminster Confessor. And and I'm sure uh you know, I don't I don't want to give them a you know, because generally I'm in agreement with them. So I'm sure there's Legitimate reason. I just don't know what it is for the other thing. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Dr. Chase Broadhurst senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Project Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. The bridge might be in First Corinthians. Yeah, that's where I was five. Where he's talking he's talking about them coming together in an un and having the Lord suffer in an unworthy manner. having this big party atmosphere and the church is a mess. Right? The Corinthian church is an absolute disaster. But Paul doesn't say, you know, doesn't excommunicate them all at that point. Well he's saying but he is saying don't take the supper in an unworthy manner. So maybe is that where they're drawing the bridge? Earlier in Corinthians. Is it chapter five he where he's dealing with the sexual immorality issue? Chapter five. Uh he says if somebody claims to be a believer but is involved in immoral activity, uh sexual immoral activity with such a person do not even eat. And so, um, to my mind, the not even like like I'll excommunicate some you know, as it were, I'll I'll remove somebody from the church and might still Have a go out to lunch with them, you know, and say, you know, hey, how's it going? Yeah, I just want you to know I care about you and and uh you know I I I hope that you'll make things right with the Lord and You know, until then obviously we we can't have you back to the church, but I um you know, I and maybe I shouldn't. You know, if they're claiming to be a believer and they're engaging in that kind of activity. But I've never walked through a step where I felt like biblically I should stop them from communion first and then Remove them from the church. Yeah, it doesn't make sense to me and uh just off the top of my head again that we would keep them I mean th for me that's what removal from the church is, is removal from from the pleasurable pleasure of God that you have in the communion. So if I remove them from one thing, uh you know It just seems to me that I'd be removing them from both. So we don't take that step, although I'll reconsider it, but uh the way that we keep people from the supper is simply by fencing the table. um or w by excommunicating. Because we invite them to come back to church. Um we just say you you're no longer a member. There's no we have no way that we can assure you of Christ's work in your life because you're not being so now we want you to come But I you know, before we take the to Supper, I'll always say something about, you know, if you aren't uh following Christ's commands, if you aren't if you know, if there's a reason that you shouldn't be taking this. Don't take it. This is dangerous. But we won't actually like you know, try and avoid the person um or, you know, tackle them if they're trying to take the Lord's Supper or something. We give them fair warning. It's probably the best we can do. I don't know how we do better than that. So what what are the things that you have uh uh we we have we discipline people for any and every sin. So, because I know there are people out there listening and they go, are you kidding me? Uh all I mean by that is the first step is someone coming to you. So, you know, if you're gossiping, I'm gonna put my arm around you and say, hey, this is not cool. Don't don't be gossiping. And for us, uh that's a that's a definition of discipline. We're we're discipling, we're We're correcting them. And hopefully they go, geez, you're right. Sorry. Making a distinction in the in the language, right, that discipline is not punishment per se. Right. No, not at all. We don't want to we're not punishing people all the way through this whole act of this. So it's correct- It's correcting. And and I expect everybody to be correcting uh me all the time. If I'm if I'm going in the wrong direction, if I yelled at my wife, I'd hope somebody would come up and say, Hey, did you know No, you gotta be careful that we need to overlook things or else we'll be nailing each other on every little thing. Um but uh but generally that's the r the rule is that we're correcting people and if they say, you know what, I'm gonna gossip all I want. Well then we take two or more people and we go and we say, you know, look and they say, look, I'm going to gospel and you know, then we move down the system. But all of those steps, just for those who are listening who don't understand this whole discipline idea, all of those steps are are to out of love and compassion for them so that they'll hear the truth and they'll repent of their sins and there won't be judgment on their life. If anybody doesn't like us disciplining a gossiper Go to a church that is full of gossip for a little bit of time and you tell me whether or not we should take the time to tell people that they need to stop or get out of the church. You know, and the same thing's true about sexual immorality, the same thing's true about lying, cheating, stealing. Go to a church where they don't discipline any of those things and tell me if you find yourself um inspired or lifted up by the company that you're keeping in that environment. You know, the very the the the the purity of What Christ has accomplished is that He would call us away from those things, that we would live in a way that honors Him and that brings uh glory to the Lord and and nobody likes a liar, nobody likes a cheater, nobody likes a thief. You know, well maybe we like him. I guess that's the thing about this generation. Well he's a good person. But he just steals from banks, you know. That's no big deal. And gossip and things like that too. I mean the m vast majority of our final discipline comes in people just not upholding their end of the covenant, which is, you know, you come to worship. You be a part of the fellowship. So if somebody hasn't shown up in six months, we're calling them. What's going on? You know, you you covenanted to be a part of us, to be fellowshipping with us. You know, nine months goes by. And eventually we say, you know, we we have no reason to believe you're a Christian. You're not going to church. You don't want to be so. Yeah, but we have a generation that was raised on friends. Indeed. And friends are always there no matter how bad you are, no matter what you do. And uh I mean the television show friends might not be. for them. Some of our listening population. You're about to be judged. You see how serious this is. I mean it it's we're against them for them. Um the wounds of a friend are faithful. Yeah, there you go. That's a big idea of scripture and that's not a very big idea in the world anymore. In the world if if somebody is doing something wrong and and you're trying to get 'em to change somehow you're hating them, you know, even or somehow you're being disloyal to them. And it's very unfortunate. It's lowered the idea of friendship to something that is I got friends in low places. This is this is true, I think, even in the scholarly world of this. Um uh five years ago I uh went to Minnesota, one of the biggest uh seminaries in the country and I was interviewed for the Old Testament position and the one thing that that kept them from me, um, gone through t dozen interviews But the one thing that that stopped them was I believe that the church should be able to discipline or should be able to call their people to account. And at least half of the professors of this school w uh you know, at least several of them, enough to uh not win me the vote, thought that that was uh that was too much. That that you know, we just can't You can't go with you on that. And that's scary to me. I was talking to a nurse one time that was putting on a parenting seminar and uh talking to them about the fact that I spanked and I I was going to be teaching at their seminar and I I told them why they spank and how my parents did it with me and when I finished She was crying. And she says, Well, that's not how it was for most of us 'cause my parents were very self convinced. You know, and this is the point is is people have been treated with such harshness and anger in the name of discipline, often by parents and or other authority figures in their lives, that they have thrown all discipline out the window. They can't imagine Uh firm discipline that is coupled with grace and coupled with reconciliation. And as a result They swear off it completely and they think that that that's the proper balance, but they don't realize that they've swung exactly the opposite direction. They're raising a generation of people. that will be worse than the ones that abuse them because they have no self-control whatsoever. These are the parents of the children. And y when when my children know that when they're gonna get spankings, you know, I come, we talk to them, we we discuss it with them and they're ready for it and they get their spanking and then they sit on my lap and they hug me and then they they can't leave me for the rest of the day. They're just like They're so in love with me. It's a it's amazing how they just kinda cling on me. I've got to go somewhere, I'm gonna go with you, Dad. You know, there's there's because they realize 'cause I've explained to them this is We we're trying to show you the right path. We're trying to love In fact I think I do this with friends. I think this is why I like you guys. Because when I'm with you guys, you guys don't let me get away with stuff. If I say something, you're gonna call me on it. And what and when you call me on it, I'm like I something inside me says, you know what? That's the kind of guy I want to hang out with. Because I know that he's got standards and he's gonna help me to step up. He's gonna help me to be sharp Because I want to be sharper. And this is somebody that's going to help me to be sharper as opposed to, you know, help me to be less than a sharp. This is what Christians desire. They desire accountability. Yeah. We are about to mortify sin. That's what we're about. And if you don't want someone to hold you accountable, you mean you say, I don't think that sin is that big of a deal. And then we've got to say, well, do you really know the God of the Bible? 'Cause he thinks sin's a very big deal. So much so that he had to punish his son in your place. I mean it's a huge deal. Propitiation. Speaking of our word of the week a couple of weeks ago. Um That that's gigantic and And I feel like culturally, you know, for the last couple months there's been this whole discussion ever since the Tucson shooting about uh what it is that causes violence in the United States. I'll tell you what causes violence in the United States When we throw out moral absolutes in the name of moral relativism, after a generation or so we have people that no longer understand that what they're doing is stirring anger in the pot. It's not just a bunch of people politically talking, you know, and stirring up rhetoric, but it's a whole nation that has no moral foundation and it leads to violence. And the reality is this could happen in churches, and this could happen in the culture at large, it could happen in school systems, it could happen at universities, and it and and that's precisely what the church uh disciplines for so that we would not become a place that is full of violence and full of cruelty and rudeness and unkindness and And uh wickedness of every kind. Well we'll exercise some self-discipline today and we'll we'll exit this show on time and in an unhurried manner. Jonathan Schweitzer, senior pastor of something here, he's ready. I will. Thank you for the reminder though. Okay. If I hadn't, I would have expected some discipline there. No, Jonathan Sweit is a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Dr. Jace Broadhurst, who is the senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. Uh his is in Poolsville, you can figure that one out. Jonathan's is in Frederick Um, Holdsville's not really that far away either, by the way. It's only like thirty minutes. From downtown Frederick, yeah. Yeah and if you're s on the south side of Frederick might only be like twenty minutes away. Yeah. Something like that. So anyway. Um yeah, the book ended. At the start of the show I mentioned 'cause I last week I didn't mention what I you know, what I either am reading or have recently read And I mentioned uh Bill Arnold and Brian Baer uh Encountering the Old Testament. Well, another book by Bill Arnold and Brian Baer, Readings from the Ancient Near East. So Huh? Is it buyer? Is it buyer or beer? B-E-Y-E-R. B E Y E R. Oh yeah. Yeah, Brian's hilarious. Yeah. Is it buyer or beer? Yeah, I'm sorry. That's I good to know who it was that he was doing that. He's a good guy. He sent me my first Yamaka. He said that you uh had now passed the rabbi. I I wrote a book review for uh Evangelical Theological Science. He actually mailed it to me. Very cool. And buyers are great guys. That's very cool. Ancient Near East though. Now I'm really loving it. You're reading stuff on the Ancient Year East. I do that just for Jace. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. Uh check us out online. WFMD dot com keyword faith. Uh there you will find a uh a seven day a week blog. Weekdays it's updated daily and then uh Fridays I put the whole weekends in at one sh fell swoop so I don't mess with it or worry about it. Uh Jonathan's got a blog that we link to. I think he updated it back in 2007, if I'm not mistaken. Anyway. That's why I don't do one. Put a couple on. Thanks for listening. God bless Putman Plumbing makes a living by servicing their clients' needs. They make their life by how they service their clients, from the first phone call to when they leave your home, when the job is done. Putman Plumbing is dedicated to providing top-of-the-line quality work. Call Putmint Plumbing. That's with a P as in your preferred place. Plummer. Pop and plumbings, how can we make you smile