That doctrine which maintains a change of the substance of bread and wine into the same thing. The substance of Christ's body and blood, commonly called transubstantiation, by consecration of a priest or by any other way, is repugnant not to scripture alone, but even to common sense and reason overthrows the nature of the sacrament and has been and is the cause of manifold superstitions. Yes, of gross idolatries. Worthy receivers outwardly partaking of the visible elements in this sacrament do then also inwardly by faith, really and indeed, yet not carnally and faithful corporally but spiritually receive and feed upon Christ crucified, and all benefits of his death, the body and blood of Christ being then Not corporally or carnally in, with, or under the bread and wine, yet as really uh but spiritually present to the faith of believers in that ordinance as the elements themselves are to their outward senses. Bear with me one more paragraph. Although ignorant and wicked men receive the outward elements in this sacrament, yet they receive not the things signified thereby, but by their unworthy coming thereunto are guilty of the body and blood of the Lord to their own damnation. Wherefore all ignorant and ungodly persons, as they are unfit to enjoy communion with them So are they unworthy of the Lord's table, and cannot, without great sin against Christ, while there remain such, partake of these holy mysteries, or be admitted thereunto. And there we have the last I have to s uh uh the way that you read that I have to put you into like the category of of uh like stirring up an atmosphere of hate in the United States. Huh? That Tucson shooting a couple weeks ago. If you're gonna say the word damn nation, you gotta say it like that. Damn nation. Huh? So much for the new tone in Congress. Alright, and we're voting for you. That's Jonathan Schweitzer The Mamsie Pamsey pastor at uh Crossroads Valley Chapel. I just want everybody to feel good about themselves. You know. Are you are you are you uh advocating for some conflict resolution here? Is that what you're saying? Yeah, we just need to get a mediator to come in. Everybody take a deep breath. And uh the Dr. Jace Broadhurst is a senior pastor at Crossroad at uh Poolsville Baptist Church. And uh he's he's being kinda quiet right now because he's the smartest one out of the two of us. Even a poolsville wise as he keeps his mouth shut. All right, so uh here's a gist of some of what I just read, right? Because of the spiritual realities that are present in the Lord's Supper, it is okay to call the bread and the wine the body and the blood of Christ However, it isn't to say that the bread and the wine actually transform into the body and blood of Christ, transubstantiation, which we talked about last week. And for those who are worthy when they eat the bread and the wine, they are truly spiritually nourished. For those who are unworthy when they eat the bread and the wine, they are sinning and eat unto their own damation. So uh last week's Word of the Week we had two of them, but the one we were uh uh uh focusing on uh with re with regards to what happens to the bread and the wine was transubstantiation. This week's word of the week is consubstantiation. And maybe a real quick uh lesson will help to understand what all these words mean so you can follow along for the rest of the conversation. Got a feeling once I relinquish control that I won't be talking again for like twenty-five minutes. So uh Transubstantiation, again, I'm I'm gonna uh lose something in the translation here by oversimplifying, so grant me that. But transubstantiation is the simplest, most basic terms, this idea that the bread and the wine become physic uh become actually they might not look like it, but they become actually the body and blood of Christ. Then the Lutheran that's a Roman Catholic view. Take or give or take a little bit. Then the Lutheran view, consubstantiation, the idea that, yes, the bread and the wine do indeed become the physical body and blood of Christ. but also remain uh bread and wine. So it's kind of like Jesus is fully man, fully God. That bread is fully bread and also fully body of Christ. Fully God. Right, so there's con both with, the two things with happening together. And then there's the uh on the far other side of both of those would be the merely symbolic view that there's nothing really taking place here. It's just it's just a remembrance. It's a memorial, it's to remind us of Christ's sacrifice for us and remind us of the of of of his uh obedience unto death and that sort of thing. But there's nothing really happening there other than in my own heart and my own mind. And then there's the Reformed or Calvinist view, which uh and I think Uh I didn't get a chance to say this last week, but I don't agree with Calvin on everything, but this one, for me, I think he nailed it. I I think it's as good as it gets I think Calvin's as good as he gets on this issue. He really nailed it. And I think the reason is not because he's smarter than uh Luther or any of those other you know, anybody else wingling, but he came later And he had a chance to really digest all the arguments that came before him and say, no, wait a minute, that makes a lot of sense. But this makes a lot of sense too. And what does Scripture say? And he grappled with it and I think he came up with the idea where there's this spiritual reality. It's not about a physical reality. It's about what spiritually is taking place. And is it the body and blood of Christ? Calvin would say, yes spiritually. And I think he I think he gets that one right. But so now I'm going to turn over the microphone to Jonathan and Chase and I'll talk to you. I'm going to go grab a cup of coffee and uh and come back. So Uh at the end of last week's show, Jace was giving the big picture of of uh uh of the issue or trying to give like the the ten thousand foot down view on the issue. I don't know if you felt like he had enough time to finish doing that. If not, then you can I I think I did a decent job. The idea was simply in 30 seconds or left. Thanks. in the presence of of Eucharist or however you want to call this, the Lord's Supper, the Mass, there's something that takes place that is mystical, that God comes and deals with man. It's where we're confronted with God. and um and we're in power. We're spiritually nourished as uh Westminster will say. Now Jonathan, you we you are in large measure taking up the defense of the of the Roman Catholic, if not their position, at least their right to hold that position and the sensitivity with uh with which they've approached it and the and their yearning to try to get it right and all that sort of stuff. But I don't know that I could gather from last week's show what is Crossroad Valley Chapel's teaching on what's happening there? Is it symbolic? Is it more of a consubstantiation view? Is it a s Spiritually, Well we almost do communion every week. Uh but we do it uh we try to do it in a in a more spontaneous way in the context of our worship service. So if if a opportunity presents itself we're we're um we're uh we're worshiping or various people are you know sharing scriptures or praying and we just feel like the time's right then we'll just go ahead and and uh do it together. And uh we would be not inclined to only let uh me or somebody ordained to present it. uh we'd be inclined to to invite you know uh anybody that's a member of the congregation in good standing to come up uh and to present it. Uh we would have no problem with you know the kids passing it out or other people passing it out. But we give great attention to the fact that Christ said, This is my body And this is my blood that is given for you. As often as you do it, do it and remember to me that we remember him and that we would appreciate uh uh what he accomplished on our behalf. Right? And so and and we do it that often precisely because uh I'm theologically of the opinion that that there is uh something in the partaking of that that Christ intended to be a regular reminder, a consistent reminder to us uh that he gave his life, that he g that he allowed his body to be broken, that he uh shed his blood to be the propitiation for our sins, and uh and that it behooves us then to regularly appreciate that. I'm very comfortable as well with an individual taking it by themselves if they wanted to. I'm not uncomfortable with that. Uh I don't uh I don't know exactly why, but that's kind of where we're at. on the issue. So uh do I take the time to go into great detail as to whether or not Christ is actually in the elements. I've never bowed down to them. uh I have in the context of of receiving communion bowed down, you know, just because I'm in the presence of Christ. Uh I think I tend to view the the the practice of doing it as very important and and having spiritual implication. Uh I don't know that it I I don't know that I've thought to myself that it brings us greater into the presence of God so much as that it brings a greater appreciation. for what this Christ who was already in our midst did on our behalf and as a result that appreciation I think tends to open uh open our s the the the eyes of our hearts that we can greater uh uh appreciate who it is that is in our midst. You know, he's already there. He's not there more. Let me uh uh make two comments from what you said. Um just to give you a pause to think about whatever you're going to say next and then go on for as long as you need to. Um just two little quick. You are the reason the uh tone of discussion in the United States is just so negative. Um snide comments. No, go ahead. This is why we get along so well. Okay. So, um now I've totally forgotten what I was gonna say. But uh the the past, uh yes, the the idea that the Lord's Supper is a remembrance of the past, hundred percent with you on all of that. Um all I'd want to do is emphasize it's more than simply a remembrance of the past, it's also a bringing back How do I say that? From the future. Um Michael J. Fox stuff going on. But um that the future the Escaton, the the place where God dwells um comes forward in time. We we live in this overlap between the ages, the already, the not yet. So what we're doing in the Lord's Supper, I feel, is we're bringing the past, Christ's death, forward, not you know, not physically we're not re-sacrificing or anything, but we're bringing that that concept back and we're taking the the Lord's Supper that we will have together one day in a different sense, the Great Wedding Supper of the Lamb, etc. And bringing it together and we're participating in that moment where all times are kind of interlocking on themselves. This sounds so mystical and weird, I I feel we're even saying it, but That's really the the concept that I have. So it's it's taking the future and bringing it back to the body. It'd be wrong, I think, for you a for you to ever try to doctrinalize anything that you just said. If we're going to doctrinalize, let's let's take a look at the thing. Okay, fine. But I mean my job as a pastor, of course. is to look at scripture and to preach it and to try and hold the thing. So what part of scripture makes you think that we're bringing the future into the present? I'm not going to be able to find a a verse that deals except for the concepts that I gave in the last in our last week, um where we enter into the certainly my my understanding of revelation also, which we can't obviously get into right now. But that that vast majority of revelation is is present, is not something that we're all looking forward to. There's only a couple chapters that are looking forward to. But that that we bring all this together. So it's it's a big picture view of what's going on in the New Testament between the already and the not yet. It's the kingdom, what Jesus says is here, not something that's going to be here, but it is here. So it would take me a a good another year of to talking about this on the this th that already not yet part of the kingdom is really something that is already happening in a lot of different ways in our lives. And so communion in that sense for you is another one of those those things that that That kind of makes that already not yet that kairos of the kingdom coming now and impacting us in the immediate uh it ca it it brings it together and sort of increasing things, but yes, one of the bigger Yes. Ones of those. Uh m perhaps one of many. Yeah. I mean that's why we call the baptism and the Lord's Supper sacraments, 'cause they're there's something different. Something more magnificent and more mysterious going on. But certainly when I help a little old lady across the street, when I do good deeds, when I serve at the soup kitchen, those things are acts of justice. that that are relevant, I think, to this kingdom. Like obviously the Lord's Supper is um uh is taken out of the Passover meal that Christ was participating in. In the same way, baptism was clearly an idea that that was pervasive in the Old Testament in terms of cleansing yourselves in order to come to the Lord uh and to be right before the Lord and that that cleansing had to do with with getting rid of uh impurities and so the baptism has to do with repent uh repent and be baptized. You repent, you're cleansed Well, in the same way I feel like that's true with with uh with the Lord's Supper, and I feel like again, that It's very important like you're talking about sacred spaces. It's very important for us to understand the role of those things in the Old Testament, the role of the Passover meal, to to remember And not just to remember, but to but to to recognize the presence of that God that did that thing in our in our midst now and to anticipate whatever fut like you're talking about whatever future like I I I like that idea that that that we're drawing it all together. Like I I think the point of a good memory is that it opens the eyes of our hearts, that we could see the length and the breadth and the depth of the love of God in Christ Jesus towards us, that we would get a better glimpse, that we would see more clearly what it is that He has done and plans to do. And so in that sense, I would agree that both baptism and the Lord's Supper do that in Significant ways. How's that? I like that. Good. Uh the other I thought I had two things that I wanted. Sorry, yeah you said something about um You know, uh where we don't have really any any verses that talk about whether we do private or public, um you would have no problem giving it to somebody in private or something like that. And again, I'd have no problem with an individual Taking it themselves. In their own home. Okay. Um I would have a problem with that. I'm not positive that I could defend it prescriptively. That is scripture doesn't prescribe here is the way you must do it, and he'd give you this little thing. But I think Corinthians uh the in the context of First Corinthians is in the church. Yeah, it's fascinating when he And First Corinthians eleven is very you know You know, are are you guys hanging out? I mean, just to eat and you're beating other people to the eating? Go home and eat. Don't you have a place if you want to just eat, go somewhere else. What we're doing here's no respect togetherness. Yeah. And so there's uh I really feel like That's the context of this passage is the together aspect of it. In fact, even at the end, you know, let a person examine himself, then eat of the bread and the cup. Anyone who drinks without discerning the body eats and drinks judgment on himself. I I I think that body refers to in the context the church. Yeah, yeah, I've I've always wondered that because clearly uh just in in the chapter before when he says we participate in the body of Christ, uh he's specifically referring to participating into like Christ's physical body, his death. You know, i because he he talks about we're we're participating in the blood of Christ, we're participating in the body of Christ, but then he takes it on to this whole mystical body of Christ that we're partaking in his mystical body and um it's it's a very Um I guess this is the this is the thing that that gets me, both with Westminster confession, with anything that tries to too clearly define this. that that Paul is using his language here in ways that he's he's he's getting a lot of mileage out of his his word. Right. And he's meaning both things all at the same time. And he's hoping that we'll catch this bigger picture, this bigger idea. And in in meaning both those things at one time, we just have to, I think, be careful to over define one or the other, you know? Yeah, but if if we do hold even to what you're saying that it's true, then it's still we we must discern the body of Christ, that is who 'cause that's that's the context People aren't being fair. They're they're ignoring the other people who don't have anything and they're eating and doing all that and it's not caring about each other. It's I don't care about the church. and think you're gonna get fed because they're they had to have agape feast, so it'd be a little different than that. Right, that's exactly it's a care about other people or not. We're here to care about one another and when you take a bit just on your own like it's just for you and not thinking about anybody else then you were taking it unworthily and then he's gonna say things like, you know, and some people have been sick and fallen asleep and stuff. So I that's I think that's the idea that Westminster has in mind for saying, we do this together, because the whole point of it is it's an agape feast, it's a love meal, it's It's to be done in unison. That's why it's done. It's the temple coming together. It's not the individual. I don't think they're necessarily Paul's making an argument that says it can never be done as an individual. But I think I think the pattern that we should follow is a pattern that we have to some degree, and that is a group I see you. That's Dr. James Broadhurst, senior pastor at Poolsville Baptist Church. Jonathan Sweitzer. uncharacteristically quiet at the moment is the senior president. No, no, I'm ready to go to the channel. So you're not sure I have enough time? What are you saying? So I I do want to give Jonathan a chance to uh to speak, but in case I don't get a chance to interject. At some point in your give and take, if you could talk about a little bit more about that idea of the Agape Feast, because that is the furthest thing from what takes place in churches today. There's no feast. It's little wafer or a little cube of bread, it's or whatever and this little wetch your whistle taste of juice. Right and it is it's a takeoff of the Passover meal which was a big deal. I mean a big deal. And we've totally given that up for Not not even a reminder of that, right? So I want you guys to talk about maybe how the church could do a backup of that in addition to whatever Jonathan has on his mind to say. All right. Go John. Well, I think along the same lines, I feel like we need to demystify, meaning like like almost like start from scratch. And I guess that's why that's why I'm a uh that's why I'm a bread pen scratch. That's why I'm an independent non-denominational congregation. Because if a little bit of the baggage because there there's been so much baggage from the Catholic Church, from Luther, from Calvin, from all these different people trying to do that. And Jason arguing for more. More mystery. I know. I mean come on. That's hilarious.