The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. Welcome to the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD and 99. 9 HD2. And um WFMD. com and available on podcast at household of faith in Christ dot com and in your better dreams. All those places is where you'll find the faith debate. I'm Troy Skinner, the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. I mentioned our website, Household of Faith in Christ dot com Uh joined as usual now by uh three pastors uh in Frederick County. We're all part of doing something together. We're all networking together as house churches, we're serving actually as as mutual accountability partners and provide and and serving kind of as the the elder board, if you will, for the churches so that we have uh we have accountability and And we can exercise discernment as a group and uh you know uh it it's really helpful if you're if you're trying to do a house church on your own and you don't have something in s uh set up to help you uh avoid pitfalls and and temptations or just navigate things wisely, I would encourage you to figure that out. That's uh that will be a hole in the house church game if you're not careful. Anyway, Daniel Razvy, Imron Razby, and David Forcey are the three pastors who are joining the panel again. And we're in the past we used to talk about like one or two issues and do an arc of shows on just those one or two issues. This is a little bit different these last few weeks as we've been kind of going issue to issue to issue, and yet there is a bit of a connection. So a couple of weeks ago we were talking about Drugs, whether this should be illegal or not, then we were talking about prison, of course a lot of people are in prison because of the drug questions, so there's a connection there. And of course The issue this week, which I teased at the end of last week's show, profiling, that kind of fits as well as his own standalone issue, but a lot of people end up in jail because uh police officers notice that that person looks like they could be a criminal. I'm gonna keep my eye on them and then they maybe prove to be a criminal and they end up in jail. But some people don't like that It's not nice to profile. So profiling is the practice itself just by definition bigoted? I I would re I would rephrase the that though. Because you just made a c comment that's that's more of a biased comment to start with, right? You said some people That's not prerogative. I can be biased if I want. Some people end up in jail because they were profiled, somebody looked at them and thought because of the way they looked or acted, they probably were a criminal and then they went to jail for it. Well, they went to jail because they were a criminal How they were found might have been because somebody was paying attention to o to where they were. And that's how they got found out. So that but that's that's It goes to the crux. That goes to the goes to the crux of the question, right? Because you often see people complain, oh there's so many more people of this skin color incarcerated than people of the other skin color incarcerated. Okay. Well does that mean you're just locking up people because of the way they look, or does it mean that it just so happens that there's more criminals among people that look like practice Imran viewer off mic but he says just good police work. I think there's wisdom in appropriate profiling. So I'll put my cards right on the table. But those who disagree with me, and perhaps others in this room, would say, well no, profiling is bad because by by definition it's bigoted. Right. You're judging somebody based on the color of their skin, the style of their dress, uh uh the hitch in their gait, you know, whatever whatever it is. Or the pants hanging down at their knees. Yeah. Yeah, which I don't know. I mean I understood that was a fad. You fads come and go, I get it, whatever. But how is that still going on after all these years? Why won't that bad go away? I know, I saw somebody just today walking that way and I th I really wanted to put the window down and say, You know, you really look like an idiot. You really do. But the thing is, you know, a hundred years ago or two hundred years ago, people took pride in how they looked. They even people that were unlocked. Particularly if you looked as good as me, you know what I'm saying? Even if you're unloading trucks. You you wore a three piece suit and you took the jacket off, you still have the vest and you're unloading trucks. Did you ever see a picture of a sporting event from like the nineteen thirties or forties? All the men are wearing jackets and hats and they look like the I remember when I was a kid, I you know, this'll date me a little bit for the the younger set and it'll m it'll make me sound really younger the older set 'cause when I say I remember this when I was a kid, but of course you remember that. I remember it. I'm ninety But when I'm not ninety, but I remember when I was a kid, you got dressed up to go on an airplane. Mm-hmm. It was like when I when I was a little kid, you got dressed up like you well, now it doesn't mean anything, but You now I guess you still dress up like you go to church. But but you know what I mean by that. You would dress up like you're going to church like you're going to somebody's well, even going to somebody's wedding. People don't get dressed up for that. Nobody gets dressed up for anything anymore. What's the analogy I'm looking for And people and people there's there's a lot of people that say, Oh, you shouldn't be shouldn't be dressed up, you shouldn't be looking a certain way or trying to act a certain way because that's all about appearances and we shouldn't be concerned about our appearances, we should be just Even the Christian uh uh a lot of Christians will say, Oh, don't be concerned about your appearance because that's not what's important. That's taking uh pride in being arrogant and superficial and all that. We talk about this briefly. before but there's there's the uh examples in the Bible of y actually you do act a certain way and you dress a certain way specifically for certain events of things. The whole parable of you know the the they got all the people off the street to come in for the wedding And oh you didn't have wedding clothes. Well you're out and throw 'em out, right? It's clearly you're supposed to wear certain clothes for wedding in that in that context. And then people say, Well, Jesus was a poor person. He d he wouldn't he wouldn't dress up fancy or anything. Well he was wearing a single garment that was woven without a seam, which was a very expensive thing And it was in the reverse too. Yeah. Right. That's why profiling I think has a place and it's not foolproof. Right. People wear three piece suits and they go axe murder somebody and that that that probably has happened, you know. So that It's not an absolute tell, but it could be a tell. And so people who were uh the the elites of society two hundred plus years ago would wear these weird coats with tails and white, you know, well um Uh wigs on their head. And that's how you knew that they were some sort of dignitary. They were a p political person or the aristocracy or something. And that was their look. And you see that today with the three piece suits or you know, there's there's uh I'm thinking of somebody right now who used to live in Ferda County was a big mucky muck in the business scene and he always looks good. I mean he looked good. He always his clothes were just impeccable and the way he put himself together, he just looked sharp all the time. And he was a very successful guy. And he w he wanted to walk into a room and everybody say, you know what? There's a successful guy. So there's that look. Now he might not have been a successful guy, but think it to you make it if that's the case and if you look successful, people will start to think you're successful. But it works in the reverse. People have got their pants hanging down around their knees That's not the look of success. That's the look of somebody who maybe doesn't care that much about what's going on in society and culture. They they might be a ne'er duel. They might be a troublemaker because oftentimes you see somebody who dresses like that, who more often than other people are wearing the three piece suits that are causing a ruckus. Right, but you know what? If in the last month there were six people that committed murder that were wearing three P suits. We profile three P suits. Absolutely, yeah. Yeah. So it's it's not about what they're wearing, it's about what the what led to that. Um and people that are w wearing things that look awful usually are the ones that are committing the crime. I remember going driving down the street one time and there was a nicely dress I mean sharp dressed black man that was, you know walking down the street in the middle of DC and it was not a good part of DC, but he was walking there and and we had no problem and then there was a a white guy that had a hoodie on and his pants were down his down his knees and he looked really shifty and my wife immediately locked the doors and put the windows up It had nothing to do with race, it had nothing to do with color at all. It had o everything to do with appearance. And that's profiling, right? So we have to be smart about what we do. Now if some people just do it because of color, that's that's a different type of profile. That's more racist racist. And that's that's not really profiling. Now, just the other day we had, you know, crime committed in the subway in New York and none of the media even said what color the person was. For hours. It's just that, oh, he was like five eight and um and that's about it, right? Okay, but how does that help anybody find that person? They never said it. Right. In fact one of the uh newscasters on on the Conservative show said the reason I knew that person was black because they didn't say what race that guy was. Because if he was white, if he was Chinese, it was this, they would have said something So th then I immediately knew he was black because the the con uh the woke culture now is you cannot do that. And in fact, uh one of the things that makes you racist is if you dress nicely. If you show up on time. Okay? If you know math. If you actually do the work you're assigned to you, all that stuff is now considered racist. a white supremacist because they say that's what the white people do. No, that's what successful people do. It doesn't you don't have to be here in the US and and do that If anywhere in the world if you're doing that, whatever color you are. And the reality is we all profile is not just dress or skin color too we all profile in our in our the way we navigate life. It's just the way I mean think about something that has nothing to do with uh looks, but has to do with persona You walk up to somebody and they talk fast, a lot of people, particularly from the south and maybe even parts of uh Maryland. If you're a fast talker, oh you some sort of s fast talking city slicker, like I don't trust you. You're a snake oil salesman, aren't you? Like so they're pro they're making a decision based on that. Or if somebody, you know, don't got no good English You're like, you know what, that person probably isn't very smart. They might be really smart, but English is like the th sixth language they know, and so their syntax isn't so good, their grammar's not so good. But they're brilliant, but they y your first instinct is that's not a very smart person 'cause they got there's not so good English going on. Now you sh need to be prepared to challenge your assumptions if you if it's if there's evidence to show that your assumptions are incorrect. But if you go with the assumption to the premise that you shouldn't ever have any assumptions, then y that's a um logical pit that you can never climb out of because you'll never be able to make any decision about anything because you you have no place to start, no frame of reference to start from. Um so it's it is important. And I think i we should really discuss, you know, what is the biblical. Exactly. I was gonna well you uh if we didn't actually get there, I was gonna say, so are there some biblical examples of profiling in play or some sort of instruction about profiling or times when you as a pastor had to deal with somebody's legitimate prejudice and and you know, bigoted opinions and say, you know what, that's not biblical how you're anything like that. And biblically we do all have a place in God's heart for our believers. It says there's neither Jew nor Greek, uh bond or free, male nor female, in Christ. But that is that's a different thing I think than than profiling. So it's not it's not that there's the people are not equal. However, Jesus made what some might be considered to some some might consider to be an extremely racist statement to the woman that was uh um asking the um the gentile woman that wanted some help or some healing from him. And he's like, yeah, I shouldn't give the uh children's bread and toss it to their dogs. Right? And and she's like, Well even the dogs eat the crumbs from the fall from the master's table and he says your faith is is healed you But if if you're reading this passage in a book and we just change the names and stuff, you might oh that's a really racist person said to a person that's from a different country, Oh, you're a dog, we shouldn't give to have time for you. But Jesus was not Uh sinning. Okay, so if it was racist and that wasn't a sin, that it was for the glory of God. It was for the glory of God and he was making a point. Jesus came for the Jews. Jesus was Jewish. And Jews are God's chosen people. Yes, the Gentiles also have the opportunity, but it's the Jew first. And Paul was also you know, even though his whole ministry was to the Gentiles, Paul was very clear to the to the Jew first, then to the Greek. Right? So there's an example of God profiling. God giving first right to the Jews. To the firstborn. To the firstborn. There's yeah, there's a lot of examples in the firstborn. Gets double the inheritance of everybody else. Oh, that's not fair to the firstborn child Okay. It's not yeah, life isn't fair. There's no where is that written that life has to be fair? There's if fair meaning everybody get an equal thing, no everybody is not equal. Um so I think there is a number of examples of God di discriminating and that doesn't mean because you know, uh you don't have the same privileges as somebody else, that doesn't mean that you're not gonna ever have the opportunity to be saved, which is the ultimate thing. That's If you're saved, that's what that's what matters. We're talking off air. You know, that's the is that the only thing that ever matters? You know, people maybe have push back on that, but it it eternity is the most important thing. So I don't know if that's a kind of a lot of random thoughts. We have the example of uh uh of the shibboleth. Right? That's profiling by the way they pronounce the accent they they people couldn't it was a hard word. It doesn't specifically say whether that was a uh wrong of them to do. It was thir I think it's definitely positioned as it's a very clever thing, right? I I I I I yeah, it doesn't specifically say and this was a really God honoring thing to do. But I think the way the story plays out, it's that that's that's being clever and wise and That's a more obscure passage, but so for those of you who don't know, there was the two tribes were fighting and the from one side of the river they had an accent. They couldn't say the SH. They could only say the S. And so they said they would they were trying to figure out which ones were the traders and they were all from the one side of the river and so they was s they were saying, Hey, um, say this word, Shibuleth, and they would say Sibyleth if they couldn't say Shibboleth and then that's how that's how they uh And that's how profiling started. That might be our first documented case of profiling. And there's a contemporar more contemporary version of that, uh as I understand it, during World War II. There were a lot of uh people that you were concerned because, you know, the uh a lot of Americans have German heritage. And so they're fighting the Germans and if the if if they're fighting a German who happens to have a good American accent, they could try to fool them. And so one of the tests would they would ask them a question about Major League Baseball. And because all the America back then it truly was America's pastime. If you didn't know something about baseball, you were not an American. I mean, baseball, m motherhood, apple pie, you know, that was And so they would ask 'em and if they didn't know who Joe DiMaggio was or something like that, like, You dirty rotten Nazi, I'm shooting you now. I so that was a A sh a chiboless kind of a profiling sort of a of a thing. But there there probably are if I But I wanna I wanna give an example of what the country actually is doing. So uh those of you that just hearing the radio don't know who I am, I am brown of skin color. Okay, and during after nine eleven the planes were shut down, nobody was flying. The first day that the planes were flying I had to fly out for business And uh yeah, I'm brown. I look like a terrorist if you wanna profile me. But when I went through all the uh safety set and things, I went through so fast, no problem, uh n I everybody treated me very well. So I I was very wondering what's going on. I mean I should have been patted down or something. But while I was there there's this lady in a wheelchair, a ri an elderly white lady, and she was going to the ringer And like they're going out of their way to look at somebody else that actually does not fit the profile and I fit the profile and they didn't even look at me. So that's just stupidity. To me and I and I'm brown and it it would have actually caused me more harm, but I m I myself said, Hey, what about me? You're talking to this lady, what about me? He said, No, no, you're clear, fine. Like th this doesn't make sense. Right, yeah, it doesn't pass the common sense. I thought of two more, by the way. One's maybe iffy. Could circumcision You don't belong to us. That's an indicator that you could tell. You'd have to be naked, I guess, to tell that, but uh that that would be uh an example. And um Oh, it was the other one I just had it and it slipped my mind. Darn it. Um is uh you know, is is is the problem that people have with um profiling because there are uh you know distinctions that are made where there's there's nothing wrong with that distinct thing in and of itself. Um I mean it's a You know, it's uh in law enforcement, right? Uh I I guess the problem people take is, you know, uh guilty by association isn't a very uh Uh by the way I did have the other thought popping in my head of profiling thing, the New Testament says that they will know us believers by our love for one another. And so that's an indicator we can tell Void that those people over there really seem to love each other. They might be Christians. You know, that that would be a positive kind of a profiling. But police are aren't they trained to look for things that are out of the ordinary? I'm thinking about that Eddie Murphy movie. I think it was um forty eight no, it wasn't forty hours. It was the other one where he's a police officer It wasn't the Nick Dol Nick Dolte one, but he's a Detroit copy, goes to LA. Uh I'm drawing a blank in the Beverly Hills cop. Which one? Beverly Hills copy. Was it Beverly Hills copy, I think that was it. And You know, the whole idea is he's like this street smart hit really good cop sarcastic and all that sort of stuff that's is a comedy. But he's a really smart, capable police officer and he goes to a nightclub with these LA cops and it's it's poking fun at LA and they're laid back and they're clueless cops and There's this guy that walks in and Eddie Murphy's character immediately says, keep an eye on that guy, and turns out the guy's a bad guy, and there's a shoot-em-up that takes place in the nightclub. But Eddie Murphy knew there's something was wrong because he said, Look at that guy and the cops were like, What, what, what? And he's like, It's ninety eight degrees outside. The guy's wearing a trench coat. It doesn't something doesn't fit. It's like Sesame Street. One of these things is not like another. So if you're in an area where it's I was even put in the reverse. I'm gonna do it on purpose in this context. You're in a neighborhood where there's four thousand people that live within a few city blocks, and all of them are black. And then some white guy shows up. If I'm a cop, that gets my attention. What's that white guy doing in an all black neighborhood? I'm just gonna I'm not gonna arrest him But it's gonna get my attention. I'm gonna look at him and see, why is he here? Because it doesn't fit. And I so there's nothing wrong with being white. There's nothing wrong with being brown, there's nothing wrong with being black, but if it doesn't fit the context of what's going on, it i it seems f foolhardy to not pay any attention to that. It can go bad, I get it. It can be ugly, I get it. But and you know, if you're concerned you change your behavior. I had a friend that uh who he was taught as a young child by his uncle. He said, Look, if you want to succeed in this world You can't talk like a black person in the hood. You have to watch the T V and and speak clearly English so people take you seriously. And he took that further. I mean he could be a chameleon, he could be different people to different per persons and that's how you profile. And when he would drive, he said, Look, when I drive home, okay I'm sitting up straight, I'm keeping my jacket on, and I'm you know, looking really respectable because I don't want to be stopped for something else. But when I get close to my homies, my friends in my in my neighborhood, then I'll put my seat way back and lean way back with one hand on the steering wheel and really like hanging out because now I know I'm there and they would judge me differently So people act how they want to be treated. And so there's nothing wrong with profile. You decide how do you want to be treated and act that way. And there's a wisdom in that. I mean when I was you know my daughter, she's an adult now and you know, married and starting her family and all that sort of stuff, but back in the day. Uh and some people are opposed to any sort of ear piercings, but I was okay with a single piercing, one in each ear, you know, so two piercings I guess. But she got to be in high school and she wanted to have another piercing, like a third hole And I just saw too many people her age that they get a third hole and then six months later they get a fourth hole and then they get a fifth hole and a sixth hole and before you know it they got a whole bunch of holes in their eyebrows and their nose and their lip and their belly button and all this stuff And if you're somebody that has all those holes, that's fine, whatever. I don't know that I I I I have much of a position on that other than as it applies to my daughter. And I told her, I said, you don't want all those holes in your body, because some people, rightly or wrongly, will make judgments about you, and it'll be harder for you to get certain jobs or get into certain circles of people because they're gonna be like You know what? I've run into a lot of people that aren't serious about life who have a lot of holes in their body. Doesn't mean that people who have a lot of holes in their body aren't serious about life, but there are there are enough of them that you is this a serious person And you want to be taken seriously as a young woman when you're an adult in the world. So and it was a battle for years. She never did and she s she s you know, all but swore, she didn't really swear, but she all but promised me that when I'm old enough and I'm on my own I'm gonna get Here she is all these years. She's never did. So she's I don't know if she agrees with me per se, but she decided she didn't want it anymore. I think it's been to her betterment. And people that want to get tattoos and stuff, same thing. Get tattoos, whatever. I mean, that could be a subject for a show probably. 'Cause there are some religious uh biblical arguments maybe on that. But I I would advise people get the nec taps and stuff, like they go all the way up to their ears on their necks and stuff, like you can't hide them. And right or wrong, there are people who will not treat that person the same as if they didn't have those tattoos. Why would you want to make life harder for yourself? Because we all are profiling at some level, aren't we? Absolutely. All right, well I guess that's going to be the last word. I don't usually take the last word, but I'm taking the last word today. On next week's show, uh we're gonna talk about vaccines. We're work aiming to get canceled by the cancel culture, one way or the other. Uh but the specific question is the should Christians uh volunteer to be injected by shots that were developed using aborted babies? That's a more specific uh question were you talking about there. So that's on next week's uh Faith Debate Show. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD online at WFMD. com. My church, Household of Faith in Christ, is also online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Daniel Razby, Imran Razvy, they have a church in the north end of Frederick County. They have a ministry. You can check them out at concordbylove. org. And uh one of these days we're gonna have to get uh David Forcy a uh a website. Or dial up only. So we got something to promote for you. I don't know. I'll start putting your cell phone out there. I don't know. Something. Now if you want to reach David, you give me a collar or you know uh my my cell phone is actually on our website. So you can you can give me a shoot me a text or call me or shoot me an email or whatever, and I'll connect you with any of these guys if you want. Anyway, till next week. Thanks so much for spending part of your Sunday with us Um 167. 5 hours from right about now, then we'll start up again. Till then, God bless.