Here's a question for you. Is circumcision done with? Replaced? Or just to continue? What's the third option? Still best to continue. Still best to continue. That sounds like a good topic for a show. Or is it required for salvation? Can we get can we get that one in all agree of us? Yes, sure. Or it's just a circumstance of the heart now. Well. You know what? I think we've we've stumbled into a topic for a faith debate program, let me tell you I'm Troy Skinner. Thank you for spending part of your day with us here. Daniel Razby was the one who was helping me clarify what the topic maybe could or should be. And then Imron Jumped in, Imran Rasby, Daniel Imron are co-pastors of the Church that meets at Imran's house, and you can find them online at conqueredbylove. org because they've got a ministry called Concord by Love Ministries. And David Forcey, he uh he's still Luddite, does not have any sort of real prominent web presence. So if you wanna He's such a Luddite he doesn't even know what a dictionary is. So David Forrese is a pastor in the area as well of uh of a uh house church that meets at different locations depending on who wants to host that week. If you want to get in touch with him Find out where he's meeting. Maybe he's meeting somewhere near you and you want to check him out, just get in touch with me and I'll put you in touch with him. And uh the easiest way to get in touch with me is go to household of faith in Christ dot com because that's the name of the church that I pastor, Household of Faith in Christ. So And I don't know if you said my name, I'm Troy Skinner, just in case I didn't, how you know. So, circumcision. If you were listening to last week, we were talking about a covenant. What is a covenant? And we had, you know, some interesting conversation about that. And there was more to be said But I kinda knew we're gonna be going in the direction of circumcision as as a sign, a a primary, prominent sign in the old test Of the the old covenant. Do we even like that language anymore after last week's show? And and what role, if any, does it have for the new covenant if we even like that language? anymore. Um so and I I just want for those of you who'd who were here last week but were not here in between shows, I want to make it clear I can see the point. that the Bible uses the phrase New Covenant or New Testament. Jesus we we've talked about Jesus says this is in this cup is a New Testament or new covenant in my blood. And Hebrew says, uh quoting Jeremiah, this is you know, God has made a new covenant, uh you know, instead of the old covenant. So th those phrases are used Our disagreement is more on how they're applied to Christians and whether there's any part of the old covenant or most of it or all of it that still also remains. Even though there is new coverage as a presumed disagreement. Um, I'm not presuming, I know there's a lot The but the question of circumcision will actually put a fine point on now we I think we could all probably agree, and maybe I'm wrong, but I'm I'm assuming we could all probably agree that circumcision, the physical act of circumcision um does not save you and is not necessary for salvation. Um I think we would all agree with that uh point. And I'm I'm stating it very simply there because I think the more I expand on that the more we might have some disagreement. But um I think there again that does seem very clear in a lot of scripture that it is not necessary for for salvation. Um and circumcision is not what saves you, nor should you be rushing to get circumcised having become saved necessarily. Um there's a passage in So we talked about that. We started last week's show kind of with the idea of so what is a covenant? What is circumcision? So who who wants to um I forget who won first last week, but is this the PG rated or PG thirteen rated show? Uh there's a Yeah, you you use physical language, you should be fine. Um uh uh specifically. And if you don't know what a man or a boy is, then you're on the wrong show and you should open it. And I mentioned Matt Walsh, so yeah, I think it's a good And dictionaries. Dictionaries that file. Make sure it was published at least ten years ago in the dictionary. Right. And and so that is that that is a uh cutting. It does involve blood and it was commanded to be done eight days after every boy is born. in uh Israel were uh originally as children of Abraham. Just a small clarification. We're talking about the biblical circumcision. There is a lot of uh African Muslims that actually do female circumcision that is not at all biblical and it has nothing to do with God's uh promise and covenant. the uh circumcisions performed on males today, a lot of people will choose to do it maybe for medical reasons or you know, tradition, family tradition, cultural reasons, whatever. The the way they do the procedure now, my understanding, is it's not precisely exactly what was happening, you know, twenty five hundred years ago. Uh the procedure's a bit different. uh outcome has similarities obviously, but it's not it's not precisely th the same thing. So m for what it's worth, I throw that in the butt yes, I think Imran's point of clarification is hugely Just for males, yeah. So and what was the point? Like why why would there need to be this cutting of the foreskin? Well, it it seems that there there's uh the several times God says he wants to make uh the children of Abraham a peculiar people. He wants to make it obvious and clear who who is his and who is not. And that's one sign where you can you can tell and I'm now I don't know that it's an interesting question, right? It's not like people are going around undressing for each other when they meet strangers. So how are you gonna tell right away if somebody's of the circumcision But I think it is it it was something that was commanded to to be able to separate um Abraham and then by extension Israel, the children of Israel, from the rest of the world. I think yeah, I mean I I think there's a whole lot going on there with uh with why why circumcision uh in particular. I I think there's elements of um Uh I think there's elements having to do with like uh like like procreation, right? Like so your the your your children uh are coming from this part of you in essence, right, as a as a male. Um I think there's elements of like the the man is the is the representative head of the family and so that's why It was the males that that were receiving circumcision. Um I I think it also even goes back to uh um back to Eden in that when there was sin there was an an there was a realization of of uncovering and exposure. Uh right, so they they realize they were naked. Right? They realized that they were not covered. Um and so then I think there's also connections to uh you know language that has to do with um with covering, right? You know, like uh like Jesus uh being our Like he he is our our covering, right? Uh because of our our sin, right? And so um So I I think in some ways right like the the circumcision um yes like it th there there's a whole lot of things that are that are instructive about it and that God's you know, God's people beginning with Abraham are being are being reminded of And and, you know, every every day. I like that background. I think that's there's there's a lot there I agree with. And I would point out too, regardless of where you come down on the um religious reasons if there remain any as a Christian to be circumcised, if there remain any, which which we're kinda discussing here, regardless of that I do think there is a lot of data that supports the idea that medically and health-wise it is a good idea uh to be circumcised. There's there's been some studies about you know, significantly significantly less uh rates of cervical cancer, for example, among um women married to circumcised men. Um and a number of other, you know, uh cleanliness and sanit sanitization type of uh um possibilities that and this is kinda what I feel about a lot of the old covenant commands, you know, w the food laws, for example, pork is generally not as healthy as beef for you know, as an example um due to a a number of reasons You know, uh and so a lot of what God commanded Israel to do is this is to separate Israel and it's to make it clear you're my chosen people and also to show you you love me and and you're obeying what I'm telling you to do and so on and so forth, but it also happens to be good. and healthy to do. And I think there is some merit to that. I mean God designed the human race, he designed all of us and he should know what's good and healthy for us and you know the things about like wash your hands after touching a dead body and all that is these are great things to do. You can't you shouldn't just say, Oh that's ceremonial law, we shouldn't have to do that. Don't wash your hands Washing hands is a good thing to do. So there's that aspect to it and I think uh you could come to the conclusion as a believer that weather has anything to do with um religious reasons or not, it's probably good to continue the path. So that's the last question you had at the beginning, Troy. Is it best to continue? And I would say yes, regardless of where you end on the debate about circumcision relating to And be and before we head down that path too stridently, I want to add one more uh element that I'm surprised hasn't come up yet and I to me I think it's an important aspect of what's going on. When we talked about last week with Covenants and um you know, cutting a covenant and uh oftentimes blood being involved in the uh entering into a covenantal agreement. And so there's a there's this bloody uh ritual, if you will, that is a sign of the the covenant. So there's that And there's a both and on the symbolism with the cutting off of the foreskin. On the one hand we've talked about uh I think both David and Daniel uh made mention about being set apart uh as God's people, separated from the other nations. And so the th there's symbolically there's this cutting off of the foreskin is you're being cut o cut off and set apart as a holy people unto God. But there's also the covenant sanction that's implicit in that as well, meaning if you violate the covenant, you will be cut off as your foreskin was cut off from being my people. So it's a both and it it's it that the cutting off the foreskin represents both the promise and the curse. So it's a I think it's a really intricate sign that we have. I think what also ties into that is the eighth day aspect as well. Okay. So that ties into the being separated from God. Right. So we don't know exactly what day Adam and Eve sinned, but we get the description of the first week and then the next thing is Adam and Eve sin, right? So they're separated from God. So we'll just call that the eighth day. Uh and then we also have uh Right, like Jesus completes his week, he rests on the Sabbath in the grave, and then he rises on the eighth day, the first day of the new week. And so in that same sort of along the lines of what you were saying, Troy, like it the even the eight Say aspect points towards both the separation from God and the uh the being set apart for God joined to God. Right. So that's the voice of David Sforcy, and you're about to hear the voice of uh Daniel Rasley on Troy Skinner and in a moment I'm sure you'll hear from Imran Rasvy as well. And and just to to piggyback on that, it w why the eighth day? Obviously there's many spiritual reasons which you just outlined, uh David, and there's also happens to be a medical reason. If you were gonna pick a day in your life to be cut There is no day that you have more vitamin K in your body naturally than the eighth day of your life because you were born with you had some extra from the from your mother and you're starting to produce and the body overproduces So that on the eighth day you have a surplus of vitamin K and then you shut down the production to lower back down to normal levels so you have better clotting ability on day eight of your life than pretty much any other time of your life. So and God designed that on purpose, right? This is not by accident. We have an intelligent designer. Along those uh just on the um I I I think it's an important um thing to keep in mind. You you're kind of saying this before, Daniel, is that um right, like the the more that we the that we learn the more uh what God has already said is is supported. Right. And so it's not like I I I would say You know, like you you can you can start from, okay, what's the healthiest thing to do? Let's do that. But ultimately, right, like we should start with saying, Okay, what does just what does God say to do? Sure. And, you know If it ends up being healthier, great. Yeah, I I find it very interesting also that a lot of times people forget there are two aspects. There are aspects of the flesh and aspects of the of spiritual And we have to look at it from both directions. And God does things that are both spiritual and related to the flesh, because he he is both. And many times we will miss one or the other and you know, I've I've got a friend that everything's spiritual. Nothing in the flesh matters at all even. And I think that's taking it a little bit too far because I think it has it for both But we are in a spiritual battle and there are spiritual things that we have to be aware of. And the circumcision does that have a spiritual so when Jesus came he uh clarified and it's the circumcision of the heart now, not of the flesh. Does that eliminate the the need? And and a lot of people would say, oh, it was replaced by baptism and maybe we'll get into that. But that's a very common thing to say as well baptism is the new circumcision. So you do need to be baptized It still doesn't save you because if you get saved and then you die before you get baptized, you you still go to heaven. So it's not that the baptism saves you, but you should get baptized to show outwardly that you have joined the chosen people, the the God's people, right? Uh an and, you know, whether you call yourself the new Israel or or just the church or whatever it is, you've you've joined this New covenant, and the outward showing that is baptism. Now that's a physical thing that you're doing. Um and so they're saying, well, this is instead of circumcision. But both circumcision and baptism, they're outward showings of something spiritually that's happening. And you can get circumcised and not be saved, just like you can get baptized and not be saved. There are many people that have done that. Um a and s so I d I don't feel like either one of those is best to stop or do necessarily to their own end. You had to focus on the heart. You are a child of God based on what your heart's relationship with God is. And these other things that are outward showings are are to to show to the world, look, here what is what I am, I am the child of God So to um to to clarify, um, because you've leaned in this direction a couple of times, and I think it's time for us to kind of just burst through the doors and start going there. So are you uh are you uh of the opinion of uh that circumcision is something that uh followers of of Christ must do. Uh must is is probably a strong word. And I think if you come to Christ as an adult, not having already been circumcised, there's definitely a passage that's Are you are you are thou called being circumcised, seek to or being uncircumcised, seek not to be circumcised? It also says are you called being circumcised, seek uh tissue to make themselves appear uncircumcised and people still do that today probably with reconstructive surgery. So that it's not don't try to undo it or or do it specifically because of salvation. And I think that was that was the error of the the church early church in Acts fifteen, um talking about, you know, you must be circumcised. Unless you're circumcised you're not part of us. And there and and there was some condemnation from the church fathers about that saying No, no, this is not about circumcision. This is about the relationship with with Christ and and his blood is covering our uh us. But the circumcision i is is somewhat irrelevant to that, but it is part, I would say, of what God asks believers to do. I think it is it is a good thing to do. But you're making a distinction between circumcision and baptism though, right? Because if I said uh followers of Christ must get baptized. Your answer would be different, I think, wouldn't it? Yeah, maybe. Um Again, it is a spiritual thing, whether you're circumcised in your heart or you're baptized spiritually, that is that is still a spiritual uh aspect. That's the far far more important. So I I don't place as much. Let me put it in the past world context. Maybe this will help clarify what I'm trying to ask. I'm probably not asking it very well. Somebody new joins the church and they come from a you know distinctly pagan or Muslim background maybe or I don't know. Muslims Do they circumcise their benth? They would consider themselves children of Abra Abraham. I know Hindus. They I don't think they circumcise? So somebody comes from a Hindu background, they joined the church And they want to become part of our our church family, our congregation. One of the things I'm going to make sure is, have you been baptized? If they haven't been baptized, we're gonna talk about, okay, well, if you're gonna claim to be a follower of Christ, we gotta work towards getting you baptized. Right. I I I can't even imagine. Uh it it's something had you been circumcised. But If it came to a discussion you might say like you know like when you have a when you have a a your next son, like you should probably get him circumcised. Yeah. That's basically what I would say is um uh I I I I would have a conversation and I'd say, Well, you should pray about if God's leading you to be circumcised. I think that was that was it's probably a godly thing to do, but it is very clear, I would say, from scripture, that it's not required um being a believer, and yes, you should be baptized But I think it is clear when you have a baby that yeah, circumcise them. See now I I don't agree, but I know from body language, at least I think I know from body language that David also doesn't agree, so I'll give David a chance to take something. So the the circumcision was uh it the circumcision issue in the in the New Testament church, um, like the that was like the the the tip of the the iceberg or or maybe just like the the name given to uh Essentially like the the the the Judaizers, right? So the one saying if you're going to be a follower of Christ you have to become a Jew which means you have to you have to be circumcised and you have to keep all of the law. Right, right. And and Paul I I think the reason why Paul ha cuts it off at circumcision right is he says all right, he says like no, like you there's nothing else that you that you have to do in order to be a follower of Christ, right? Like you have faith in Christ and that's But faith produces And there's nothing you can add to it. Faith produces a desire and and and a yearning to follow God and to to do good works. And I think God has outlined for us in in in the Bible what he does expect of people. Uh and and I I I don't believe that ever changed. So I think In fact, even in Acts 15, when James writes the letter, and James they talk about they bring all these things, these things to to the church in Jerusalem, and they say, well, should we actually be circumcised? And they said, okay Hold on, uh timeout. No, you don't need to be circumcised in order to be saved. However, make sure you do these four things. Abstain from fornication, from things sacrificed to idols, uh from blood, and I think there was one more thing, but let's call it three things for now. Do these and you know, then you'll you'll do well. And then he sends them away. Nobody's thinking that these are the only three he didn't even include doesn't even include murder in that list, right? So these are not the only three things you should not do as a believer or do as a believer. Um right, so But what does he say as an asai, he's he said when he sends this letter he says because Moses is read every day in the synagogues meaning these people they're now followers of of Christ. They're gonna want to know who Christ is and they're gonna learn the law and then they're gonna want to follow some of these things re because they love God so much, not because doing it gets them saved. But they are gonna hear and be discipled. But he's saying these uh uh I I get the impression that these are some specific contention points that there was hey, these people are eating food sacks or idols and it's causing uh us to really appear to to to be worshiping demons and you need to kind of there there was some specific context beside the set behind those particular commands that he gave them But I don't get the impression that these are the only commands that Gentiles should obey 'cause again there's some major ones that aren't included like murder and and uh and theft and and other stuff. I I think abstaining from blood isn't abstain from eating blood, but abstain from violence. The the draw the drawing of blood. Maybe. All the other ones are um all all the other ones in the in the uh well I guess fornication wouldn't be either. Um so yeah, it could could be. Could be. But i i there there there certainly are more laws that that that that Christians should follow besides whatever James put in that letter. And And he includes the phrase like because Moses is read every Sabbath in the synagogue as if like that is relevant to the conversation Right. So I get the impression that he's expecting them to also learn other things about the law and then be convicted that they should be doing these things. So the point is that it doesn't save you, and I think that was always the point. And I think we don't want to stretch that uh argument too far and say, because it doesn't save you, therefore never do it. Because Paul even says in Romans, Now shall we sin more, so the grace may abound, and God forbid. But what does he say next? I would not know what sin was except for the law. Right. Well, if the law is of none effect, then who cares what the law says. But the law tells us what sin is. Therefore the things in the law not doing them would be a sin. So I do think it is uh i i it is good and incumbent on believers to follow the law in the old testament. I really would also have to follow that by saying okay in the next one. Chapter of Romans, he says we're uh we're we're we're dead to the law, right? The the law is like a a dead husband and now we're married to Christ. So what What does that mean, right? If we're no no longer bound to the law. Well, we were a slave to the law. We're no longer slave to what he doesn't use that language. He says slave to sin. He says Uh and and then he then when it comes to the law he talks about he uses the marriage language. New in other words, like so so it's It's uh and and and maybe that is there, but uh just they're right in Romans. He makes that distinction, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I mean it's the next chapter about the the marriage and a and death. Now she's loose from the law of her husband. And the that law no longer condemns us. We are we are free to to to be in you know, married to Christ. Um now we don't get circumcised uh at any point in human history to be saved. So what was the point and purpose of being circumcised? Yeah. discussion is look circumcision didn't never save you. It doesn't now it didn't before. So forget about it. But it has a role purpose. It's not just separate willy-nilly. So separation and and and and Cle a clear distinction of who's a child of God. Well th think about this. It's it's separation and and as we talk about it, you don't walk around naked. So how does anybody know The circumcision not. But I think a woman would know if she's gonna lie with a man if she's married, you're gonna know if this is a Jewish person or not a Jewish person, right? Is this the man from Abraham or not from Abraham? And so I think that was a separation really for the creation of uh progeny of the children of the of the generations. That's really what the circumcision was for, to keep the race pure, to keep them uh uh t it's really tied to the law, but it never really saved. It was a separation. And uh we're uh and it's it's said over and over again that that never saved us to begin with, it was a separation. But now you don't need to do that Because I think there's a you can, but that's not going to save you 'cause th at that point th those people were saying, Hey, you have to get circumcised and all this other stuff about Jesus dying for your sins and stuff It doesn't count unless you're circumcised, because it's only for the circumcised. It's a no, it's not it's for the Jew and the Gentile. We're gonna have to, you know, continue this conversation next week, Show, because there's so much more that that really needs to be said. And uh we'll see. We're gonna be also talking about whether or not the Holy Spirit indwelled the Old Testament and Saints the way they do the New Testament states. So that might have to even wait another week. I don't know if we'll get to that next week either. Um so I think we've Must we've all agreed and it is not a must, but whether it's a strong should or whether it's irrelevant has it been replaced My point asking the question I asked a minute minute ago was I think that uh that separation is tied to the covenant and this the circumcision is a sign and a seal of uh that that separation of that covenant. So that's that's what I was driving at. We'll pick up that thread on next week's show. Imron Razby, Daniel Razby, David Forcey, I'm Troy Skinner This has been the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Find us online the Household of Faith in Christ. com and WFMD. com. Till next week, 167. 5 hours from now. God bless.