Hello, friend. Thanks for spending part of your day with us here on the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner, your host and moderator, pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of FaithInCrist. com. joined this week. We've got the band back together. Imron Razby and Daniel Razby. They co-pastor the Church of Meath at Imran's house. They're also involved with is that a little too loud for you, David? Yeah, sorry. We were trying to do a mic check before but I only did it with the music not with my blasting voice into the mic, so I apologize. Is that better now? You didn't need those eardrums, did you? Hearings overrated Anyway, Imran and Daniel Razby. Uh I think I mentioned uh the church, but they also have a ministry that was founded, I don't know, twenty ish years ago probably now. Conquered by Love Ministries online at Concordby Love dot org. And David Forcy, the one who can't even hear me right now, because his ears have been blown out of his head. Uh he's also a pastor in the area of a house church that meets in uh it's kind of rotisserie league house church. They meet in different local locations depending on which family wants to host uh that week. And he very soon they'll be in LA. Yeah, have you thought about that? Like it's it's easy start to grow and expand, you get some people that are living, you know Different continents even? We need some serious funding to uh move everybody around each week. So call now and send your dollars to your love gift. Say non local gift to David support your non local church. My church. Gotta sow a seed. Uh somebody promised they'll send you money, Troy. Would that be a covenant promise if they sent you money? What are you trying to say, Gnome? I don't know what that means. Was still too loud? Is that better now? May I either I have sensitive ears or these headphones are especially uh right. Might be both. Maybe. Yeah. Could be. Alright, so now that we got all those niceties out of the way. Hopefully we're good for the for the duration. Um If you've listened to this show with any regularity over the last several years, then you've noticed something that happens quite frequently You know, David will say something, or more often Daniel will say something, and we're like, ooh, that's a really interesting topic. It's not exactly something we have time to get into right now. We'll table it, we'll write it down, and we'll come back to it. And Usually because you're too afraid to combat my w wonderful genius uh um statements, Choice. Well that goes without saying. That that's a given. So um but seriously I you know You have these com you have theological discussions with people often enough and you start to know, okay, this is not a three minute conversation. Right, right. This is gonna be at least a half hour Maybe an entire evening. You know what I mean? Like you don't know. So it's like, okay, w we only have like twelve minutes left in the show. He just brought up something that's going to take us a week and a half to talk about. I'll write it down. We'll get to it someday. And so today is one of those days And we actually are going to do a series of shows kind of under the umbrella of things that have to do with covenant. Old Covenant, New Covenant is kind of the umbrella. Um so what that means for old covenant same old for the uninitiated. Uh sometimes the the uh the uh the vernacular that people are more comfortable with or more familiar with is you know the Old Testament, the New Testament. So the Old Testament saints or the Old Covenant Saints and the New Testament Saints or the New Covenant Saints, that sort of thing. But there are a series of covenants in the Bible. Uh all of them very important. I would say they're all actually interconnected in different ways and they kind of build upon each other and and that sort of thing. But what does all that mean? So before we can talk about specifically what it means to be the covenant people of God and what some of the signs of the covenant are and that sort of thing. I think maybe you need to define our terms. So that was the the the logic for today's topic. Covenant. What say you? So who wants to go first in taking a stab at uh at what would the Bible how the Bible would uh uh d define is the right word? To me a covenant is a contract. And as a lawyer I think of a contract as an agreement between uh usually between two or more peop the people or or groups of people. and both sides are promising to do something of value uh for the other side and that's what makes it a enforceable contract by the legal standards. If I promise Troy to go build you a house but you don't promise to pay me to do it. You can't hold me to my promise, legally speaking, because you aren't you weren't also giving me. But if you're gonna pay me even a dollar for it, then now you've paid something and I've pay I've promised something so we're so that's an enforceable contract. So generally in the law, anyway, modern times, if you have a covenant, in order to m make sure and enforce that the covenant is followed, you both sides are giving up something. David, what do you think about that? Uh well uh So I I I think yes contract is is probably fine. I I would say it's a um a covenant is is the establishment of maybe a particular kind of relationship. Um So, uh where yes something is going to be Yeah, and and sort of the the the rules of that relationship, if you will. Um so uh you know we definitely think of marriage as a a covenant uh between two people. Um and it all so and and it and it is a the establishing of a marriage of a husband wife relationship. Um So I you know, I I was I was thinking about this a little bit ahead of time. I was thinking, you know, is it like a is a covenant like a a promise? And that certainly is, you know, an element to that, like to a contract, right? With a contract. It's you're each side is promising something. But it also establishes a a a point of connection between those two parties. Um you know, built built around what is being promised by each to or for the other the other party. And I think I think what makes some of the covenants in the Bible unique in just in terms of contractual language is that in many cases, or at least two or three cases, God is making a promise and man is not. And God's basically, you know, that that would be the exception to the rule as far as whether it's enforceable. I mean, as far as who's enforcing it, God's gonna enforce it on himself, he's gonna fulfill his own promises. But There is no promise needed by man in order for God to keep his word, because God is all good and all powerful and and and never lies. Um and so if God says he's gonna do something, he does it. Yeah, that's there's something unique to the other thing. You know, on the human side of things like like the You know, when God makes a promise, uh when he m makes those covenants where it's, you know, him saying, like, I'm gonna do this, uh the the part of the other side, the other side of the relationship is You know, like o okay, like I'm I'm gonna receive it. And and God is sort of laying that out, saying, like, okay, this is what it's gonna look like. I'm gonna do this I'm gonna give you this and you're gonna receive it, right? Like to Abraham. Um you know, and and and I I mean even you know, as uh like the salvation is is referred to over and over as a as the as a free gift, right? Uh like in Romans. And so, you know, our our our part at at least at least it initially, at least the the beginning and and ultimately I think throughout, um, you know, is we are we are recipients. Uh we're we are just on the receiving end from God and his covenants with us. Yeah, before I jump uh you have anything you wanted to uh say in the response Simmer on to either what they said. I think there's some connections certainly to covenant and contract. Uh but I don't know if I would put an equal sign between them. I I think they're within the kind of the same bailiwick of of of thing, but they're a little different. I think da uh David was was touching on some of the things I would say that are different. uh there's a little bit more of a relational aspect when you think about covenant versus merely contract. Like if you enter into a business agreement and you sign a contract, how many times you hear, oh, it's only business. Right, it's just business. Don't let business stand in the way of friendship, you know, it's it's you know, just the way it is. But a covenant uh the at least the way the Bible's putting forward a biblical idea of covenant is it's not merely a transaction, it's not just a contractual agreement. It's not um I I would say a treaty could also fit somewhere within this same milieu of ideas as well. Treaties, covenants uh contracts. I think there's some overlap. I don't think they're exactly the same. And one of the things is um the dramatically is that personal side of things and this is where the exception to the rule that Daniel was bringing up is, you know, we we're both entering into a contract because I've got my quid pro pro quo and you've got your quid pro quo uh and a covenant not necessarily um I think in the Bible though covenant is more of a promise from God and also a description of who he is. And so it it kind of uh bothers me when people say Well, that's the old covenant and it's new covenant. That was old God and new God. God doesn't change. And so it's a fulfillment of some of the promises he made and it hasn't changed though. And so I think a covenant in in the biblical sense is more of a a promise from God and a description of who he is, the relationship he like you said, to us. Who what's his relationship to us? What uh and uh how can we take advantage or uh use that relationship in a good and and godly way. Now I mentioned treaty as well. I think uh I'm not sure if I uh I I thought about this in advance until right now, pop it in my head. So I don't know if every covenant in the Old Testament is uh would fit under the confines of a suzerain vassal treaty. Are you familiar with that uh that phrase? You have the the the high king, the low king kind of a thing, one's the the big king and then the he has his vassal king. I protect you and you pay me tribute Yeah, and there's kind of this there's there's sanctions, right? There's uh the promise of protection and then there's sanctions if you don't live up to what you're supposed to do as my sub king kind of thing. And I think uh the the at least Some, if not all, of the covenants in the in the Bible kind of fit within that as well. And here's where the part that doesn't feel like the exception to the well, like there's an exception to the rule, but I don't think there is an exception to the rule, but here's why I don't want to just call it a contract, because the biblical Covenants are there is a quid pro quo, but God fulfills both sides of the equation Right, he does his part because he's God, he keeps his promises, God cannot lie, as Daniel said. We are sinners, we fail all the time, and yet he fulfills our side of the contract Two, by taking on human flesh, right? The sun comes takes on flesh and offers himself up. And so there is a uh two sides of the agreement, but God actually fulfills both sides. So and that's what happens with the covenants in the Bible. Yeah, but also in the Old Testament. I mean he has a covenant. It he tells us the good what he will do if we if we follow him, or if the Israelites follow him. And then he also tells us uh what he's gonna do if you don't follow him. So it's a covenant on both sides. And so the Israelites, so long as they are uh keeping him Azad, they have all the blessings, that's what God says, and then if they choose to worship another God then he will punish them. And so it's a promise on both sides. And and as you said, it's a both a promise from God and uh there's consequences for that promise. So Now not all Christians everywhere through all of time have agreed on exactly what all parts of the Bible should be considered covenants. So I don't know if we want to get off on that, but that might be a whole separate. say the places where the Bible uses the word covenant should be considered covenant. For sure. Uh okay. So uh but this goes where in the direction I was going to go. So what are some of the places that we would say the Bible's saying, okay, this is a covenant, that's a covenant Well the the very first uh one uh agreement in the Bible is is why when he created Maya, he said You know, don't eat this tree and if you do you will die. And they did and they died. So that was that was a good thing. So that's where some people will disagree with that. Well start they're making a list of covenants, and I've heard many people start with Noah. After Noah, God said that he would not destroy the earth by uh water again. Next time by fire. Although it doesn't say that there it says it somewhere else. Um so that that will that was the promise he made to Noah and that's a fancy word is Noahic coven covenant. Yeah. But that was also one sided covenant. There wasn't anything Noah had to do to receive uh that God wasn't going to destroy the earth by flood anymore. Is that would that be where you you start uh David in the in the list of covenants? Um well uh I mean maybe I mean I think it it makes us think, okay, what is uh what's what's different about when the word covenant used is is used and when it's not. So uh like with Noah, right, when God makes that promise, he doesn't Um God basically just says, This is how it's gonna be. Right? Like this is what I'm gonna do. Uh man is always gonna be evil and So I'm going to not uh not destroy all of mankind in the same way like I did, right? And and so th i it's also interesting like with that, so one of the things I think we see with covenants a lot also is There's a there's a sign of the covenant, right? There's something uh given to like symbolize that that covenant exists, right? Or that that promise exists. Uh right, like the the rainbow that God says, okay, like like so th this is the sign of my promise, but I don't I don't know that I would even categorize that as a covenant 'cause he's not saying there isn't like this uh um I mean maybe in a super broad sense of like this is God saying this is my covenant with like all of creation, right? In in the same way that you know, that God that you we would have to say, okay Um when God says to Adam, all right, like like on the day you eat of this you're you're gonna die. Uh you know, if you do. And so, um There's like that that is like a promise, right? As in like, hey, this is what's going to happen if this other thing happens. But but I I I mean is there like a Right, yeah, yeah, yeah. Like it but is there is there like a s and so that is a that's the establishment of something between God and Adam and all his descendants, right? Adam and all who will come from him kind of deal. Um Yeah, there are rules, there's laws, there's proclamations, there's promises, and not necessarily all of those would fit within the confines of what we mean by covenant. And this is why we have the the discussions and debates about you know, theologians like to argue about, you know, this is one of the how many angels can dance on the head of a pin kind of questions that the people go round and round on. Um The the Adamic covenant, it could be the covenant of works, which is kind of what uh Daniel's talking about with, you know, if you eat of the tree uh y y you you you obey and things are g you live, and if you don't obey then you know bad things will happen to you. Um but also all A lot of people will say you you have a covenant. Now you've sometimes heard the phrase cut a covenant. We're gonna cut a covenant. You ever he hear that? I'm getting s a couple of blank looks, also some nods. So it's not that common in the vernacular anymore, but if you read a lot of theology books and stuff, it's not that unusual. And even in the just the everyday common vernacular sometimes this is like old school lingo. You would hear somebody say, Oh gotta cut a covenant. Uh and it's different than cutting a rug. Cutting a rug, you know The Anthony J, that sort of thing. Right. Um but uh they they called it cutting a covenant because cutting was involved. You know, blood was shed. Uh, even like pagan rituals would do that, like becoming blood brothers, you know, kind of thing where you cut the skin and you blend the bloods. Um and so when Uh Adam and Eve sin, and then there's the the the first uh I would argue the first mention of the gospel promise in in Genesis uh where um you know the the serpent's gonna s uh strike the heel and the heel's gonna crush the head of the serpent. The seed of the woman is going to be the rescuer. That that's which is a another kind of like promise that God makes but there's But blood is shed because God kills the animals to make to make uh coverings for Adam and Eve. Uh you know. It doesn't say where he got 'em from. Well, I I think there's an implication. I I agree. There's an implication that they killed the animals. Anyway, so those are some of the the ingredients. And uh we're laying all this foundation because we're we're heading into what will probably be the primary topic for next week's show has to do with circumcision. The the covenant David mentioned that you know covenants will typically have some sort of a sign that's associated with the covenant. And uh circumcision is the sign of the covenant made with Abraham, the the the you know the A lot of people think but that's kind of where the covenants start. They don't want to count the the other covenants before that as biblical covenants. And I I don't want to get bogged down. Unless you guys find that really fascinating, we can hash those sorts of things out I mean uh to me I I just keep coming back to the contract and and I know you you're you're saying well a business contract doesn't have a relation to well, I don't know. I mean you should put your heart in into it and and Jesus says It's a business relationship. Your yes should be yes and your no should be no and you should actually meet that from your heart and you should treat everybody in business business as well as you would treat friends and and so on. So I don't I don't really see a conflict there necessarily It feels to me it feels like yes, there's a relationship aspect to it. I think b both things can be true at the same time. contract, right? A marital contract. Yes. But that feels so clinical. Yeah, 'cause you're in the west. In the east is not that way. In the East the contract is more relational. In West western culture we we we don't want us we it feels too sanitized that way if you say, oh it's just business. But marriage has always been, in fact First and foremost a contract, even more than a relationship in most parts of the world. So should we start calling it the old contract and the new contract? I mean that that I think contract is probably a more applicable term in modern English than covenant or testament because it has a more uh close meaning in today's language to what is actually being conveyed. I I would I I I I would feel comfortable with with using the word con contract. But adding the the caveat that yes, the relationship is very important because we seem to have lost that part of it in the West, uh you know, m modern culture about uh that but also when you say old covenant and new covenant, you're kind of implying that the old covenant is no longer there. That it doesn't have any effect anymore. And I think that's true. Yeah, and I and I think that that is a misnomer. Yeah. So I I don't I think there's an old covenant, new covenant, but I think it's a fulfillment of the old covenant. It's not a new covenant in that it's different God, it's a totally different personality, relationship. It's solved the major issue of our relationship with God, but it is not a new promise. Right. But but it is a um an uh you know, it is a replacement. of the old covenant. I don't think so. I think you build on top of. Well, I mean that's what that's what Hebrews talks about when it uses the language of New Covenant and Old Covenant. It's that there's a No, we we now have a a new and better covenant. But Jesus himself said I didn't come to abolish the law, I came to fulfill it. It wasn't a a an abolishment of the old covenant. Right. Well yes, but what but once it's fulfilled, it's it's over. See, I d I don't agree. And I don't think Hebrews says that either. So that that's gonna be an interesting topic. That's probably gonna be one of the key uh uh elements of the of next week's discuss discussion on circumcision, is my guess. Yeah, I think that you know You think other language in the New Testament is uh I do not give you a new com command, and yet I give you a new command. Right? But back to back thoughts, uh is that that John? Uh or is that? I don't know. I'm I'm drawing a blank on where in the bo but the idea of Yeah, so what's old is what's new in a sense. So yeah, we're not throw I would agree that we're not throwing away the old. We're not merely New Testament believers. We believe in the entire canon, the old. Yeah, or the the Hebrew texts and the Greek text. For those of you Catholics here, that's sixty six total books. Yeah, that's a that's a different debate. See, this is what he does. Now we have to write that down. Okay, how many books in the canon? Yes, you talked about that before. We've talked about that on the show before, though. We're kind of in the case. Everybody in this room would would would identify with the Protestant canon. Uh now you have a I totally lost my uh my what my train of thought was. If you remember what I was talking about? Yeah, we we're not one one testament Christians, we're entire Bible Christians. Yeah, so we want to be careful that we're not jettisoning the Old Testament or or in the language of Andy Stanley, we're not unhitching from the Old Testament and only hitching ourselves to the New Testament. Because the reality is, and we've seen this with Andy Stanley, by the way, if you unhitch from the Old Testament, it's only a matter of time before you unhitch from the New Testament too. Uh there's so interpolation. Well without Adam, then what's the need for Christ? The point is there what's old is what's new. There is this new thing that's kind of a replacement. I don't that word is a really a lightning rod kind of a word. I don't know if I would use the word replacement. We've got to find a better word because I think I agree with theology. Yeah, but there's a better word than replacement. But there there's there's a there's a a a a new expression, something that's fresh, that's added into the mix, that is such a game changer that it's it's new It's not like the old. There's something that's new about it. And that something is someone. The person and work of Jesus of Nazareth. That is what's new. And everything finds its fulfillment in that. Everything before that was pointing to that. Everything since then is pointing back to that. That is what's new. So I would argue that he was in the old as well. But he's revealed in such a more profound way in the new that it's dramatically new. Now David's I thought we were gonna be in some agreement, but he's kinda Rolling his eyes up into the sky, thinking like, okay, can I agree with this or not? So maybe we're not gonna maybe next week's gonna be particularly interesting. I don't know. What what what is it you're pondering? I'm curious. Uh well, I so I I know like in in Hebrews there's you know, old covenant is referring to And like and Paul does this in other in Corinthians uh as well, right? Like he he refers to the the old covenant uh specifically being um the the law in particular. So not everything in the Old Testament, um but the the Mosaic Law. Correct, yeah. Yeah. And so uh so I I I I was just trying to think in my mind, okay, well, you know, what what is actually meant by by new. You know? Uh new as in fresh or new as in replacement or a more complete understanding of what always was. Uh a new understanding? A more complete understanding of what always was is is how I would describe it because I mean as Hebrew says The blood of goats never could take away sins. It's not that it used to and now doesn't. It never did and never could. The only way to be saved always was Christ and is now Christ and always will be Christ Uh and I think that's that's very important. So because there's other things that God says, Hey, you should do this if you're following me and and I'll bless you and so on, that doesn't necessarily have much to do with salvation. Salvation i has always been the same way, which is you through Christ's blood even prior to Christ being born in our timeline from our perspective. Yeah. Yeah. W we have to wrap this up here a second. We'll we'll pick up this thread next week we talk about circumcision, which is one a uh a sign of the of a covenant. And so we'll have plenty of opportunity. But I'm wondering if this would satisfy, like if somebody puts out a a newly published version of an old book and it's been slightly edited or reformatted or whatever, it's the new revised edition. It's the same book, but it's been it's new. It's the same old book, but it's new. Or Tide, you know, they have their commercials, new and improved, but it's still the same old Stupid laundry. Totally insufficient. Yeah, I w I w I I agree. Neither of those neither of those are useful. So we're we're ending on a very unuseful note then. Uh David and Daniel, give me a hard time. David Forcy. Daniel Razby. Imran, he was quiet, so he's on my side as far as I'm concerned. That's the way we're wrapping this up. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for listening. Find us online at household of faith in Christ dot com and WFMD. com Till next week, 167. 5 hours from. Let me jump and watch. Yep, right now. God bless