This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others are. Learn in a week. The fate debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com. Keyword fate. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner. Weighing in with a master of divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Troy Skinner. Back again for another special edition of The Faith Debate on 930W. FMD special edition because we are uh hard pressed to do panel discussion type shows in close proximity with one another with all of the restrictions that are in place these days. So these are lockdown tapes. Part two. You might remember in 2020 we did some lockdown tapes and now we're doing them again. This is some material that has been uh out there for a while in different forms, but never on the Faith Debate show. These are thoughts that I I had and shared in a in a different context. uh back in April of twenty twenty. But so little in our life has changed since then that it's so relevant still to where we are today. So I hope you enjoy look at an issue that church historians will surely be studying until the return of Christ. Picking up on the theme of the week, we will start with a pretty strong statement meant to engender a spirit of generosity among believers. If a person attending a worship service, or prayer meeting, or choir practice, or Bible study, or leadership meeting, or whatever other church-related activities should activity should end up dying while en route or ends up being exposed to the coronavirus, the H1N1 virus, of tuberculosis or any other contagion That person and the church is not guilty of any sin in this If someone feels that his or her attendance at a worship service would be to test God, then he or she is rightly prudent to avoid the danger. If someone else feels that it is not a test of God, then he or she can in good conscience attend the worship service. Christ promised danger for his followers during the time prior to the second advent, didn't he? So it is unfair, biblically speaking, to condemn an individual or local church that does not automatically advocate safety at the expense of boldness. If the Bride of Christ takes the avoidance of risk too far, then no Christian would seek to disciple anyone in certain parts of the world where being discovered to be a Christ follower results in death. The conundrum begs the question of where to draw the line. Scripture indicates the line is best drawn in a place where there's a higher priority placed on things eternal than is placed on things that will pass away. When this happens, the Christian is not afraid to die. Now these wisdom wisdom questions, they're tough. So again, believers, they need to be sure To be generous with empathy toward one another. Without a doubt, the church exists, whether it prays as often as it ought, or studies God's word as it ought, or witnesses as it ought. However, This study is not tackling questions about the church's existence, but of the church's behavior. All of life is worship. And yet the body is called to meet together for particular moments of corporate worship, which include congregational singing, deeply personal fellowship, administering the sacraments, and so forth. In addition to the things that many say can now more easily be done with virtual church. These are important considerations always and even now. It has become clear that no matter what, even if the worst-case scenario estimates for COVID-19 are assumed There will still be brothers and sisters who believe that they should meet together to worship their Maker and the great physician. When questioning the wisdom of this approach by appealing to Bible verses, it is absolutely crucial that the context of Scripture is rightly understood. What is the historical setting? Who is the original audience? What is the writer's primary purpose? What was said immediately prior and immediately after the selected passage? How does this fit within the whole of the biblical book and the whole of the canon? What type of literature is in play? And so forth. And using scripture to interpret scripture is also foundational to a healthy hermeneutical approach, an interpretive approach. With this in mind, how is Romans 13 best understood? The now oft-debated Romans 13 passage falls within the context of a long epistle written by the Apostle Paul. In the first 11 chapters, Paul gets hard on doctrine. And in the final five chapters, he dives into application of the doctrine. And generally speaking, that application is to love others, including government authorities. This early part of chapter 13 is immediately preceded by the tail end of chapter 12, which tells believers to love one another with affection and honor, to be fervent in spirit while serving the Lord, to be patient and prayerful in tribulation, and to live in harmony with other Christians by never being wise in our own sight, among other things. And then it says individuals are never to avenge themselves because God says basically, I got this. This is the lead-in context to the text of chapter 13, which says the governing authorities are placed there by God. In other words, it's part of how he's got this. So Christians must trust God in this arrangement by showing love to the governing authorities. This is done by being subject to the authorities, by not resisting the authorities, by being in subjection to the authorities, by giving the respect and honor that is due to the authorities. In other words, Paul uses. And that's it. That's all Paul says. The Apostle Paul says nothing at all about exceptions to this rule when it comes to bowing down before idols or continuing to pray publicly when commanded to stop. or ceasing the practice of preaching the gospel or anything else. And yet, as was pointed out earlier in this string of lessons Those exceptions surely must exist because there is Daniel 3 and Daniel 6 and Acts 5 with which to contend. Not to mention the midwives who disobeyed the Pharaoh and even lied about it, where the reader is told that they feared God and did not do as the king of Egypt had commanded them. That's Exodus 1. 17. Or the Israelites, who later in the book of Exodus openly rebelled against the government of Egypt. Or Rahab in Joshua chapter 2, who directly disobeyed a command from the king of Jericho when she lied for the Israelite spies. Or the people resisting the command of King Saul when he ordered the killing of Jonathan for having broken the law. That's 1 Samuel 14. Or the story found in 1 Kings chapter 18, where when Obadiah feared the Lord greatly. and preserved one hundred prophets from Queen Jezebel. Well the story in Second Kings, where Joash is not he not only hidden from the authorities But from but the authority itself, Aphalia, is put to death. And the list goes on But yeah, I have no idea, but it's been often said that if you want to start a create a new habit, give it 28 days. Stick with something for 28 days. At the end of the 28 days, you will have a new habit Well we've been living in this new kind of world for more than 28 days. And so it's my concern that one of those habits that could have been formed, if we're not careful it'll become an ongoing habit, is to settle for watching Franklin Graham on TV, listening to Michael W. Smith sing beautiful Christian music. for coming together, quote unquote, as the body of Christ to watch something together on social media or on television or listen to it on the radio. All those resources are good. They're wonderful. our personal devotional lives that we're hopefully even more uh in tune with now. Those are good things. I hope those habits do remain. I hope that you're reading your Bible more regularly with the right kind of heart attitude behind it. And you're praying more consistently and fervently and specifically, uh, and not out of a simple ob sense of obligation, but out of a a sense of communion with the Lord as you do so. I hope that all those things are true, and I hope that those things continue. But sooner rather than later Christ's church needs to gather together in proximity with one another. We need to have physical fellowship. We need to participate in the sacraments. Those sorts of things need to happen. So, as you heard in the announcements with the Living Faith Ministries, you know, uh fading into the sunset, it might be tempting for those who call Living Faith Ministries home. to just find somebody online to pay attention to. That's not good enough. God has more for you than that. Don't accept lesser When God has so much greater in store for you. Learning have been examining the way to best approach the biblical teaching that people are to be subject to government authorities It's become a wedge issue within the church in recent weeks, and this need not be the case. Using scripture to interpret scripture Romans 13 is seen in the context of numerous exceptions to the rule throughout God's written revelation that include worship, prayer, preaching, refraining from murder, rebelling against an authoritarian government. Covering for God's agents, rejecting unreasonable orders, giving sanctuary to God's righteous leaders, and even taking the life of a government authority if necessary There are enough individual examples to suggest that what the Bible student has before them is a biblical principle. If the government interferes or threatens or seeks to thwart God's people by attempting to take from them their life or liberty or freedom to worship or pray or preach or even their economic freedom, if If the government interferes or threatens God's people in these ways from advancing his righteous causes, then God sanctions disobeying human governments. So long as Christians are willing to humbly face the consequences of the disobedience. Certainly it's Now it was easy and simple to determine when such disobedience is God-sanctioned. Nevertheless, this principle is what allowed Martin Luther to lead the charge during the Reformation. This principle allowed God-fearing men to fight for independence from the rule of King George III. This principle is what allowed Rosa Parks to spark a revolution in civil rights. If this is not a biblical principle, then all of these well-honored heroes were actually behaving as depraved sinners. That the behavior was sinful is a conclusion that could fairly be considered, but it is not how the church has traditionally viewed these historic examples. Many have offered the suggestion that God's people can only disobey the government when there are directives that would force people to sin, such as the example of worship this idol or die. And eat this unclean food or die. However, this does not explain the Exodus narrative or what happens in Joshua chapter 2 Nor does it excuse the Boston Tea Party or Martin Luther King Jr. If Rahab was not committing a sin In Joshua chapter 2, nor Luther, nor Rosa Parks. How would someone prove it? They could prove it by appealing to the biblical principle outlined above. The government's role is to punish evil and promote good. And there are people who are loudly saying that they believe it is evil, selfish, and therefore not good for congregations to gather during the pandemic. In response, some would respectfully ask if this view is consistent with God's opinion on the matter. Some might even ask if this view is consistent with how these critics are living their own lives. These critics generally assume that it's okay to go grocery shopping or to the bank or to the gas pump or to work as a quote-unquote essential personnel member If so, why do they assume it's not okay to go to church? Is it because people need food, money, gas, and to perform important services for the community? If so, couldn't a local church make the argument that people need what they offer when they gather to perform important sur important services for the community? There are individuals who might reject this argument out of hand, but they should be asked if they can at least empathize with other points of view well enough to soften the edges around their position that other Christians are being selfish. Think about a scenario for a moment. What if the church wanting to meet together has extensive hand washing stations and protocols set up? What if they have fewer than fifty people meeting in a sanctuary that holds 300? And this is a common reality for many churches in Western civilizations post-Christian culture. What if everyone stays at least six feet away from one another and all the greeters and ushers and so forth are wearing protective gear and what if it's safer than the grocery store and the gas station and the ATM machine? Are they still being selfish? I'm sure I've written more than enough already, so with regard to this topic, I will wrap up here. I'm glad that we can at least now see that everyone in church leadership throughout the world is seriously wrestling with what is going on. It's unfortunate. that many believers might have to agree to disagree over some parts of the body being considered selfish because they view the worldly wisdom of humanity's expert class. through a different prison than do some others. Christ's bride is called to do better than this. By the power of the Holy Spirit, she will. From Bonhopper's discipleship. Chief grace is preaching forgiveness without repentance. It is baptism without the discipline of community. It is the Lord's Supper without confession of sin. It is absolution without personal confession. Chief grace is grace without discipleship, grace without the cross, grace without the living incarnate. Jesus Christ. So let's make sure that we don't have cheap grace in our lives. Communio Bonhoeffer writes, the miracle of the Christian concept of community is that love for God involves submission. But that God's love in ruling serves. That's pretty broken out, by the way. Do we know what our next song is going to be yet? For this uh quote. Again, if you're joining late, uh Bonhoeffer was 75 years ago last month uh that Bonhoeffer was uh was was put to death by Nazi Germany as he attempted to undermine what was going on with uh uh atrocity in Europe at the time. Uh what did I read last time? Okay, this is from Life Together and Prayer Book of the Bible A life together under the word will stay healthy only when it does not form itself into a movement, an order, a society a Collegium Pietus, but instead understands itself as being part of the one holy universal Christian church sharing through its deeds and suffering in the hardships and struggles and promise of the whole church. Accessory prayers of its members for one another or the community will be destroyed. That's from Bonhopper's Life Together and Prayer Book of the Bible And then another quote I just a moment ago, a couple minutes ago, read from the Sanctorum Communio. Here's another one from there. The revealed community of love had to be broken up one more time by its founder's own action By the way, listen to this closely because I found this to be particularly profound and an insight into what was happening in the Lord's Supper, unlike anything I had ever quite uh thought about it before. So again, the revealed community of love. Alright, so the church, the revealed community of love had to be broken up one more time by its founder's own action. Though not before Jesus had tied them tightly together with a close bond at the very last hour. This happened in the Last Supper Jesus says, just as I break this bread, so my body will be broken tomorrow. And as all of you eat and are filled from one loaf, so too will all of you be saved and united. in me alone. And I never thought about Jesus talking about his body being broken. I always think in terms of him being beaten and sacrificed on the cross But the church is also his body, and the church is scattered and broken in that moment as well. And never until Regan Plannhofer never thought about that aspect of what it meant for Jesus to say that his body would be broken. And yet in in the breaking it then gets pulled back together by Christ. So I just find that to be a p a profound, profound quote. Well you find a different one. So here's another quote from Bon Hoffer. It's from his uh his book Discipleship. A short one. To flee into invisibility is to deny the call. Any community of Jesus which wants to be invisible is no longer a community that follows him. Find that to be rather profound. We'll uh provide that link. And he says, I've read a few articles about the Syrian refugee crisis and saw some pictures of the ruin families have encountered That was all I needed to shift from an attitude of another day to an attitude of gratitude and an enhanced desire to not just exist but to really live today I need to remind myself today, the greater is the servant. If you realize that you are in a blessed position right now, then you are in fact filled with joy because you have more than you realized. I encourage you to serve five people today through text messages of inspiration. video calls just to check in, social media posts that bring hope and inspiration to others. I thought Andrew had some pretty good thoughts there, so I wanted to share them. And Christian, reminder You are indeed in a blessed position right now. No matter how you feel about your circumstances, because you are a Christian, you are in a blessed position right now because he is risen He has risen indeed. And that's going to draw a close to uh this week's edition of the Faith Debate. Thank you so much for listening. We're online at WFMD. com. You can find links to the podcast on the station's Facebook page. You can find me on uh Me we and uh well I'm on Facebook sort of kind of exploring gab, that sort of thing, and if parlor is actually up and running by the time you hear this I'll be there as well. Uh thanks so much for listening to one hundred sixty seven and a half hours from right about now. God bless.