Broadcasting from the West Side of Big Brother City. Sitting in the heart of Gridlock County, where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement. And people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Face Debate. Brought to us by BMC Insurance and Footman Plumbing and Heating. Hopefully make you smile. Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com keyword faith. There you'll find links to podcasts, news items, the Faith Debate blog The Faith Bay blog, I like to I like to say, my blog is your blog. So email me at Troy Skinner at clearchannel. com. Whatever you send to me, I will post. I with maybe some editing or s very little judicious uh edits really though. I mean it's just uh little kids can't be shocked, parents can't be sending me hate mail because of something I post, so that will be cleaned up. Other than that, you got a good recipe? I'll post it. Do you want to disagree with something Jonathan said? I'll post that ten times over. So is it likely the Department of Justice is going to come after your emails? I'm sure they already have. Yeah. Just checking on all that because, you know, it's been happening recently Anyway, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com is my email. Um 45 blog posts a week, nine a day, Monday through Friday, go up there. So You can check that out. And if you can't keep up throughout the week, on the weekend, you can just treat all 45 at once. See what your neighbors are are sending in. On the Faith Debate today, Jonathan Sweise, you've already heard his voice. He's senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel As he takes a drink of water. Good evening. Good evening. Good morning. It's 8 30 in the morning. You know, it's been a long couple of days, hasn't it? Good morning. This is Radio Moscow. Good morning. And Annette Breling, uh, who is um I'm not sure what title to give you. I'm gonna say she's the founder of the Friends Meeting School in Imesville. She's a trustee at Sandy Springs Friends uh School in Alexandria. She's beautiful. She's I don't know what other and she's she's here uh representing uh a Quaker point of view on the show. What title should I give you? I should have clarified that before we went on the air. Annette Breeling. That's it? No no fancy title? We believe in simplicity and avoiding unnecessary titles that d differentiate people and make them less equal. Oh. And you know what? That'll probably play out in the context of the show. It is definitely the case. She works with me with the Frederick 48 fundraiser that last year raised over $300,000 for local nonprofits. And it is amazing the number of people that Annette knows around town, the connections. She just quietly going about doing her thing. And she she you know decided she wanted to be a part of the Frederick Forty Eight when we were first putting things together, and she has been a uh a powerful ally. uh with Frederick 48. So it's been a real joy getting to know Annette and uh having some conversations with her about how we disagree politically, how we disagree uh religiously, because she's a Quaker. And uh and so I look forward to having this conversation. We it was a couple months ago, uh it might have almost been a year ago that we said, you know, we should we should have this kind of conversation sometime. And I believe also when looking for where we had common ground. Yeah, indeed. In fact that's a big part of what Quakerism represents to you, isn't it? I think so. Uh we are very committed to uh peace testimony, but we find we to build peace we don't bash the other side. We try and find that of God in one another, find common ground, find each person's truth. and how we can move forward from that. There's a couple key phrases in there. Did you follow that? Yeah. Yeah. By the way, for the uninitiated Frederick 48, um on this show if you've listened, you know what that is, but if this is your first time listening or hearing that referred to. This is coming up on year three. That's right. A couple of years back the uh because of the budgetary situation uh the county was facing the county commissioners cut back on funding for a lot of the uh service agencies, not for profits in the county. Jonathan Sweitzer said, I'll have none of that. And so he put together a coalition of people that uh really uh put the wind in his sails. And year one was I don't know thirty, forty thousand dollars was raised. I think it was about twenty-eight thousand. Though it's a lot of things. Last year was seventeen point three trillion dollars, I think. Something like that? Speaking evangelastically it was, but uh truthfully it was about three hundred thousand as well. At the May it was a tenfold increase. So now this year we're shooting for three million. Right? Another central we're hoping for an increase and we'll see how that plays out. But that ties in with Jonathan's beliefs and also our Quaker commitment to equality W I think we share the concern that we should not be having the rich getting richer, the poor getting poorer. We should not have money being taken away from the nonprofits And I agree with you, except you know you don't know Jonathan that well yet. Well that's right, I'm communist. I'm more equal than everybody else. And Jonathan has been a good person to work with and I do find him open minded and and I find a lot of humility. When when there's a mistake he's very ready to say Yes. So the interesting thing has been that um in that context, right, I don't spend a whole lot of time digging into like what I believe about things or why I believe about it. Like you and I got in a couple of those discussions, but it's been important in the context of Frederick 48 to not um to not take super strong stands on things but to kind of decide which mountains are the important ones to die on for the sake of, you know, getting things done. And I feel like actually this show has been a big um uh training ground for even knowing where a lot of people tend to stand. Right? 'Cause if you're gonna forge unity, you gotta know where the where the red zones are that that if you go there you're really gonna turn people off. And you gotta know how to, you know, kind of walk the minefield as it were. And I feel like this uh this show really uh helped by having the deeper conversations. And so you and I are probably gonna go in the next couple of shows here to places that uh You and I have never been before. Well that could be. And I'm excited to see uh, you know, just again, your your awareness of uh what a Quaker background is all about and it Quakerism was there from the beginning here in the United States. Shame on us. Eight and a half years of doing the Faith of Hell, we have not had a Quaker guest before. Shame on us. At least no one that w no one that would admit such. So why don't you if you can, you know, five, ten minutes, kinda hit the hot spot, the highlights of You know, why you're a Quaker, why others should think about uh the world the way that the Quakers think about the world. Well, I do confess that I do believe that if more people followed Quaker testimonies, the world would be a better place to live in. Nice. That's a good way to start off Throw down the gauntlet. And that's where starting a French school. Yeah. Where children learn to live peacefully, respectfully. And we we call ourselves a Quaker School for All Faiths at Friends Meeting School because we still welcome, value different points of view. But we learn to resolve conflicts peacefully uh most of the time. and um commit ourselves to nonviolence and seeking for truth open mindedly. Okay, so nonviolence, seeking for truth open mindedly, resolving conflicts is a big part of that. What else? We we talked at our friends' schools, we actually talked about Friends Testimonies, the way we live out our life, and we ended up using the acronym SPICES. And each letter stands for a different Quaker testimony. S for simplicity. Simplicity. Live simply that others may simply live. Okay. I for integrity. Okay. Walk the talk. And live let your lives be. Be patterns, be examples. Yeah. So that all may follow you. She's grabbing some of her books over here that she's wanting to open up and teach me. So I from Integrity. C for community, building a sense of community. Um spies E for equality. Equality. So uh we s avoid titles that set one person as more super s as superior to somebody else. And the final S for stewardship of our environment and of our bodies We we had these spices that we permeated our school culture. Yeah. We had queries for the students. Each month we had a monthly theme. Now I and I I might have m not been paying close attention. I think I missed the P What peas? Oh my goodness. Peace. Of course. What were we thinking? Simplicity, peas, and peace. My mom always tried to get me to eat my peas, and I had a hard time with it. I'm just saying, yeah Well, you know, it's i on the face of it, there wouldn't seem to be a lot of disagreement, right? Jonathan's gonna say, yeah, and the Christian life is gonna be for the most part a simple life uh pursuing peace, being people of integrity, fostering community, treating others as equal, and being good stewards of what God has given us. So on the face of it there's tons of agreement. The two areas that that stand out to me though is that I think um peace and how we go about coming to peace would be an area of potential disagreement. And the other one is equality. I'm not sure what you mean by that. I'm not sure how much what what I mean by that, but equality is definitely something that I think is important if it's done the right way. Help me refresh my memory from middle school and high school. They wear funny hats. At least they do on the boxes of cereal. They they eat lots of oats apparently. Simplicity. big in the founding of the state of Pennsylvania. Yes. Uh William Penn was uh the other gentleman you referred to earlier. That was an early Quaker. George Fox. He's the founding Quaker. Mm-hmm. The original Quaker. Okay. And I almost said the uh William Penn's like a preeminent Quaker, but you probably wouldn't like that language, so I gotta be careful because that would make him more equal than the Right. Well, if you go to Philadelphia and there's a statue of William Penn there and there is a uh a principle, I'm not sure if it's a law or not. But no building could be built higher than the statue of William Penn, so maybe Quakers have violated dirt. Yeah, but then didn't they take that statue and stick it on top of a a high cathedral just so they could build a little bit of a bit of a I think I had heard that somewhere so now you can't build anything higher than a Rocky statue. Between Rocky and William Penn, I mean Philadelphia's. And I think I know that the uh Puritans and the Quakers didn't get along, if I understand correctly, which is why the Quakers ended up settling further south. And the new Eyes. When the Quakers started to uh move into Massachusetts, they were killed. They were hung. because the governor of Massachusetts and I'm not terribly good on my history, but I know that Bradford and Yes, that that he said any Quaker who enters will be hung. And what will be the whole thing. And there was there was a Quaker woman named Mary Twyer and she decided to defy that. And she went in purposefully and got herself hung just just to demonstrate that she felt that Quakers should be allowed in Massachusetts. But ultimately Quakers w settled in Maryland and Pennsylvania and elsewhere where They did have as a basic principle religious freedom, but people and Catholics came to the area for religious freedom too. And so that takes our whole discussion to a different level. because if she's gonna get hung for disagreeing with me today, I'm just saying it makes our our whole discussion a lot more exciting. Right? 'Cause 'cause I cause I tend to, I think, be v uh have have a theological um uh orientation that is similar to the Puritans, uh it maybe not politically, but at least in terms of what they believed about the Word of God. politically I would definitely be in a different place that I would, you know. Uh I I celebrate the fact that we have freedom of religion in the United States. I think it took uh the world a long time to get to that place. There's certainly times in history where where there was uh an appreciation of the importance of uh freedom of conscience. But w when it comes to, you know, what they uh the other beliefs that they had, I would tend to agree with them. And so If only they could have had this discussion with the respect that we're having now back then, things could have been quite a bit different for that Mary. What's her last name? Dwyer. Dwyer, yeah. There's a statue in um of Mary Dwyer in Philadelphia at the in by the Quaker Meeting House. There's a big Quaker building at 1500 Cherry Street. And it has a motto Quaker Institutions in that building and there's Mary Twyer and her s statue right in front of the building. And sh Yeah Well this is it. Um Jonathan's wife is a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Uh we're joined this week by Annette Breedling, who is uh founder of Friends Meeting School in Ivan'sville. She doesn't like, I guess, any sort of title, but that's not a title so much as just a fact of Your past history, you founded that school in in uh in our community, and also a trustee, and I guess part of the the s the establishment or founding of the Sandy uh Sandy Spring Friends Schools? They at the time were middle school and high school and when we merged then they became a pre-K to twelfth grade school. Okay And then for the next two years I was the associate head of the school for planning. Gotcha. Okay. Now I want to bounce back to the hanging thing. Why were people why weren't Quakers being hung? Yeah, what was the difference in theology? Do you remember it? I'm not terribly good at that, but I I know in England when Quakers began they were persecuted because they wouldn't go to the Church of England. They believed in having worship in meeting houses and George Fox, the founding Quaker Uh said steeple houses are not how you know you can know God anywhere. You don't have to go to a steeple house to know God. You need to search within yourself and find that of God within you. And so uh so the early persecution um was both theological but but it was also a uh a rebelling against the the accepted order as it were of going to a church building and it was really a uh a a breaking off from that You know, they didn't want to be a part of politics and the world and they wanted to separate out from the world and and uh and they were a lot less inclined to hierarchy. They were more committed to to the idea of being uh equal as well. But But even Quakerism and Baptists would have some significant disagreements. And so where did Geor George Fox get his inspiration, I wonder. Like what what were the books that lined his walls? Well, at that time I think reading was just coming about and as a child George Fox was very engrossed in the Bible. And um he was a poor boy, a weaver's son and when he went to church, the Church of England, and he was very religious But he worried I think equality was one of the big things that bothered him because the poor people had to bow their heads when the Lords and walked in they all had to stand and take off their hats. Right. And so Quakers when when he did come to Quakerism a number of years later, he's they would not take off their hats for anyone, even the king And then that got that got them in trouble. That got them thrown into jail. Yeah. Um one of the things that we that we know are is distinctive about Quakerism is the Quaking. Right? Calling something a Quaker was originally wasn't that a pejorative? Like they would refer to them almost as a negative. Oh, you're a Quaker. But now you've embraced that label, I guess. Yes, I think we use the terms Quaker or Friends interchangeably. But um when George Fox was taken to court and speaking with passion, the Judge said why uh uh he made some negative comment, some cynical comment about his quaking, and George Fox answered back, Well you too should quake before the Lord. And I don't know that Quakers in general quake in their meetings for worship. Uh, although sometimes if we have a deeply religious experience we might feel a little quakey about it. I I think if you feel something very, very strongly You it's true. You feel that, don't you? Have you ever quaked with every time I'm in your presence of your sister Every time I'm around you, John. I'm just reading here that um that George Fox was born in a strong Puritan village in Leicester, England. Right? And so uh so that's interesting 'cause Puritans tended to be Baptists, right? The Anabaptists down through the Puritans uh coming into Yeah, well they tend to be Calvinist, I think. Calvinists. They might be Baptist Calvinists though, because Calvinists could be Baptist or Presbyterian. Sure. So it's interesting that we're not going to be able to do that. For religious persecution. And then there's and the and and the uh friends, the the Quakers leave for religious persecution, and then they run into more religious persecution from people who just Ran away from religious persecution at this. Right. Oddity of history. So Quakers has Quakers have never gone into per persecuting others Because I'm saying against but you're but the Puritans were hanging them, apparently. The Puritans, right. And they fled religious persecution themselves. Okay, I see what you're saying. uh that founding colony uh here in the United States of Massachusetts because they were um trying to set up heaven on earth and they they found out very quickly, you know, like they had to have the um the half uh voting laws, you know, that that if your parents were believers then then you could vote. You know, because it used to be that you could only vote if if you were a believer, you know, if you were converted. But then the kids weren't converting, and so then they said, Okay, well if your parents were believers then you could you you could vote and so that whole experiment with uh uh righteousness uh trying to set up a righteous uh si uh city or colony on earth was really a failure and unfortunately the Quakers, some of these early Quakers were um victims of that failure. And so so tell me about the inner voice. What is what is the inner voice? Like I think that you and I would probably possibly be in different places on that issue. Well I'm going to go back to George Fox again and the fact that He began questioning some of the practices of the church and he began asking some probing questions of the pastor, I don't know what the title was, the m the minister, the priest, and different religious leaders And he about the nature of God, the nature of man, how we should live our lives. And he was also con concerned with the hypocrisy that he felt that they could preach one thing on Sunday and live another way the rest of the week. And he just felt he was very sensitive man it it's a young man, he was in his teens still, but it felt so bad about that that when he was nineteen he left home and began wandering and and uh in the wilderness for two years until he heard what he says was a voice that basically um it said there's one Christ Jesus that can speak to thy condition. He I think it got interpreted that Uh you don't have to listen to somebody else. All these other people you ask these questions to may not be able to answer your questions, but there is there is one Christ within you. And sometimes Quakers talk about the inward Christ. And that one can find this by turning inward. So um is there an expectation in uh Quakerism that the Inward Christ would tend to um measure up or or follow along the lines of uh Christ as we have presented to us in the Bible. Uh in large part, yes. Now one problem the Quakers have in general is because we believe we need to listen to our inner voice, not what the Pope tells us, not what the what not what's necessarily in the scripture. Yeah. But what our inner voice tells us. How do we know whose inner voice is right? Right. In fact I asked you this question one time. Is it possible that the inner voice could be a negative voice, like a voice of of like a Satan figure or, you know, of condemnation is is a word we use in our circles or Or the voice of the accuser is another word that we use for Satan, the condemner, the accuser. And one of the things I know about early Quaker history is that before they got uh too well organized There were some people that went pretty far out and um there was one guy, James Naylor. And again I'm not too good on my history. I'm afraid if some Quaker were listening they might tell me I'm off track on some things I've said. But uh James Naylor um tried to pretend he was Christ and rode naked on horseback preaching and that was very embarrassing to other em uh naked horsebacker And so what they've come up with is is a balancing between the individual truth and community truth. And so if one individual feels strongly spiritually led in a certain direction they take it to the meeting, the community of Quakers. And that's sort of a sounding board and we all try to commit ourselves of being open minded and listening to one another's truth. Yeah. And if we prayerfully seek divine truth. Yeah. We make decisions that we can all be in accord with ultimately. So it takes Quakers a long time to really come up with decisions. Sure. But eventually when we come up with our decisions, we are all behind it. You know, I was taught uh in an apologetics class I had one time that that there's three Cs to truth. It's comprehensive, coherent, and Uh-oh. Comprehensive, coherent, and he got a C minus in that class. Yeah, yeah, yeah. With the three C's. He only got two out of the three. He got a C minus. Uh but the comprehensive part in particular oh consistent is the other word. Consistent, comprehensive, and coherent. And um the comprehensive part or the consistent part means that that it's not just true when I'm by myself But it's true when I'm interacting with other people. Like there's there's an element of community there that um you know, if I saw a light, you know, in a room where everybody else was there and nobody else saw the light, then um we have to question whether or not it happened. But you know, like with Jesus, as they say there were five hundred people that saw him after he'd risen from the dead, something like that, then then gives us a greater um sense of confidence that something is true. And so this idea of the community being a part of h you know, that's the balance to having my own personal truth. Right. So you talk about the light within you, but the light within you is kind of submitted to the light within everybody else. Mm-hmm. So which actually is something that I think Christians would do a good job to uh to uh and have intended to follow that kind of an approach. Uh it got off when everything ultimately was submitted to a pope But previous to the popes they would come together in a council. And there was a sense that the council of the elders sit together and talk. And so if there's a disagreement, then you bring it to the elders and you communicate and out of that the Holy Spirit leads to a conclusion. That's that's how a major decision was made for the body of Christ. This is Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm sorry it's a habit I have to give him his title. He can be followed on Twitter. It's at SweiserJonathan, is that right? That's right. At SweitzerJonathan. And I'm not sure what he tweets out there into the Twitter sphere, but I'm sure it's wonderful stuff. I don't do the whole Twitter things. So I I have no idea what he's he's probably talking about. friends uh learning institutions as well. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate brought to us by BMC Insurance and Putman Flooming and Heating. How can we make you smile? What am I reading these days? Give praise to God A Vision for Reforming Worship, a book edited by Derek Thomas, Legan Duncan, and Philip Reichin. That would be a uh i i if you if you like something that's a little bit dry, it's a hearty recommend. Now that's the right way to put it. See? I can be peaceful too. But Jonathan is not at all dry. See, there you have it, Joy. You're like a martini. Till next week. God bless.