Broadcasting from the West Side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County, where fruit sheet with impact is like plowing pavement, the people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating, How if we make you smile, Cruise Holidays, sending Bob on that big Bahamas vacation, and BMC Insurance proud supporters of uh New Life Christian School. I think I've referred to it as New Life Christian Academy in the past and I've come to find out they call themselves New Life Christian School. Not academy, although their academics and their standards for academics are very high, so I understand. Anyways, visit us online, wfmd. com keyword faith. There you'll find the Faith Debate blog. How does stuff end up on that blog, you might ask? I knew you were curious. Email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. Troy Skinner, that's my name, at ClearChannel, that's our parent company. com And whatever you send me after I excise all the curse words and things that little children shouldn't be reading, uh gets posted up there. I keep up as best as I can. It comes in floods. Sometimes I go three or four days and I don't get anything, and then I'll get like fifteen things sent to me in the same day So be patient, it will eventually get up there. Nine times a day I update the blog, so that's forty-five updates um a week, and so far for the most part we don't fall too deeply behind by keeping that schedule. Jonathan Sweiser, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, is back. He's the uh founder of Frederick 48, the co-founder of the Frederick uh Faith Debate. He Ran for school board a number of years ago. High profile has enemies on all sides. That's right, enemies on all sides. The liberals have always just trusted him and now the conservatives don't trust him either. And the Frederick 48 was all about pulling all of my enemies together with me to help those that are most in need in Frederick. And it's been very successful and I'm super grateful. That's actually how I got um Rabbi Sekowitz back on uh on the radar show. I think we've said his last name three different ways now. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Nothing new for now. I thought it was the long E. You did the short I and it's the long I. Makes it right. So there is no I in Psychowitz. That's Rabbi Daniel Psychowitz that we're talking about. He is with Congregation Colemy of Frederick. Yeah, the best way to unite people is give them common enemies, so good job, Jonathan. Yeah, and the best way to unite enemies culturally is to sit down and have a conversation with them and show a little bit of respect, and you realize that even though you have severely different ideologies Uh, there's really a whole lot of things that you can do together if you understand one another well enough that you're not stepping on one another's toes. you know, in insensitive and rude manners, you know, where you don't have to compromise what you believe uh uh in order to get along. You just respect that they're in a different place. That's what the declaration of independence and the Constitution was supposed to be all about. And so Thomas Jefferson said the clash of ideas is the sound of freedom. And uh I feel like it's been really a good thing. It's been enjoyable for me here in Frederick. How many people severely disagree with me, both religiously and politically, but they'll work together for the sake of those that are most in need in Frederick. But now throw uh throw that all out the window because this is the Frederick Faith debate. That's right. We're gonna have some bloody fisticuffs going. Uh this is uh round two. We had the same panel together last I wrote some things down. I'm gonna keep I'm gonna pay attention to that 'cause it's a lot of things. came to be the historical context that led to their sprouting. We talked about Napoleon. Who knew we'd talk about Napoleon? Yeah. On a show like this, you know? So anyway, so that was cool. But one of the things that came up, Jonathan brought up the question, he got a little bit ahead of me where we were going, and he asked about two thirds of the way through the show. So what what what do uh Reform Jews believe? Because Colomia is a reform congregation And uh I said, Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, that's probably gonna be a whole show all by itself. And so here we are, next show, whole show all by itself. Here we go. So Jonathan at last week asked you, Rabbi. Uh what do Reformed Jews believe? What are okay, well that's sort of like hurting cats. Totally, right? Uh oh, do you mean uh the Reformed Jewish uh people or do you mean like the theol theology of the remote. The theology of the Reformed Jewish is because of the people, right? Because each individual is kind of left to interpret and figure things out on their own. So it is like herding cats. Wow, yeah. So I mean the my job as the rabbi is to educate uh to hopefully work them towards a uh fuller sense of themselves fulfillment I hope fuller sense of themselves. Yeah, it is. So maybe just religiously, you know, in Judaism. The rest of the stuff they're on their own. Well, no, I shouldn't say but I don't mean to be quite that flippant. Yeah. Um But it's a matter of working towards, you know, people for asking the important questions so that they better understand what they believe. Because so many people don't take the time to figure out, well, what do I believe about God anyway? And how does that work into my everyday life? And in the more orthodox world, you're basically told this is what God is. In the Reform world, you need to figure that out yourself. What is the image of God to you? And so does that result in some pretty like a broad spectrum of beliefs about what that means, or in Reformed Judaism, does it mean that you're helping uh the Jewish members of your congregation to to reconnect with their roots in their own way. And so it ends up almost kind of being a pretty similar perspective. It's just that they own it more fully because they've gone to discover it themselves. You see what I'm saying? I'd like to hope, um and one of the hardest things for me is to keep my belief in God out of their way. Because I fully believe in God and I I talk with God on a daily basis. But many of them don't. But many of them don't. So my job give me percentages? Oh gosh. Of what how many people are talking to God? No, how many of the Reformed Jews believe in God? Oh, believe in God. Um Mm, I would certainly say seventy-five to eighty percent. Okay. So a goodly amount, I would not say all, by any stretch of the imagination. Okay. Isn't that uh I don't think that'd be like a the entrance card for admission. No, no, no. How could you be a reformed Jew and not believe in God? Because you can you're s first of all, Judy Judaism is different in that it is cultural. Um, we're a people. Two shows in a row, I've learned something. And we also have a certain theology. So I love this job. There's so much more to Judaism than just the religious part. Um And and maybe maybe I'm you know maybe I'm the ones who come to me who tell me that they don't there more of the people who come to me that tell me they don't believe in God, so maybe it's skewed in my head that there are more, whereas the uh most of the other people Now the irony is in Christian circles, if people would be honest, you might have twenty percent of them say they don't believe in God. Well this is the thing, is that again a lot of the mainline denominations I think fit uh a Christian version of what you're describing, uh where I've talked, we've had, you know, pastors on the show who don't see their job as pointing people to Christ and helping them to come to terms with, you know, the orthodox beliefs of uh you know of Christianity, their orthodox teachings, but are more geared in this direction of helping people to discover for themselves what they really believe. And I think on the Christian side, you and I would tend to say that those guys have chosen heresy and have moved away from the faith and are now promoting really a multi-religious uh perspective. Do you get that from conservative Jews? Um Orthodox Jews are not. Yeah, not the conservative movement so much, but but if if we're No. Because I think most in the conservative uh I think in the conservative movement, a conservative congregant looks the same as a reform congregant. They're pretty much the same. Um, I think in the Orthodox world they would look at me and th and look at the reform movement or the conservative movement quite frankly, and they probably they can't really wrap their heads around that we're allowing people to try and discover this for themselves. What is the conservative movement hoping to conserve if they're not orthodox? They were ho they're hoping uh to conserve more of the traditions than reform. Um So they have more emphasis on on the on the practice? Yes. I would suggest that. However, uh in the in the United States and there was just uh the Pew Research Institute just came out with this uh study, but even before that From the nineteen fifties to now, reform and conservative have flipped. So in the nineteen fifties, conservative was probably twenty-five percent of all affiliated Jews were reform and fifty percent were conservative. And now fifty percent are reform and twenty-five percent conservative, maybe ten orthodox, ten percent orthodox. The rest are, you know, like I said, crucial. So it's moved in the direction of reform. Correct. Right? And and I've heard uh rumors maybe have read in various places that it can be a little bit of a struggle 'cause because if uh Jewish people are finding their own identity you know, and it's more cultural than it is religious, you know, the question is out there, can one be a Jew and not be religious? It is a struggle. I I will be completely honest. It's one of those things that we are dealing with on a regular basis that I deal with on a regular basis. trying to I mean ideally for me I would have my whole congregation believing in God and wanting to come to services every week. and understanding the prayers and understanding Hebrew, um and that would be ideal, but it's not what's out there. Now the the Four fifths anyway. Yeah, wow, that's all kinds of things. Uh four fifths anyway, uh based on your estimation, would say yes. But then how unified with would the view of God be? I it would be I I would bet it would be very diverse in terms of what does God look like to them. And by that I don't mean anthropomorphically, but I mean uh you know, when when they think about God, when they think about their soul, you know, and the spark that's in each of us That's divine. What does that mean to them? Anthropomorphically, back in the day we used to do a word of the week. That would have been the word of the week. An anthropomorphic God is a God that really you make in your own image. Is that what you mean by it? Yes. So so you're not encouraging them to m to kind of come up with their own view of God. You're trying to get them to grapple with what view of God is already in their head. Yes. And to come to terms hopefully with one in their head. Yeah. Right. And then to come to terms with it. If it's not in their head then I try and work with them or help them to s to develop. At one point earlier in today's show you had made uh in in explaining this to us, you were talking about uh you part of your job is to help them to, you know, arrive at a conclusion of what God is. And I thought the word what was interesting. So are there people who would be in your congregation that might not think in terms of a personal God? God more as a force or like a Buddhist, you know, the Atman Uh no one has ever said that to me, but I'm guessing it probab there probably are. Okay. Yeah. So again that would be uh that would not be out of bounds. Um, you know, it's one of those things where I, you know, bite my tongue and I sort of try and uh you know, work with them as best I can. Um so I'm trying to get my head around the content of what you're doing and the style and approach of what you're doing. Right? I mean you say you bite your tongue, right? There's many times that I bite my tongue because uh even though I'm hoping to bring somebody to a certain belief. I'm biting my tongue because it's just wisdom, you know. Solomon said uh, you know, that that a um prudent man uh no that that a fool shows his annoyance at once, but a prudent man overlooks an offense, you know, and so so when somebody says something that is like offensive to what I believe I bite my tongue and I listen to draw them out, you know, uh, in hopes of having the chance to influence down the road. And so so it's a It's a strategy, it's a way of communicating, seek first to understand, then to be understood. Right? And so is it just that or is it the co is it actually a content thing that at the end of the day you're very committed to them not ending up where you're at They don't have to end up exactly where I am. Yeah. But um it's more the first. It's more if I say s if someone presents what their image of God is to me and it is in left field and it's really not what a typical Jew might believe. Yeah. I don't try and say anything first because what's the first thing if I if I say reject them if I reject them, they're walking away, I'll never have a chance to influence them. But if so if I listen you get down to deep enough, you know, you really understand someone, they're probably saying it, communicating it in a way that probably I misunderstand. And so all you gotta do is ask the right question and you end up drawing out of them something that is a little bit more orthodox. If you will. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. More trad I like the word traditional. And so then again that that more has to do with a style than a content, ultimately. Mm-hmm. And you're you're okay with that distinction? Style or an approach? to pastoring. Okay. All right. Because I have to pass. I'm pastoring to them, I have to come to where they are. And I don't know where they are when I first walk into a room. So I kind of look at it that way, that I first I have to listen and understand where they're coming from. And then I can move from there. It's interesting. I'm very committed to that. Would you Troy say that in general when you're interacting with people, even those that are like members of your congregation, that uh that you're You really tend in that direction to draw them out first before you start saying, I mean I've run into some people, we've had some people on the show that their first instinct is to say, well you're wrong and this is why you should believe blah blah blah blah blah. Right. I mean I've I've had, you know, liberals on this show that are like that that are afraid that we're gonna get into an argument with them and they're the ones that come on combative. You know, and and so I think we're pretty committed to that even in our approach. Well you want to hear what somebody thinks, where they're coming from, why they think it. Sometimes you can learn something from that. Um We probably would be quicker to say Rabbis maybe you're maybe a little more willing to let them stay there uh because you know maybe that's where God has them, he's leading them on gonna trust their path or you know, that th they have a different perspective than I do and I'm not gonna worry about getting them to agree with my perspective and I would be m uh more prone to be If I was in your role and I'm not, so it's easy for me to say in in the hypothetical. But in the hypothetical, if I were in your role, I think I would be more no, I think I've got this right, and I think I need to persuade you to agree with me. Right. By the way, it's very platonic. You know, Plato, Socrates, ask questions, the truth is in you, I'm just helping you to remember it. You know, and so I'm asking the right questions. Socratic, you know, is what they call it in in Christian circles. Socratic evangelism. You don't tell them what to believe. You ask questions, you draw them out, and in asking the questions, the questions end up uh helping them to think about things they just hadn't thought about or hadn't been paying attention to and they realize, oh, well, the light goes on and I really did believe that Playing the role of Socrates as Jonathan Schweitzer, he's the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. Sure. Uh that would give you the role of I don't know, Plato or Aristotle or somebody. I don't know. Daniel Psychowitz is Rabbi Congregation. How is that a hard hard time saying that? Uh Rabbi uh uh at the uh congregation call of me and frederick. I'm Troy Skinner and uh I'm playing the role of no one famous. I'm playing the role of so crazy. So crap. That's right. So But to go along with what you were just saying, um, and it frustrates so many of my congregants to no end, is that I almost answer all of their questions with a question. Yeah. So they ask me a question and then I turn it around because the answer is almost always the answer is it now not a historical answer. Now rabbis are famous for that. Yes, because the ans you have the answer It's just ha we just have to pull it out. Even Jesus did that. Right. And he was a rabbi. Yeah. So there you go. So what would be is there uh Well there must be at some level. What would you consider to be the the foundational source for getting the answer? Is it you've referred to it a couple of times last week and this week, is it the is it the spark of the divine within each individual as you see it? Is it I guess we're asking about you personally, because we because so far we've been talking about your approach to Pastoring to rabbeing. What do they say? Is that the right word? Uh to Pastoring is fine, I guess. Okay. Okay Pastor seems like such a Christian word. It does. Well when you ver make it into a verb, then it's for anybody. is best to arrive at uh in that you have arrived at yourself at some level. Uh where do you get that from Well, you know what's interesting. As you were uh as Troy was busy saying all the different w possible ways the answer my answer is yes to all of it. I don't know that I can tell separate out all you know all of the study I've done with my belief in God and my belief that there is the spark of the divine in each of us which animates us and the tradition. So sometimes I will get um I will come closer to God through tradition. Like when I'm lighting candles with my wife on a Friday evening and we're really thinking about what we're doing. That sometimes brings me closer. And sometimes it is when I'm in studying scripture and I'm knee deep, if you will, in Maimonides, who's giving me commentary from five five hundred years ago or seven hundred years ago. And other people, sometimes I'm sitting there thinking, God is with me right at this very moment. Yeah. Closer to what? To God. And it's an e and and you're describing something that's experiential, your mind is engaged, or you or you're emotionally there with your wife, but any one of those All of a sudden there's an experience and you're like, wow, God is here. Yes. Yes. Have you ever had a moment where you felt like you had a uh you or somebody you you're uh pastoring or rabbiing? Uh ha had an experience of feeling close and connected to God and then over the passage of time said, you know what, now that I think about it, that I wasn't really close to God then. I had something wrong. Meaning you got closer to God You felt like And and then and then but then afterwards said no that w didn't Right. Like oops, that was that was a false start. That wasn't uh Oh. Um No, I can't say that anybody has ever said to me that wasn't the experience that I you know when they felt that it was the experience of being closer to God that I'm not sure. They never if they ever well let's put it this way, if they ever did go back and s think to themselves, they'd never come to me to confess that, if you will. Huh. So I never want to say never because I'm not sure. Yeah, that's very interesting. Like I don't know where to go with it. I'm sure I'm gonna have questions about it and come back to it, but Yeah. Well while you doodle on that, um I used the phrase a second ago, um, because you used it a couple of times. What do you mean when you say spark of the divine? Well, um in in the in the Torah it it teaches us the the Hebrew scriptures it teaches us that God put a little bit of the divine in each of us. In fact, we're told that we're made in the image of God. Correct. That we're made in the image of God. That's a creation reality. Right. um just after Jesus would have come said that n God so loved us he the guy that really f formulated rabbinic Judaism? Yes. He's the one that was that that got out of Jerusalem in a That's uh Yokanan Benzakai. Benzakai. So he benzakai was um around a little bit after Akiva Oh, after Akiva. So Akiva was was right before the fall of Jerusalem. Correct. Okay. Okay. So Rabbi Akiva. Okay. So Rabbi Akiva said that um God so loved us that God made us in the divine image But even more so, let us understood that we were native in the divine image. Right, like he says to Moses or Moses Yeah, he says to Moses that it's not too high that you have to go up to heaven to get it, or too low that you have to descend to the depths of the sea, but it's right here, it's in your mouth, the word of life that we are proclaiming. that God has given to us. And so he's granted to us to know certain things. The secret things are for God, but the things revealed are for us. Correct. Yeah. Right. And all of which has to do with the spark of the divine that's been granted to us. Right. But that's two things though. That's both the spark of the divine within and the revelation. And the exactly the revelation, the understanding that we have the spark of divine. So I like to call the spark of the divine our soul. Um I don't know that any other Jewish person will say that, but you know, they probably will. But that's what I like to th how I like to think of it. The soul. The soul. It's interesting. Is there like a biblical reason that you would l r you know move to that language? Um David talks about the soul. Yeah. Oh my soul, magnify the Lord. My soul was overwhelmed within me. Set me on a rock. You know, I think it maybe uh at some point it's just sort of that's what I don't know whether it was rude I don't wouldn't say it was revealed to me. That's going too far. It just sort of makes sense that that's what it is. That the rest of us is human but the soul is divine. And do you do you identify like in Christian uh thought we say that there's a spirit And then there's a soul, and that the spirit is that part of the soul that connects with God and that died when we gave ourselves over to sin and that is re- vitalized when we return in repentance to the Lord and and then his spirit connects with our spirit and then our soul is transformed as the spirit Right? Would you say that that is a good description of what Christians tend to believe? There are some Christians that uh that would divide uh the human being, the essence of humanity into three parts, some into two. So it's not a unified unified. Yeah, I wouldn't divide it into th I wouldn't divide the soul into two. To me the soul is just that one. Sure. Sure. Would you say that some of the soul dies when when there's a walking away from the things of God? Like well, we I haven't even asked that. Like do you have the sense that There are some that walk away from the things of God in disobedience, like Eve. You know, you might not think Eve was I'm I'm guessing you probably don't think Eve was an actual person, but it was a, you know, representation of what we need to understand spiritually that we can reach out and grab the fruit and walk away from the teachings of the of God. Right. Um is there a sense of sin in Oh there's certainly a sense of sin. There's certain there's a sense though that um it is these are our choices that we're making. Always, yeah. Yeah. That we can choose to be in communion with God, if you will. Um and we can choose not to and we can sort of shut ourselves off. And choosing to not do that is something considered a sin? It's a good question. The actual turning away itself, is that a sin? I don't know. Like what the prophets would have said that it's a turning away, because usually when you turn away you turn to something else. Right. Right. And so idolatry. Yeah. Well certainly if you if you turn to something else like idolatry, that would be sinful. Oh. But the actu you know that's just turn away. Yeah, I d uh I've not thought of just that. So I would have to think about that. Well unfortunately you're gonna have time. You're gonna have a hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours to think about it because we're back in one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours approximately. from now with next week's show of the Faith Debate. Jonathan Sweisser is a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. See I'm getting used now. I don't say chapel. Church is just flowing out of my mouth. Yes, you are flowing. Yes. Uh Daniel Saikowitz, Rabbi at Congregation Colemia, Frederick, thank you for joining us again this week. I'm Troy Skinner. BMC Insurance, proud supporters of New Life Christian School and Cruise Holidays of Frederick sending Bob on that big old trip to the Bahamas. Uh what am I reading? This is not a book, but One of the better uh short form things I've read in a long time. I've recommended things before. Google it, see if you can find it. It's by William Still. It's an article written in Banner of Truth magazine called 38 Years at Gilkostum Gilko stum? Uh Gilkostun. G-I-L-C-O-M-S-T-O-N. It's a place. 38 years at just put 38 years at Gilko. with William Steele, you'll probably find it on Google. I'm telling you, it won't take you that long to read it and it is most excellent. Sounded like Bill and Ted's excellent adventures right there, didn't I? Anyway, I mentioned silk crates earlier today too. Till next week. God bless.