The Left Behind book series has proven so popular over the past oh 20 plus years that it's spawned children's series of books that think has like forty books in it. Several movies have come out. The subject matter of these very popular books The End Times. Here to talk about the review on the end time today. Jonathan Schweitzer, Senior Pastor of Cross Rose Valley Church and Chris Jackson, hello, Baptist minister. You've been about you've been on the show uh a number of times over the years. Yeah. And I think every time you're on, it's like a new aspect of ministry that you're focusing on. I think the first time that we have you on uh you were very involved in prison prison ministry. That's right. And then the next time that you were on you were very involved in homeless ministry. Right. Uh and you've always had like a teaching ministry going on. And now you've got this new thing, Life Bible Baptist Ministries, which is online at Life. life bible the number one dot wicks site w-i-x-s-ite-e dot com slash life Say that again ten times. Yeah, no kidding. So I'll put a link on the Faith Debates page which we're at WFMD. com keyword faith. So real quick we've done two now getting into our third show together. Let's take, you know, a moment What is this um Life Bible Baptist Ministries all about? Right, so um it's something that I've been passionate about for a lot of years since two thousand and eight. And basically it's just an incorporation of of the teaching ministry God has given me. I've taught down in DC and all the different churches. Uh definitely taught in the jail. Um right now I'm doing weekly Bible study at uh the International Community Church uh here in Frederick. Uh we're going through the gospels. And so uh I just wanted to give all these efforts, all this teaching ability a name. And uh I think there is life in the scriptures, there's life in the resurrection of Christ. Right So um so the idea is that the website's gonna be a resource for Bible study and teaching tools and things like that, or what's the what's the main aim? a resource of Bible study and teaching tools. Uh some of my uh trying to be modest, some of my sermons are there and and uh and also, you know, if anybody is interested in a Bible teacher and Someone to share the gospel or have Bible and will travel. Hey, hey, there's a lot in this book that needs to be shared Yeah. Have Bible World Travel is like such an old way of saying it. When we're on the internet, you know, it's like it's like have Bible will blast right into your But I think your point was if they want a personal touch, like if they want you to come and personally uh uh provide some instruction on the Bible or something, you're willing to do that. Is that what you're doing? I'm willing to do that. Right. We'll have to see about it. Oh turn into the whole palm political thing there, did you? Wait the neighbors for Jackson coming. So I enjoy it. HOA doesn't allow that. One more reason to never get an HOA. Uh uh seriously, just a quick aside, the first house that my wife and I ever owned was in an HOA and it was such a negative experience that We have refused to buy an HOA, a property in an HOA ever again. And I say you say, oh yeah, sure. No, we were going to throw a couple of times we were going to buy a house. Yeah. And I asked the question, I want to make sure this isn't in an HOA, is it And it we're not buying the house. I refuse to live in an HOA community ever again. So you have to some at some point share like the story like that. Totally crazy. So anyway, so by the way I didn't mean Nazi literally. Don't be offended. And speaking of literally, we ended last week talking about the literal sense. What is literal? How literal should we take the Bible? I think that all of us would argue we should take the Bible literally. But what do we mean by that? I think we might all have a slightly different understanding of what literal means. And so uh We'll let you recast it if you want in response to John, but towards the end of the show, Chris was talking about the literal sense of things. Jonathan uh was expounding in response to that I said he had the last word, but I'm not sure he was done with his word, so I don't know if there was something more you wanted to say, and then we'll have Chris uh respond to what you said at the end of last week's show and the start of this week's show. Yeah, basically what I'm saying is that um the w a caricature caricature, a caricature that is used against uh those that are a millennial is that we uh that we're somehow have been uh that we've over spiritualized uh the promises of the Old Testament and the promises of the New Testament, uh, in that we we almost uh have an unwillingness to believe in the miraculous power of God, you know, maybe because we're we're too bought into a scientific naturalism worldview. Uh and um when I look at where we draw those lines about what's literal and what's not, we all draw the line somewhere. Nobody is interpreting passages about prophecy in a pure literal way. It's just a question of where you draw the line. And so So when I go into that discussion, my question is how do we determine what's literal and what's not? And and what I'm appealing for is that the way that we define what's literal and what's not is that we look to see if there's a biblical uh setting of the terminology. And that's my appeal. Let Scripture interpret Scripture. Okay. So now you've had a whole week to think about what he said last week and a few seconds to think about what he said this week. What is your response, Chris? Well, those of us from the dispensationalist camp, uh again, we believe in interpreting the Bible literally, but we understand that to interpret something literally includes um Figures of speech, parables, symbolism, sure, and things like that. Okay. Especially when it's stated in in the text. For example, with the book of the Revelation. Yeah. You know, it starts off saying this is the revelation of Jesus Christ. In verse ten, John says, I'm in the spirit. Okay, so we understand at that point when he's in the spirit. He's gonna see visions, things in heaven, uh things are gonna be symbolic. We take it literally uh literally in that sense. Yeah. Okay. Uh we understand that the beasts and everything represent something else. Yeah. All right. Uh but when God says that, you know, he during the days of Joseph that there would be seven years of plenty or seven years of famine Uh we took that literally. Yeah. He was sending the people of Judah into captivity for seventy years under the nation of Babylon. We take that literally. Yeah. Uh So uh so the key phrases that uh I'm just looking through Matthew twenty-four here, Daniel uh twelve, uh seven and eight, some of those key phrases would be um That the sun will be dark and the moon will not give its light, the stars will fall from the sky. Like this cosmos ending moment uh that uh I think you would say is supposed to be taken literally and that I would say that that I get the impression that the Bible defines that a certain way uh as meaning something different. Maybe we'll get into that. Another key phrase is where it says that the Son of Man will come on the clouds of the sky. Right, and that he will send his angels with a loud trumpet call and they'll gather his leg from the four winds. Right. Like like I would say that that that language of that is language that is used often in the old testament and often enough that that we can get a definition that for me Um the definition is not literal, uh, but it's something that still has very um significant meaning. It's not it's not that it doesn't happen, it's just that it happens the way that the Bible has defined that those kinds of things happen when they happen. Well you're right. We would take that literally, Jesus coming with the clouds of heaven. Yeah Jesus says, Now learn this parable from the fig tree. We would take that a parable. As a parable. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So we would not see the kingdom of heaven being a fig tree. Yeah. Um And then further uh Yeah, it it talks about, you know, uh the bride uh waiting for the bridegroom, you know, and and there's a couple other places. Um it'll be as it was in the days of Noah. Um two men will be in a field, one will be taking the other left. This is how it will be coming at the Son of Man. Uh you would take that literally. We would take that literally. Okay. But in verse 45, who then is a faithful and wise servant, whom his master made ruler over his household to give him food and do sleep? That's a parable again. Again, that's a parable. Yeah. Okay. And then the parable of the virgins. Parable of the virgins. And so my argument is that this uh the language of the sun will be darkened. and the moon will no longer sho show its light. It's actually actually shows up in the context of Babylon, shows up in the context of Egypt, uh, and Edom. And in all of those places we're given the impression that those are things that have already happened. So so I'm like, okay, uh okay, that's interesting. If if the sun has already stopped shining, the moon has stopped shining, the stars have fallen from the sky, and we're given the impression that it's already happened for those three nations, then I need to re think what does the Bible mean by that? Because clearly that hasn't happened physically yet. Right. Right. And I think what you guys would argue is that is that just that part of that prophecy hadn't been fulfilled yet. But my impression, when you go back and study from Genesis chapter 1, what light is all about, that he set the sun to rule the day and the moon and the stars to rule the night, that from the beginning uh the language of light was the language of ruling, of authority, right? And then the really big one to me is Joseph saw a dream that the moon and the stars were bowing down to him. That's really big, right? And when he told that dream to his brothers, His brothers didn't think to himself, oh, you know, we're gonna see the stars, you know, bow down. They thought to themselves, Joseph is saying that we are going to bow down to him. We the twelve tribes and our father are going to bow down to Joseph, meaning that that they immediately interpreted that as to mean the powers that be. And so if I take then that that idea and I apply it to Babylon, well in a moment the king and all the nobles, uh all the the light that that caused that nation to thrive and survive in a moment fell to the sky to to the ground. The same thing happened in Edom that in one day they're they were a huge nation, they were doing really well, and all of a sudden they were gone. The same thing with Egypt They were they were powerful and nobody thought that there was going to be anything happening negative and in one day they all fell. And so that's exactly what happened to the nation of Israel in A. D. seventy. Everybody thought everything was going to be fine. They were still thinking that everything was going to be fine. And in one moment, all of the power and authority and the law. Right, that the old covenant was completely done away with. And so to my mind, there's a definition that is already established by Scripture that when I apply it to what happened in 8070, I'm like, ah, okay, I'm okay with that. And the same thing with uh so so I'm kinda going on and on. I don't know if you've heard any of this before. Have you have you heard uh things described this way previously? Yeah. Yeah I have. partial eclipsed not too long ago. And I would just say that something like that that the Bible describes as the sun growing dark The moon turning to blood can happen. Okay. There has been instances, even as of recently, where, you know, the sun has been blocked out. Okay. So but we do we would take that literally, uh and we see again, yes as you say that the things with Egypt and Edom has not been fulfilled yet. But no re there's no reason why it can't be fulfilled Okay, no reason why Jesus can't come on the clouds of heaven. Right, so then coming on the clouds of heaven is a phrase that is everywhere in Scripture. I mean it it is amazing to me how often that phrase shows up. In place after place after place where it says that he's going to come on the clouds of heaven, it's always God coming in judgment He's coming with power and great glory to come with judgment. And he did it. He did it time and again to Israel in the Old Testament. He did it to other nations. He did it with Egypt. Where he came on the clouds of heaven, and that's the language that is used by Moses, by David, uh, by by the prophets about these moments where God comes in judgment with great power. And if that's the case then it then then what we're looking for is something similar to what happened in the past, that he's going to come with judgment and with power and that there's going to be a a reckoning Like there was for Babylon, like there was for Meadow Persia, where where uh like there was for Israel, where their wickedness is brought to account. And so again, I get the impression when I apply that to AD seventy, I'm like, wow. That's what happened. That's Jonathan Schweitzer, pastor of Crosswest Valley Church, Chris Jackson, who is with uh Life Bible Baptist Ministries. And uh I am Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on WFMD 930 on your AM dial and online at WFMD. com keyword faith. So uh a couple of things. One, we haven't talked at all about the importance of genre, and so I feel like I need to throw that out there. That's a really important thing to keep in mind when when we're reading our Bible and we're trying to figure out how literally we need to take something, part of I think a key part of what can help us figure that out is what sort of genre are we reading? Is it a historical narrative where it's it's giving us history and these are these are people who live, these are the the ranges of their life, these are the things that they did. I think we should believe that they literally did those things, they literally lived, they literally lived during that time You know, it's it's history in a narrative form. We should take it that way. But then some of the Bible is poetry. Well we don't take poetry uh by definition literally. That's That's the nature of poetry, that there's all sorts of metaphor and analogy and word pictures and things like that. Under the shadow of his wings. Right. Uh I run to his name like a strong tower, you know, these are metaphors that that draw us into how God is caring for us. And there's apocalyptic uh language and there you know and and I think a genre all its own, there's gospel as a genre. uh works in the world that are corollaries to uh what we call the fourfold gospel. I think that those are unique literature, so it's a genre unto its own. Yeah. So th the letters, some of them are sermons uh you know, parables you already talked about. I mean so so We're all gonna have different rules of engagement. I think we need to remind ourselves what am I reading here? Uh I think it's a classic mistake that people uh make. By the way, I wanted to uh ask the question, but you guys were on a good roll. Okay. John you alluded to the uh the passage in Matthew twenty four where it says, you know, there'll be two men in the field, one will be taken and one will be left. I'm curious, how do you understand the the one who is taken? Where are they taken? And I'll tell you where I'm going in case you're wondering why is he asking this question. A lot of people that I talk to will argue that, well, that's an idea of the rapture. They're being raptured, they're being caught up, they're being taken to be with God in a positive way. And based on the context, I've I take that as they're taken in judgment. That's what we would say in the dispensational camp. They were taken in judgment. The whole context would be judgment. Okay. But it but it also includes rapture for you Like like when you read that passage are you thinking one's taken meaning meaning one's caught up in rapture and the other one's left there? No, no, the one who's taken is taken for judgment. Okay, because because the left behind series uh you know has pilots flying airplanes, you know, and and one pilot is taken, the other pilot is not, because one was a believer and the other one was not, meaning like that was the rapture. And so uh so you don't believe that about that particular passage. About this particular passage. This is not the rapture. Okay. One of the things that draw drew me to because John has spent a lot of time over the last two and a half shows explaining why he's kind of made this migration from a kind of sort of flabby dispensationalist. To somebody who's uh not an Olympic athlete but uh but firm but but more firmly toned on uh the all millennial partial preterist view. I'm a father of five minute exercises every day. Yeah, you've made that move. Uh Part of why I'm attracted to the all millennial partial predators view is the is to me and you're not gonna disagree, Chris, nobody's gonna who who's a Christian's gonna disagree. It's about Jesus Christ, about the gospel, about the kingdom of Christ, about what He has done for us we can't do for ourselves. So the pinnacle of everything for me is how much glory does my view bring to Jesus Christ? And I feel like a non-millennial partial predators view brings immense glory to Jesus because it emphasizes this idea that Jesus reigns as king right now. We're not waiting for him to reign as king over his millennium after a tribulation period, that he's going to be coronated as king. He is king ruling and and sitting in judgment right o of of people who are doing wrong and advocating for his people right now. And I feel like It's not that a dispensationalist would say, well, no, I'm not going to say that Jesus isn't king, but it's emphasized in such a way in an millennial view that I find that really attractive Um and so that might have been the first thing. Like you mentioned you were reading some quote. Maybe it was like a C. S. Lewis book where he was quoting some ancient philosopher and he said something about, you know, the timing of Christ's return that got you you know, puzzling over it and you dove in and that's what led you in a millennial direction. For me it was this idea of Christ reigning right now. Now I understand that things aren't perfect right now. Mm-hmm Well again that already not yet tension is a big part of how I view things in the Bible too. Like I believe that I am saved, but I'm yet to be saved in a way that I'm not currently saved Sure. So there's a lot of that in my in my theology, which some would argue is a contradiction. I would say they're just mysteries of the faith that we we hold both of them to be true at the same time and not in contradiction. So, um yeah. So let me just also say that uh speaking of taking the Bible literally in the parable of the talents, Jesus passed out the talents to his servants. Uh Matthew twenty-five. Yeah. It's interesting it says in verse 19, After a long time the Lord of those servants came and settled accounts with them. Yeah. That's very significant. You know, we've been waiting two thousand years for the Lord. And so um I see it as some people getting discouraged or getting disillusioned and saying the Lord hasn't returned yet. You know, maybe he's returned in another way, maybe he's you know, returned spiritually or you know, m maybe Israel coming back to the land is house return. But again, we take it literally that, you know, there would there would be a long time uh and I think even the first century Christians understood that, you know, they had the hope that Christ will return during their lifetime. But they knew it was up to him. Jesus has already said, no one knows the day or the hour, you know, but to be ready. And they always lived in a in a attitude of e expectancy each and every day. Now that's one of the things that I have a struggle with with a dispensational view is how can How is it that you have, you know, intellectual uh consistency and uh and and and you feel like you have cognitive rest on the issue of being ever ready for Christ's return, that he could come right now. And you would agree with me, I think, right? That Christ could come right now? I believe that. But at the same time the dispensationals, the pre-trib The tribulation hasn't happened. The rapture hasn't happened. The the Antichrist, as the dispensationalists understand the Antichrist, hasn't arrived yet. There hasn't been the the mid-trib uh declaration of peace yet. the temple hasn't been constructed in a physical real world way yet. So how is it how do you handle what seems to me like uh like a a contradiction in in the view. I I'm gonna say that Jesus can come right now, but he can't really come right now 'cause I'm waiting for all these other things to happen. Yeah. Well we don't see a contradiction. Uh We s we believe that as soon as the rapture occurs, which could be now, which could be today, he has caught up to be with him in the clouds. uh that immediately the seven year tribulation would begin. That's how we see that. Um So when you're waiting for the arrival of Jesus like in the right now, really what you're waiting for in the right now would be the rapture. Like that's the next right now thing. That's the next thing on the prophetic calendar to us. temple being constructed yet. The temple could be constructed during the tribulation period is what you would uh say. That's what we would say. All right. Well we have to uh Hold our thoughts for next week. We're out of time on this episode. Chris Jackson, thank you so much. Go to his website. It's uh lifebible the number one dot W-I-X-S-I-T-E Wix site. com slash life. If that's too hard for you, go to the WFMD. com keyword face, go to the Facebook page and I'll put a link there for you. Jonathan Schweitzer Pastor of Crossers Valley Church here again this week. Like old times. Like old times. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on WFMD. Our sponsors, Hilo Auto Sales, online at hiloauto. com and tire pros of Frederick. Thanks for listening. Till next week, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from now. God bless you. Bless