Broadcasting for the West Side of Big Brother City in the heart of Carit Lot County, we're preaching with impact. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. It's brought to us by Putman Plumbing Heating, How Quick Make You Smile, and BMC Insurance. You can find us online at at WFMD. com, keyword faith. That brings you straight to the Faith of A page where you'll find a daily Monday through Friday blog posting. My blog is your blog, so email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. That's T-R-O-Y-S-K-I-N-N-E-R. at clear channel. I think you can probably spell that my name, who knows if you spell that or not. Whatever you send me, I will post within minimal requirements of reason. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, is on the show and and back to hopefully pummel Jonathan this week. No. I can hope. Listen, listen is an eighty pound gorilla in the room. She's gonna take me down. No. Annette Breeling, uh representing a Quaker point of view, she is the founder of Friends Meeting School in Iamsville and she's the trustee at a Sandy Spring Friends School uh out near Olney and she's a trustee at some other friends school in Virginia and she's very trustworthy 'cause she's a trustee at all these places. See, that's how you get the job. Well I do believe we all need to learn to trust one another and try to be trustworthy. Well said. That is the first one of the character counts uh character Traits, trustworthiness. And our motto at Friends Meeting School is Seek and Speak Truth and Love. Uh-huh. Now we have been uh Three now plus shows talking about uh Quakerism and various aspects of it. Some things we've learned. Uh we've learned that Quakers are not Amish You and and we learned that a really good Quaker show would be the three of us sitting here on the radio saying nothing to one another. We would be worshiping inside of that. That's right. We'd be worshiping inside. of of Quakerism, simplicity being first on that list. You had the word spices that you taught us. Peace. Right. Peace was number two. Integrity. Community, equality, and stewardship. That's a good set. Uh didn't realize how much in common Quakers have with the universal uh uh Unitarian. Unitarian Universalists. Yeah. Uh so that was uh that was interesting. I did not know that. We we talked about their history a little bit. So now what we're gonna do is we're gonna find out what uh Jonathan can say to make Annette riled up. Because Jonathan is That is a pretty conservative guy and our religious worldview, our theological view, will will affect our overall view, including our politics. And he's a a pretty conservative political guy, and that's not uh a very is she's not a conservative guy in uh or uh uh any way, shape, or form. No. In fact I want to ask this question. What would you say are the are the top three or four issues that that cause you to vote the way that you vote. I think the equality issue is a big one for me. It's social justice. I'm very concerned about. Okay. Social injustices. And actually we said this the first show that equality was probably going to be one of those issues where the definitions that you and I use uh for what is right when it comes to equality are very different. So equality is a big issue. And peace is a big issue. Peace. And how we can learn to live in love with one another. Yeah. And how we can learn to live in love with one another. So those issues drive you when it comes to how you vote and who you vote for. Yes. Let's talk about the Yeah, there's all kinds of questions that were placed that I could go with. Talk about the first one. Okay, so equality. Right? And so Thomas Jefferson said we hold these truths to be self evident that all I'm gonna say people are created equal. Yes. So what does that mean? That we are created equal, that we're endowed by a creator with certain inalienable rights. That among these are life, liberty, pursuit of happiness. So life we talk about the death sentence in our last show. Yeah. Um, but we need to respect life and it with that deals with our war and peace issue. Okay. There there's three issues that are hot topics that come up dealing with life. One is abortion, one is capital punishment, and then the third is war. Okay. And are uh uh are you pro abortion? Actually I'm pro choice because I think about quality of life. And if a woman is in a situation where her life is in danger, then whose life are you thinking about? The babies are the woman's life. Right. So there's significant disagreement with us there. Okay, so we're gonna differ on that one. And what kind of quality of life is is a parent able to give? And you you can say, well, we can adopt the child, so I don't have a response to that So life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Mm-hmm. And you said there were three elements to life. Peace and what was the third one you said? Capital punishment. Capital punishment. And war. Mm-hmm. Yeah, uh so uh do you think somebody needed to stop Hitler? Um Do do you think the Chamberlain Uh was taking the right approach and it we should have just stuck with him just a little bit longer. You know what's interesting there are three When uh I when I was teaching a Quakerism course at a at school I had three speakers come in. At at the time of World War Two, these were three men who had lived Quakers. And one man was so horrified when he in fact the author of this book, Bob Smith, who was former head of Sidwell Friends School was so horrified at what was happening uh with Hitler that he chose to participate in the war. That was what his inner spirit led him to do. Another man felt that he should uh participate in alternative service and be a conscientious objector. And he went out to work in an Indian reservation to serve to be of service instead of to be part of the war A third man, uh, and I read a book about him, he felt it was so wrong to have anything to do with the war in any way, even to be a conscientious objector, was recognizing the war effort that he went to prison And actually he started working with the prisoners and and bringing love to them. But there were three Quaker men. Yes. Yes. Because he did not want to cooperate in any way with anything that had to do with the war. All three Quaker men, very good Quakers, sure were following their inner light. And what their truth spoke to them. Okay, so when it comes to war in particular, uh maybe one time you're against it, the next time you're for it. And it's kind of okay depending on the inner light and and you can still be walking out the spices, the peace part of the spices by engaging in it because Hitler, for example, was so egregious in his activity that that peace demanded that you have to stop that still fits with Quakerism. There are some Quakers who participate in the war. They're a minority, but yes. Yeah, uh I'm not sure if he was a Quaker or not. You you familiar with that classical black and white uh war film Sergeant York? Yeah. No? Yeah, it's a great movie. You haven't seen that, Sergeant York No. You must see that. He was a conscientious objector. Well he a Quaker? I don't know what his religion was, but he was He was a pacifist because of his religion, but I don't know what if he was a Quak he he might have been a Quaker, I don't know. But yeah. But he was a fabulous uh marksman and he went over and he and he wasn't shooting, wasn't shooting but but his his group got pinned down and so he pulled out his gun and he basically took out the entire platoon of enemies and save the day. Uh but it's it's uh the story of him wrestling with, you know, should he really kill somebody, you know, and what what would be the reason why It's really fascinating to see. And most of the movie, the storyline, is he's wrestling against participating. Mm-hmm. And then he reaches a moment where he's like, Okay, my wrestling against is not the right thing to do. seems like something that the kind of inter wrestling that a Quaker might have. So I'm surprised you're not familiar with it. Well actually I wrestle with myself as far as the killing issue. is I think about Albert Schweitzer who wouldn't kill any creature. There are some people who will not kill any living thing. Uh and many vegetarians. I like meat. I think and and I I kill Insects I don't like, I kill stink bugs. You know, I'm not a purist on the whole issue of killing. Okay, interesting. So what about Capital punishment. Uh you have a gentleman. We'll we'll call what we'll make him a man, because men tend to be more violent, who is so violent that he in order to stop him from killing, he has to be taken into custody. Yes. And that but he continues to be so violent that you can't have him in the in the regular population at the prison. And uh and if any uh guard interacts with him, the guard's life is in danger, so he has to be in solitary confinement. At all times 'cause 'cause there's no he's so recalcitrant that you can't change him. Is it more humane to keep him in solitary confin confinement for sixty years until he dies? uh than it is to to put him out of his misery? I might agree with you on that one. Really? But not all Quakers, but I might. So on that one you you might agree. So you're not an absolutist when it comes to capital punishment? Correct. But you've painted the most stark example possible. I don't know, that that's so I I I don't know, man. She was gonna let it go. Nice Quaker that she is. I don't know if that would really if if it would be that dark you know and people can be but the point comes back to again the fact that there are that most people that are in for life are in for life because of the the egregiousness of their um of their crime and in being in for and in being in for life, uh is that really a better way for them to live? I think there have been a bunch of examples where people have found that there was false evidence and that they were innocent. Okay, but that's that begs the question, right? Because the question is whether or not uh if we have the evidence that that the person is worthy of dying. The question of whether or not we can trust ourselves to to be working a process that brings us good evidence is a different question. I think it's an important question. But but the question specifically of capital punishment uh has to do with whether or not the best way for a society to handle those who have taken the lives of others. Scripture says eye for an eye, tooth for tooth You were of the opinion that somebody who commits a sin should pay for it. We got stuck on the question of whether or not you could ever pay back if you destroy somebody's marriage. If you kill somebody, how do you pay that back? What is your debt s to society if you kill somebody? I think of half God who said an eye for an eye just makes both people blind Sure enough, but how does that person if uh following your model of saying that you should pay for your crime, how does that person pay for their crime? I don't I think there's some crimes you it's impossible to pay for some things. They're irreversible. Some c if and a murder is irreversible. You can't bring back a life But a person can Nevertheless a government has to give just diverts. You know, Malvo was a teenager under the influence of this older guy and he regrets now what he did. And so can we have mercy? Well, certainly I'm of the opinion that mercy triumphs over justice, but I'm not inclined to say in nowhere in the Bible are we encouraged to give mercy to those that are unwilling to admit that what they did was was wrong. But how do you know somebody won't change at another point in their lives? Uh we don't, but there's still the question of whether or not in the meantime it's it's more merciful for them to be in in a cell where they're separated from others in the meantime with no interaction with others Is that really the best way to handle it? It's certainly a lot more expensive for society, which comes back to the question who's going to pay the cost? I agree with that, although I understand um that it actually costs more because of legal costs to uh Yeah, but that's that's because our our current legal environment. Let me uh shift the gears a little bit to the second on that list. But first of all let me reset uh Jonathan Sweites is Senior Pastor of Cross Israeli Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. We're joined this week by Annette Breeling uh representing a Quaker point of view. This is the Frederick Wake debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Um we were talking about life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. We kind of beat life to death there. Uh let's Let's talk about liberty. Um what are we meaning by liberty? Where does where does my liberty end? Where does somebody else's liberty begin? Yeah, that's a good question. Talk about the First Amendment and the free speech. And yet, you know, that's often discussed here. Are you free to yell fire in a crowded movie theater? You know, there have to be some restraint. So where does um where do we have to sacrifice some liberty for the welfare of all? And it's Always hard to give just Pat answers. There's often gray areas and and wrestling with those Yeah, like the big one right now is that our school system has choosing to promote right. There's a school system that that the poor have to use because they don't have any other options. The rich have other options. They can send to private schools, they can send other other places. But if you're poor You don't have the option to opt out of the public school system and the public school system at this point promotes homosexuality as normative As it as a normal part of sexual behavior and something that that should not be spoken negatively uh against But I actually do agree with the conservative point of view that there should be choice in schools that that people should be able to choose um between public or private school. The poor should be able to have a choice in their education. Because it's been my experience at my school that not every school works for every child. And we've had children come to us from public school where they've been bullied and and they're just really down And they need a fr uh they need a new environment where they can be how yeah, cherished for who they are. That makes sense. I mean you've been involved in s in running or founding mm-hmm, you know, non-government schools. Right. So it makes sense that you would fall on on that side of that particular issue. Yes, I do. What are what are the other liberty issues that come to your mind? But I'd say for health care too, that uh health should care there's basic human rights that all should be able to have certain basic health care. And I believe it pays all the universal. Who pays for your smoking? Should I pay for that? Countries that have universal health care have paid more attention to preventive medicine than our country does because it's actually if if the tax money is going or if the single payer is paying for the health care. Okay, but then you're dealing with a liberty question. Mm-hmm. Right? Because And there's certain liberties that we really should not have because we should we're not at liberty to murder. We're not at liberty to seal really. I mean people may do it, but some of the liberty things that people talk about a lot would be drug use. I should be allowed to use drugs if I want, I'm not hurting anybody. Prostitution, if it's two consenting adults, they should be free to engage in that. And then a more fun but it's a commonality we all face is I should be free to drive as fast as I want. The Audubon right now is considering putting the speed limit on it. So those are three. You were asking you what are some those are three that immediately pop to mind. Drug usage is is is that free to everybody's choice? Is prostitution free to as long as they're consenting adults? Um and does it need to be a good idea? What about gun use? You know, people that's a big issue right now. I have the right that I should be at liberty to use whatever guns I want. No, actually that is not the argument And I expect better of you on that. The argument the argument is that government has a tendency toward tyranny and that the common citizen should be granted the freedom to defend himself against the government that inclines itself towards tyranny and certainly our current administration, federal administration is showing how the abuse of that power is is something that can pop up at any time. And that being the case We uh i i if you if you if the government's the only people with the guns or the only people with the guns are people to break laws anyways then why uh should we expect that there's going to be any freedom? Because government tends to abuse its freedom and uh people that break the law tend to break the law. I think countries where there are fewer guns there is also fewer deaths. From gun viol certainly from gun violence. Yes, but there is not less crime. And so that argument is a little bit of an inappropriate argument. It's true that there's less deaths, but there's not less crime. for all the the the countries around the world. And the the United States, believe it or not, is the exact median nation. There are j there are exactly as many nations above the United States on the list as there are below the United States. We are exactly in the middle on the list. Are we compared with some of the African nations where there is huge violence going on right now? Yeah, there's some where the murder rate is like, you know astronomically, huh? There's a handful of nations like that. They're on that list and they're like in the top ten. Mm-hmm. But if we're compared with the other developed countries, where do we come? I'm not sure myself. I j I would wonder. Yeah, but I'm well first of all we're not as we're not even at the top of that list. We're not in the middle of that list. you know, in the upper third at least of of that list. But I don't know that that would be a gun issue. I think that that's uh th there's different issues at play with the American culture and mindset. And the melting pot issue. You know, you have you have a lack of sameness here. People that are alike get along more easily. We have a lot of unalikes in America, so there's natural divisions. I grew up in the Chicago area and there were certain streets I did not cross. On one side of the street I was safe because people like me were on that side of the street. On the other side of the street there were people unlike me on the other side of the music and there's more of that in this kind of culture and and and society than there is around the world. So I I I I I I don't think everybody should run around shooting each other. But I don't think everybody has a gun is running around shooting every shooting each other. No, I agree with that. And so but but to paint it that that people just want to have guns and shoot people I think is uh is is not an accurate representation of what I don't think I was saying that Okay. Maybe I misun misheard you You're hearing what you want to hear over there, Jonathan. Certainly. What do we mean by happiness when we say pursuit of happiness? Okay, good question. What are we pursuing? Yeah. I think in my mind, I guess uh I just go for having certain basics that everybody should have certain basic rights met. And I like the UN Declaration of Human Rights where that that was signed on to by the United N States and the other countries of the UN in nineteen forty eight. I'm going to read the first part of this. Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well being of him herself and family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care. Right. And again the um uh the reaction to that, the response to that is those people who refuse to um to be a steward of that care and instead take advantage of it and abuse it. And Should they not have basic food Should they not have basic housing or health care? Do we let them die? Those people that refuse to reform their habits certainly are are making themselves um a a uh you know, uh parasite on the society and such individuals uh if if they're always able to demand their rights never have anybody bringing them to account for how they should act. You know, if a child misbehaves, we still provide them food, clothing, shelter and, you know, we may send them to their room or we may ground them. Would you send them to the room without a meal sometimes? We could, but we wouldn't let them starve. We you know, there's certain restrictions we would put on. And that could happen in society that some people get themselves into trouble on. Until such a time as that c child is so out of control that sometimes you have to call juvenile services. But with society, there's so many people right now. I understand eight hundred Marylanders a year are dying from lack of proper health care, of basic health care. And that's that's And and we get upset as a nation when three people die from and I am upset when three people die from the Boston Marathon bombings. Sure. But I'm concerned about the eight hundred people that die from lack of medical care. And I'm concerned about All the homeless people. There's six hundred some school children without homes in Frederick County Public Schools. You know what so many listeners are thinking though, and this is a mean thing almost to bring up, but they're you know, they care about the millions of babies that are aborted you know, every year too. You know, it's it's it's an interesting uh dichotomy of thinking that that we hear from that side of of the political spectrum oftentimes. I'm wondering If we're talking about the pursuit of happiness, right? Are we saying that everybody has a right to life, liberty, and happiness? Some sort of right to guaranteed where it's not just equal opportunity to pursue the happiness, but it's it's it's some sort of a guarantee to have equal outcome. Where everybody's gonna have to have exactly the same Well, not exactly the same, just basics. Okay. I think basic housing, basic basic food, basic shelter uh let's see h h health care. But that doesn't mean that we're all gonna be at the top one percent. You know, I I d uh we have a rich enough country and society that we should be able to take care of everybody's basics Yeah, but I think uh well I'm pick taking them for Jonathan because we agree on this issue I think. You know you can give somebody the food stamps so they can go take care of their basics and instead they'll sell those food stamps and use them to go buy some wine or some drugs and Um actually I have a friend on food stamps and she's unable to buy toilet paper because that's not com that doesn't come under what her food stamps can do. No, I was saying they will sell them to somebody else who will use them to buy at the store what they're allowed to use them for, but they'll take the ca they'll sell them for less than sell them to their friends. I've known people. Yeah, you'd you'd you'd be surprised. But anyway, in those cases, what do you do? That's what Jonathan was getting to, I think. What do you do in those cases? They refuse to be stewards of what You're trying to help them and they refuse. For example, the big one that and I was getting at this uh in our meeting earlier today, the big one is the fact that Um if in eighty percent of the situations if there is a husband I mean a mother and a father in the home uh that family would no longer be under i in poverty but would rise not to being very well off but but just out of poverty and yet we have created this orientation that women uh can expect to raise a child on their own and and be able to provide that child with the same opportunities. That's what you're getting at equal opportunity. But the reality is that it's not an equal opportunity. They've got half the number of parents. And having half the number of parents and and and yet we're trying to give them financially the same opportunity, but we're not requiring them to stop getting married and stop having sex outside of marriage because it destroys your family and it creates a cost to society. that we end up trying to pay that cost and in paying the cost we end up bankrupting the society because people are not willing to show a little bit of Ultimately in that case it's sexual self-control and that's not a morality thing, that's a financial consideration. I got to jump in because we've um we've got to wrap up this show, but I do want to say um This has been thoroughly enjoyable. Last four shows. I want to uh personally thank and applaud Annette for her her graciousness and and honesty and transparency. It's been refreshing. Uh usually we can get into these sort of of discussions with the with the uh uh emotional involvement and uh um Uh and spiciness and go after it with those with whom we mostly agree. To be able to do it with somebody with whom we uh seems mostly disagree on some pretty important issues has been just refreshing and I really uh I really appreciate it. Jonathan Sweise, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. We're joined this week, thankfully, by Annette Breeling, representing a Quaker Point of View Thank you to our sponsors, BMC Insurance and Putman Fleming and Heating. Until next week, God bless. Oh, what am I reading? Worship in Spirit and Truth by John M. Frame.