Broadcasting for the win. Outside of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County, where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement, and people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate brought to us by BMC Insurance And Putman Plumbing Meeting. Hack will make you smile. Again, as always, I encourage you to check us out online. WFMD. com keyword faith. You'll find links to podcasts, news items, and the faith debate blog He always loved blog. Love because my blog is your blog and you love yourselves. I know that you do. You should email me at your blog. Your blove? Okay. You're beloviating below? Yeah, yeah, you're bloviating. All right. Email me Froy Skinner at Clearchannels. com, whatever you send me within reason, and it's and the reason's a pretty broad span of reasonableness will be posted on the Faith Debate blog. I update that Nine times a day, Monday through Friday, forty-five blog postings from you guys go up on that page every week. Joined this week by Jonathan Sweise. You've already heard his voice, uh jumping in, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel I'm Troy Skinner and we're joined this week by Annette Breeling. She's representing the Quaker point of view. She is I have to apologize. I've been Two weeks now I I mentioned the wrong location for one of the schools you're involved with. She's the founder of the Friends Meeting School in Iamsville. That I've been getting correct. Yes. And but she's also trustee of the Sandy Spring Friends School and I've been saying it was in Virginia. But it's actually uh in Maryland near only. I was trustee of a friend school in Virginia. See, that's why I was confused. And I uh worked at Sandy Spring Friends School. I started the What is their lower school in Sandy Spring Friends School? She's a trust she was a trustee at the other one. Gotcha. Now this is our third go around. Yep. First go around we pretty much just got an over generalized overview of of Quakerism. Last week got into some more specifics. We started talking about the ground for belief and for behavior and that and and that helped us to create some strong distinctives and and sharpened, I think, Jonathan and certainly myself uh our understanding of what Quakers believe and and and maybe to some degree why they believe it and that sort of thing was fascinating. If you missed last week's show, go online, check out the podcast. It was one of my You can see why I wanted her to come on because She's really intelligent and she expresses well what she believes and uh what she understands of history and so Uh I've always enjoyed uh talking with her because she expresses herself so eloquently. And we drew a a compare and contrast kind of thing with the univers uh unitary universalists and Quakers and there's some similarities, but their worship style is different Uh and uh there's more of a turning within and uh being more contemplative uh in a Quaker service. Yes. Uh and that was mentioning to Jonathan and I in between shows. that you might go to a Quaker worship service and wonder when the worship service is going to start. There's actually a Quaker joke that a man comes into a s an uh a man who's not Quaker walks into a meeting for worship and he's not oriented to what to expect. And everybody is sitting in silence. So he shifts around, looks about, and people continue to sit in silence. And he gets a little bit more restless and finally whispers to the Quaker who's sitting next to him, When does the service begin? And the Quaker turns back and a s and says when meeting for worship ends because Quakers are very service oriented to the community. But they believe we find our faith within and then put it into practice And in fact, this book, Faith and Practice, is is a book that we is very fundamental to how we exercise our faith Hm. So how what percentage of the time when you go to a Quaker service does it end up being a scenario where nobody talks It actually depends on what meeting you go to. Okay. For example, Sandy Spring meeting where I used to go has two meetings for worship. The morning meeting at nine o'clock and then the a late morning meeting at eleven. At eleven o'clock people are talking all the time. And it's kind of like a family meeting for worship. The morning one is a much quieter one and there's fewer people who come and they don't have as much to say So the early morning crowd is a less talkative crowd. You know Proverbs says that if you're not going to be able to do it. Proverbs says that if you greet your neighbor loudly in the morning, it will be uh taken as a curse. Sure enough, they don't talk as much in the morning, but at noon they talk a lot more. That at Sandy Spring. Now a project meeting we'd have maybe four or five messages in a particular Meeting for worship. Now there's a strong thread of subjectivity that runs through uh Quaker belief. Right. Returning within to find that that Sometimes it's called the inner light, sometimes it's called the inward Christ. Some it's just called different things. Uh but the t a divine spirit. And when you s when you use the the the name or the word Christ, it's more like a a a a guru or an enlightenment kind of a of a thing, more so than the you know, the historic figure hanging on the cross, you know, paying the penalty for sin. Like that's that's not exactly the view. Yeah, I think it's more a sense of spirit. Right, okay. So um so kind of what the what others might refer to as a Holy Spirit, you're talking about the is the inner Christ? Kinda I'm trying to get of my hands. Naylor, I just pulled up a um somebody describing when Fox interacted with Naylor. And it says Naylor tried to make a show of love and would have kissed Fox, but the latter would receive no sham kisses from one whose spirit was plainly wrong. James he said it will be harder for thee to get down thy rude company than it was for thee to set them up. Oh my goodness. That'll take me a little bit to think through. But my point is is that is that Fox recognized that Fox was a Quaker. Fox was the founder of Quakers. Was the first Quaker recognized that there are some people that are of a wrong spirit. And who's what he said. And modern Quaker Naylor's the guy that we talked about a couple of weeks ago that would ride around on the horse naked. But he was a Quaker also. James Naylor. So these were two Quakers not seen eye to eye. Well that's why George Fox tried to set up more of an organization where we f check our individual truths against the uh group truth and we take our truth to the meeting and Um that was actually a struggle for me when I felt a very strong truth to try to start a friend school. And that was my personal truth that that's what I should do with my life. Now it's interesting they had that butting of heads that this strong disagreement. It doesn't sound like So they were out of character for what a what a Quaker typically would uh desire to be in that in that moment when they were being rude to each other perhaps that that wasn't Quaker ideally. That has happened at times in Quaker history, especially there have been times when there've Quakers separated and had different um um there they're hicks there's I don't need think we need to go in too much Quaker history but there were separations of of and right now there's Eastern Quakers are much more um oriented to unprogrammed worship that that we're describing where we have silent worship. Now there's evangelical Quakers mostly on the West Coast. that are very evangelical and do not have much silence. By evangelical meaning they're trying to win converts? Yes. Okay. And they've gone into Africa, there's more Quakers in Kenya than um than we're in this country. So so what I'm trying to get at is is is that when when I think about Quakerism and I think about what is my big problem. What like what what I don't know that I would ever be able to get over in terms of Quakerism is this this uh question of how do we identify what is wrong And in identifying what is wrong, how do we calculate the cost that has been accrued by society by those things that have been done wrong? How do we make that uh how how do we calculate that cost? And in calculating that cost, um who's gonna pay it? Well, it's certainly wrong to be hurtful to others and there should be consequences if one well, if one steals, one should pay back. If if one damages, one should repair Okay, so if one responsibility if one kills, should one give up their life? You know, two wrongs don't make a right, so uh ca Quakers tend to oppose Capital punishment. Okay, but this is this is precisely like where I feel like is the big difference between a Christian worldview and a Quaker worldview. In that in that from a Christian worldview by the way, just before you hold that's up. Don't leave this off. But uh how do you feel about the him Positioning it that way, a Christian worldview and a Quaker worldview. Do Quakers consider themselves part of the Christian worldview or do they see themselves as outsiders from the Christian worldview. Well again there's differences. There's the Christ centered Quakers and there's those who are more universalist oriented. Which are you, by the way? What's that? Are you more universalist? Uh I've kind of been between So you're a half universalist? Which half the world do you include? The light side of the moon, not the dark side of the moon. Right, the side we see. Right, so you probably see Christianity as a part of your umbrella. Your you probably consider your umbrella the big umbrella and Christianity as one of the elements inside of that umbrella. Okay, but that being the case, the thing that that But I look at Gandhi's truth. Sure. Or you know and there was this in in that movie there's a line that he says, you know, he's he's Christian, he's Hindu, he's Muslim, he's And you know, I try to find the truth of the thing. I do too, right? But I do that, you know, 'cause that's something of an intellectual endeavor, you know. When you find people that are that are intellectually or spiritually, you know, uh uh you know, interested and inclined, they tend to have opinions and having those opinions there's a lot to talk about. Right? And so I I love having those discussions, but I feel like it always comes down to this question of of how do we pay for All of the people that have chosen to live separated from God You know, how do we deal with you know, like you're saying, if if I steal from you I can pay back. Mm-hmm. If I sleep with your spouse What do I give you my spouse in return? I mean, how do you pay for that? Can can anybody really pay back for the for the destruction that is wrought? on a marriage by that kind of activity, who's gonna pay that price? Yeah, I I think about forgiveness for a lot of when people many times when there's wrongdoing, we just have to forgive and and go on. Well, I would agree that that's the case, but it still doesn't answer the question of who is going to give back that person their marriage. Or if somebody kills my son You know, who's who's gonna restore nobody can what was taken. And you can't spend the rest of your life uh I mean killing the murderer is not gonna get your son back. Sure, and so I agree with that. But at some point there has to be a force. How's that for a good New Age term? A force or a god that takes care of all of the debt that we have incurred as a society. You know, here I turn to Martin Luther King, who's not a Quaker. But hatred cannot overcome hatred. Only love can overcome hatred. Darkness cannot overcome darkness. Only light can do that. But isn't it true that the way that love overcomes hatred is by being willing to die? That s sounds like St. Francis of Assisi's prayer and Jesus Christ too, doesn't it? Yeah. It sounds like George Fox. Sounds like Mary Flyer. Yeah, Mary Dwyer. And so if that's the case then then then you're awfully close to saying that the way that sin ultimately needs to be atoned for Is by love. Is by the death of the righteous. So that the wicked or those that are separated from God, to use your language, have to have s some example of, wow, that's wrong that we did that to George Fox. You know, man, I can't believe we just did that to Mary Dwyer. How is it that we just killed her? She shouldn't have died. She was the one that was right. The righteousness exposes wickedness by being willing to die. That's what Christ did. And nonviolence does that a lot of times, nonviolent demonstrations. And I'd like to talk about a Quaker, local Quaker, Tom Fox. And he uh actually was in the local meaning like he lives here in Frederick. Virginia, uh but he also came to our Quaker camp Katocton Law, the younger. No, no, just just happened to have that name Fox. And w um at the time of the war when Iraq war broke out, I think it was the Iraq War, and he's very committed to nonviolence and peace, and he thought if people risk their lives for war, he wanted to risk his life for peace. So he joined a Christian peace team. I think the others were not Quaker, but they were maybe um Anyway, begin with the M. I can't think of the but anyway, um he went over four of them went over to Iraq and got kidnapped. And I guess the others were from Britain. They ended up killing him because he was American and they let the other three go finally and dump them out. But they just dump they killed him and dumped him out dead on the road. And it was very scary and it was very sad for local Quakers that knew this guy, that he really had given up his life because he believed that you should be willing to sacrifice your life. Very interesting. For peace rather than war. That's the voice of Annette Breeling. She is the founder of the Friends Meeting School in Iamsville and trustee of a couple of other schools as well. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and he's involved in other things too. He's in uh heading up Frederick forty eight fundraising arm to help support the not for profits in Frederick County and he's involved with Convoy of Hope, I think, still, and I'm not here involved in all sorts of Uh we're putting together a history of churches in Frederick that we're gonna uh that we're hoping to to display uh at a live faith debate at in the streets. As opposed to a dead faith debate. Yeah But we're inviting you still in here, so don't worry. I know how to kill a party, that's for sure. Uh anyway, I'm Froy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio Night. And then I wanted you to be with us on that live faith debate at in the streets. So um as Jonathan we were going back and forth with Annette, I I kept hearing in Annette's responses some kind of classic conflict resolution type of of responses. Right. Totally. Uh and so it raises this question Okay. What about those situations where somebody refuses to have the conflict resolved? What what do we do? And who's and then who's to decide what is the right resolution? Like you're very pro-peace, uh, you know, anti-violent whatever. What if somebody else feels like the They're being led by their own inner voice to say, you know what? No, the right thing to do is to become a vigilante and go get that sucker who did this thing to my family or whatever and who's to say that he is wrong or she's wrong. You know, w where so So it's two questions are I guess. What do we do when there's two people involved in conflict and one is not interested in resolving it at all And what about when you have two people who are interested in resolving a a conflict but they have completely different ideas about how to go about resolving it? What do we do in those cases? That's a problem. I think uh Quakers would tend to s well if I believe the solution is love and somebody does not agree with me, I can't I can't control others. I can only control myself. But is there a point at which you need to tell your people that he's not choosing love and that is the wrong thing to do. And so I encourage you to be careful to not choose what he's chosen but instead to choose love. I guess we're not as focused on wrong or not, but we just say William Penn when he came to deal with the Native Americans and the Indians And rather than getting into warfare with them, we said, let us then try what love can do. And the Quakers lived in peace with the Indians for seventy years. But again, rather than saying you're wrong, that puts another person on the defensive and here's your conflict resolution work. Okay, but do you not believe that Uh I can say I disagree. I can't. Commissioners who am I to know I didn't think that's a good thing. You disagree. I disagree with them. Right, but how's that different from saying that they're wrong? I disagree. It differs a lot. I believe that Well in one case you're leaving open the possibility that in your disagreement you're wrong to disagree. Exactly. So it's an attitudinal difference, not a an actual difference. It's just saying that attitudinally I'm going to keep open the possibility that I'm wrong, but I really think that that's equality too. Who am I to say that I'm right and you're wrong? If the commissioners don't want to give money to the nonprofits, I strongly disagree with that. But I'm not going to say that I'm superior and that they are wrong. I'm just going to say I believe we need to help those that need help. How very postmodern of you. I mean that's right that's like a Quaker is like a forerunner to the postmodern mindset, right? Many of the modern he's the original postmodern guy, throwing away all hierarchy, all truth Many modern practices have begun first with Quakers. Boys and girls in school, coed schools. The early Quakers way back in the 1600s. George Fox said girls should be in school with boys. Um the slavery, the hundred years before the Emancipation Declaration, the Quakers had given up all of their slaves in this country. And many of the Quaker thinking gets followed later on. A charter of privileges. Pardon me for being a gadfly, but was that the right thing for them to do? To give up their slaves? Yeah. Absolutely, in my mind. But but not but not absolutely the right thing. It's possible that that was the wrong thing? Well, if we are believing that we need to respect that of God at all people, we should not um put set ourselves above others. We should not own slaves, we should not mistreat them. Would would that be an example of something that would at at least border on the idea of being an absolute truth? 'Cause it seems like y there's there's not a lot of room for absolutes in in a Quaker worldview. Well, love, truth There's a quote that I loved outside the Sandy Spring Meeting House. Take heed, dear friends, of the promptings of love and truth in your hearts, for these are leadings from God. So again, it it the the question it comes down to for me in terms of of identifying these distinctions that um that Quakers are like these eternal optimists. You know, they're choosing this path of humility and and uh integrity and simplicity and all of their you know, peacemaking and all their orientations, but ultimately Um Christianity recognizes that there's going to uh uh uh teaches that there's going to be a final reckoning between right and wrong. And that at that final reckoning there are those that that will be uh rejected, that will stand before the throne of God, and that will will go into eternal punishment. eternal damnation and uh and that at that time there'll be a beast that rises up uh that that is the um expression of all those that have chosen to reset reject what is right and reject Christ and that that anti Christ beast is going to be a whole group of people that have given in to lies and deception and uh will end up uh leading many people astray and that they will persecute the righteous, you know, like like that's the whole apocryphal uh idea. And the recognition there is that There's a whole number of people that are not willing to choose humility, that are not willing to choose righteousness, and those people uh will require a reckoning and not just a a nice reckoning like what you're describing, but a reckoning that will ultimately be a a final There's no more o opportunity to change. Hellfire damnation? Exactly. That's correct. Um That's not something that we That the Quakers I know of would talk about. Right, right. What is the Qua w uh so much else the humanity and the espotology about you know what is the Quakers' view of the end game? Like what happens when we die? What happens at the is there an end to current history and what what is the end of that history? Like what's the next step after this uh experience that we're all sharing together now? I don't think we have a fat answer for that. Sure. And actually I'm not surprised because in in in our digging deep like this, it occurs to me that that that when you look into the distance You see only as far as those people that are willing to respond to your gentleness and to your humility and the others you just kinda like, well, I don't know what to do. I can't control them. Which means that that Quaker vision doesn't see past those people that are willing to respond. And it doesn't try to pierce the cloud of what do we do with those that that ultimately remain recalcitrant. Is there ever a child that is kicked out of a Quaker school? Quakers do oh yes. Quakers do a lot of prison ministry where they will go and and meet with prisoners and and worship with them and bring out the best in prisoners. Sure. And w with the with Calcentr school child we I've had somebody in my office that uh Yeah, and there's a final reckoning in school that you get a final grade. You don't give everybody A's Well, A is reflection of how much um you how well you understood the material you were given. Yeah, and um and but as far as behavior we expect civil behavior from students. And if they don't, there is a reckoning where a final reckoning where they get removed from the school. We have to talk about it. And if finally if it lo you know, if a student just can't is hurtful and cannot change their behavior. And so that separation, like you say, which is what sin is, it's a separation. But you're not willing to take that vision and expand it out to ultimate issues where God will have to remove from the human race, remove from heaven those that refuse to to come around, the recalcitrant ones, you're not willing to ex extend it out that far. We always believe in the possibility of change. And people do go through life and But your patients does run out where you'll remove them from the school and say, well we think they can change but we're not gonna we're not gonna try to stick with that. I can think of a student who didn't adjust. Uh actually we we His name was Jonathan Schweitzer, wasn't it? And so what about like in a church service? If you're in a church, you know, like Sandy Springs uh uh That's a good idea. If you had somebody that kept kept coming in that was of a wrong spirit and he kept coming and kept coming and you guys kept trying to work with him, would you come to a point where you would say, you know what, you're not allowed to come and if you kept coming you would call the police and say Believe it or not, that actually happened at um another meeting. I'm not surprised. Yeah, because it would seem to me like you're gonna attract people that aren't being required to do what's right because you're so kind, which then just means that you outsource your your final punishment to the cops instead of doing it yourself. You'll end up attracting people like us. Society needs cops too that they've we need to protect one another and if somebody is is being too hurtful we have to stop I'm gonna jump in here because we've reached the end time. Yes. Okay. We're gonna call the cops otherwise. And that Breeling is uh representing the Quaker Point of View, founder of Friends Meeting School in Itamsville, Jonathan Sweiser, senior pastor of Crossers Valley Chapel I'm Troy Skinner. Our sponsors are BMC Insurance and Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? What am I reading these days? Worship by the Book. Edited by D edited by DA Carson. Anything D. A. Carson puts out is I'm a big fan of. So the good that I hearty recommend. Till next week. God bless.