Broadcasting from the West Side of Big brother city in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impacts is like plowing pavement and people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by BMC Insurance and Putman Plumbing and Heating. Help we make you smile. The Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com keyword faith. There you find all sorts of interesting stuff, including Jonathan Schweitzer's bio. I'm not even sure if it's still accurate anymore, but it's there, so check it out. See If it if it's wrong, email me and tell me I'll fix it. Well hopefully it it it only means that there's been things added to it. Everything that was, was. Yeah. That's a profound statement, I'm sure. Everything that was was. That's right. Until it is no more. I don't know. I don't know. There's some deep philosophical truth in there somewhere. We'll find it. Anyway, email me anyway because my blog is your blog. So you email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com and What you send me, I post. It's as simple as that. Nine times a day the uh the blog is updated, so there's forty-five blog postings a week. And I will say it's in an interesting mix lately of pop culture, uh politics, and theology It's been an interesting mix of those three things of of late. So this week, Jonathan Sweitzer, uh uh longtime colleague on this show, senior pastor of Crossers White Chapel Joined again by uh Annette Breeling, who is the founder of Friends Meeting School in Iamsville, representing the Quaker uh point of view, the Friends Point of View. Uh did I say my name, Troy Skinner? I guess I did. Not that that's important anyway. Who really cares? We are talk last week we were talking about kind of the general skim the surface. What does it mean to be a Quaker? You know, explain it to us. We we understand that we wear funny hats, we eat lots of oats. No, that's not that's not it at all. Uh but you're much more contemporary than some people would think because we don't run into a lot of Quakers. Yes, now the founding Quaker, William not the founding Quaker, but William Penn who founded Philadelphia He has a quote that I really love, that true godliness does not turn us out of this world, but enables us to live better in it and excites our endeavors to mend it. And I work with Jonathan and Frederick forty eight where we're trying to mend some of the problems we see in the world, in our community Indeed. By the way, things going on in the world, so happy Father's Day to you, Jonathan. Thank you. Today is today is Father's Day for those who didn't realize if you run out and go buy something for dad. Happy belated Mother's Day to you. Well dads are very important as well as moms. Indeed. Yes, they are. Yes. But in our discussions, our surfaced these discussions last week about uh what Quaker beliefs are. There were I don't know if we're gonna have t have time in this cycle of of shows that we're gonna do to talk about all of them, but maybe we will But it seems like there's fodder for for conversation in the area of what is the ground for our belief and the ground for our behavior. Uh you know, talk about turning within uh to find the answer as opposed to turning without. Um Equality was was a big theme early in last week's show. We never swung back around to it. I think we should talk about that. And I think before we even started last week's show, we were all thinking in terms of us we're gonna talk about uh peace perspectives and how we arrive at true, legitimate, longstanding peace. And we didn't really even touch on that hardly at all last week, but I think we'll probably get there. But we ended last week's show. It's Pretty much on the note of what is our ground. And so maybe we'll pick up with that 'cause I know some people listen to this show in podcast form and they line up the shows and they listen to uh an entire arc of shows in a row. You know, they might listen to four shows of the same panel in a row. So this will give it some continuity with how we ended last week if we pick up there. So and that last week was talking about Quaker believes uh belief is that um we can turn within, we can find I don't know, an essence of the divine within us maybe uh that will guide us to find the truth. Right. And if we're in disagreement with another Quaker or somebody else, maybe we can come together and and and hash it out amongst ourselves or we bring a group of us together to to talk it out as a group. So it's um and y I can't remember exactly how you said, I wish I could, but you made it a point to to say that it's more about turning within, even more so than turning to Scripture. Yes. Which is which is a striking thing for a lot of people to hear. Yes, it is. But I think we gotta put it in context. Okay. Right? And in the midst of of the English Civil War, the mid-sixteen hundreds, uh in all the nobility, you know, of English society trying to act like they're special and everybody else is not so special. And then a church that is led by who's who's leading the church at the time? You know, somewhere in there like Henry VIII with all of his wives and everything is going on, claiming to be the head of the church. And the church, you know, uh in his perspective, uh Fox Fox uh yeah, Fox's perspective was given to all this study of what different people believed and so in his mindset he was reacting to all that saying that we need to go back to something that is more pure And um he was right. He felt that the church had really strayed away from what Jesus had taught. And that's where and then he talked about the inward Christ, which I mentioned last week. And there's a story about him that I find compelling. where he was a radical kind of a guy and he walked into church and I think there was a cuss on the people could speak from the floor, but he stepped forward in the middle of the preaching and began some questioning of the preacher and then told the rest of the people, the parishioners, that you don't need to listen to this man. That's not where truth is. You have the truth within you. You need to follow your own truth Well, of course that did not make the preacher very happy or all of the hierarchy that was in the church. So they began beating him and running him out of the church. And so as they were beating him and he ran out until somebody beat him so hard that he fell to the ground, stunned. And the crowd drew back and were a little taken aback that they had beaten him that hard. And after a moment he got himself together and he stood up and he raised his other hand and said, Strike me again. And Most of the crowd at this point had drawn back, but one man did strike him again. That's all he asked him to I guess he did. He was deemed polite, that guy. It's interesting because that point of view is very in vogue. It's very popular these days. It's a very subjective kind of idea. It's a very anti authoritarian idea. Who are you to tell me? I n I know for from myself. Now the Quakers believe that this inner Christ, uh as you refer to it Um is available to all people or only those who would claim to be Christian or how does it All people. All people have an inner Christ. Okay. So that would be a departure from uh mainstream evangelical Well but we would say that that Christ is available to all. You just have to ask. Right? And so so all uh the the there is a distinction But the distinction like like I'm trying to I'm trying to find where there's similarities, you would appreciate that I'm doing this. Uh while at the same time being clear that that I'm not where you are on everything. And the similarity is that we Christians say that Christ is for everybody, that that uh God is not willing that any should perish, but all come to a saving knowledge. of Jesus Christ. The difference is that you wouldn't necessarily say that Christ is nest that knowing Christ or believing in Christ is necessary for What, walking in the divine spark? Is that the language that you would use? I mean, would you say that there's some people that don't walk in the divine Light, the divine spark? Am I using that language right? I'd say among modern day friends, there are some who are more Christ-centered and some who are more universalist oriented. Okay. And not necessarily that Christ senator using that terminology. Okay. And but there's still the like still the question, like how do you how do you say who's not walking in the spirit or the divine light. I think we'd say everyone everyone ha because everyone has that of God in them, they may have different perspectives, but they have a piece of truth. Sometimes Oh, I one Quaker speaker in impressed me with her definition of sin as separation from God. Sometimes we get disconnected from God, separated from God. But To me then the goal should be to connect with God and So how do you reconnect with God? Like is like if I disconnect from God, is it because probably I've done something wrong? Quite likely you've done that. So is there sin in Quakerism? In the sense that of the separation from God's will. Okay. So people can do how do we define how do we explain. But would a lie would a lie be considered Wrong. A lie it's very important to be truthful to Quakers. Extremely important. So a lie though would represent your definitions of something that separates us from God. And so I find that I need to like nail that down. Like something that would separate us from God would be if I'm choosing to lie. Yes, especially if you're lying hurtfully. Or if I'm stealing from somebody. There's stories about Quakers running the underground rear mode, who were so intent also on being truthful So they would blind themselves, they'd put uh uh blinders over their eyes, hide the slaves under a hay wagon, start out to drive the slaves into freedom and the slave hunters would come after them and say, Have you seen any niggers? No, I haven't seen any They were being truthful because they had themselves blind and they could not see the people that they were hiding under the straw. Sure, sure. I've heard stories like that with um Nazi Germany and those that were hiding the Jews as well. Uh that that were intent on on not losing their integrity in the context of helping those that were in trouble. Uh so stealing as well would be considered something that is is inherently separating you from God. Yes. Uh sleeping with somebody else's spouse. Um I think so I Because it's so much up to Yeah, I guess I'd say yes. Funny that you waffled a little bit on that one. Yeah, yeah. So, okay. I'm curious. Because that would be a cheating on it would be a d um it'd be d to seek for. Oh well certainly if that happened with my wife. There would be some separation going on. In a big way. I'm just saying. Okay, what about um murder, obviously? Well we don't v believe in violence against one another. What about direct disobedience of one's parents? That would depend on what our parents would be saying. Were they true? If your parents are telling you to to tell the truth and do those kinds of things and instead you decide to You should be truthful, but if your parents tell you to uh commit a crime you should follow your conscience. Yeah, well we would agree with that that That you obey your parents except for when they tell you the violence. Let me get behind that a little bit, because I'm curious. I'm gonna um you know, rather than kinda you know, put a net on the the spotlight, I'm gonna share and ask her what she thinks I'm going to share what I think, which is relatively mainstream. I'm not going to get into the nuances of where Jonathan and I are going to disagree on. I'll talk about the things where Jonathan and I probably agree. Okay. And and I'd be curious to see to hear how much of it you agree with and which which in which ways or which parts you think that we've drifted from uh a true understanding of of things. Yeah. All right? Nice. But I have a high view of scripture. You disagree with that, but my high view of scripture informs me uh of of my point of view on these things. I believe that All of us, all humankind is created in God's image. Sounds like you agree with that. Or maybe not. You just you just cocked your heads and maybe not. I don't think in that terminology. Okay, do you think God created us? Well, I think it's very m yes, I I think it yes. God created us. So mysterious and so wonderful. Would you say God created us good? Yes, I I like the idea of the term good and just take one O out of it and it's God. Add one O to God and you get good. Okay. I don't know if that helps you. Okay, so but at least we are created we were created when God created humankind. And and the rest of the animal world and plant world. Everything was good. Right. And Genesis says everything was very good when he was done with the creation. But uh but then I also believe that we are radically marred by sin, that we uh that my heart is deceitful and that I can't tr I can't trust my inner voice because it lies to me even myself all the time. But you I don't think you agree with that. Yeah, we don't focus much on on the negative or the sin part. So then what in in your But you do deal with it. Like if somebody's lying in your minutes or if somebody's stealing in your midst, you deal with it. I guess we're so committed to being truthful that uh and and if somebody strays we would try to uh talk with the person and draw 'em back. And speak our truth to them and and try to bring out the good in them. Okay. Now continuing along the line of of of kind of the the big view picture of of my worldview, uh theological view. Okay. Uh because I'm marred and in essentially Uh, I don't see you as untrustworthy. Okay. Well I would expect the best from you. But I his wife sees me. But I know that I've done I've done wrong things. I've done wrong things in the last twenty four years. We're all imperfect. Right. And it's sort of that human nature part of us. Right. And so, you know, I I make mistakes, I sin, I do wrong things, bad things, things even knowing human nature. Did you see that? What does that mean human nature? Because then you're saying that there's a human nature and there's the spark of God. Well There's a dichotomy there. If a person gets too passionate, it might some people might like it and some people If I come on strong, that might offend some people and it might be what another person needs. And uh it may not be necessarily. And uh I was wondering if I got too passionate with it. So anyways, yeah, so sometimes passing can go too strong, you're saying. Yeah, well I was told somebody was annoyed because I interrupted a lot. Oh and I thought, well, you know They haven't met Jonathan. That's why I brought her on the show. They think you interrupt They think you interrupted them, no? We can do it. I remember you and another gentleman last year when you were both talking at the same time and I tried to say something and I couldn't get a word in that joint My wife has felt that way many times. By the way, that's Jonathan Sweitzer. He's a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. We're joined this week by Annette Breeling, who is the founder of the Friends Meeting School in Iamsville, representing The Quaker point of view, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Anyway, continuing on my on my my arc Okay. Because you're disagreeing with me, I get that. But because I believe well, find a place where you we agree. You agree that Our human nature gets the best of us and we will do something that is wrong. We might murder someone, for example, right? We would purposely lie and deceive someone or whatever. And because we do these wrong things, and because I think we are inherently sinful, you disagree with me, I get that. Yes. But because of these sins, these wrong things that we do, we need to be saved from ourselves. And that's Jesus Christ comes into the picture at that point and he is the savior, the mediator between God and man. But I'm I'm guessing that you're not going to agree with that formulation either. You know, I guess I'm so oriented to children. And you see in a young child a loving peace and you can also see a selfish hurtful peace. And we can nobody that's had children thinks that children are just angels. Right. Many times they do good things, but sometimes I think they can be little savages. That coming from the founder of a K through six Great. She understands it well. It reminds me of my fa my favorite secular uh novel of all time is Lord of the Flies, which is illustrates exactly that point. Yes. That these little these little Cute little choir boys can become savages when left to their own devices. Yes. And so you agree with all that yet w we can do hurtful things and and working with children we try to bring out the good in them. And instead of being hurtful, one of the early the preschool teachers say, use your words. And instead of grabbing a toy, we have a lesson on. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I use that with my kids. Yes. And that that is part of a civilizing process as we try to bring out m uh more pro civil behaviors. But look at animals, they can There d there does seem to be something inherently caring about animals too. You see pictures of them being loving with one another. So so like this idea of simplicity and equality brings up the question of pride. Like the the cardinal sin in a Christian worldview is pride. And and when I start thinking that I'm better than somebody else or better than I am, it tends to lead toward um Less equality. Okay. Uh but we teach it in pride comes before fall is what is what the Bible teaches But he who humbles himself will be exalted. And I think you would tend to agree with that. Would you say that that pride tends to be the thing that drives us in the direction of separation from God? Yeah, pride, I suppose if self interest interferes with the interests of all of us, we d do need to care for all of us. Man, that's almost libertarian. Self-interest. If everybody uh John Locke, if everybody pursues their own self-interest, it'll be better for everybody. Because my self interest is that I've been fed well and if I pursue my self-interest I'm probably going to have enough food that I can sell some to you and so it'll be good for everybody. No, I'm not saying it's better for everybody. I'm saying that we need to move beyond that to think of the good of all And really w what's better for everybody can ultimately be in our self-interest. Okay, but I'm not defining pride Am I getting too much into the weeds for what you're doing? Yeah, I I I um I mean I think you're illustrating the point, but I don't know if we need to belabor uh that point. Because now now another c a question that wouldn't have occurred to me originally has occurred to me Um what would you say in answer to this question, who is Jesus uh and or you know, what is Christ to a Quaker? Boy, that differs depending on what Quaker you're gonna talk to. And that's one of the th challenging aspects of Quakerism is we don't say Because we're not turning to one particular source for our truth, for our authority. It differs. So we have different viewpoints about Is it possible to be a good Quaker and to believe that Jesus is merely a a good moral example for us to follow? Yes, definitely. Okay. Is it possible to be a good Quaker and believe that Jesus isn't even a historical figure? Yes. Wow, okay, that surprises me. I did not you know Is it possible d okay, do Quakers believe that this separation between us and God is something that um that is so significant that there's a cost to our choices that led us to the separation. I I I'm hesitant to use the word sin 'cause you don't w use the word sin. And we don't use the word punish very I don't that's we d we tend to avoid that word too. Sure. So if a child refuses to do what is right, do you Time out But you don't call it punishment, what do you call it? Well we probably would call the timeout. We wouldn't tell the child that they're bad. But isn't that just the same thing as saying, Okay, no more red pens in school because red is associated with bad, use other colors, but I still get it that it's bad. I use green pens. If the kid goes to the corner, he knows he's done bad. My students called Do you make him wear a hat when he goes to the corner, a little conical hat? We try to avoid shaming. Hmm Of course, that's good. Would you say the Quakers are kind of kindred spirits with the uh um Unitarian uh universalists? There's a lot in common with Unitarian Universalists, yes. Um I think and and I actually went I tried out the Univer Unitarian Church for a little while, but I think it seemed more political and I felt the Quaker meeting felt more spiritual Right, 'cause that's the point of Quakerism is that when you get in or or maybe even its connection uh like with uh Puritanism or or Baptist that that you get into the titles, Senator So and So, or King So and So, or no you know, and you wanna be the simple life. When you choose to go the direction of the simple life You kinda have to avoid politics 'cause politics is never about the simple life. Politics is always about um you know, who's in charge and who's got the power and Well in in exerting force is very important and and I care very much about politics because I think we need to have laws that are more um compassionate in some cases. And look at William Penn's Charter of Privileges that tried to set about a s a compassionate society. And so I think we need to uh work with our political leaders to Nevertheless there's a the as a Quaker, you feel like your impression of the Unitarians was that they were a little bit too It's just seem more uh like a a lecture, a textbook lecture than a spiritual seeking for what's the same. They're more charismatic Unitarians. So then Unitarians are a little bit more intellectual. In terms of scholarship and that sort of thing? A little more secular maybe is what she's saying, is what I'm hearing anyway. Uh I went to a friend's boarding school, a Quaker High School, for two years, in which we had a course on comparative religion. As a teenager the thought came to me, though, maybe I'm Quaker because I was raised Quaker. What if I were raised Jewish? Maybe I'd be Jewish. Well, what do Jewish people think? Hmm, well that sounds good. Hmm, that sounds good. Well maybe I'm going to be Jewish. Oh, now we're studying about uh Buddhism, enlightenment. That sounds good, that makes sense. Maybe I'm gonna be Buddhist And I would think about different world religions and see certain things that made sense about that religion. And then I thought, well, what am I? And just about that time our teacher said, Well, Quakers believe that there is a truth that we're all trying to understand, whatever religion we are. And the closer we come to that truth, the closer we are to one another. And I thought, ah, that really makes sense that we are all. And I I look at the truths of people from other religious backgrounds. Martin Luther King is a real hero of mine who's Baptist, Gandhi, who's non-Christian, has wonderful truth. But I then thought, well, I'm comfortable with my Quaker traditions. You know, Catholics have very different traditions, but we often end up with the same truths. Yeah, a lot of how we live our lives. We're gonna have to kind of wrap up there. Let Annette have the the final word. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Ride Chapel, Annette Breeling is the founder of the Friends Meeting School in Iamsville, also a trustee with the Sandy Spring Friends School in Alexandria. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. It's brought to us by BMC Insurance. Say hi to Brad Hassman and the guys. And also um say hello to Marlena and Patrick Putman from Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Again, I encourage you to visit us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. There you'll find all sorts of interesting tidbits. I think there might even be a link to uh all the different world religions include and views on religion, including Quakerism. But I did it years ago, but I think Quakerism is represented there. Um if you ever visit our website in that you can let me know if it's a good website for representing Quaker viewpoint or not. If uh if not, I'll I'll go with the link that you suggest. Uh what have I been reading lately? Don't mock me. Don't you mock me, Jonathan. I've been reading the Westminster Confession of Faith and the Catechisms. I after all this for fun, huh? Shows you the kind of life I leave goes to the beach and he pulls out the west Next week we'll bring together the same panel if all parties are uh are are are comfortable doing so. And maybe we can get into the equality issue and the and the peace issue. Um And I tell you this is the thing is that I'm I'm finding myself still trying to get my head around what they believe You know, in terms of the similarities and differences and I'm I'm not quite there yet. Well, we'll find out next week. Next week. God bless