Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 W. It's brought to us by Putman, Fleming, and Heating. Help we make you smile in Deer Valley, Heartscape, Landscape, and Masonry. I encourage you to visit us. Visit us online at WFMD. com KeywordFate There you will find uh a blog, pretty much daily blog from me and a link to a blog that I'm not sure how often it's updated, but from Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. He's on the show again this week along with Doctor Jay Sproadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church, and we're doing everything we can to shake your faith to the core Uh actually we're talking about a true third baby. What happened to that to that track? Oh and I forgot to mention by the way we are broadcasting right now from the police state that is Frederick City Um, what we're talking about is the Bible. Wait, why was that important? Huh? Well because I think people should remind her that we live in a police state in Frederick City, so on my little one man mission here Okay, just so that you know though, we we have no political uh you know, agenda on this show whatsoever. None whatsoever. Just Troy. He does, but the show does not. Just the y'all stay away, go away, we don't want you here sentries they have posted all around. They have 'em in Montgomery County too, down around Poolsville. Yeah, those those those little uh R two D two C three POs that uh take pictures of your car when it's going a tad too quick. Oh, I have to tell you that that those brother is watching you're gonna those cameras are training me Yeah. To watch my speed in places that I would never watch my speed. I just getting those? We've had this for years. Yeah, well you've got to be a little bit more than that. Hello What more need to be said? We got three of them in Poolsville alone. Poolsville's like five miles wide. We got three of these dark cameras. I don't feel like that's Orwellian or police state. I feel like that's another way for the government to apply force when there's a law. If you make a law and people can't uh aren't following it because you can't enforce it, then why make the law? But if you make a law and you're a able to improve the way that you enforce it Uh that's just effective. Law without grace is a police state. Alright, so what we're talking about is the is the Bible and whether or not we can, you know, uh look at it as entirely one hundred percent accurate in every small little jot and tittle and detail, or whether we should, you know, have a a a a a looser understanding of that, maybe staying focused on the big principles that it's teaching, the big theological truths that it's teaching, or whatever, and you know, why we should even have confidence in those sorts of things. And last week we had about a half a dozen words of the week. We'll see if we can top that this week. I'm very, very impressed by you guys. You're very smart. But one of the things we were talking about was inspiration, you know, and and the mode of inspiration, how God writes his word through people. And I don't know if either one of you are familiar with uh Dan B. Allender. You know, the uh he wrote a book, uh, To Be Told. Have you read that? No. Highly recommend it. It's it's it's it's uh it provides a fascinating fascinating understanding of life. Basically Uh I'm oversimplifying it. Dan, if you're listening, I apologize. I'm butchering the same thing. Yes, Dan's listening. Right. All these guys. Four degrees of separation. Yeah. John MacArthur podcasts this out in California. Yeah, he's listening. Uh but anyway, uh the the kind of the general idea is that we are co-authoring our lives with God. That there's this story to be told. There's this story that's being told, the story of our lives, and God is sovereign, he's in control, and so he is can in control of your life. But you're still a free agent, you still have control over your life, you still have free will, right? At uh at at some level, there's theological arguments you made there. But that there's kind of a both and that God is marching your life forward and you're marching your life forward and you Uh and anyway, I I found it helpful not only in understanding how to relate to my own life, understanding my story, and why did this happen to me when I was five and why did this happen to me yesterday? You know, those sorts of things. It also has helped me to have a a a different kind of more nuanced or fuller idea of what it means for God to have co-authored scripture. through humans who penned it. So anyway, I highly recommend To Be Told by Dan Bielander because I think it kind of ties what we've been talking about here. Great transition. So uh Jonathan at the end of last week's show was trained up over eighty years to be the right guy for God to use. Right? David was trained up, chased all over You know, got God got prepared for him to be the right guy uh to write when he wrote. Um, you know, each of these different guys, in fact the uh the the study of how somebody comes to be a leader um in in God's purposes in the ol in in the Old Testament and New Testament for that matter is a fascinating study. It's not send them off to seminary for for for four years and they come back and they're good to go. You know, they're they're ready to do what they need to do. But his you know, the school of the Holy Spirit was was uh very intensive and So while I agree that it's true that each one of these authors that wrote, you know, wrote um uh out of their personality and how do they were you know how how they were as individuals. I think that we cannot overestimate maybe I'm more Calvinist than you guys are on this. We cannot overestimate the role of God's work to prepare them for what they wrote when they wrote it. These guys were trained up by the Lord to write. And so yeah, there's uh there's a a co offering, but they didn't uh they they didn't just get prepared by God, but when they went to write, they were carried along by the Holy Spirit. And I mean, if we have a robust theology, pneumatology, study of of of what the Holy Spirit represents in Scripture, uh it it is He empowers whoever it is that he comes upon to do things that they would no come w nowhere close to being able to do in their own strength. Whether it's Samson when the Holy Spirit came upon him, whether it's Moses when the Holy Spirit came upon him and he prophesied, or other people, David, the Holy Spirit came upon David, we're told, uh, and and you know, was with him for many years. Um I I just think that we have to be very careful to uh to not minimize uh the significance of the role of the Holy Spirit both in preparing people and in uh working through them when the time comes for God to write scripture. Even Paul says at one point that in Corinthians that what I'm writing to you I'm writing as my own opinion, not as something from God. I mean there's a difference. And it doesn't mean that they're in some kind of an ecstatic experience where they're out of out of control themselves. So is one of them inspired and one not? Well Paul clearly Paul clearly says at that point that uh what I'm writing to you is from my own from my my own thoughts. So that's not inspired? Uh yeah, and there's other places in scripture that are just like that. With Job. So that part's not scripture then, really. No, wrong. It is inspired. Yeah. What I'm saying is that is that God moved Paul and Paul wrote and Paul was inspired to share in those places where he's sharing his own opinion. And uh Job, whoever wrote Job, we don't know precisely who wrote Job, but the same thing's true in Job, that he wrote down things that were very uninspired. You know, same thing with Balaam, same thing with uh w with with many places in Scripture where where the author is writing Okay things that are clearly not intended to be followed but but to contrast against what is So Paul. So far as my opinion, we don't have to follow that part. Even though it's inspired, I I'm I'm not actually trying to go somewhere with this. I'm just I'm just agreeing with you, I think. It's I don't actually agree with you, but I I'm just trying to get to the same place. We don't have to follow that particular thing that he's saying in that part of Scripture. I'm saying that that part of what he says in Scripture uh is inspired to teach us that there are times when we as individuals are are released to think and have an opinion. And to have an opinion. But the rest of the time, it wasn't the case. Yeah, scripture is clear about when that's the case and when that's not clear. Let me let me say this again. I'm not talking about evangelical scholars. I haven't heard anything from Jesus specifically. There's nothing directly in the manuscripts or in the what Peter and John have said about these things. So I'm giving you my opinion on that. But most evangelical scholars would still say that's to be followed and it's inspired. So you're actually going outside of evangelical scholarship on this. And I I mean most, I mean almost all. I don't think I've ever even read your particular view on that, which I'm sure is out there. Write a book. Yeah, right. It seems to me that that the Bible in a whole number of places uh gives opinions of those people that that are represented to not be um the people of God. I'm fine with that. And Paul's Satan speaks and it's not always it's not right. I'm I'm fine with that. uh rationale. He's not appealing to to know. I would say he's always appealing to his own rationale though. In everything that he writes, this is his rationale. He's made this argument. I'm fine with that. That that's fine. I I don't disagree. But how does that qu this doesn't deal with the question of inerrancy as to the details of the text? Because I still agree with the Bible. I'm with you on this. This big picture that God is inspiring the text. We haven't really defined exactly what that means for God to breathe it, but somehow he has put his approval on that or or encouraged or in some way molded what has come out The question is, that's only we're dealing with the autographa, which we don't have, and so the question is, is this really relevant? But we have uh e even in those versions, like you said, there's ten thousand of them out there. I uh I'm talking uh if you've got that many versions of it and we have minor differences in the versions and it's clear when the versions are um are heretical versions. There's there's there's you know, like a Samaritan Pentateuch or, you know, targum uh. Those aren't even versions. Okay. Just stick with the same thing. But my point is that it's clear whether that's the case and you only have minor differences, then we're talking about Minor differences. Okay. I I I mean we would have to debate the question of what's a minor difference as to whether we did this in a couple of shows ago. We never really dealt with that. But I mean if it's It's minor in the sense that it doesn't deal with salvation, then fine. We're on the same page. We agree with this. The Bible is leading to salvation, it's leading us to the cross, and I'm 100% on board. The question is, what about the little details that are I'll just give you that are minor. Are those inspired? Or like what? Like the agony in the garden, like the last piece of um of Mark. Which part of the agony in the garden is is preserved differently by other people? But yeah, it doesn't show up in most of them. So i the the c so-called Joanin comma, right? The the Trinity statement in John, um, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit were water, blood, and I mean, which one is that? That seems to be a pretty relevant one, that particular one. And you're saying that that those are redactions that are added in later on by the Catholic Church? All I'm saying is they're different streams in the Greek text. There we don't we can't take it back to the original. We we just can't do that. And so at some point we have to choose which stream we trust or which one we don't, i. e. the the extra part and mark. Right. We have to choose whether the A source is better than the B source, better than the C source. And those aren't technical terms in this case I was just using A, B, and C. Sure. And you're saying the Johannine comma is something that's not in some of those texts, but is in other others of those texts. Correct. And it's not in the earliest known There's more than just early versus late. But yes, I believe and any scholars out there will will call me, I believe it's actually not in the oldest texts. That's not the most important thing. But but most of the things that we've got to do. So how many of these do you figure there are? Thousands. They're on every page of scripture. Do you mean of that significance? Not not very many. Yeah, but how many? Uh I I don't know. I've no I I'm not a text critic, but it's not a good idea. Those where there's you know there's a couple of paragraphs that, you know, might say ooh, like the last part of Mark, for example. I don't know of any of those parts that have anything to do with the the what are considered the core doctrines of the faith. Okay. But they do have to do sometimes with what become important or uh some people consider it to be important practice of the church, right? Like some churches uh it's it's m made a mockery of in a lot of circles, but those that practice it don't think it's uh it's funny games. They h handle snakes. Yeah. Well the snake handling is is in a section of scripture that is much debated over whether or not it's really part of the original, right? Right. So churches can take on practices that uh But there's nothing in any of these things that would change how we should think about who Jesus is, what he does, who who we are in relation to God, those sorts of things, right? So that's why I love that point. Jesus and I think it's John chapter 5 and Luke chapter 24 says the scriptures are about me. Not me, Troy Skinner, me, Jesus. Got it. Right. They testify about Jesus. And if you only have eyes to see, you're gonna notice every everything you read about well, the rabbit chewing its cud doesn't seem to say anything specifically about Jesus. However, the law in a general sense uh does tell us about Jesus and him perfectly fulfilling the law and those sorts of things. So is that Is that where the rubber meets the road for you? I'm trying to really grapple with where the rubber meets the road for you. For me it's not about every single word. I I would say I've probably changed in the last several years. I'm not sure I would call myself a verbal plenary inspirationalist anymore. Or maybe inspiration would be okay. I just don't even know what those words mean anymore because they don't go back far enough. Well I I mean I know what they mean, verbal, every word, plenary, all of it, right? inspiration, um, somehow moved by the spirit, and in however way you said I'm happy with that particular thing. But but does it matter that Mark says that they you know that they sat down on the green grass? Or is he adding things to make the picture prettier? I mean, I would think a a strict literalist, and even that word requires debates, huge debates. I wrote my whole dissertation on what is literal sense. But a strict literalist would say, Well it matters that there's greengrass and not brown grass because this means that he did it during the spring or whatever. I would say I I don't care about that. I I mean that's I I'm not sure that I'm supposed to. I'm not sure the Bible demands that I care that it be green or brown. I think Mark is just m maybe. I I don't know if I think this. Maybe he's just throwing in some details. But what about the story? If if God's gonna inspire somebody to write something, you know, would God throw in just this throwaway line about grass? I mean why would he you know what why would God just not leave