Fuck him Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFND, brought to us by Putm Thomas and Heating, Helping Make You Smile and Deer Valley Heartscape, Landscape and Masonry. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church and my longtime partner in crime, but we won't copy any of it. Jonathan Sweit's there, senior pastor of Crossroads Roy Chapel. We can't copy to it because we live in Fredericks City, a police state. I'm gonna just keep calling a police state until one day they take those cameras down. How many are there around town? Oh, I don't know, a dozen maybe. I don't know. Yeah. I haven't found them all yet, but I know where I know where you will. They'll come in the middle and tell you where they're at. Sure I will. Yeah, they're the little uh little uh anti welcome wagon. Yeah, we don't want tourists or visitors in Frederick because We'll send you a little gift in the mail. Telling you that we didn't want you to do bottom. I'm not going to let 'em do whatever they want in my house. I'm going to require them to drive slowly on my streets because my kids are running around on those streets. So th there you have the first example of Jonathan Schweitzer being wrong on today's show. Many more to follow. That's right. Anyway, we've been talking for a number of weeks. By the way, uh I'm a year older. Today? Uh amazing. Amazing. A couple of days ago. That's a older. I haven't gotten it yet. But it's in the mail, right? Happy birthday. Yeah, probably you meant to, but you were afraid to enter the streets to bring drop it off the mailbox because you won't get a picture taken of your car and a And I'm sending citations. And of course our mail goes through Baltimore as well, so that may be a problem as well. But anyway, those are all separate issues. But all true. Uh issues that we have to deal with. Issues of truth. Yeah. It took you f uh five shows to say that. That's it. Uh by the way, uh what I'm reading it talks about uh talks about truth, uh Daniel Este's uh Hear My Son. Talks about uh the truth found in Proverbs, and he's particularly talking about how that's used as kind of a paradigm for for teaching and instruction. And some would say the entire Bible is, you know, providing us uh teaching and instruction, and it's trustworthy, it speaks the truth. Or does it? Is there fiction in the Bible? Can fiction be true We dealt with this issue one time previously, um when you were on the show we were talking about whether or not Balaam's donkey was a true story. Hm. Is that a fable? Whether or not it's is that historially accurate? Yeah. So of course, coming from you, I'm sure you would say, without a doubt, that is a true, and I mean by true, historical and precise story. about what actually happened at a moment in time, correct? I'm not uncomfortable with God using animals to speak or speaking animals. Well I'm not comfortable with that either. The question was If Walt Disney can do it, certainly God can do it. Yes, I think that that was a true story. Okay. As written. And it could be. You're not right, Jace isn't saying it it's not. Yeah. But Jace is leaving open the possibility that it doesn't have to be. That's correct. Yes. I'm I I'm Let me we we probably need to after four shows of this, I probably need to say I'm super conservative here. Um my default position is is so conservative that I mean I I couldn't even enter into a liberal school. They wouldn't even talk to me. They would just consider me ridiculous. I think the more comfortable and confident you are in your position and how well rooted it is, the more freedom that gives you to kind of go play around the edges and ask the the quote unquote dangerous questions, the unpopular, quote unquote heretical questions. Right. So Jace is out there flirting at the edges. Of course, when you're playing with fire, even if you're well rooted, sometimes you've got to be careful not to get sucked into the dark side. Yeah, that's a Star Wars reference there because a big fan of Star Wars, so gotta sneak that in there. Thanks. Um Now Jonathan maybe doesn't feel like that there's a whole lot of wisdom there in uh playing with fire and dancing on the edges. Is is No, I d I totally feel like it's valuable uh to study uh and to read what uh what non-Christians write to uh to read what those that disagree with your opinion, right? And to uh uh to grow in your understanding of where people that disagree with you think there's weaknesses. Would you tell your f your congregation that they must believe that Balaam's donkey spoke or that they could hold that out as j possibly just a story to make a point? That's a good question. Um I'd present it as a story to be believed. I wouldn't I wouldn't go out of my w I might I might tell them, you know, there's some there's some people, you know, the way they approach scripture they would tell you that this is not true. Right, and so I'd like I'd present it, you know, in a way that uh you know that's the thing. That it it's not necessarily history, would that Yeah, would you have to do an intervention there? I think that I probably would raise the issue with them and and uh I would I'd drive through on it and I'd stick with it. Uh until it came to a place where I was more comfortable. You should be able to do that. I mean you don't want people totally disagreeing with you. You might give some freedom for things, but that's a pretty big one for you. Um Yeah. F for me, when I preach, I don't preach the texts generally, most of the texts I got with, as as historical being the main point of the text. And I won't argue in a in a congregation when I'm preaching whether the text is historical or not. That is w that is what's behind the text. The story that's being told is historical. I'll just default that Because they're in an evangelical church, most of them will think that's the case, and I'll just let that go. My point will be, what is the story trying to tell you? Why did they choose this particular story? Because they could have told you 5,000 stories. that are that existed at that time if you're dealing with the book of um uh whatever book you're dealing with, Numbers, J Joshua, they could have given you many more stories. Why did they tell you the story of Jericho? What's the point of it? There's something bigger than simply it happened in history. They're trying to grasp something else. Mark, what is he trying to do with Jesus walking on the water? It's more than simply Jesus is awesome. I think, anyway. I think he's trying to mold these stories. So like if I'm looking at the book of Job. You figure out what you're talking about. Are you hinting or or leaving the wanting us to have the impression that all these are stories that you think possibly are things that that may or may not have happened, but that's not so important whether or not they really happened? Right. Um I would deal with some of the ev for every one, I would deal with it differently. So for me, if I'm preaching through the book of Job, in fact I did this in a previous church, before I was a senior pastor, I was just a Sunday school teacher, and I've taught You know, in the f in right in the very beginning of the second chapter of Job where they sit around and they talk uh and they don't talk for seven days and they just sit and they don't do anything. Um I said, you know Let let's be honest and real here. Chances are good Joe probably went to the bathroom during this time. You know, he he probably needed to go in seven days. I don't care if he's not drinking He probably did get a drink of water 'cause uh uh can you really survive for seven days? Did God somehow supernaturally allow so I I didn't need for that to be precise. I needed that to tell a story, to make a point. Um I also don't think that they spoke in poetic pr poetic um monologues without rest without stopping and say, well that's the way they did it back then. No, it's not. Um you can make that argument if you want, but you gotta prove it to me. Well some would argue that the entire book of Job is made up. Some in fact sitting in this room, like for instance me. Yeah. I have no problem in fact I would say where I am right now theologically, I don't believe that Job, as the story describes him, is a real story. I think it's m designed to be a theodicy. It's designed to say what happens to uh you know, these good people. How how come bad things happen to the good people? And it's set up in a particular job. Now I don't mean necessarily that there wasn't a job. I'm okay with there being a job. I just don't need that story to have happened exactly like that. in that way. I think probably there was some guy that had lots of bad things happen to him. And then they used that as a story, as a kicking off point in order to make this poetic version, you know, thirty-eight chapters of this are just poetry. Um people don't speak that way, especially not off the cuff. And people don't sit around and record them as they're doing that. Because I'm okay with that actually, because I don't know that scripture the the book of Job doesn't claim for itself to be historical. Right? I don't know any books that say right now I'm recording Maybe there are a couple loop maybe considered you know in order that might be more historical. But even even the the presupposition that because I I'm I'm I'm I've become an increasing believer that I'm trying to understand what the what sort of genre I'm dealing with. And Job presents like a play. Yeah, right. Right. Yeah. It seems like This is your lines. Now you say your lines It's Shakespeare, you know. Exactly. You know, that that's kinda how it presents like okay this could be a play. But something like the Gospels, you know, Luke particularly goes out of his way to point out historical uh you know references to who the leaders were and historical GI would be locations. Personally hermeneutically tied more to the historicity of Luke. So when Jesus is walking on water or turning water into well, that's not necessarily all Luke, but the miracles of Jesus that are presented in the Gospels, um So the vast majority of those miracles are presented as exactly that, I think, that they're presented as something that would not happen. That's impossible to happen. And so for that reason, I would find them to be more historical. I don't get rid of them because they're supernatural. I want to know I want to know, is Luke portraying this this way or is he trying to give us a different picture? Is he trying to portray this as something supernatural and amazing that's going on? And if so, then I want I want to see it for that reason. I want to see what Luke is doing with it. But there could be other examples of things that look miraculous. that aren't designed to say this happened in history, but it's designed to give you a different storyline. I have to come up with something off the top of my head, but um It they could be that way. Uh well, yeah, I don't want to deal with that one, that's too hot buttons. But somebody who wants to take kind of the the line of argumentation that you've been kind of uh championing because we forced you into that box over the last, you know, month of shows, uh, could want to take you might want to take it a step further. I mean, that's kind of the postmodern thing, right? Okay, you're gonna choose to believe that Jesus walked on water Because you've got your reasons for thinking so. I don't have those same reasons. I'm gonna choose that believe that he didn't, but I'm gonna claim that I'm believing the same gospel, believing in the same Jesus as you are. Right. So where where can Christians forget evangelicals, you know, forget that label, where can Christians draw the line and say, uh, that's not Christian belief? Well not there. I would be okay with that. I would be okay with him saying that. I wouldn't say you're not a Christian if you don't believe that he walked on water unless the well, I wouldn't even say that, but They could say, I don't believe in walking water because I just don't believe miracles happen. Now we have a we have a bigger problem, I think. Because then he couldn't believe it. They don't believe in supernatural beings. I mean that's a that's a real concern. But if they were to argue I don't believe he really walked on water. What I believe is this is a story about um showing how Jesus interacts with his disciples. That I I I don't know, whatever they would come up and they have a logical explanation for that. I would go, okay. But I mean That's fine. I disagree with you. We Christians disagree. That's why we're debating these things. But I'm not going to say that he's wrong. I would say I think Jesus really did walk on water. You don't. We still believe that Jesus raised from the dead. But how do you draw that line between him raising from the dead really happened and him walking on water didn't? How could you hold the two of those things in tension and say like you know what what criteria makes one true and the other one not? See that's the problem I have is If I'm gonna believe he raised in the was raised from the dead, it seems like all the other miracles that are presented kind of in the same way. The the authors don't Yeah, see I wouldn't I wouldn't say they are I really think that the the resurrection is treated as completely other than the other miracles? Yes, and the fact that all four deal with it and none of the four deal with any of the other ones completely. Um none of the miracles are that significant that they all have to deal with it, but all the gospels want to deal with the resurrection. Now they don't even all deal with the Christmas story, right? Two of them have nothing to say about any birth narratives Um, and Paul seems to harp on the resurrection an awful lot. I mean he seems to think that's a pretty big thing. Like if you don't even believe this, then you are among all men most pit most to be pitied. I mean, i I think that's that's kind of the whole driving force of the New Testament. Um you might even argue with the Old Testament what it's pointing to. So I think I think we're at a we're at a category difference here when it comes to the cross and the resurrection versus changing the water into wine. Wh where I think both of them in my conservative mindset, which is showing, I think both of them happened in history for real. I don't think you necessarily have to hold that that happened if you can say, here's what's going on. It this is a parable. Why couldn't it be a parable? Why couldn't if Jesus tells a parable, he makes up a story off the top of his head in order to make a bigger point, why can't God, the Holy Spirit, make up a parable and give it to you in the form of scripture. Because there's nothing in it that says, this is not a parable, this has to be interpreted perfectly historically. We've just done that. Except for Just because it's narrative doesn't mean it's historical. That's true. You can have narrative story. Grisham's great at it. But Christ Uh all I'm saying is that when's when when Christ is shown teaching a parable, it's obvious. Not always. And there's at least one that's quite debated. Which one is it? Lazarus and the rich man. Most scholars would argue it's a parable, but it never says it's a parable. And I would argue that it's not. Okay. Well I would just find you in the minority on that one. You would argue that it is. Yeah, I think it's a parable. So what we're left with after all of this is Christian belief. What at the end of the at the end of the day of sounding like Jonathan Sweiser At the end of the day, what really matters is uh from from a Christian point of view, is what is the gospel? So the gospel is what we have to believe as Christians, we have to believe that God entered human history as a man. And that man is Jesus, who literally died on a cross, rose from the dead, and ascended into heaven, and he did that to save us from the punishment we deserve for our own sin. Is that it? Well I would I w I like what you said, but it's bigger than to save us from the punishment of our own sin. For me, the gospel is Jesus' king. Okay. So it's to save us from more than our sin. It's to restore the cosmos. Right. Okay. Okay. Everything else could be if we if those things are core and central and stays foremost in our thinking and in our heart or whatever as believers, everything else is subject to some honest debate and intellectual disagreement? Yeah, I'd probably have to think longer than two seconds on that as to say everything else to categorize it like that. But yeah. I mean I I think there are some core beliefs and I think they're smaller than we think they are. I mean I think the the Apostles' Creed might be a good statement of faith. That's pretty short. Um I don't know that we have to hold to all the other things that are out there. Um I I happen to hold to almost all probably the things that Jonathan does. That's what makes us both in the evangelical category, although he might not place me in there anymore. But I don't know that I would need to. I I'm okay with my episcopal friend who sees things as more storyline and parable throughout the New Testament. I'm okay with him still trusting in Christ for his salvation and and even being saved. And I find myself sympathetic to that point of view, but still there's something about it that that Is is nagging me. I'm I'm actually kind of with you there. Right? Because if I'm gonna It nags me too. If I'm gonna say Jesus really lived and he was God in who entered history as a human and really lived and really died and really rose and really ascended and really saves and really restores I only know that because Scripture has told me so and the Holy Spirit has illuminated my heart and my mind so that I can recognize those truths coming off the page. Right? Yeah. But I only know it from Scripture. So only those little pieces have to be known. It seems like there's an awful lot of waste in scripture. It seems like I I trust those things, but why you know why would I trust those things if I'm not gonna trust the other Scripture stories. Scripture is not simply for my salvation. That's not its only reason. I would just say that's its prime central thing. It is And and what for me is inspired, what for me is is supposed to be there is that it points to the cross. But I think scripture is for far more than that. It's for living an abundant life after salvation. I I'm not getting saved for fire insurance reasons. I'm getting saved because this is the way that the designer of the world has called me to live. And this is a this is a great way to live. I can live an abundant life now, even through suffering. I can live a joyful life. I think Scripture has All the the ways that that can happen. Are you channeling Joe Lstein right now? Uh I don't think so. Live an abundant life now. I agree with you though, by the way. I don't disagree with him on that. Yeah, he's a whipping boy for a lot of things. I actually find him to be a great encourager who is a little too limited in his theological. There's certainly Jesus came for now He did come for my life now, not just for my life in heaven. Okay. I think you can reach heaven now in some senses. That'd be another wonderful So how how afraid are you right now, Jonathan, of both talking at all. By the way, Jace Dr. Jace Broadhurst, the senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church, I'm Troy Skinner. You're listening to the Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD And Jonathan Schweitzer has uh either he's died and we don't know poke him over there with a stick and see. Or he's thinking. Or he's fallen asleep. No, okay. Thinking more of it. I will say the last time uh that Jonathan was this quiet on a show, he wasn't on the show. Yeah. So what are you making of all this? Um well two things. One I'm I'm struck again that that Jace is taking the time to ask questions that that scholars are asking. It's trying to allow space for scholars to ask those questions and then there's places where where he's recognizing that that scholars ask these questions but where he personally comes down in a conservative place. And then there's other passages where, you know, he and I would be in disagreement, i. e. Job, you know, or Balaam's donkey, whether or not these are uh supposed to be read uh as parables in um again I I feel like these scholars look for clues for when a parable is there and when there's not. And the question is what clues uh are clueing you off? Right. Narrative triggers that tell you what it is that you should see the genre. And uh and the impression seems to be that the more scholarly you are the the more you identify narrative triggers and the more that you're able to discern, oh, this is a place where where it's um a parable and we're just supposed to read it as a parable and this is the place where it's uh where it's not and where it's true where where we we believe it is true. And um Again, I find myself at the place where uh so many scholars are not driven by a search for the truth. But they're driven by a um you know, a desire to walk away from Uh the word of God in skeptics. And uh his his student, John Frame, has has carried that torch nicely uh into the the current era. We all have presuppositions We all have different ideas that formulate our view walking into a situation. We're all going to approach scripture different ways. Some scholars have a presupposition that it's not true. They're not Christians, maybe. Or they don't believe that Jesus was a literal historical figure, although that's pretty rare in scholarly circles, but they might not believe that he literally died and rose again and that it was it was meant as a figurative spiritual death and rising and he was a a good example to us or whatever. Uh but they're coming with that presupposition b out of unbelief in who Jesus is, and they're using their scholarship to try to support what I would say is a lie from Satan. And And the those who are believers are going to use their scholarship to to uh uh to support their presuppositions uh the same way. So the the scholars aren't the enemy And scholarship isn't the enemy, right? You're not and you're not meaning to say that. No, I'm not meaning to say that, but I am scholars that trying to identify You know, the whole idea that that we sent our you know, the this really on fire Christian away to s seminary. It turned out it was a cemetery and he came back you know, no longer a believer, you know, how many uh seminaries, Princeton, you know, Harvard, you know, these different places that that started out solid and they ended up uh falling away. And so then uh again, the question is, well, let me go really conservative, you know, throughout the you know, the the ultimate conservative. Is it the knowledge of good and evil? We get to this place where we're asking all the questions. I guess I feel like I struggle with this myself. But but we come we become so good at asking the the questions about what potentially could be a way to look at it that we lose sight you know, in our pursuit of of knowledge of what what could be the good way or the evil way to to to view scripture that we lose sight of of what's important and you know like you're talking about your Episcopalian buddy um and I've got some of some buddies like that myself uh that that are are are down the slippery slope too far for us. And so we're willing to ask the questions, but we feel like they're they're down the slippery slope. We're very uncomfortable with it. They're playing around the edge of of you know falling off. and they've got whole congregations that are following them, you know, and many of which congregations are uh are losing members because because there's no longer a sense of faith that comes forth. There's no longer a sense of of of uh belief. You know, they've so undermined the foundations of belief in the name of rationalism and and and philosophy, you know, that it's lost. And so I I guess I just have to say that I Um I think it's important to ask the questions. I'm I'm asking the questions that grew up with a dad that asked those questions. So I don't think I'll ever not ask those questions. But that somewhere Uh we have to have some some posts that that say this is too far and I feel like um I I I feel like I don't know, I guess I mean clearly if I if I stay where I'm at, you know, you'll be like, Well, I'm not there, you know, and there's reasons why I'm not there. You know, and uh and so it's a scholarly choice to well, I'm gonna I'm gonna put a wrap on the show with with this point. Um Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossville's Royal Chapel, that's the voice you're just here, and the other voice on today's show is Dr. Chase Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I think that too often the liberal scholarship, those that would want to uh lay claim to the idea that the miracles and supernatural aren't real and possible, that Jesus is a mere man, a mere uh symbol of excellence that we should all try to emulate and that sort of thing. Sometimes um uh get received by culture around us as they're the smart ones, they're the ones in the know, and those that are conservative and they want to believe that Balaam's donkey actually spoke and want to believe that Jesus actually walked on water, that they're somehow backwater hicks who aren't uh intelligent and aren't enlightened and aren't bright. The truth of the matter is there are very bright scholars, incredibly intelligent scholars, way smarter than most people on the planet that hold to the super