Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio nine thirty WFMD. Good morning. Thanks for spending part of your day with us. We know your time is valuable. We do not take it for granted. If you're listening to it live, well we thank you For listening to News Radio 930 WFMD. We very much appreciate that. The radio station does too, I'm sure. If you're listening to this later on podcasts, well, we love you just as much. And if you'd like to comment uh on the social media platforms that this show ends appearing on, glad to uh interact with you there. You can connect with all those platforms and this show and all those sorts of things rather easily. Just go to the one stop shop for doing so. Go to Household of Faith in Christ dot com. That's the name of the church, Household of Faith in Christ. That's the church I pastor. Add a dot com to the end of that and you can connect You can connect with the Razbeys, Daniel Razby and his father Imran Razby, known as Raz to his friends. They have a website. Concordbylove. org for their ministry called Concord by Love Ministries and they co-pastor a church in the Thurmont area um called the Church that meets at Imran's house. And we are uh joined for a fourth time, it might be the last time for a little while, that we're joined by Greg Windsor. He is the publisher. of a book called The Last Days Pride Parade and The Return of the Lord by Tom Maccabeas. You can find that at BarnesandNoble. com. So we encourage you to to check that out. And so We've we've talked about uh the the previous three weeks uh on this topic and talking about this book, we've talked about the history, biblical connections, some extra biblical connections. We've talked about uh kind of the the the the way the church has kind of lost its way in so many ways, the the pressures that are placed upon us by uh by the world, the uh the ungodly pagan and even demonic uh influences of the world, all those sorts of things. We began to get into some practical application stuff and what that all means for us last week. But I think we need to spend some time uh making sure that we're all uh uh equipped, helping to equip others, addressing elephants in the room. Uh because the the winds uh in in the sails are pushing us in a particular direction, right? So we gotta know how to adjust the tact on our sails so that we don't get driven uh in the direction of the sirens and get and and get taken into uh all sorts of uh evil outcomes. I'm mixing uh uh ancient mythology and biblical truth there. Um but Um so what are some things that that are that sound like persuasive arguments that we need to be on guard against? And if you're not hearing uh you know answers from their from the pastors or the Sunday school teachers or what have you or the online ministries that they're listening to. Maybe we can help. So what are some things? For example The big one is, well, Imran, you sound like a real hater. You just hate everybody. What's wrong with you? And it it can sound like you're a hater. Right? And I began to try to address that a little bit uh toward the middle part of last week's show, but what do we say in response to well you just hate you hate homosexuals, you hate lesbians, you hate queer community, you hate trans people, you just hate, hate, hate. What And and it sounds like you are wagging a finger. That's sinful. That sounds hateful. Why are you not being hateful? Because I'm not hating anyone. I am um hating sin and I'm loving God. So it's not me that is saying don't do this. God is saying that. So don't come to me with your hate. I'm just uh just uh reading the Bible and say this is what God says. So first of all you gotta understand who God is and if you understand who God the w the wi wisdom comes by the fear of God. And the problem is People have lost the fear of God. We have been so wealthy, so comfortable in this country that there is no fear of God. And because there's no fear of God, wisdom has gone out the window. And I think that's where people come back and say, You hey it's just like me coming up to somebody and say, Hey, what did you just stop beating your wife? That automatically implied you were beating your wife You know, it doesn't mean that you ever were, but that's what it is implied. So w you know when you say w you know you're such a hater, you're assuming that something's there, it's not that's not really there. And I'm not here to defend that what I hate or not hate. I love everybody. I think God loves everybody. But he doesn't love sin. He doesn't love your blatant um desire to not be with him. He's uh there with his open arms and It's a free gift to be with him, but that free gift come w comes with a price. It's kinda funny. It's a free gift but it comes with a price. What is the price? You gotta give up your sinful ways. You have to lead the world, repent. And and I mean they says the w who the Lord loves, that's who he chastens, right? If he didn't love you, then why would he bother telling you to stop doing things. He doesn't care. And and you know, it was said really well by an atheist, Pen Joette, what they mentioned on the program. He said, look, if you're a Christian and you're not telling me that I'm in sin and I'm going to hell You must really hate me, because that means you want me to go to hell. You not only believe I'm going to hell, but you're not telling me about it, so you must really want me to go there. That's really hateful. So the most hateful thing is to not preach the gospel. But I'll throw another one at you So Troy, um, you know, i y you you keep saying uh homosexuality is wrong and stuff and LGBT is wrong. Well i In this day and age, I mean we're we're modern and involved, we've understand that really consent is the primary determiner of whether something's moral and correct. So as long as the people involved in whatever the action is, as long as they consent, they all want to do it Then where's the harm in that? I mean e even the passages in the Bible are you put to Sodom, they were trying to rape or you know, all these other things passages mostly talk seem to talk about, you know force activity and no I'm not a fan of forcing anybody to do anything. Uh we know that's disingenuous because we talked about that last week, but but what what would you say to that? Oh consent is first of all the ultimate arbiter of what is moral Second of all, all the examples in the Bible of deviant sexual behaviors have to do with generally forced or behavior or rape, and that's being what's what's talked about as bad. Yeah, one of the first things that occurs to me, it's not necessarily quoting a a scripture verse, but it's one of those truisms uh that we kind of grew up with, the idea that misery loves company. So just because two people agree to participate in something doesn't automatically mean that it's not going to bring misery. You know, sin ultimately will bring misery. Uh it might feel good in the moment, it might fill you with a sense of euphoria and you think this is the best thing I've ever done and it m that feeling or that idea might even stay with you for a stretch of time, a season of life. It might stay with you to your grave But ultimately sin, unrepentant sin, brings misery. And misery loves company. So just because two people consent to engage in it together doesn't mean that they won't have a miserable eternity. So there's that. The other thing is Um i it this is a fancy term, but there's something that talks about you know the fall of man and our sinful nature now. We are corrupt. And one of the things that is corrupt is our mind. Our brains don't work the way they're supposed to. Our mind is not holy. It's called the noetic of fall uh the noetic effects of the fall. Meaning that I don't care how higher IQ, how clear you might think your that your thinking is, it's not perfect. And so you can make mistakes, right? We've all had errors in our thinking. And so you might think that this is good because two people are consenting, but you can't know for sure that it's good because your brain is broken. God knows what's good and God is the ultimate perfect arbiter of what is right, what is wrong, and what is okay and what is not and what's going to bring misery and what's going to bring blessing. So we were de totally dependent on God who knows all things. That old story about the the elephant, you know, you've heard this analogy? One person, they're all blindfolded and one person grabs a tail and says, Oh the elephant, it's like a rope. And the other person uh you know feels the side of the elephant while they're blindfolded. Oh, an elephant is like a big wall. You know, and they all have these different perspectives and they s and the idea there is well who can know Well the one who can see the whole elephant can know. God sees the whole elephant. So God knows if you're grabbing the tail, if you're pressing against the side that feels like a wall. God knows all, so we have to be dependent on on him. So Though those are the kinds of uh of things that I would and it's not just that do you say that in the Bible there's a lot of stories where it seems like there's forced uh deviant behavior. But it wasn't always forced. There were people that were deviant uh in concert with one another. They were all they were consenting. You know, somebody would uh would would have a sexual dalliance or would commit a particular sin, or there was the the group of men who joined together uh at at in in uh in with the sulfuria of Sodom and Gomorrah Uh th though those men were all working in concert. They were all in agreement with one another that what we're doing here is good. But it wasn't. So we can find examples in the Bible too where it's not just forced. Um there's some debate about this. Uh I don't necessarily agree with those who hold hold to the view that Bathsheba was raped. Uh so I think that Bathsheba was a willing participant in her adulterous affair with David. So they were consensual. So because David and Bathsheba had a consensual uh dalliance while her husband was off uh fighting a war uh to to Uh on on David's behalf, mind you, uh just because they were both consenting doesn't make that adulterous affair any less wrong. So we can find examples in the Bible. It's it's So anyway, so th that's a kind of a wrongwork answer. So don't you see that Jesus uh uh didn't punish the woman taking adultery? He said, you know, just just I'm not gonna I'm not gonna condemn you. Sin no more. He did say sin no more, that's true. So there is that. But it is. But assuming that it is He does then say go and sin no more. So there's a there's implication implication there that she had sinned. And he was following the the legal framework because it says you need to have witnesses and they're wording. Right. So there was that. And then the Me, the Father of the Spirit, I should say he was he could have said that. But the other thing too is we have to understand the the the moment and Christ in his first coming didn't come to demonstrate God's wrath. Right. Right? He reads from the book of Isaiah, the scroll of Isaiah, and then he stops right before it gets to the part where there's gonna be wrath. So we were talking about this last week about the the the mountain ranges and you see the mountain it looks like oh there's just one mountain but when you you elevate or you get a different perspective you see there's more than one mountain. So there's a There's like a double fulfillment. So Christ's c His coming comes in two phases. And the first phase is the call to repentance. still to come. And so if she doesn't repent and she goes and continues to sin, she doesn't follow the instruction to go and sin no more, she's going to face the wrath of God. So Um yeah, we want but y you wanted to we talked in between uh last week's show and this week's show about you know we want to be uh reaching out to others. We want to be evangelistic, we want to be welcoming, we want to welcome people into the truth of the gospel, we want to welcome them into our church. And if you're going to be pointing out their sins, aren't you being unwelcoming? And so what w so how do we respond to that or what's the tact to take? Because I actually Uh I have some thoughts about what that means and there's some truth actually in that, but I don't want to steal the so I've just talked for like three minutes in a row. So What do you want to say, Greg? Someone wants to put it this way, you know, we have to have grace and truth. K you can't compromise the truth, and I think we have to we have to love the truth. So yeah, we have to reach out in grace and I and I'm an evangelist and I I I really want to reach out to people. So there it's a really uh fine line to walk in. It's like, yeah, we want to be welcoming people, but just like anybody who has fallen f from from God's original plans, like what you were saying You know, it's gonna be disastrous. And so in in love with gentleness and respect, I think that's the key just to love people enough to tell them and and I think that with humility most Christians have probably fallen in some way uh you know in the past like whatever sexually and so we get that and so we're trying to just Help people like look, this is going down the ro you know, you you're heading down to destruction. You even your life is is gonna be ruinous. So we're warning people But it's it's in a spirit of love and grace and gentleness and it's it's not easy 'cause sometimes, you know, y you'll get a lot of pushback Um but the second thing is also Christians trying to warn other Christians not to compromise and not to be confused with the word welcoming, you know, or or you know tolerant. Jesus does not commend tolerance. He says, I have this against you. You tolerate the woman Jezebel who's promoting immorality. So we're not we're not supposed to tolerate that. And so that those words uh are just um twisted, you know. So what you're saying is you can be welcoming without compromising, right? Right. So you don't need to go on their level. But you can still be welcoming. There you we need to be able to show them there's a better way. Right. There's a biblical way, a godly way, and and that does not mean that we're judging you because again If you're saved, God replaces the judgment that you deserve, so rightly deserve, with grace where you're not gonna be judged. You you're gonna be based on g on on cr Christ's blood. So all the evil stuff you've done is going to be wiped away To me, that's welcoming. But one of the things that I I've heard o often by a lot of people, in fact, uh Franklin Graham was saying that at the Baptist Convention is that, you know, the our children have to be the salt. They have to be the salt. They have to go to to school and they have to be assault. That that's garbage. You know, you you can't put our kids through wolves. I think one of the things first things is the the school system is so evil Anybody that still has kids in the school system should should rethink whether they love God or love the school system. Because I think you need to pull your kids out. Yeah, and we're really running a risk. I mean, uh there's a certain level see, this is what makes some of these uh uh I don't want to say lo I'm gonna use the language I guess, makes these lies so dangerous as they have elements of truth mixed in. So God people are called to be salt. And light, right? And so we're Salt has the idea of adding flavor, has the idea of being a preservative and all that sort of thing. And so we do want to be preserved preserving what is good and right and true about God's teaching and we want to do it in a way that is flavorful and allows for a flourishing and a and a and a and a and a just a wonderful life. But if we're not careful If we take our children who are not equipped to do that, they're not fully formed yet. They haven't you haven't finished training them up on the way they should go. Uh you're putting them at risk so they could be the salt that loses its saltiness And then it's use it's good for nothing. It gets trampled, it's it's worthless. And so you're if you're not careful, you're gonna put your p your children in a situation where ten, twenty years down the road, they're gonna be useless because you've you've wasted their saltiness. You've got to be really careful about that. But there there's this mix, right? So um what's the um Mary is it Mary Poppins Spoonful of Sugar makes the medicine go down? There's some biblical truth in that song. And I think where we get out of balance or we m m we miss the blend is We are so endeavoring to be welcoming. We want to be perceived as loving and accepting and affirming and tolerant that all we do is give them the sugar. It's nothing but sugar. It's saccharin sweet sugar. There's no medicine. And the medicine is, you know what, you you you need this medicine. And nobody nobody wants to be told that they have a failing, they have a need Right? You need this medicine. Oh, it tastes chucky. I don't want that medicine. You make a grimace and you run away from the medicine. Right. Uh and so we need we I think there's some benefit to those who are lost to couch it in a way that there's some sugar and you emphasize the sweetness of Christ. The beautiful He's a great physician who has this medicine and you need this medicine from the great physician. And that need is the part that seems bitter. They don't want the bitterness. They don't want to they they don't want to acknowledge that they have failed. But to help them to understand that they have failed. Um is the medicine, the beginnings of the medicine. And I think we can couch that in terms that feel and sound more sweet. And I think that we can be prone to being guilty of doing just medicine, no sugar Um Jesus was a the perfect blend of of of of medicine with sugar, right? He's and he promises, you know, abundant life, you know. He promises like everything that we need is found in him. And uh, you know you mentioned uh a a little while back, you know, God's plan for marriage, the family, the beauty of sexuality, all that stuff. So God has this beautiful plan. We're made in the image of God, and so If we can try to encourage people, look, you're gonna miss out. You know? God has this beautiful, wonderful plan. Awesome You know, and so they try to h in in love, help them to see beyond just, you know, the fleeting pleasures of sin or whatever And sometimes people overhear w what our intramural conversations. You know, we're we're we're giving a charge or we're or calling and holding to account other Christians and say, Well, you cannot compromise. You understand that this sort of behavior is sin and you can't say it's not. And then the overhearing world is non-Christians, they're like, Oh, you guys are haters. But we're being very direct and exacting with other believers saying you can't because you know better. Right, you know better. Right. You have partaken of the Holy Spirit, right? You understand the You've been given the illumination of the Spirit to understand and recognize the truth of His Word. And now you're turning your back on that? You can't do that because you would have been better off never believing at all than to turn your back on the truth. And so we're We're in a public forum like this we're also speaking to the fellow Christian and the non-Christian hears us and we're not talking they're not exactly the audience in that way. Right. So the non-Christian audience, the the the message For you, if that's you, is God made you in his image. But you need to understand that you are a marred image bearer and you need to be made whole again. And God has done that for you in and through Jesus Christ. If you repent and accept the gift of faith and then live a life of gratitude in in humble submission to God. Those things are there. But let's start with You are a beautiful creature of God. Let's start there. I want to remind you of that. But you're not perfect. You're not all that. Right? You're not what you think you are. You shouldn't be all puffed up with pride. You should recognize that you have a need for your Creator to make you to be perfectly what you're made to be. So there's this idea of both and and And I wanna I wanna clarify too, I mean uh I I've heard even some on the left use that image of God recently. In fact I think Joe Biden used it in in a uh speech. You know, transgender people are still also made in the image of God Well yeah, the that the that's the first half of the verse. The second half of the verse says male and female treated down. Male and female. There are still two and and you were made in a specific one of the two, right? But it is still in the image of God and and you may have a have a flawed uh or or marred uh you know um uh emotional understanding or spiritual you know feeling about what w what thing that you wish to be different about yourself but You are important the way that God made you, and and there is a purpose that God has. If if if if you're going to be uh in his kingdom, then he he has a specific purpose and and plan for you. to fulfill that in his kingdom. But that's the way in the way he made you specifically. Um and and and so, you know, not not to be in the in intentionally in sin. And I'm going to spin this no-compromise thing on its head in just a second, but first I was going to say that was the voice of Daniel Razzley you just heard. You also heard, I think the voice before that was Greg Windsor's voice And the voice before that, I think, was Imran Razi's voice. Not counting my voice, of course, because I think I was interspersed throughout all of that. Anyway, you're listening to the Fate Debate on News Radio, 930 WFMD. You know, we we don't want to compromise. So we want to make sure that we call, you know, uh properly identify sin as sin and righteousness as righteousness, and we can't compromise on those things. The church needs to hold to the truth of God. However This is for you, believer. Not compromising also means the way you live out your life. It's not enough that you get your doctrine right. If you understand that God's word is truth, but you refuse to love your wife, you have compromised. If you will call all the sins of the world, the sins of the world, and you will accurately identify them, and you will even identify wolves within the church, and you will do a good job of being discerning about those things, but you do not love your neighbor. You don't put in an honest, hard day's work for your employer. You don't do those sorts of things. Then you have compromised. It's not just about doctrinal purity It's about right? It it's about the way you live out your life. It's not just uh orthodoxy, but orthopraxy. It's the practice of your life. You have to be perfect. Is that what you're saying, Troya? We have to be perfect We are called to be perfect as Christ is perfect. Now we fail, and so we are fully we are made fully sufficient in Christ and by the blood of Christ, which which just brings calls us uh to be reminded of our need for Christ. But we are called to perfection But we fall short. We need to identify that we are not going to live perfect lives until sin is no more in glory, right? Where there's no more crime, no more sin, no more death, n all those things Well for f but we are called to perfection, but Christians understand we don't live a perfect life, but we are called to it. So we're not off the hook and say, well I can't be perfect anyway, so I'll just beat my wife. What No. No, right. Yeah, I think the Apostle Paul might have said something about that. You raise a really good point, Troy, that yeah, we have to model this beautiful, glorious uh plan. Yeah, it's lo love loving our wives and and and you know, uh uh our our families and all the things that go along with that plan because then they can see you know, the unbelievers can see something, you know, and I try not to focus on specific sins unless it's you know, like an issue, but just try to keep bringing it back to you. Look, here's God's plan. Anytime we g anytime we go outside of that, your life's gonna be miserable. You know, those who choose another God multiply their sorrows. Your life's gonna be miserable. But choose choose God, choose choose life. That's a really good point. When I've had opportunity to be in a kind of a a situation where it's a one-on-one sharing of the gospel, evangelistic uh evangelistic kind of a setting or that sort of thing I hadn't thought about it until you just said it, but I can't remember ever focusing on a specific sin. It's more generalized, like you've done some things that even by your own standard you would admit are wrong, right? What do you do with the guilt and shame and the dishonor that comes with that? What do you do with that? You you know you you own it, you just ign it just admitted that by your own standard you've fallen short. So what do you do with that? How can you make it right And that it's just a generic general thing. And the devil has a counterfeit, right? He says you can remove the uh the that that that uh uh shame by by becoming prideful and arrogant. You can remove this uh fear by b by becoming the the oppressor instead of the oppressed. You can uh you know, you can remove this guilt by just passing laws saying that it's not wrong. You know in a specific uh um counseling session with a Christian or with a or a a a Christian sermon, right? I I might be specific there and say Uh when you spend all that time online looking at dirty videos and pictures and things like that, that's a sin. You need to stop. I will call it out, right? The fact that you're disrespectful to your husband, not honoring your husband, not respecting his his authority as a spiritual head of the home, that needs to stop. I will point out you know, y you're sassing your mother. That needs to stop. I will call out specific things to a Christian either in a sermon or in a one-on-one situation. But when you're evangelizing to the lost They just they need to know about the love of Christ and part of that is recogn them acknowledging they have a need. So that's why you bring up sin at all. Right, the good news is that there's a solution to the bad news. Right. So you have to identify the bad news some way. Right. But I think that's where we sometimes get a little bit uh mixed up in the fray. We start wagging our fingers at the lost as though they're believers and holding them to account and a standard that they can't live up to because they don't have the Holy Spirit. So to say, you're an evil sinner Yeah, well that's the Westboro Baptist Church model of evangelism, and it doesn't work because it's not biblical. So anyway, uh we we've got like a a minute or so last word to somebody. Anybody Well, we have to love people with grace and truth and um and I think that we need to be like Jesus in this world. So um as I uh later at my church used to say uh you know you're you're called to be uh become Jesus' identical twin. Meaning you want to look and act i in the way he he would be That's what we're calling. That's that's an impossible task, but that's what we're striving to do. And again, it's not through our own powers through through uh Christ that makes us able to do that. Yeah, I and a picture that comes to mind is is think about uh a non believer that comes to you or you're t talking to them. They got arrows in them. Okay. You can't judge them for having arrows in them. You gotta heal the arrows. You gotta take them out with loving kindly. You can't just accept that they have arrows and it's okay, that's part of life. No. God has a plan for each person. And the first thing is heal them, talk to identify the errors, identify the the evil that's there, and then start take getting rid of that. And then move towards, hey, let's reconcile your your relationship with Christ, because it's all about relationships. That's Imron Razley, before that was Daniel Razby, before that was Greg Windsor, on Troy Skinner. This has been the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Find me online at household at FaithDe. InChrist. com. Until next week, 167. 5 hours from right about now. God bless.