Good morning to ya. On News Radio 930 WFMB, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate joined this week by Imran Razby, known as Raz to his friends, and Daniel Razby. I'm not sure what he's known to as friends. Just Daniel. So his enemies and his friends call him Daniel Uh and you I'm also known as Daniel's father. Oh. Okay. And then you're sometimes known as Imran's son. No. No. Anyway, you can find them online at conquered by love dot org. They've got a a a ministry called Concord by Love Ministries. And uh they have a church. It's called the church it meets in Imran's house And I'm the pastor of a church, Household of Faith in Christ. You can find me and my church online at Household of Faithinchrist. com. Of course you can connect with the show there or you can connect with the show at WFMD. com. So last week was like a therapy session. I had a chance to vent all my grievances about what's wrong with the Republican Party. I had an opportunity to go to DC not too long ago. uh with the Wall Builders David Barton uh organization. And um we weren't gonna be talking about that originally when we walked into the studio we're gonna be talking about what defines Christianity and what is, here's the word of the week for you, Adiaphora Uh adiopora is just a fancy word of saying what are things we can agree to disagree on? What are secondary, tertiary matters that aren't definitive, right? They're important maybe, but they're not definitive. And Um I feel like we had some leftover things possibly to say about last week because we got on a roll talking about uh sanctity of life and you know abortion and how the Republicans just won't do anything about it. because of a the quote unquote pro life lobby that undercuts all the abolition movements. Uh that would be one of the marks of Christianity, right? High regard for image bearers Right, the sanctity of life, that would be a a mark. Yeah. It should be one of the most obvious fruits. In fact, uh I think e even Uh twenty plus years ago when we weren't even when we weren't as as doctrinally aware and we were looking for churches to attend, that was one of the two questions you always asked is Uh do you uh uh my parents on divorce my parents have two questions. Uh uh when you go to interview a pastor for a a new church that you're going to. Do you read from the Bible during church services? And what is your opinion about abortion? And Did you ever get a no on the first question? Yeah. Yes. They got some no's they like uh well I mean we we occasionally Sometimes we'll code a Bible verse, but it's not always and Um, it's not necessary. Wow. I mean it's one thing to not do it. It's another thing to say, yeah no, we don't do that. Like to admit it. But we we don't want to offend people by quoting a Bible verse Oh yeah, we wouldn't want that. But most of them it was like well it's like the the Easter uh service. It was like that megachurch that was on the news for uh for somebody leaked that they were preparing their sermon notes for for Easter services. And they said they cannot use the word resurrection in the whole uh Easter service to not offend people. Um how do you have the Easter service? Was that elevation church? Uh it was no it was an unnamed church in North Carolina, so they didn't The news Yeah, I think it was Stephen I think it was Stephen Mother's Church. He's in North Carolina, so but that's that's an example, right? So most of the churches will though they'll say, Oh yeah, we'd read it from the Bible, even if they don't do it that much But almost uh none of these mainline churches are willing to say, Oh, exactly, yes, abortion is murder, it's wrong, it's evil. The most common answer we got, well, that's a complicated question and we can sit down and talk about it and discuss it But not one church would ever say yeah, we're against abortion. It's always a complicated answer. Yeah, so that would be the mark of a good church that would be I think something that's non negotiable and definitive for Christianity. So I think that that would say that those pastors are like wolves in sheep's clothing. Yeah, but I would go one step further. Because you you can still find some pro life churches that are saying, yeah, the sanctity of life. But I would bet that not a one of them that you can find, it would be rarity that they would say, Yes, it is actually murder and the woman and anybody else involved in counseling the woman to murder the baby is conspiracy to murder. None of 'em will do that because th that's the biggest problem. Unless we declare that it is murder And it sounds shocking to contemporary ears, and b you know, particularly if you don't go to a church that talks like this, you're like, What are you talking about? But let's just change and not just the woman. If before you say, Oh, you're just showing this people. No. The boyfriend or the husband is in many cases really forcing and encouraging this woman to be considering this. She's not making this decision by herself So they're a copy of murder. Most abortions are counseled by their parents or by the boyfriend. Those people should be held responsible. What you know, just change the timestamp slightly and it doesn't sound as crazy to those who don't already think like us, right? Take a seventeen day old child And uh because of pressure from her boyfriend, the woman, you know, crushes the skull of her infant We'd all be horrified. We should all be out hopefully be all horrified. Most of us. Some people wouldn't be. And what makes a difference if it was one month earlier? What if it yeah, what if it was eighteen days earlier? Right? Because I that's a seventeen day old infant. What if it was eighteen days earlier? What's the difference? Well Troy, most people are doing late term abortions these days, you know. That's just a a straw man argument. Well, first of all there are some that do it, but okay, but even so all right, but then you start going backwards. All right, so if it's not okay, let's say the due date is, you know, uh July first. Well is is it so it's n it's not okay to kill Viddy on July first. Right? Okay. Is it okay to kill Vidy on June thirtieth? No, that's too close. June twenty ninth? June twenty eighth? Like how many days back in June or May or April do you have to go before okay now it's okay. Based on what other than the calendar? Now the The the the most intellectually strong argument, if it were true, would be my body, my choice. Right? It's my body, I can do with it what I want. That's a strong argument. Problem is There's two bodies. That's the problem with that argument. But even then, I would argue that's not uh uh that's only an acceptable argument culturally. It is not an acceptable biblical argument. And why is this? Because even if it was your body, it's still not your body. The Bible teaches that a woman's body is not hers, it's her husband's. And that's not a that's that's not to say that uh anything's better for the husband. The husband's body is not his, it's his wife's Right? Your body belongs to your spouse and to God, it does not belong to you. So there is no part of your body that is yours to do with whatever you want. But as far as the I think that usually I'll I'll you would hear that argument as far as the government getting involved. Yeah, but we were talking about biblical uh the government shouldn't be forcing you to do something with your I mean it was the core of the argument with the uh the mandates on the shots. Yeah, well we were talking about what makes the biblical argument or church uh to be um following Christ. And so that's that's what the right thing is. So if a chur if a church is gonna say, well the woman can dri decide whether well no The woman can't. Because she's n if she's married, and if she's not married, then she has other family that's not a big thing. If it was merely a tumor Do what you want. But it's not merely a tumor. It's another human being. It's a dimension. But even in a tumor, this is something that husband and wife discuss together. This is not just her. It's not only her decision. Same with same thing with the husband. I mean you get cancer. You don't you don't decide on whether you g you get your radiation or you get your chemotherapy with every woman, but it's interesting because based on the s the stats I've seen the overwhelming most staunchly leftist voters that as a bloc are single women. They are militantly voting Democrat. Why? Because they want to kill their babies. And because and they're miserable. There it's been proven over and over again, all these women that are staunchly liberal and s and uh pro abortion, they're miserable. They're absolutely miserable because they don't But they're not following their place that God has placed them in in the in the structure of life. They don't have somebody protecting them. They don't have somebody caring for them. So they are miserable. So you've brought up the idea of a husband and a wife, so let's uh pivot off of that a little bit and continue this conversation what we should be looking for What is definitive for Christianity in general and more specifically what is what is going to be definitive for a good biblical Christian church? A husband and a wife, what is that? Yeah. Well um so there are only two genders. There are only two sexes. Gender and sex are the same thing. They're not different things. So it's there's a man and a woman and it's very easy to tell whether you're a man or a woman if if you can't and you can tell externally, you don't have to ask the person if they're a man or a woman. It should be obvious. If it's not obvious, then you have no business pastoring your church. God says in the Bible He created male and female So if you say that there's anything other than male and female, aside from some random deformity that happens but uh you know, due to a fallen world we're in uh if you say there's anything other than a man uh male and a female, then you are blaspheming God because you are saying that God is a liar. He did not create just man and woman, or you're saying that God makes mistakes, in which case he's not sovereign. So it is blasphemy to bow to the transgender movement and to use preferred pronouns or preferred names and things like that. It is not just wrong, it's not just inconvenient, it's not just hard or annoying or silly. It's actual blasphemy. Now not to nuance this to death, but uh my understanding is that, you know, sex uh uh is uh related to the biology And now we've we've mixed and matched our terms, but gender initially was a literary term. And literarily there would be masculine, feminine, and neuter. um words that could have a masculine, uh feminine or neuter application and meaning. But now we've taken th uh a literary term and we've applied it to biology, so that's where we get into this mess. But anyway, so uh by the way you were just hearing the voice of Daniel Rasley. Before that was Imron Rasley, I'm Troy Skinner, this is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930, WFMD. So should we have uh litmus test question something like so where were you pastor and what was your church's stance on the Defense of Marriage Act? Would would that be because it was called Defense of Marriage, but it was actually an obliteration of Marriage Act uh pro uh the the profaning of marriage act would be maybe a better name for it. But if could a church get that one wrong? and still be Christian? I mean and by cr meaning might not be a church for you, Imran, 'cause you're pretty hardcore. You know, and Daniel, you're you're I mean, you're very, very conservative and Troy would never the uh going to a church like that. But it's still Christian. Is it still Christian? I would say no, it's not Christian. It's not centered on Christ. That's taking the Lord's name in vain, calling yourself a Christian and not doing what Christ asks you to do. It's basically a social club. That's taking the Lord's name in vain. You're coming there to socialize to have fun and and uh party and games and everything else, but you're not taking God's command seriously at all. And if you're not doing that, then you how dare you take God's name in vain because you're not a Christian. Call it whatever you want, call it Satan's club, call it whatever, but it's not a Christian church. And the fact that you're calling it a Christian church is blasphemy What about the other, you know, related issues to the whole identity movement, uh homosexual question? Uh there are a lot of churches that try to pass themselves off as Christian but they call themselves side A Christians and if for uh uh in a minute for listeners uh we'll explain to you what that means unless Daniel or Imran wants to explain what that means. Uh and then there are other churches say, no no we're not side A, but we're side B Uh my opinion is nobody else uses this vernacular. I've I've coined it as far as I know, but I think we should all be side C. But um do you guys want to explain, want me to explain what those mean? So side A is basically anything goes, you can be gay, you can practice your homosexuality, you can have a quote unquote uh gay partner that you you know, you're monogamous with and and treated as a marriage and those sorts of things. And you can still be a Christian. It's not sinful to do that. In fact you could even be one of the leaders of the church, uh living that kind of a life. That's side A. It's like homosexuality and all questions revolving around that are not sin. Side B is, well, acting on your inclinations and your temptations. That would be sin, but identifying as gay and saying, well I've got these these struggles, these things, and it's just who I am. It's how God made me. I was born that way. I can't do anything about it. I didn't choose to be a homosexual, homosexuality chose me because that's how God made me. That's side B. I would say side C, C being for Christian, is homosexuality is an abomination before the Lord. And even the inclinations and the tempt a and those sorts of uh giving in to the lusts of those temptations, that in itself is sin. And we need to the same way that adultery is sinned. Yeah, and we need to root that out. Like and the lust the lusting after a woman is sinned. But I don't ever do anything about it other than lust after her. It's still sin and easy rooted out. Christ said you committed adultery in your heart. No, I w I would say it's not not a wrong not wrong to say uh this way. Well Everybody has their own sin struggles. Mine happens to be X, and this is the one I struggle with the most, but I'm recognizing that even those thoughts are sinful, which is what Paul said. These thoughts are sinful that I have. I don't want to have them, but I do. What even the actions I do are sinful and I don't want to do this 'cause I'm saved, but I do fall into temptation. But recognizing that it is sinful, right? So you might be uh uh a prone to laziness or you might be prone to, you know, angry thoughts, or you might be prone to adulterous thoughts, or you might be prone to homosexual thoughts that doesn't make you any less of a Christian. But but say but trying to call them, well, this is just how it it is well no, you can heal from that And you might struggle more with one particular type of thought sin than somebody else does, but that doesn't make it any less of a sin. Yeah, there's no prefix attached to Christian, so 'cause you'll hear this the they're a gay Christian. Well, you're not gonna walk around if you're somebody who's prone to anger, say, I'm an angry Christian. Or what if you're um what do they call it? Minor attractive persons? Maps now, right? What I'm a I'm a maps Christian, I'm a pedophile Christian. No. I'm a clustermania Christian. No, like it if you're a new creation in Christ and it's not instantaneous where you're all your sins are In the rearview mirror, we are to work out our salvation with fear and trembling. Work out, work outward. Like we there should be some fruit demonstrated as we as as we grow. in our Christlikeness, y that should be evident in the way our lives are. So we're working it out so the world can see the growth in our faith. That's what we're all called to. And so the that's one of the problems with the side B is saying, no, no, you can just identify as the synth that's why I I mean this isn't talked about very often, but I think it's similar with the uh uh drug and alcohol. You know, can't help it. I'm a recovered alcoholic. Yeah, I'm a a and alcoholic becomes their identity. It's like yeah, that's a really dangerous place to be. You can have victory over that. Uh, and I'm saying I'm not saying it's easy, but over time you get to the place where you won't identify as an alcoholic. You can identify somebody who was once an alcoholic, you were once given over an alcoholic's like such a psychobabble kind of a label anyway, right? Drunkenness, right? Yeah, I was a drunkard. I was a drunkard. And now I am no longer a drunkard because I follow Christ and he has made me a new person. Now that was something I was prone to It was an area of legitimate struggle and so forth. And you might still make decisions differently than other Christians just because, you know, you you you know that's a temptation of yours. You might just choose to not walk down a street that has a bar on it just to save yourself that temptation Just like a Christian, uh um uh a a uh uh uh m most men may choose not to walk down past the Victoria's Secret store in the mall because they don't want to uh be prone to those lustful thoughts. You can makes those types of choices, that doesn't but again you need to identify what sin is. And I think that is a mark of a good church is is if they can properly identify what sin is and how to define the relationship between the Christian and sin nature. Because we are people say, Well, I'm a sinner, I'm still a sinner, I'm saved now and I'm still a sinner. Well, yes, that doesn't mean you're gonna keep doing those sins necessarily. It means you still have a thin nature until you have a glorified body. And this is related to what's dominated a lot of uh thought within uh the church and just the culture in general over the last four, five, six years as well, the woke movement and somebody being white, they were sinful because they're white. Like, no. So you're right. The church has to understand what sin is sin though. They did steal that idea from the doctrine of original sin though. You know, we're we're we're all born sinners, we can't do anything about that. Yeah, but the point was white people are sinful, black people are not. Right. Right. That was they got sin wrong. And because they got sin wrong, all their solutions were socioeconomic, political, uh liberation theology, you know, which is heretical. All these things. So they ended up being the gospel wrong. And so then they were preaching something that the Apostle Paul would call another gospel, as if there is another gospel. Um so they got because they got sin wrong, they got everything wrong. And so you're right to bring that up Does the so I guess you could ask the you know, if you're interviewing a pastor, so what's your church's doctrine on sin or wha how do you understand what sin is? I'd be curious to see here. I'm not sure how I would give a short answer to that, but I'd have a hopefully a good answer, but I'm not sure I'd have a pithy answer to that. Well since sin is what separates us from God. And when when we disobey God or we when we uh when we are separated from God we uh are doing what we what we want rather than what God wants. And I also find what you you said when you went to the uh uh capital, you the uh other pastors didn't really talk to you, right? They they didn't talk to each other, they didn't really socialize. It's almost like they're all very protective of their flocks and they don't want anybody else stealing any of their people. And so they're more interested in just, you know, being by themselves and that's not what Christ called us to be. We're supposed to be one body in Christ. And we're supposed to have fellowship and We're supposed to encourage each other. And we're not doing that. There's no plan. There's no leadership in the in the Christian world out there. The only leadership you have are are f are people that are just in the prosperity gospel and they're writing books and making millions of dollars and You follow them on TikTok. But that's not leadership. That's not Christian leadership. It's not somebody that's trying to change the worldview to a Christ like worldview. They're not doing that. One of the challenge I think that a lot of people would have, at least this is just experiential, it's anecdotal, in interviewing a church or a pastor, is really you gotta know if they get the gospel right. But in my experience, most professing Christians don't get the gospel right. So they could ask the pastor, so could you help me understand what the gospel is? They're not gonna know if the pastor got it right or wrong. Because we so you gotta get yourself educated a little bit, right? You gotta learn what the gospel really is, you know, and and of all those touchstones that are tied to the The guy like we've earlier, was it this week or last week's show, I can't remember now, but we were talking about the the image bearers, that that's why abortion is such a big deal. Well, the image of who? The image of the Creator. Like there is a Creator that made humankind in his image. That's kinda how the gospel starts, because that's the idea the ideal and it gets fractured almost immediately. by by the fall, by sin, Adam and Eve. And so some pe there are some people that call themselves Christians and even pastors that would deny the fact of that. They would deny it the historicity for sure, some of them, and even just the fact of it. Like that's just a a mythological fable that he talks about our distance from God, but really we're basically good But that's just talking about how, you know, it it can be if you're if if you don't understand who you truly are. Yeah, if your pastor says that humans are basically good people, then he is not saved. Yeah, three hundred years ago we would have been burned at the stake. Simple. Yeah, your pastor doesn't understand the gospel very well, at least, right? Right. Yeah. I will say this. If a Christian says that I think they could be saved and horribly misinformed. If a pastor says that you're probably right, 'cause the pastor they're held to a higher account, a higher standard. They should know better. You can't get that wrong. You you gotta g you gotta get that there's a creator right, you gotta get that there's a fall right, you gotta get that there's a savior at the cross And then he's ascended from the heaven, you gotta get that right. You gotta get that we now out of gr humble gratitude want to honor uh our our Lord and King. Um by working out our faith, like I mentioned before. Gotta get that right. And then there's eternal hope and love Christ's eternity. And so many churches don't get 'em all right. And and there's a lot of things and we'll probably get to this maybe next week, I don't know if you're uh time this week, but we'll probably start talking about what what makes uh if you go uh visit a church, even if you're not interviewing a pastor what are some red flags that might pop up that are not necessarily each thing by itself uh in a red flag might not be a knockout. It's like that doesn't mean that the church is necessarily a unbiblical church. But it's just something you should stop and think and if you start racking up a whole bunch of these red flags, maybe there's something else going on that's that's not a good place to grow your faith and and to fellowship with other believers. And if you're wondering how this happened, uh go check out the movie, the documentary Enemies within the church. Uh we talked about that when I went to the screening of it and it really sets out exactly how this has happened to this uh to the Western world. How the enemies within church they have trained our pastors to be these weaknesses. Yeah, and it's it's it's bigger than even that. It's affected uh uh academia, but it's it's affected all the publishing, it's affected media, it's affect it's pervasive of cultural Marxism, uh liberation theology is is t is taking root everywhere. And it is an excellent uh documentary, very well done. It took them too long to make it. Uh they started that documentary and uh like four or five years later finally finished it. And meanwhile the clocks are ticking and I I knew they were working on it. I'm like, man, we need it now. We need it now. We need it now. By the time they released it, like the horse was out of the barn already. Well it's been going out of the barn for a long time and but not only that they have probably enough footage for three other movies. That's true. It's just th they've uh a a preponderance of evidence and footage that they've taken and it's just a matter of putting together and the money and how to get it out there. But there's just so much proof out there and people don't see it. So we'll uh we're gonna continue uh along these lines. I I'm gonna I have some notes that I prepared of kind of the what the arc of shows is gonna look like. And I had it pushed off to talk about in in make probably not next week's show, but the show after that. But I think I'm going to pull it forward and we're going to talk a little bit more about expanding on the ideas that are related to the Defense of Marriage Act 'Cause we touched on it but we didn't really talk about it. So I would like us next week to talk about defining you know, not Like Webster's dictionary necessarily, but defining what is marriage. Not only what is a woman, but what is a man? That's a question that I think we need to start talking about too with the but the the big trans movement. Um and all the different things that are related to marriage, polygamy maybe, uh kind of the uh the kinist movement that's uh beginning to to rear up its head a little bit and uh quote unquote inter ethnic They call them interracial, I call them internet inter-ethnic marriages, uh all of the things related to marriage. I think we maybe we'll do that next week since it kind of came up a little bit this week. Sounds good to you guys? Sounds good. All right, so that's uh Daniel Rasby and Imran Rasby agreeing with me. I like that. I like when they agree with me. Well you want to move things. Although it's more fun when we disagree. I gotta say. Like there's a sinister part of me or something Anyway, I'm Troy Skinner. You can find me online at Household of FaithInCrist dot com. You can find the Razdies online at conquered by love dot org. And of course you can find this show and this radio station, WFMD. at uh WFMD. com. And there is a faith debate page there. You can uh connect with previous shows. You can do that through Household of Faith in Christ dot com as well. And the show is always eventually makes pretty quickly I'm getting faster at it, making its way under sermon audio and odyssey dot com. I recommend those platforms. They are censorship free, so check those out. Anyway, till next time, one hundred sixty seven and a half hours from right about now. God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com.