Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Grid Latin. County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement and people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Face Debate, sponsored by Footman Plumbing and Heating, How Can We Make You Smile? And BMC Insurance. If you give him a buzz, say hello to Brad Hess for me. Uh if you want to follow us online, you can do that, WFMD. com, keyword faith. There you'll uh find the daily updated blog for the um faith debate. And you'll find links and pot to the podcast and news items and that sort of thing. And it's not really the fate debate blog as as far as the official uh people involved with the show. It's your blog. Our blog is your blog. So you email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com and whatever you send me I post I will excise the curse words, but other than that, whatever you send me, I will post. Uh nine new postings every day, Monday through Friday, so you can check it out, even if you don't send me something See what your neighbors are sending. And if you don't like what they're sending, you send me something better and I'll post that instead. Alright? This week we have uh back with us one of my favorite people to ever have on here as a guest Dr. Brian Lee? Wow. Nice. I'm I'm kissing up. Yeah, yeah. Butter me up before you I can see it's gonna be a tough show for me today. He's senior pastor of Christ Reformed Church and um where is that in? Washington DC Logan Circle. Okay. Logan Circle. And people can follow you, I believe. You're a t you're a Tweeter guy or uh Reform DC, at Reform DC. Okay. Nice And Jonathan Sweitzer, my favorite recurring uh co-host, guest, whatever his title is here on the show, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and you're doing that whole Tweeter sphere. That's right. Schweitzer Jonathan. At Sweitzer Jonathan. At Sweitzer Jonathan. Because they already hateful. They already had somebody at Jonathan Schweitzer, apparently. Serious. Which is odd to me. I don't do any of the tweeting stuff. The my blog is your blog is as far into the social media as I get. So and by the way, I don't like to brag, but we had a really good ratings period, so thank you Uh the new ratings were out and uh there are thousands of you listening right now, despite my best efforts to chase you away. So last Last time we had this panel together, we were talking, I think, about Israel and all that sort of stuff, international global concerns and that sort of thing. We're gonna be more distinctly doctrinal uh this time than we were last time. I think it's come up in passing, but I don't think it's ever been an of uh an official topic on the show, uh but I think it's come up in passing throughout the years on this show that uh Jonathan's church um subscribes to uh a doctrinal position that there is a fivefold ministry in the church that is active and alive and well in the church today. Um And I'm thinking it's come up in passing on the show because I know it's come up in passing and awful lot of the times when Jonathan and I have talked off the air Yeah. Um it's never been a topic of like debate or discussion between us. And connected to So usually that means that it's because you tend to to not be too offended by that or like have differing opinions. Like like if we have a differing opinion, we talk about it. If we don't have a differing opinion, we kind of blow over it. Yeah, I have a tendency to be pretty mean spirited and debate oriented when uh when when I when I know I'm right. But if I don't know that I'm right, even if I'm only like ten percent unsure, I I'll have a tendency to kind of say, you know, I'm gonna I'm maybe you're in a different place on the other. I'm gonna listen, I'm gonna think, I'm gonna you know, whatever. And related to that the topic is going to be charismatic gifts. You know, are are there prophets today, are still the gift of healing today? Is there a gift of tongues and if you know, in the church today, that sort of thing. So those are Some of the kinds of things we're going to tackle. Excellent. And Jonathan's going to be kind of taking the pro side on most of that, and more of the con side's going to be Dr. Lee. If I if I'm guessing so I'll be pro something else. Okay. I don't accept the title of that. Okay. So he'll be pro something else. He is a conservative though. And Jonathan will be we will be con to what Dr. Lee is pro. So The equally offending both of you there. So Jonathan, I'm going to start with you to kinda lay the found because I s I have a feeling that if I were to walk down the street and say, Hey, do you believe in the fivefold ministry? they'd be like Yeah, sure, man, whatever. I don't know. I have no idea what you're talking about. That's early in Colorado where they're all potheads now. So ex explain uh If you can in like sixty seconds, what i what it is and why you Well Ephesians fourteen says Christ ascended on high And uh he led captives in his training, he gave gifts to men. And the gifts is he who gave some to be apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, teachers. to prepare God's work, people for works of service, so the body of Christ may be built up until we all reach unity in the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God and become mature, attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ. So there seems to be a sense and that word for forgive there uh for gift is different from it's not charisma It's uh the word doma that is that is a unique use of the of the Greek word that seems to imply that the gift is the individual. Where in other places Uh, you know, somebody might have several different gifts that God has given to them, but here there seems to be a sense that there's a that the gift is the individual and that that God has given us this engine to the body of Christ that when you look under the hood, you'll be like, man, is he a good God? Wow. He he did that because he loved us so much. He ascended on high and he gave gifts to men. Alright, now I do like that I asked Jonathan a question and the very first thing he does is he turns to the scriptures and starts reading a verse. So I like that So from I might add Ephesians fourteen. Unfortunately Ephesians has six chapters. I know he was talking about Ephesians four. We'll be charitable there. Mildly correct. That's not a rebuke. At least it wasn't like John Schweitzer chapter two or something. No, that's what I have some of the things. So but he he he turns to t he turns to the Bible to to give an answer. Um and so I'm persuaded for the moment. Why shouldn't I be Well, I I I I don't disagree with the thing he said. Christ did give those gifts to the church. Um this is uh Paul the book of Ephesians, the epistle of the Ephesians is really a book about the church And in chapter four, going into chapter five and six, he's talking about unity in the body of Christ. And what he's talking about here is uh unity of faith. Uh you were called to one hope that belongs to your call, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. And then the section comes where he's speaking of How we gifted the church to the measure of the section of the fullness of Christ, or you stopped reading, if we continue, so that we may no longer be children tossed to and fro by the waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine. by human cunning, by craftiness and deceitful schemes. Rather, speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in every way into him who is the head into Christ. Um so he's he's speaking about the doctrinal foundation of the church, which is indeed the word of God. The church is a creation of the word. We don't bring the church into existence. It's not a voluntary organization. God calls the church into existence. And I absolutely believe that in in the New Testament church, which is a continuation of of the church, the people of God from the Old Testament, that's the last show, but uh pause there. In the in the i i with the ascension of Christ, there was obviously in the day of Pentecost a miraculous outpouring of the Spirit that inaugurated this foundation laying period in in the end of uh Luke's gospel, Christ turns to the twelve, and of course I know he gave apostles because he called twelve of them and he appointed the twelve. He turns to the twelve and he says, You are witnesses of these things. Wait in Jerusalem. You will be given power from on high to fulfill this ministry of preaching Christ and preaching the forgiveness of sins in my name. And he says that explicitly to the Twelve, and the Twelve is a really clear category throughout the Gospels and into the book of Acts. It's a clear category for the Apostle Paul, because he says I'm an apostle, sorta, but not really. Paul's the exception that proves the rule. He says, I I was stillborn. I'm not a properly born apostle, but Jesus did appear to me, and I'm a witness to him because of the commission he gave to me. So the question is not whether there are apostles, evangelists, teachers, prophets. The question is whether there are still apostles in addition to the twelve apostles And I think that's where uh the New Testament clearly uh speaks of the twelve as the the people who who laid the foundation upon which you build. And so that's why when Paul in a different context not talking about the foundation that unites us up in Christ, but in a different context, as he's in prison writing to Timothy, his uh his mentor, doesn't call him an apostle. He says, you're an evangelist, you're one of my assistants. And he says, uh, teaches him, when you go into churches, ordain these men to these offices of elder and deacon. and pastor teacher. There are three offices, which is what uh my church uh teaches. People have uh talked about these names uh of these offices in different ways and and I'm not gonna live or die on these particular names for these particular offices, because there's a little bit of fluidity of how the terms are used in the New Testament. But those those three basic offices reflect the offices that Christ really fulfilled, prophet, priest, and king. The Old Testament offices are reflected in the New Testament church as well. So to to respond directly to John, yes, there is this gifting that we see in Ephesians. What is going on though in the continuation of the church is that that apostolic is not an ongoing succession. It's a foundation-laying office. So let me ask you, Jonathan, um I think knowing you all these years you would agree that there's something different and set apart about the original uh apostles, the twelve. Clearly. Absolutely. What's the difference between those apostles and your opinion of who an apostle would be today. The question still remains as to where are the places where the church needs foundations laid. Like for example, China is one of those places. It's brand new um uh that you know in the last thirty years, forty years they've grown from uh a million people to over seventy million people in the church and in that context they have a wh whole new language and a whole new uh uh set of cultural distinctives that we see many times through history, like with St. Patrick when he went to the Irish. You know, like when uh when um the missionary movement headed over to India and each of those situations There's a need for those men of God that have been sent, the word apostle is sent one, apostello, where they've been sent out. with the purpose of laying a foundation for the church. And Paul obviously was sent to uh the people of uh the Greeks you know, to to the to the Gentiles of the Roman world and we think that he made it to Spain possibly at the end of his life, maybe not But his goal was always to go, you know, a little bit farther. And the question is whether or not there's been a need for that to happen successive times throughout history or whether or not You know, it's established once and for all in there's no. So it sounds like maybe at some level you're equating apostle today, today's apostles with uh missionaries? Like are are missionaries today. But a set one is a word that shows up in Scripture. In fact, my understanding is that the reason why the Protestant church rejected the idea of apostles was because the Catholic Church had so abused the office that that a and they and they kept uh asking the Protestants, where are your miracles to show that you are con you that that you are uh affirmed by the Holy Spirit to be his representatives on the earth today? And when the Protestants the the Protestant response was, Well, you know, we don't need miracles anymore. Uh first Corinthians thirteen, all those things passed away. Because we have the perfect, and the perfect is the word of God. And so actually the rejection of the idea of of uh modern day apostles and prophets and uh the fivefold ministry is really something that is a Protestant um uh uh innovation and um and I'm of the opinion that that everywhere that we see the body of Christ growing in leaps and bounds around the world we see a context where there is a need to relay the foundations, uh where there is a need for signs and wonders and miracles so that people can be uh drawn uh so that they can they can clarify that that this body of Christ is not something that used to have signs and wonders and miracles, but for the last two thousand years we don't really have any, you know, because it was all done back then as opposed to something that is alive. and dynamic today and and so do we need apostles? I say yes. Does it seem like scripturally that that's the case? It seems like Barnabas, uh Timothy, Titus, many of these guys were were sent Apostello by the Apostles, and so we we see an indication that there's more than just the Apostle Paul. Even Paul called um Apollos and uh these others apostles. He called them Hooperisimo But he didn't say that there were bad apostles. He just recognized that some people were elevating some above others and that it was wrong to do so. All right, let me jump in here for a second. Uh Brian's chomping at the bit, but let me re-reset real quick. That's the voice of Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And the voice you're about to hear is that of Dr. Brian Lee, who is senior pastor of Christ Reformed Church in D. C. Uh so go ahead. Yeah, that's I mean, you know, I like I said, uh it's important to recognize with apostles, with prophets, uh in fact with every uh New Testament office Um whether you consider there to be three as uh a lot of magisterial reformed Christians do, or or five, or however many These terms are fluid in the New Testament. An apostle is used in reference to an office, and it's used in reference to sending someone, because it's a Greek word. So it's the one who has been sent, but clearly Christ identifies uh uh in twelve office holders, twelve apostles. So the question is if we are going to identify this I I agree that there are people that are sent to China to be missionaries and to lay the foundations in those churches. They're not apostles. So there's a specific sense of what apostle means. The historical correction is that the Protestants aren't innovators in in rejecting apostles. In the second century already, in the earliest generations of the church, when when uh Bishop Irenaeus was still alive, who was taught by Polycarp, who is a follower of the Apostle John. Um the Montanists were one of the first heresies in the church, and they were basically an ecstatic heresy. They were claiming to be apostles and prophets, and the church uh rejected them really early on. So this isn't a a Protestant innovation. In the time of the Reformation, indeed, uh the Reformed Church um and the Lutherans had a slightly different ar argument, a slightly different context. But the Reformers always said over against both Rome and the Enthusiasts. So the Anabaptists of the 16th century had a similar view of ongoing uh apostles and and prophecy. The Reformation always said either one of these claims to be a continuing apostle, whether you claim to be the Pope as to occupy the the seat of Peter in Rome, which they still claim. They claim that the uh the Pope is the direct hierarchical line. You have apostolic succession from Peter to the current day Pope. Um or whether you say that you have the Holy Spirit personally in your possession and claim that office of apostle or prophet and therefore have new words, new revelation from God. They saw both of those as errors, so they took a middle path. And that middle path does, yes, prioritize the Word of God. And the uh a slightly more fair characterization of their argument was, here are our miracles. And the definition of miracle in a Protestant context, here are miracles, the miracles that validate the revelation of Jesus Christ and the apostles that He sent. And this is the challenge really The word apostle takes over this concept of a shalliok. It's someone who has power of attorney, someone who is sent and commissioned. And when I give power of eternity, say John, if I gave you power of eternity to uh to you know oversee my will, you can't give that to someone else. I i it's a one degree of separation and that's it So these people are ambassadors, apostles are ambassadors sent from Christ. The real question is, who does the sending? When someone is sent to China as a missionary, they're a missionary or an evangelist or a pastor that a church sends Apostles were sent by Christ, and that's why in Acts, when they went to replace Judas, again, Paul and Matthias are the two exceptions that prove the rule. When they had to replace Judas, the apostle who had fallen and been in a sense he first of all he died, but had been excommunicated from the church, they said, We need another one to fulfill the number of the twelfth. This only happens once in the New Testament. And they say, um, we need to find someone who accompanied us during all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us. Beginning from the baptism of John until the day when he was taken up from us, one of these men must become with us a witness to his resurrection. Now, if John's not saying that we have apostles in that sense Well then fine, then we have apostle in a generic sense that's utterly meaningless that I don't contest. But my concern is that most people who claim to be ongoing apostles in the church claim some sort of revelatory authority. They usually say we're not like the apostles and the new the the twelve, but then my question is what are they? That's my question. That's a fair question, I think. So what they are, is what I said before, is is modern day um uh men from God sent, Apostela sent from God, in through the church, you know, just like just like uh you were uh mentioning a minute ago, it's always the case that that the church sends, but it's also the case that God raises up the workers for the harvest. And so that was true about Paul. That was true about the the original apostles. Uh in fact Jesus says that uh when when Peter makes his great claim about Jesus being the Christ, Jesus says, flesh and blood has not revealed this to you. But my Father in heaven has revealed this to you. Christ, before he picked the apostles, he went and prayed. And there's there's clearly this sense from the beginning that Christ himself worked together with the Father. He only did what he saw his Father doing to pick those that would be the apostles. When Paul and Barnabas were set apart, they prayed and fasted, heard from the Holy Spirit, and the Holy Spirit Sent them apart. And what I'm saying is that that same dynamic happens everywhere. If the church is the one that's raising people up and sending them out Well that's where the church goes wrong, and that's where people end up uh uh being involved in ministry and it's a dead ministry and there's no life in it because there's not that sense that God Himself called. But you you hear of many of the the uh key figures in history that we study about, like Luther, like like others, they had a moment where God spoke to them and they responded. And it was in the context of the church, right? So there there's a both and, but it was uh it was a recognition that God needed to shore up the foundations of the church. And so Luther was an apostle, you know? Calvin claimed to be. Calvin was an apostle. I know he didn't claim it, but That's laughable. I'm sorry. Um d look Calvin explicitly says, teaches against those who would claim to be Latter-day Apostles. He says there are there are the twelve, there are the foundation layers. So for you to say that Calvin was an apostle, again, you're uh my question would be how does he but the point is is that all of the um the Protestants of the day Uh if you were to read uh the Westminster Confession of Faith, you would recognize that whole portions of it are written to balance out what they felt were bad Catholic doctrine. And as a result, they ended up saying things that are not biblical but but they felt needed to be said to balance out the bad Catholic doctrine Right, and so they could get back to to what was the true balance and and so of course Luther and Calvin were saying that because I mean Calvin was going on actually to to uh dunk Anabaptists and and leave them under because they want to be re baptized. I mean uh there's all kinds of uh less than righteous things that happened in that context, but it was still the case that they were reacting against the Catholic Church saying, Where are your miracles? We have miracles to show that we are from God. Where are your miracles? And so you can say it's laughable, but I mean, are we so naive to think that Calvin and Luther were not. This is what I meant when I said it was is laughable when you said that Calvin was an apostle. And the question is Um what is the office of apostle in the church? Nothing you have described is different from the office of pastor. If you just want to call the office that Paul clearly talks about and to Timothy, he says Establish pastors and teachers i where the cities, where the churches establish this office. We have three offices that the New Testament tells the church And I make no distinction. You say, you know, that they were rejecting the Holy Spirit those who claim this in the church. I'm ordained as a minister of Word and Sacrament. I'm a pastor and teacher in the church. I believe that I have been called by the Holy Spirit in and through the Church. I make no distinction from the action of the Spirit and the action of the Church. I was ordained according to the Word of God. I did not claim that for myself Um, but that's that's the office I occupy. I I'm an official of Christ's church. I'm called by the church. I don't set myself up as that. So So my question is, what you're describing as an apostle, if you're just saying someone who's called by the church, sent to do these things, um, how does it differ from the office of pastor or the office of elder or the office of deacon? The three offices that the New Testament says shall be in perpetuity until Christ returns, that the church shall call new people to these offices. How does Apostle differ from those? Right. Um when Paul went into uh Cyprus, when he went into Crete and he preached, when he went into Galatia and he preached, was there a church at the time? Was there was there already established in those places a group of people that was the Church of Jesus Christ? No. Because when he sent back Titus in Timothy There was. And uh that is a huge difference when you're going in and you're dealing with a people and a culture that has never dealt with the gospel of Jesus Christ, that that doesn't understand even the teaching the the the stories of the Old Testament that that lead to the Messiah. And so that's part of your definition of an apostle. Yeah. Christ that that's that's what happened with the original twelve. They set up a church where there was no church. Right? That's what happened with Paul, you know, and that's what Apollos was doing. They were establishing congregations where there had been no congregations. They'd been sent out in Uh I'd uh I still see that kind of activity happening in multiple places around the earth. Well I you know uh I talk to missionaries and they're they're ordained to that task by the church. But uh I mean where missionary shows up in scripture. Uh you know, a missionary to me, I'm I'm using that word colloquially. I'm saying biblically, where's the term missionary show up? No, and that's fine. I told you I'm not the term is apostle. And it's all through Scripture, one who is sent. And we send them out all the time as missionaries and they go and they establish the foundations of the church Okay, I want to make sure we're not we're not talking past one another because uh there's a fundamental I'm not disagreeing with that at all. There's a more fundamental question of what what is an office in the church? Do you believe you believe that there are five offices in the church, right? The fivefold m do you call that an office or what do you think? I believe there's seven. Okay. There's the five apostle prophet. evangelists and pastor teacher. I kind of uh maybe I'd say six. There's either either six or seven, because pastor teacher might be the same guy. It appears that the guy that does the eldering is the guy that does the pastoring of the flock. in the congregation. There doesn't seem to be a sense that there's one guy who is the pastor of the church. There seems to be the sense that the elders are to shepherd the flock that are in your midst. Right. So even our our modern day sense that there's one pastor and then some elders and then some deacons that do other things is really not a biblical uh um uh model. It's a model that that is a modern um uh evolution of what was originally the sense that there are elders in in the local body and there might have been one that was a first among equals, but there definitely wasn't the sense that there's only one guy, you know, that's going to be paid in in and you know, other guys are just kind of ministering underneath them, but there's a sense that the whole body is supposed to be raised up to ministry. I'm going to jump in because we're running out of time here, but I guess the other two would be uh elder and deacon. Those are deacon and you would add to the to the other four or five, depending on how you're pricing that. All right. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Doctor Brian Lee, Senior Pastor at Christ Reformed Church in D. C. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMB. What have I been reading? Cross and Crescent Responding to the Challenge of Islam by Colin Chapman. I've met the guy. Really? I've sat in a class with him. Wow. And that's a recommended by the way. I would I would recommend that book. Uh I gotta warn you, it's got some elements to it that are um borderline liberation theology. All right, consider yourself warned. Thanks for listening. Until 167. 5 hours from now. God bless