This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Freddie's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host. Troy Skinner, made sure I said it right at the beginning this time. Last week I wasn't sure if I said it. Uh our sponsors are Putman Club and Heating House. We make you smile. And Deer Valley, hardscape, landscape, and masonry. This week panel, same as last week's panel, only cuter somehow, not sure how that happened. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Taran Karece, who is an agnostic theist. So Jonathan, a a Christian pastor And uh and If Iran is a uh is a seeker, a searcher who doesn't like that Jonathan has exclusive truths Doesn't like that Jonathan believes in hell. I do offend Yes, Jonathan offends in so many ways. By the way, what am I reading or what have I recently read? Yes. It ties in interest the title does anyway. Okay. Another yes, Ted Decker book. I apologize. Another in fact another Ted Decker Aaron Healy book. Do you read like one a week? Pretty much, yeah. I've been f I've I've been flying through I've I read at least a book a week. I'm gonna start calling you a decker eight, you know or I mean if I'm reading something light like a decker, meaning it's not real dense material. Yeah, yeah. I'll read maybe two books in a week. But if it's uh heavier I might be limited to Like a book every week and a half, that depends. Alright. So I I don't watch a lot of TV. Yeah. Apparently. Yeah, yeah. Uh but to force your kids to read it as well and your wife or I can't make No, you can't find it. We call the elders in your congregation read this book, you know. Anyway, the book is called Burn. Burn. Burn Ouch. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Which is good because we're talking about the hell. Burn, baby, burn. All right, so we're gonna we're gonna uh uh uh if you believe in hell, raise your hand. Okay I do. Alright. Jonathan raised up I raise my hand. Uh what's the matter? You didn't raise your hand. Oh, not at all. He's opposed to the idea of hell. So before I get into the the the why and all that sort of stuff, I want to ask Jonathan, why? Why do you believe Yeah, why do you believe in hell? Um, because life must be protected at all costs from anything that would destroy it And those people that are unwilling to come to terms with those things that uh that that destroy life. that are unwilling to admit, that are unwilling to come around, must be kept away from life and and kept that way for eternity. And so God in his in his sovereign choice recognize that there would be those people that even when offered every reasonable opportunity to choose life Even after they've become enslaved to sin, which any mental health uh um uh practitioner is aware of how people get caught up and stuck in their own suffering. Even after that, that he would send his son to die on the cross so that we could be set free from that bondage. so that we could choose life again and that people still openly reject that that uh offer. That those people um uh have lost the thing that their in eternal soul uh desired more than anything else. They rejected outrightly uh that opportunity and I think that it's appropriate for them to uh to have an eternal um an eternity And what they chose. I think it's appropriate for them to receive what they wanted. And what they wanted was an eternity without God and without that life. And if that's what they wanted, I think that they're entitled to have it. Well the the biggest thing that that that I don't like about it is we're we're talking about an infinite consequence for finite actions. I think that that that speaks wonders in terms of proportion, whether the the the punishment is proportionate to to the finite actions. We're talking about a combination of infinity and torture and and the combination of that is is d it it cannot possibly touch the finite actions that we're committing. And we also have to think about why are we committing the actions that we're committing? Why are we sinning? Why are we doing uh why are criminals cr uh uh doing the crimes etcetera. And that get in that gets into psychology. We realize that we are biological organisms responding to internal and external stimuli. We realize that there's a ton of predetermined factors that go into our behaviors and the choices that we make. Uh we have absolutely no control over whether we would be male or female and that has an impact on our perception of reality. We have no uh control over or choice over uh what time period we were born in, or or what part of the world we're born in, who our parents would be, and what kind of uh uh upbringing they would give us the conditioning that we would endure. All of that there's so many uh the genetics that we inherit, the level of intelligence that we have. The list could literally go on in terms of the things that we cannot control, the things that we do not have absolutely any choice over And all of this is impacting our perception of reality, the behaviors that we exhibit and the choices that we make. And if that's the case, then why did Adolf Hitler do the things that he did? If you were born as Adolf Hitler in the nineteen thirties in Nazi Germany with his experiences, his brain chemistry, his genetics, that you would have probably done everything that he did. And uh th th there is a huge level of determinism there. And so again, an infinite amount of punishment and torture. uh for finite actions. Um and then you talk about indoctrination, you talk about conditioning, you talk about brainwashing in terms of concepts. Because there's two reasons people go to hell, right? The the first reason is their their sins, the the the crimes that they do, the sins that they commit, and the other is a a conceptual realization of reality. If you choose the w wrong religion or if you're brought up in the wrong religion, you're conditioned with that. If you have positive experiences with your theological upbringing, you become attached to your identity that is derived from these experiences. And so so if you're a Christian and I'm a biology major and come to you with the evidence from evolution for evolution for example. Is there any Oh well that's er that's erroneous. Well actually I think those things are gonna come into play. But let me let you finish your What you're saying. Well that whether evolution is true or not is isn't isn't isn't relevant to to to the scenario because the idea is let's say hypothetically let's say evolution does have enough facts to back it up I when you bring that the evidence to the Christian, psychologically speaking, they're going to react to it according to their conditioning and preconceived notions. And that is an impulsive uh uh uh reaction to intern internal and external stimuli. That's all that's going on there So, see, this is precisely where the Western emphasis on rationalism has failed. Because we bought into in the modern era this idea that rationalism would be able to figure everything out for us. But rationalism uh fails to comprehend at its root that there is a that there is a primary decision that every human being is confronted with. no matter their background. And that is when they lift up their eyes and they look at the world around them, they can either s th they they can either accept the fact that it is profoundly organized and that it's c that that there is a clear sense that that somehow it was created or they can say to themselves Uh they they can reject that idea that that there's any sense of any kind of a creator and they can say, well, no, I don't want to deal with that And that is something that I don't care what your background is, I don't care where you come from, I don't care how how uh how indoctrinated you are, you every day that you wake up you see the sunrise You look at creation, you look at the trees, you look at the way that the rain comes and the seasons come, and in the context of all that we are confronted, no matter all of the determinism that you described, we have the freedom to to either accept or reject the fact that that that was created. And in the context of of if you accept that it's created, then it's it's not unreasonable for the next question to come. If that's the case, then Clearly things that we're doing as on as humans are not measuring up to what we should do because there's so much ugliness that we're falling short. It's not a great leap. It's a short leap. It's a very small leap. If people are willing to go there. And that choice is something that everybody has no matter where they live. And if you get that far, then you are dealing with the fact that there is a God And that we don't measure up, and that if that God is a just God, then he must make a way to reach us in the midst of our brokenness. And if you get that far, then if you hear the message of Christ, you're gonna be like, that's what I've known my whole life. But if you don't go that far, and instead you say, you say, you know what? This world sucks. Everything about it stinks. I hate what what I've been given. I hate how difficult my life is. And and you choose instead an attitude of gratitude. Sorry for the for the cliche. But instead you choose an attitude of of ingratitude, then you simply are walking away from uh the the opportunity that I believe that God is is making available. The problem with rationalism is that rationalism assumes that we come to the world as a as a uh um that that we can somehow figure it all out on our own, but it's not the case. If you decide one way that there is a God it will it will um color every single conclusion that you come to after that. The same facts, the same uh the same universe the same geological structures, the same sociological interactions that you see, but everything will be colored by an uh by an expectation that somehow then that God is interacting with everything else. If, however, you reject those conclusions and you reject that there is a God, then it it also colors everything that you look at. And it will end up creating a scenario where you're almost determined. But that issue of deciding whether or not there's a God when you look around or you know, and that that God is is a good God and He's gonna make a way for those that want to get there If you if you come to that conclusion, then um I'm confident again that that God is capable of no matter where you live, I hear this all the time of Muslims that have been raised in in and the most fundamentalist of situations that one day got to a point, I I've I've heard testimonies of this again and again where they say, Oh God, would you please reveal yourself to me? And they get a dream And the dream says, I want you to go to this person tomorrow, you're going to see this person. When you see this person, I want you to ask them about me and they're going to tell you about me. And again and again I've heard hundreds of these kinds of stories where that person will then lead them to Christ, even though they grew up in the most fundamentalist of Islamic situations. I want to give Faran uh Koreshli a chance to respond to that in a second. If uh by lessons the Fred of Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. That was Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley. Chapel and uh Faran Kureshi is an agnostic theist. And uh in the opening part of the show, if I understood correctly, to try to break it all down, it seemed like he threw two things out there. One was kind of this rational determinist uh idea. Yeah. Uh and it wouldn't be fair if you were born at the wrong time, wrong place, that sort of thing. And then the idea of the infinite consequence. Jonathan didn't talk about the infinite consequence yet, so we'll swing back and give you a chance to talk about that. But before we do that I'd like to give you a chance for around to talk about Jonathan's response to the determinism idea. What what uh about what he 'cause what he said obviously rings true to me. I'm like, yeah, you go Jonathan, that makes sense to me, but I'm a Christian. Uh of course I'm gonna agree with him ninety-nine percent of the time probably, but you're obviously not agreeing with him ninety-nine percent of the time. What don't you agree with on what he just said? Uh f from what I've heard he he talked about resilience, the situation where there are so many determined there there's an overwhelming amount of determined uh circumstances and yet people are still able to be resilient. um in terms of for example the the fundamentalist Muslim converting to Christ or what have you. Um there there's other situations as well. We call that resilience. Resilience. That's what we would call in psychology where where your circumstances uh are there. Somehow you're able to transcend your circumstances. Right. And you're saying that there's a that there's a that's that's completely possible. It's possible that certain number of people are able to do that, many are not is what you're saying. Yes And th and that person needs uh this the the stimuli in their life uh in order to be to go. The problem is that your data can be read one of two ways. That only a certain number of people are capable of doing it. Right. Because you don't know. There's no science that can prove one way or the other. Right. The facts are that some people make it and some people don't. But the question is is it is it that some people make it not because they just got lucky, they got the lucky genes that are resilient. But it's possible that they made the choice that I'm referring to and that that made all the difference. And the point is is that you can c you can approach science saying, okay, it's just determinism Because, you know, we have an evolutionary orientation and and we're inexorably being led forward to whatever the future is. Or you could say, no, people have a choice. And in people having a choice, if they make the choice to be grateful as opposed to being ungrateful, then it will lead them determin deterministically in a certain direction. And and unfortunately the facts don't clarify one way or the other. And so it's all a question of how you approach the facts. And science will always approach the facts in a determinist Orientation fact that was the problem for Hitler is that he was very scientific in his approach, and so everything was determined for him. He had no sense that that that there was this this freedom of will. There was a sense that that you know science is driving everything and we're gonna, you know, be the masters of our fate. We're gonna rise up you know, feeding off of Nietzsche, you know, God is dead, we're gonna be the masters of our own uh of our own um uh destiny. But it was his choice to surround himself with those people that were inherently ungrateful that determined the way that he approached things, as opposed to Dietrich Bonhoeffer that, as you're describing, uh would be resilient, Dietrich Bonhoeffer that stood up to uh Hitler along with Martin Niemoller looked him in the eye and said, We serve God, not men. Martin Niemoler got thrown in prison for that. Dietrich Bonhoeffer decided that he was actually going to felt that it was his responsibility to try to kill Hitler in order to save Europe and Germany and in the process got caught and got got uh got the death penalty for it. Uh from Hitler. But they rose up. Why? Because they didn't surround themselves with the ungrateful, but with those people that were grateful and that recognized that there is a God that is powerful to save those that are in the midst of a situation and as a result They were empowered and strengthened to rise up in the midst of that situation and to make a difference. The facts don't tell us which one it is. But if you approach those facts from a determinist, rational, scientific orientation then your conclusions are inevitable. In fact I'd say your conclusions are logical, likely, they're determined. But if you approach them from the direction of saying that that everything uh that that we're grateful for this gift that God has given to us but that we do have a responsibility to respond to that gift uh well with gratitude to give him appreciation for that uh then that's gonna inexorably lead us in a different direction. Which is not inherently scientific. It's gonna it's gonna be something that uh well again we've talked about this many times on the show. Scientific naturalism is not the same thing as science. Science used to be previous to the uh nineteen hundreds, it used to be defined as the study of natural things. But in the mid-1900s the definition was changed. You can you can go look in all the all the the textbooks and the definition became uh explaining natural things according to natural causes. And so it went from being science to being scientific naturalism, which is a whole world view. And that worldview is as much a faith worldview as Christianity ever was. I agree. It's a choice ahead of time, but it severely colors the way that you approach life. Now Ferrand, do you consider yourself you don't consider yourself a naturalist though, do you? Right, a theist. Um and I think that the that that the experience of life reality and existence has merit. I I I do uh i it's not simply the conceptualization of it, it's not simply the mechanisms or the science of it, but the experience of it i is is j uh just as important. Um but but just to respond to to uh Pastor Schweitzer on on what he just said, is that I mean we would still call that resilient. I mean we would still call that a a response to external and internal stimuli. scientifically how that's determined. That we can't know scientifically how that's determined. And and what I'm arguing is that what enables that is a gratitude towards the God who reaches out. Whereas science argues that it just happens that they had the right genes and the right uh the right, you know, plethora uh the the the right coming together of events and circumstances. And that's primarily an Arminian kind of perspective, right? Because a Calvinist pern about any sort of gratitude within the person, him or herself It was because God reached down and said, You. I've chosen you. So Which is interesting. Do you feel like do you feel like there's justice in that? If we're determined by I don't think there's justice if we're if we're predetermined. uh either to heaven or hell by you know whether it's God deciding before the creation of the world or whether it's some you know uh confluence of of of genetic factors, if we're predetermined, then I would agree God has no business throwing any of us in hell. Oh, exactly. Not if the definitions of justice as we find them in the Bible are to be accepted. Mm-hmm. I I would agree completely with you. So I guess the question comes to whether determinism is real. Not so much theologically because that's a determination. But that's not Calvinism, by the way To defend our Calvinist uh listen you know, listener or two that might be uh that would be hyper Calvinism. Hyper Calvinism is deterministic. Calvinism is not. Yeah, the Calvinism is double double predestination. Yeah, and Calvinists would reject that and say that um uh uh when it comes to saving grace, you're dependent on God, but we are all uh all people a Calvinist position would be are all guilty, we're all free agents We all have the right to choose. We all have independent right to choose, and we all, all of us, choose sin. So we're all guilty. We're all condemned. And then God out of his graciousness chooses to save whom he chooses. Right. So you're saying that you're not going to be able to do that. Sure. The guilty condemn themselves. And God chooses to save those whom he will. It w which again still feels unjust to me because then it means that God is God is offering salvation only to a few. as opposed to offering salvation. Right. Well that and that's the classic debate between Calvinism. But I'm just trying to make sure the different views are are properly represented. Because I feel like Calvinism is a result of the rationalistic Western worldview from Plato on down. Calvin and Luther spent all kinds of time trying to answer the questions that Plato and Aristotle asked way back when. Uh and that I I b I feel like Calvinism ends up answering questions that the Bible doesn't answer and in the context of doing so ends up creating a picture of God that is um too scientific, too rational. that goes beyond what we can actually know in the great spirit of modernism that rationalism can figure everything out for us, even The mysteries of God. Let me ask kind of a a pastoral type of a question, uh, Ferrari. Very winsome. You're s smart, you're you're thoughtful. You know, and so um somebody who feels they have th Jonathan feels he has the truth. I feel that Jonathan has the truth when it comes to salvation. On this issue. You know? Right. So uh our heart would be like, Man, here's this guy who's he he's asking a lot of the right questions and he's just Uh y you're trying to figure things out. Do what do you do with uh what is your perception of the idea of mystery? Mm-hmm. So much about God. Even within Calvinist circles that try to figure things out and according to Jonathan go beyond scripture to figure them out. Even they leave hold open the idea that God's ways are higher than our ways. We can't understand the mind of God. We only know God insofar as He reveals Himself to us. There's a mystery. How is God three persons and yet one God? How is Jesus both God and man at the same time? Like how Those are mysteries. A rationalist can never, ever, ever, ever figure that out. So I'd be careful. And in fact they refuse to accept it and just figure that if they Keep that a long enough, the rational mind will figure it out. So I'm concerned that somebody who's as committed to rationalism as you are, is as winsome and bright and wonderful and as warm as you are. would never figure it out because you can't and then you're lost to in my mind because you don't you don't accept this, but you're lost to hell. Mm-hmm. Do you le do you hold open any room for mystery? Oh absolutely. I mean I would consider myself a mystic in the terms that that I think that there is some type of esoteric gnosis that's possible, but that still doesn't paint the the ultimate reality of things. It only touches on it. Those should be our words of the week for last weekend this week, right? I'm gonna get me some of that tonight. But but quickly to answer it, th any metaphysical claims that we make, what are angels, what's hell, what's heaven, what's God, d that's outside of the scope of rationality. The rationality, science, philosophy, that's something that we really cannot get into because we don't know. That's hence the agnosticism. Is God is something that we cannot know what it is? Okay, no, no agreement with this, but keep going. Yeah, yeah. So since this is outside of the scope of rationality, it's really difficult to debate it unless we're debating theology versus theology. From an agnostic standpoint, I don't know what these things are. It's the onus is on you to to prove to prove to me what these things are. And if you can't, then your beliefs collapse into agnosticism agnosticism by the right. was scientific naturalism. Your description of that claims that the only thing that we can know uh uh is something that um that uh can somehow be reproduced in a scientific experiment. And therefore if it can't be reproduced that way then then it then everything else is mysticism. Whereas if if there's a group of people i. e. the Israelites that are led out of Egypt, right, led by a an angel. Mm-hmm. You know that that they can see the fire by night and the the the cloud by day, you know, where where there's uh where there's manna on the desert floor every day that they're eating. We're talking a couple of million people, six hundred thousand men plus women and children beyond that, so a couple of million people and all of their all their animals. We're talking times when they came up to uh to um to poisonous water, you know, in in in response to uh the words from God they they the water becomes not poisonous, water coming out of rocks, you know, the Ten Commandments on the Mount. We're talking a whole group of people that could never reproduce any of that scientifically. but came to a a profound um group consensus that this is true, so true that we're gonna follow this weird Moses guy into the desert and they live there for forty years and they survive living off this man in water in the desert. All I'm saying is that is that if that's the case, then we're dealing with truth that maybe can't be scientifically determined, but it's not any less truth. And it's not somehow um relegated to something that is that that can't be Noticed and determined. And I have to jump in here. Jonathan Sweit is a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Uh Farran Kareshe, uh agnostic theist. uh currently attending a Unitarian Universalist Church, former Muslim. Uh I am Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate brought to us by Putman Fleming and Heating, How Can we Make You Smile, and Deer Valley Heartscape, landscape, and masonry. Visit us online at WFMD. com keywordfaith. And uh Last little thought that was in my mind and we'll we'll pick up kind of where we're leaving off for next week, but Jonathan, I believe, was born of his mother's womb. But I can't recreate that and prove that that is what happened, you know, forty-ish years ago, right? But it is historical truth So there's different kinds of science. There's historical science and they've been beating me ever since and I keep getting bigger. I can't play. How do I break that cycle? Yeah, I don't know, but he better stop. Fast hurry. Thanks for listening. God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?