This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The faith debate is on the World Wide Web at WFMD. com keyword faith, sponsored by Hilo Auto Sales Entire Pros of Frederick. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble. In midscorner, weighing in with a Master of Divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Oh yeah. Troy Skinner. What's your problem? What's my problem? What's the solution? A Christian will tell you that the solution is found in the gospel of Jesus Christ. What's the gospel? Gospel means good news. Why is the gospel good news? What is the good news about Jesus? That answer leads us to other questions, such as What I asked at the very beginning of the show. What's our problem? Here's another good one. Who made us? To whom are we accountable? What is God's solution to our problem? How can I be included in his solution? For centuries Christians have addressed these questions with answers from the Bible, and today Two ministers of God's Word are here to continue the tradition. Peter Kennedy is pastor at Good News Presbyterian Church and Kent Ramler is pastor at People's Baptist Church, both located in Frederick, and they've both been here for a while. Uh one of them is a longtime friend and one of them is a uh newfound friend. Welcome to the show, brothers. Good to be here. Now if you've listened to this show for any length of time, you know that we don't always have panels where there are three Christians, Protestant tradition Christians on the show at the same time. So there's likely to be some agreement uh among the the three of us here today. But maybe, you know, sometimes we're surprised. Maybe there's some finer points, some little hair split of difference or Word choice or something. If you guys make the mistake of stepping in that puddle, I will pick at that scab all so long. So Uh in general terms, um I'm I'll throw this out to either one of you that feels comfortable. You know, if a person walks up to you on the street or comes in on Sunday and and hears you preach the gospel but isn't exactly sure what was meant by the word gospel, and they say, You keep talking about the gospel, the gospel of Jesus Christ. What does that mean? What's the gospel? What would be a you know gospel one-on-one answer? Who wants to try to tackle that first? I'll start off here. All right, that's the voice of Kent, by the way. And I take my definition from the scriptures actually in 1 Corinthians chapter 15, where Paul says, Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel. which I preached unto you. And then he continues on in verse thir in verse three. For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received How that Christ died for our sins, according to the scriptures, and that he was buried. So there's the proof that he died. He was buried. And that he rose again the third day, according to the scriptures, and that he was seen. And there is the proof that he was resurrected So the gospel deals with our problem. You asked earlier, what is our problem? What's your problem, Ken? My problem is, just like everybody else, the problem of sin. And that is breaking God's laws. And uh I've s I've lied, I've cheated, uh I've got too many too long of a list to uh get through here on this, but the problem is all of us have sinned. We've come short of God's expectations for us, God's glory, and as a result, I deserve to be separated from him forever. So the gospel Is God giving me an opportunity to be free from sin? And you start explaining the the good news, the gospel, with two kind of Bummers, downers, you know. He died and he was buried. Doesn't sound like good news, but that's all related to the problem that we're talking about. And the good news is he rose and was seen, proof that he rose, which is a solution to that problem. So that's that's the point that you're making, right? Yes, in fact I I find that when talking with people about the gospel, I always have to start off with the holiness of God and our sin problem, the fact that we're not holy, God is, and therefore God cannot have a relationship with me because I'm not holy. I use this illustration that If you were out in a boat on uh not Sunday morning because you'd be at church, but maybe Saturday morning And it's uh sunny, you're like that aunt who thinks you can move the rubber tree plant, right? Right. You have high hopes that people are in church on Sunday. Yes, right. But here This guy's in a boat, just enjoying himself, and then I come speeding up in a speedboat and I says, Hey, I'm here to save you! And I throw a life preserver over to him. And he thinks I'm crazy. He he doesn't need to be saved. He's perfectly fine. It's not until the guy is In the water, boat's gone, he's drowning, has no hope, and I come speeding up and throw the life preserver and I say, Hey, I'm here to save you. Now I'm actually a hero. Because he recognizes he has a need. He's dying. And that's the reality of the Bible says, hey, we're all dying. So that's the penalty or the wage for sin is death. And so it starts off with that death concept. and Jesus dying in our place. So that's Kent Rambler. Did pretty good, I think, although uh Peter Kemy, where did he get it completely wrong? I'm sorry. Yeah. Kent got it precisely correct. Um I'm a Presbyterian. I'm a uh conservative biblically uh grounded uh Presbyterian. Kent is a biblically grounded Baptist. And the important thing, uh, is that a church teaches the gospel. And there's it's amazing, there is so much confusion on this. In fact uh when I was a kid growing up, we went to church occasionally. I never heard the gospel. And it wasn't until um later in my teen years that someone explained it to me. But looking back, I'm not surprised. I I read some time ago that at uh a Christian booksellers national convention, a poll was taken asking this question, what is the gospel? Now you would think that people whose business it was to provide Christian education materials for the church could accurately define the gospel. So these weren't people like on the street, random people. No. This is their business to articulate, to communicate, to educate people. in biblical Christianity. So they obviously got the answer right. One in one hundred gave what could be considered an adequate explanation of the gospel. Most most uh respondents use just vague cliches, what's the gospel? Well, it's to ask Jesus into your heart. That's not the gospel. What is the gospel? It's having a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. No, that is not the gospel. That's a result of the gospel, but it's not the gospel. Right. But you know, like Kent said The word gospel means good news or glad tidings. And it's not about something we do, it's about something that God has done. In fact, in Romans chapter 1, verse 1 Paul writes about the gospel of God. The gospel in a nutshell, and everything I say is just is in agreement with what Kent just said, but I'm just going to say it in a different way. The gospel is the news of what God has done, and what God has done is that He saves sinners. And the way that he does it is by crediting to our account, where the theological word is, imputing to us the righteousness of Christ. Yes, so the gospel involves a double exchange. I give Christ all my sin. Christ gives me all his righteousness. Let me say it in one uh even shorter phrase. The gospel is God making sinners righteous. It's all about what God has done. Now the question is, and we might talk about this later, is how does one take hold of the gospel? But that in itself is the gospel. So what would the um You know, ninety-nine out of a hundred got it wrong. What would the percentage be, do you think, of those who it it's also their business to be able to answer this question? Yeah. I put this spot, you're totally probably making unless you've seen some data. Maybe you actually seen data and you can give me a real answer other than your your guess. Those who are pastors If asked that question. How many out of a hundred would give an adequate response? Yeah. Okay. Well I think you go back to uh even the eighteen hundreds. when you had uh even Charles Sheldon's book um in his steps and popularized that little catchphrase, what would Jesus do? The WWJD. Don't get me started on that, by the way. to what I should do for my fellow man in equating the gospel with my works. And that then kind of turned into a social, what we call now the social gospel. But that's really just another um man-centered, works-based, uh nothing more than a uh kind of a pride-oriented uh result of man's attempt to reconcile himself to God And so with that inroad of what we would call liberalism into the United States, the mainline denominations back in the early nineteen hundreds, nineteen twenties, this Presbyterian Church was uh mainline Presbyterian Church, mainline even Baptists, many of them even, uh Lutherans, mainline Lutherans. Um Uh they got off track on this gospel. And I would say that uh and I'm just this is off the top of my head, I would say that The vast majority of mainline denominations do not understand the gospel and people can be going to a mainline church today. It might be good to define mainline. Mainline. Um these are the historic uh Protestant denominations, Episcopal, Methodist, Presbyterian, uh, you're Presbyterian and you're not mainline. Yeah. So Uh there are other Presbyterian denominations, these smaller denominations. Uh the particular Presbyterian group I'm a part of is called the Associate Reformed Presbyterian Church. It's a Scottish denomination came over to the States in the seventeen hundreds. Now that's a smaller denomination at ARP. ARP, yeah. First name Wyatt. Wyatt ARP. All right. We're getting we're digressing here. It's full of older people. Yeah. But you know, um so there's some examples of the mainline denomination. Yeah. Even within the mainline denominations, there are particular congregations that still teach the gospel, so I'm not I don't want to denominate every every uh and I'm every um congregation. But I think if I could just speak in more general terms, um many churches will say that the gospel is something you do. uh uh the the gospel is uh becoming a better person uh through the application of uh Jesus ethic to your life. The gospel in itself is not something you do. The gospel is something that you believe Um Romans 5. 17, Paul reeks speaks about the free gift of righteousness. Do I believe that God makes sinners righteous? Do I believe do I recognize that I'm a sinner? in that I'm spiritually bankrupt, in that my religious exercises, in my efforts at moral self-reformation will not commend me to God. When I see that my spiritual and moral bankruptcy, I become a candidate to receive the benefits of the gospel. When I see that Jesus Christ who is God. He came and took on our flesh. He lived a perfect life. And then he died on the cross. not to give us an example of God's love for us, but rather to bear the penalty for our sin. When I see when I recognize who I am outside of Christ, when I recognize what Christ has done on the cross in dying to pay for my sin, and then believe that, then I have indeed received the good news, the gospel. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, your host, who are online at WFMD. com And the panelists this week, Peter Kemeney, who is pastor at Good News Presbyterian Church, and Kent Rambler, who is pastor at People's Baptist Church. And by the way, just a quick point. This is a news talk radio station that carries a lot of political commentary, and so liberal and conservative can mean different things in that context. Few minutes ago you heard Kent talk about liberal when it came to theology and approaches to the Bible and that sort of thing. He's not talking about Democrats who are uh professing Christians versus Republicans. He's talking about uh uh a way in which the Bible is viewed. Uh I don't know if you I can tackle it or if you want to explain maybe the difference in in layman's terms, somebody who's a conservative Bible believer versus a liberal uh I don't want to say Bible believer even. Can I start that one now, Ken? Then you can add to it. How about that? A couple uh marks of a conservative uh uh historic uh Christian Orthodoxy Uh one would be is that we have a high view of scripture. We believe in the in authority, in the inerrancy of the Bible. We believe that the Bible from its original manuscript was reliably uh transmitted down through the ages, and uh we recognize that Jesus is not merely a good man, the fairest flower of humanity, but that he was fully God and fully man. The reason Jesus came wasn't to show us how to be better people, but rather to make us righteous by dying on the cross in our place, giving us his righteousness. uh another mark of con conservative uh biblical orthodoxy is that we believe that Christianity isn't just an ethical system. But it's a supernatural religion. We believe in heaven. We believe in hell. We understand that there's different genres of biblical uh literature And so we want to interpret each book of the Bible in its historic context, according to the author's intention and then we want to make application to our life here in the twenty-first century. And I would say that a conservative Christian would hold to um certain doctrines, for instance, that Jesus is God, you cannot be a conservative Christian and not believe that. Uh I would say that typically uh somebody who is uh in a liberal denomination would not believe that Jesus Christ is God. uh typically would not believe in the inspiration of scripture. I'm talking I'm not talking about anybody who goes to a church, but I'm talking about the church uh teachings or or beliefs. Uh certainly uh taught from the pulpit that way. Uh virgin birth of Jesus Christ. So we, as Peter mentioned, uh as a conservative Christian, we would hold to what the Bible teaches. And uh And and believe that regardless of whether it's politically correct or not. And this might be overly simplistic, but it might be helpful to think in terms of, you know, uh the grid through which uh one looks at things. So somebody who is because it liberals and conservatives when it comes to theology are both s uh purportedly uh grappling with the Bible. But it's the way in which they're grappling with it. So a conservative is more likely to view the world and God through the lens of the Bible, whereas a liberal is more likely to view the Bible and God through the lens of the world. So that's when you get into what are called higher criticism uh uh hermeneutical principles or or uh science. You know, science is uh We have to square the Bible with science because my starting point is science. Or I have to uh I have to figure out what the what the literature means to me because I'm going to deconstruct what it means. And you know, that becomes my starting point. So is your starting point the Bible itself? If so, then you're a conservative. And is your starting point something other than the Bible itself, then you would at least be Uh you should prepare yourself to be accused of being a theological liberal. Yes. I think that's the case. Now Peter, you said a couple of different times how it's not about, you know, being a better person or what we do or all this sort of stuff. But there is an element of do. It's not just believe, right? I can believe that Jesus is God and then I can chop your head off, and that doesn't make me a really good Bible-believing, God-honoring Christian, right? Right. Good point. So where where do those mix? So our behavior, once you believe the gospel, uh there's gonna be a byproduct, that's gonna be a change to life. And so you will endeavor uh to by God's grace to make progress and living a life that's pleasing uh to God, as we're told in Scripture. Um I forgot you assist them else troy. I think I missed it. I'm not sure what I'm saying. And the question is how does this is the gospel just something you do when you're a child you pray a prayer and bang you've received the gospel. The gospel is is much more than just a point in time. It actually affects not just that point in time, but there's a process and then there's also an an end. Apparently I said something brilliant that Peter now remembers. Well the issue is What constitutes genuine biblical faith in Christ? What does it mean to believe the gospel? Hmm. Okay. So so am I getting ahead of us? Yeah, in a nutshell though. Um, if you believe the gospel, you not only give mental assent or intellectual assent to the truth that Christ died for you, don't say Jesus died for me, that's great, past the donuts. But you believe and you rest on Christ or you recline on Jesus Christ. Your church has donuts though. I've been there. Yes. But that that's that's really on the periphery of the gospel point. Kent, does your church have donuts? We're a Baptist church. We're all about donuts, the truth. We're about the whole person. Yeah, you're all up you're all about donuts. Okay, let me let me uh give you a chance to uh put on your pastoral robes for a second. I had somebody who's close uh to our family, a dear, dear friend of the family who um was very devout in his Judaism. And uh and I had a number of really thoughtful, uh honest, direct conversations with him over the years. And he instructed me to not pray for him, to not try to persuade him that Jesus was the Messiah because he would have none of it. So I have little reason to think that he uh found salvation, but God only knows for sure, so I'm gonna trust God on that one. However, there are those who know him and and love him, uh who in i in the immediate aftermath after his his passing said things like, Well, you know, he he's okay. He was a good man. He was a good man, he's okay. I mean, he he was generous and loved his family, you know, was he he very devout. good man. And so in the context of the good news of the gospel, in sharing the good news, it sounds like you're sharing bad news. So how do how do you walk that line? Oh those are some of the more difficult times in a family's life when the law loved one has passed and you're not sure if they've trusted Jesus Christ as their Savior. But the fact of the matter is the Bible teaches that the payment, the wages for sin, is death But the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. And that in that context, death is talking about eternal death. And Revelation talks about the second death or eternal death. And that being separation. Uh that's really a good synonym, I think, for death is separation. Physical death is the separation of the body and the soul. And spiritual death, and eventually eternal death, is separation of the soul from God. But there is no other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved, and that is Jesus Christ. It doesn't matter how sincere a person may be, I can sincerely think that if I jump off a building, uh fifteen story building, I'm not gonna get hurt. But the truth of the matter is, I have to yield to the law of gravity. And so it is that the Bible teaches that if we have rejected Jesus Christ then we do not have any answer for our sin problem. Well Peter, I'm gonna have to give you a chance to be pastoral next time. I was just getting to the best parts really Yeah. We'll start next week's show with the best part. We'll we'll click up that thread and then we'll shift gears into a different topic. So hang on to your thought and that way when you listen to the podcast later you can do this and back to back and get the whole thought at one time. Uh thank you to uh Kent Rambler, he is pastor at People's Baptist Church, Peter Kemedy, Pastor at Good News Presbyterian Church. Our sponsors, Hilo Auto Sales, and Tire Pros of Frederick. We are online at WFMD. com. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks so much for listening. Until next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless.