Back for a fourth and final round of discussion on questions of Sin's effect in us humans are two gentlemen use that word loosely who both confess Christ. They both would fit within the world of evangelicalism. They both have a high regard for the inspiration and trustworthiness of the Bible. Bible and seek to defend their views from what the scriptures say. They both would likely be labeled as conservative theologically, with Christian values that they would each defend to their graves, defending themselves and one another. And yet they don't agree on everything. Andrew Messinger is an active member of Faith Church in Frederick. Used to be known as Faith Reforms Presbyterian, as part of what's known as the PCA, the Presbyterian Church of America. Jonathan Schweitzer, he's a husband, a father, a brother, a son, a friend. He's had a long association with Living Grace Ministries, has been a panelist on more than five hundred of the approximately seven hundred faith debate shows and podcasts that we have ever done. Can you believe you've done that many? I cannot believe it. You I can't believe you've done that man. You are I'm a little offended that you have me on all those shows. Actually it's probably more my fault than yours. Yeah, pretty much all. It's all your fault actually. There was a time when you ran for school board and we couldn't be on because of equal time problems. Oh I remember that. Uh that was like a three month window, I think, or something like that. And then there was a gap, you know, uh last year, year and a half or so, something like that, where we had other things going on. Yeah, yeah. So Yeah, this is what's going on. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Like a dog returns to it. Sorry, I d I'm not going to do that. So it's good to be back. And I feel well labeled. Thank you. You just labeled us well. Yeah. Well some people reject labels, right? Who are you to label me? Don't label me. That's a different show. Um so we've been talking about uh the effect of sin. Uh on um um because if we didn't have any sin at all, even as believers we continue to sin. So the effect of our sin and what we and so therefore the effect of our ability to trust the different aspects of what makes us who we are. Right. The heart, will, and mind. Yeah. And the first show we kind of Lay the foundation with some definitions how we're defining our terms. So we're not going to recast all of that. If you missed it, go find the podcast from three shows a bit. It's good that there's three of us. We can you know pat each other on the back. And then we expounded on that in the in the second show and uh and kinda came to grips with what we what we uh meant in more detail and start throwing out some questions that we're trying to challenge each other with and wrestle with ourselves. Yeah, context of yeah. And then and then last week we kind of put it more in context of the conversation that spawned the reason we came together to do this show. Uh but throughout all of that, as great as it's been, as much fun as we've had Um, I think that Jonathan and I have combined to talk for about eighty percent of the time. Yeah. You know, I would guess that it's been, you know, uh between thirty and fifty percent of the time for Jonathan and I each. Yep. And maybe twenty percent of the time for Andrew. Right, so And that's really too bad because Andrew You know, he he's probably smarter than both of us put together. I don't know about that. We'll try to be more self-consciously aware this time of making sure that Andrew has a chance to speak more. So we're going to do that. Now before we we started recording, there was a question you threw out there. Alright, so the question is, uh C. S. Lewis says that that when he came to Christ that he was surprised by joy. Right? Like like that was a key indicator was this emotion of joy for him at the moment of salvation. Right. And I think all of us would say that that we know that we're saved because, you know, this we we have the Holy Spirit, but how do you know that that's happened? Like like in that moment, you know, what what is it That makes you think you're saved. Well, uh if you're comfortable going first, we're gonna stay true to our goal here. Well, Andy speak first. I am comfortable going first. How do you know you're saved, young man? So I struggle with Joy a lot. I mean I know that as a Christian That's not a friend of yours named Joy or something, right? Actually my niece is named Joy. And you struggle with her all the time. Well she loves me more than her parents. It's ridiculous. So yeah, sometimes I struggle with it. Um and actually that's interesting because I do find myself struggling to get away from actual joy sometimes. Um it's not Meaning that you get joyful and you trying to stop. Yeah. obviously. But sometimes it just makes me uncomfortable. I tend to we talked uh in one of the previous shows about guilt and I unfortunately tend to be a guilty person. And I forget very often all the plentiful good reasons I have to be joyful. Um, but I think really for me, the way I know that I'm saved isn't through joy, obviously since I'm not the most joyful person. It's through the knowledge of what has been done for me and that leads me to have more joy. Um I look at verses Like, well, I mean, obviously John three sixteen, whosoever believes in him shall be saved. And I see that and I say, Well, I believe in him. Therefore I'm saved. So that's a logical syllogism. Yeah. I I I know in my brain that I'm saved, and that leads me towards the emotional reaction. Um I know some people who say that they know they're saved because the way they feel, because of their joy that they found in Christ. And that's great. And that's acceptable, but at least in my personal experience that has not been how I knew that I was saved. And I would imagine that the breakdown across the body of Christ is is that You know, that you have people in all those categories. And I think you speak for a lot of people, so if you don't mind me using you as a test subject. kind of psychoanalyze that a little bit. Uh meet you on your own terms let's try to you know intellectualize about what's going on here. Do you think it's because You you said it was f what was the word you used? With it, that you like you're frightened of joy. It makes me uncomfortable sometimes. So do you think that's because Um you've seen others behave in ways that seemed to be joyful that seemed not real and you don't want to be perceived as a fraud Is it because you've had some moments of joy and then you had the legs knocked out from under you by some uh terrible happening in your life? and you don't trust that the joy will be maintained, so you don't you don't want to lose it, so you therefore never grab it. Or like I'm giving you some thoughts, Darth. Like what do you think is behind that? Well I think both of those are definitely factors. Um You know, there there is an element of or I have been in situations where that I thought were extremely joyful. You know, I was in a happy place, a joyful place in my life, and that was taken away from me And at this point I can see the good and in why it was taken away from me, but it still leads me to be cautious. Um also there is an element of I struggle a lot with Insincerity. Not personally, but I I I it's a quality in other people that I have a hard time forgiving. Um people who are insincere to me I just don't I can't stand to be around them 'cause it it's almost like they're lying to me. And I found that a lot in joy f quote unquote joyful people. Um, I tend to use the word happy more to describe that because true joy is always sincere. But there are lots of happy people who really have no good reason to be happy. And it it kinda disgusts me sometimes to see them pretending like there are no problems in the world and being happy or pretending there are no problems in their own lives. and being happy when they really should be focusing on the things that they need to correct. Yep. And they were wrestling with this kind of a thing. And they were asking, you know, how should I understand because you made it you were trying to make a distinction but you didn't put words to it. You might have words, so I'll come back to you if you have words already. Uh How how should I dis make a distinction between joy and happiness? Do they mean the same thing and if not, how how are they different? Well, okay, so that's a that's a pretty specific question. Uh I was thinking you were going to ask me the question, how would I, you know, respond in that particular situation? But to answer your question, um I would say that I've often described, I was just talking to my wife about this recently 'Cause um 'cause th you know, I've just dealt with a couple of situations uh in the last year or so that that uh you know were more difficult for me. I don't feel like I chose joy as much in those situations, you know, when when my uh situation was more difficult and and that's my f that that's to answer your question that happiness I've I've tended to describe as as a response to my situation. And so if something nice is happening happening to me then I'm happy. Right, but if something not nice is happening to me then I'm unhappy, but that's the moment when I choose joy and so I can choose joy even when things are difficult. Right, and so that's a choice, whereas happiness is related to you know uh the the actual situation. But you know, it says in the uh the Beatitudes that that happier those who are poor in spirit, who mourn, you know, like it like it goes through all these different situations that it seems to be saying, choose to consider yourself blessed, choose to be joyful if you're those Negative things. I wonder though if that's the absolute best way for us to translate it to the other. We people can have joy, can maintain joy through struggle, right? Yeah. So that's different than that's what scripture says. But it but but m that's what I'm saying. I don't know that I'm so good at that. No, right. I'd like to be. But uh the reason I put it in the in a pastoral context, I said if you were to ask this question as a pastor I'm wondering if that would help you because the people that are you know, they they just had their entire family killed in a car wreck and uh and and they're acting happy and you're like You're being fake. I can't I I can see right through it. You're pretending to be happy. Mm-hmm. Uh and yeah, that does seem manufactured and contrived. But if they were to somehow maintain some sort of an inner peace and a connectedness to God that they would define as joy, you might not see them as. So maybe your r maybe your problem isn't with joy that you n and that you're not a joyful person. I'm just thinking this out for the first time. Um maybe it's not that you have an issue with being joyful, it's maybe properly understanding what we mean by happiness and joy going back to the first show, defining our terms. I think there's a difference. You know, we have a tendency to say happy, happy, joy, joy, like they're the same thing. And I don't think they are Right. So Okay, so this do you have words? Well, Jonathan, uh uh I wanted to be fair. Do you have thoughts on that before that we just thought for just a second? Uh yeah, well I mean I'll just quickly summarize how I interpret joy and happiness. Happiness is i it's more of a feeling, it's an emotional response to your surroundings, whereas joy is an attitude and a choice. Um much like love versus affection, uh affection is an emotion, you know, you feel a certain way about a person whereas love is a choice. to care about someone and nurture them even when you don't feel the affection and joy in the same way as a choice to see God and his plan and his glory and the beauty and rightness of it despite not having happiness. So I guess maybe you are right. I it is more Happiness in the wrong situations that bothers me then is Yeah, 'cause I have a thought that I want to share you 'cause I don't want to steal your guy's thunder. So before I jump in, Jonathan, you had something you wanted to say. Uh so there's a bunch of things. Uh I've I've heard often joy joy is J O Y Jesus Others Yourself And that uh I just read uh the story of Mother Teresa over again and and she and her sisters of charity, I think that's what they're called, are are known for their joy in serving, you know, those that are that are the most broken and and that there seems to be a again a a response to serving others that have difficulties that get your attention off yourself. And so it it's easier to be joyful, meaning you're choosing, you know, to bless others. Jesus, other yourself, that that is a secret to joy, but you know, that's a thing that I've heard many times in my life. And I think it tends to be true for me that when I'm focus on helping somebody else and I'm not thinking about my own struggles and then definitely I'm in a better place because I often have more hope for them than maybe things that I'm going through myself. Yeah, this is the Faith Mate. That's Jonathan Sweitzer. I'm Troy Skinner and the other voice you've been hearing on today's show a little more often than the previous three shows we've done together. So here's the thought I have, and it's inspired by something I read by Timothy Keller. I'm sure you know who Tim Keller is, both of you. I'm not sure if the listener knows, but Tim Keller's a pretty high profile pastor in New York City. Uh he's written a number of best selling books that Christians gravitate toward. He's uh uh he's been kiddingly called the uh Presbyterian Pope uh by some folks because he wields so much influence in those circles. Uh but one of his books is uh what I would argue I've read a number of books on the subject over the years and it's my favorite by far book on the subject of marriage, the meaning of marriage. He co-wrote it with his wife Kathy Anyway, there's a point in the meaning of marriage where he talks about uh love, falling in love, being in love, loving your spouse. And I'm I'm correlating that idea to this joy-happiness thing. So he talks about People when you're going through the dating, courting phase, right, and you got butterflies and you can go days without sleep and you know you're just you're you're riding on endorphins and you call that being in love. And then you're married for fifteen years And you've and you're tempted to get divorced because, well, I don't have those feelings like I had before. I I I've fallen out of love. And he uses the analogy of of water, of a of a river And he says, you know, when when the when the water's shallow, and that's what you have in the beginnings of your relationship, a shallow relationship. And so there's lots of turbulence and lots of bubbling and bouncing around, and that's exciting. And so we call that exciting these feelings of being in love. But then over time that water wears a groove that runs deep. And those deep waters runs you know, they're still And you don't see the turbulence on the surface anymore, but there's a deep power in that river that was absent before. And I'm wondering if that bubbly stuff, the exciting stuff on the top is changing gears now, is happiness. It's abiding, it's fleeting, it passes. And that deep, still powerful move is still water, so they're related, but that's joy. So you can throw a bowling ball into it and it's gonna create a splash and a ripple, but it's not gonna rob the river of its power. It's still gonna have that that that joy that's that's marching down. Do you think that that's a a reasonable way of thinking about it? Because it's occurring to me for the first time in this conversation, so I haven't thought it through. Yeah. What do you think? I would agree with that. That makes sense. Yeah So in that sense, how does that change the context of our conversation? We're talking about, you know, an external evidence of joy in a w in a charismatic cir uh um uh circle. And the the the the quiet, pensive, you know, Presbyterian might be having that deep abiding joy and just isn't being expressive about it. Does that does that work? In that analogy? So I'd say I'd say yes and no, and this is why. Uh you you used a uh description earlier about emotions being like a puppy dog that need to be trained to do the right thing And um my experience with um with the charismatic world and singing the songs and uh and doing it in a way that I'm uh I'm kind of Teaching, training, you know, telling myself, you know, okay, the song's talking about the glory of God and rejoicing, so I'm gonna do it. Right? So there's a will aspect there that I'm I'm training myself. And this song's talking about you know, uh just how sin has has affected us and and and whatever, and so I'm gonna let myself mourn with sin, you know, and and be be brought to the cross, you know, and and this song's talking about um uh, you know, uh bowing down before his holy presence. And so I'm I'm learning to to kind of be still in the presence of God. And so there's a training of the emotions in that context, that that's where I'm arguing that that like one of its greatest benefits is that if you stay with it, then what you've done is you've trained your emotions uh diligently uh in and intentionally even to respond a certain way. So for example, when I go on a Sunday morning and people are dancing Uh I just make a choice to dance. I'm like, okay, I'm here, you know, and we're told to dance, so I'm gonna dance. Or we're told to clap our hands, we're told to sing, I'm gonna do those things. And uh I think that there's a benefit to me of of being able to say, okay, rejoice with those who rejoice and mourn with those who mourn that that that that as a training aspect of that that is a little bit different from the idea of, you know, bubbly y you know, even in charism charismatic circ circles you can tell the ones that are more mature because they're less bubbly. But they're still gonna be uh intentional about passion and pa pathos, you know, where James says the effectual and fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much, you know, the senses that the mature, fervent prayer, you know, that there's a guy that that has nurtured the intensity you know, that that has a strong emotional context. I'm gonna put on my hat pastor's hat for a second and say, you know, because I'm picking up on what you just said and and repurposing it for uh the purposes of an analogy, you're talking about, you know, the dancing and stuff. Mm so here's the analogy. Somebody that's the stereotypical caricature of a Presbyterian, you know, the frozen chosen kind of thing. You know, somebody leads, somebody follows, you know, that sort of thing. So that but that person maybe for the sake of the analogy is always dancing at a hundred and five beats per minute. Okay. And then you got the charismatic who's exuberant and bubbly and whatever and in in an immature state. They're always dancing at a hundred and twenty eight beats per minute. Okay. Okay. Yeah. And there's nothing wrong with either one of those. But I think what the problem is is the one who dances at 128 beats per minute always dances at 128 beats per minute. And they need to learn, challenge and and will themselves to occasionally also dance at 105 beats per minute. And the same with the frozen chosen Presbyterian, they need to figure out how to get themselves comfortable dancing at 128 meat beats per minute and not just be in their comfort zone. They need to have a a fuller expression of what it is to be in Christ. Is that uh so okay so so that's that's a concern for me because I don't think every part of the body of Christ is supposed to be like every other part of the body of Christ. Right? And so the eye can't say to the hand, I don't need you. Or the or the the the foot can't say to the hand, I'm not important because I'm not a hand. And so I'm concerned that that we would try to create like everybody's supposed to be the same instead of if somebody's, you know, gifted by God and is called in certain direction Well, it there there's plenty of scientists and thinkers, you know, in uh uh in the atheist world that need, you know, a well reasoned response. you know, for the gospel. We need that in the body of Christ. And I don't want to in the name of just trying to make everybody, you know, like the the enlightened, you know, the the Renaissance Christian kind of a thing that does it all Uh though sometimes you might have that, but uh I guess what I'm suggesting is that you know But they could still help each other to be more As yeah, as somebody is maturing in their walk. that they're going to challenge themselves to be a little bit more than what they've been comfortable doing. Yeah. To try to to you know taste what they're doing. I think more is better than the same. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right. I think we're agreeing. That might be a reasonable challenge. Surely we're not almost done here. So But we're yeah, show's over. That's it. What's up with that? Well, even if even if time wasn't up, we agreed. So show's over, done. Yeah, that's like the first time in like fifteen years when that's been the case. John Sweitzer, thank you. Andrew Messinger, thank you, and hope we'll have you on again maybe sometime. I'm Troy Skinner. Thank you for listening to the Faith Debate on nine thirty WF. FMD, we're online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith until next week. God bless.