Donald Trump Twitter storm, the rise of Islam through large squaths of Europe, increased incidents of terrorist attacks in the United States. Does any of this have anything to do with the second coming of Christ? You're discussing things today. No! The one thing, no, he's not going to be discussing these things today, but we might discuss them without who knows. That's uh Chris Jackson, uh Baptist Minister, who has served in many different ministry capacities, including prison ministry, homework ministry, bible teaching. You're organizer of the Life Bible Baptist Ministry. We definitely want to take some time to find out more of what that is. They rebuild the life on the foundation of God's Word. That sounds good to me. You're online at, and we'll tell you later, because it's like, I don't know, jumbles up alphabetic soup here. If you Google, I think, uh Life Right, Life Bible Baptist Ministries you'll probably find it. Probably the easiest way. And also on the show Jonathan Schweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, co-founder of the Faith Debate Show, past president of the Ministerial Association in Frederick. Uh what else do you know about this? Mather of five. Father of five and one What was that what? Husband of one. Husband of one. Good. I played basketball with my son the other day. He says d whooped you. He says, Dad, come on, one more game. I'm like, we gotta go home. He's like, one more game. I hyper extend my knee and I've been like barely walking for the last two weeks. So That is my current trophy. That's and by the way, our sponsors, Hilo Auto Sales, online at hiloauto. com and TirePro's of Frederick. We're online at WFMD. com, keyword faith Um not too long ago, did you see what happened to uh Zach Miller tight end for the Chicago Bears? Oh man, that was ugly. He dislocated his knee and it's like one of the worst things you're ever gonna see. Yeah. And then making it even worse, they took his touchdown away Yeah, that was yeah. That was rude. What is wrong with them? Yeah, yeah. My kids were all watching it. That's one of the twelve times of the apocalypse. Clearly there's a rise of deception and uh corruption at the highest levels when NFL is a whole discussion there that we're not gonna get into it. You know we we joke about but the the whole signs of the apocalypse Okay. We throw that out there. Right. Are there like official signs of the apocalypse we should be looking for? Are there twelve signs, ten signs, seven signs? Are there? I don't know. I'm I'm a I'm joking, but I'm asking. There's definitely one. Uh again from the dispensationalist and pre-tribulation point of view, uh we're looking for the temple to be rebuilt in Jerusalem. Mm-hmm. Because once that's rebuilt, that kind of starts a lot of things. Which is which is really interesting because if I'm right The temple that was destroyed that that Jesus returned to was the temple in A D seventy. If you're right, the temple that that will be destroyed that he's going to return to is one that's yet to be built. Right. But both of us uh recognize that historically our uh uh that that that sign is uh is definitive for this return of Christ. That's right. And the and the burden is on our side or more evidence or more credibility. Yeah, but well Israel is over there. Right. Israel is over there. The Jews you know, a good bulk of the Jews are over there. And apparently in Texas there is uh uh there are ranchers who are uh uh raising the kind of uh animal that is necessary to purify the temple. You need a certain kind of blood from a certain kind of uh um uh ram or something And they're they're raising that kind of a ram so that they can be prepared so that uh it can be done the way that Scripture uh says that it should be done. Now we've already heard some big, you know, theological buzzwords in the first five minutes of the show. And we spent a lot of time with a large Well you can't help the I mean you need to use these shorthand words to represent the views or you won't get anywhere. I mean you know it's It's the language of the discipline. What are you gonna do? We spent a lot of time last week. Um, by the way, we forgot to give an advanced uh Happy Thanksgiving last week, so a related Happy Thanksgiving. Happy Thanksgiving. Happy Thanksgiving. Right. Yeah. And we're all going about the business of making America great again, right? Or running around like chickens with our heads cut off, whatever it is. It is happening. Yes, yes. Apparently that kind of multitasking is uh doable So some of the things the some of the words that uh Chris used, you know, dispensational or pre-trib or whatever he might have just said. Yeah. We defined all that last week. It's available on podcast. Go to WFMD. com. You can hear us We can't redefine these terms every week or what we will do is the same show every week because it took a whole show really to kinda wrestle. And even so we left out a pretty important definition because we've already touched on it I don't know if the word came up, but the concept came up, preterism. We mentioned the word last week, but we haven't talked about what preterism and partial preterism is. And you alluded to what you're talking about the destruction of the temple in AD seventy. So you want to describe the partial and or full preterist view. So preterist means uh means past. It's it's a fancy way of saying past. And so the idea is that the second coming of Christ has already happened. And a full preterist is of the opinion that all of the prophecies of the Old Testament and the New Testament were completely fulfilled in A. D. seventy at the destruction of Jerusalem and the Temple. And that there's no more prophecies to be fulfilled, and so then we moved into the millennium. Well, they even believe that the millennium has already uh been accomplished, right? If you're a full preterist. If you're a partial preterist, then you believe that Jesus returned in judgment Uh at the end of the age of Israel, the end of the age of the law, to institute the age of uh grace or the millennial reign of the saints. And uh when he did that, that there was the destruction of Jerusalem, that he returned in judgment, uh, and judged Israel and gave the kingdom over to the church at that time uh to rule and reign on the earth. And so Uh the uh the idea of preterist is just that that happened in the past. Uh partial preterist believes that that the final judgment of of Christ I want to comment on the full preterist or the preterist to view first before you get into your di because it's an important distinction. Okay. Um somebody here somebody who's well not well, because if they're well schooled they're not going to be confused, but if they've got some exposure to these kinds of words and you know Theological buzzwords and labels and stuff. And they d aren't astute enough to really know what's being said. They hear the word preterist and they're gonna say heretic Because true full preterist believes that Jesus already came back for the second time. Right. They b believe the millennium's already over. Yep. They believe that the the law is completely out the window now, has no role whatsoever anymore, and all these sorts of things are things that Orthodox Christians would say, I'm sorry, but that's beyond the pale. You're outside the realm of orthodoxy. You are a heretic. Now there are full preterists out there. In fact we've had full preterists on this show as guests So they exist, but they are a s a minuscule percentage of those that would claim to be Christian. However, there is a much larger percentage of professing Christians and actual Christians. who would hold to a partial preterist view. Uh at least I like to think that there you can be a Christian to hold that view because it's the view I hold. And it's the view that Jonathan says that he now holds. So that's what I'm at now. So the idea is that Partially everything was fulfilled in the past. Yeah. Is that I mean I'm oversimplifying it, but Yeah, and then in particular that the fall of Jerusalem by Rome um uh represented the the coming of Christ in judgment, right? So he's the lion and the lamb. The Lamb, he came to be the sacrifice for sins, right? To to wash our sins clean, his blood atoning for our sins. He comes as the lion, then to bring judgment. uh and to set up his reign on the earth. And so uh that's a big part of what the book of Revelation is about is to show us that the Lamb is the lion, right? That the two are the same thing and that there's not somehow uh uh uh you know that those two are able to coexist at the same time in the person of Jesus Christ. And so sure enough um I mean I I just explained it. I don't know that there's a lot more to say, just that that he came in judgment on the nation of Israel. And uh and that's that's really important. Um in in fact, you get into a whole discussion about replacement theology at this point. Uh that that because Israel was destroyed in the old covenant was obsolete, then we have a new covenant and this idea of replacement theology comes out of that that that that means that that the Jewish people no longer have a special place in the purposes of God, but they've been replaced by uh the Church of Jesus Christ. Whereas those that are in a premillennial orientation uh in my experience tend to be in a place of saying that there is yet a unique role for the Jewish people. And I actually come out as a um as a non-replacement preterate, partial preterist. Meaning that that I I do still see that there's there's unique uh role for the ju for the new one. We love to. Uh I think a simple way for For me to explain to somebody who doesn't have a lot of patience to deal with all the theology of it is a and again, when you get shorthand, you leave a lot of important comments out. But that said, here's a pretty, I think, easy shorthand to get get your head around A partial Frederist is going to argue that everything that needed to happen before Christ could return for the second time happened by A. D. seventy. And from from that moment forward Christ could have returned in the twinkling of an eye at any moment, but only by his own good wisdom and judgment and his own timetable has he decided not to. That we're not waiting for uh the construction of another temple for it to be destroyed. We're not waiting for the arrival of some sort of uh uh you know you know super anti-Christ thing. Christ could come before I finish this next sentence. So can I ask you a question because uh because what I've argued is that his second coming impartial pretersen pr preterism, his second coming happened in A D seventy, and that there's a final coming that uh that is when he comes to sit on the beamal seat that could happen at any time. But it sounds like you would be partial preterist, amillennial, but but you're not necessarily of the opinion that there was an actual return of Christ in A D seventy. There was a few years ago. And on those who were clinging to the the man-made elements of the old covenant. Yeah. Okay. By the way, this is the Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, he's John Schweitzer, and the other voice you're hearing today is Chris Jackson. So good. Replacement theology, um Kind of like preterism can be misunderstood if you're not careful. And uh you know last week I mentioned biblical theology can be pejorative towards other views that aren't biblical in their theology. That's redemptive historical. These labels and these buzzwords can be important and replacement theology is an unfortunate uh one or it's a it's an idea that's misunderstood. Yeah. On the face of it, someone might say that I am a replacement theologian because I believe that uh That those who are God's people are Israel. So those that are Christian today are Israel. Those that were God's people in the Old Testament are Israel. But that isn't I'm not arguing that the church has replaced the Old Testament saints. I'm more of a continuation theology. Mick meaning we're the ones that call you replacement in a pejorative way. It often happens that way. But but it's a caricature really of what you believe. Right. And I and I I'm not saying there aren't those that are replacement theologians. Yeah. I think they're wrong. Yeah. Uh I don't think that squares with the idea of you know, the one people of God through history and all that. The one new man of Ephesians. And that's a very central part actually of my, you know, interpretive grid. That's a huge part of my hermeneutical principle when I'm reading the Bible. So if I'm reading the Old Testament and I and I'm reading about Israel I know that I'm reading about Israel and I try to transport myself mentally back in time to think about what's going on back then in that geography at that moment in history and all of that. But I'm also saying, okay, the lessons here that are for Israel are lessons for me too because I'm also Israel. And then when it's talking about, you know, the church or the elect or the chosen or any of these things that represent the the encompassing of God's people That's all of us, the Jew, and now, because of Christ on the cross, the Gentile too, grafted in. So what was old doesn't get replaced. What's new gets grafted on and yet some of the old does fall away. Not all of Israel is saved. Sure. Not all of the is this is one of the great paradoxes, right? Not all that is Israel is Israel. What so the temple. Yeah. You know the destruction of the temple or what is the temple? Um if you're looking for uh if you're looking for the building of an actual physical building temple, that that's gonna be a different kind of idea than somebody who's not looking for that But the person who's not looking for that has to have some sort of okay, what do you mean by temple then? Right. Well the temple is where God dwells, the dwelling place of God. It's where his holiness, where he chooses to to reside in in his in his holiness. And I would argue that the three of us are the temple. The church is the temple. So I'm not waiting for the building the the construction of a new physical building uh out of gold and wood and whatever because I don't think that that's uh I don't think it's gonna happen, so why would we be looking for it? But I have to have something to identify as what's the temple. And then that changes everything for m everything. It changes a lot of things for me. So you start if someone like me grabs onto those ideas, then I'm looking at Eden. And God's presence in Eden, and he's walking with Adam and Eve, and his holy presence is there. So that means that Eden represents a type of temple, which then helps me to understand the construction narratives. in the uh Old Testament when it talks about, you know, the exacting measurements and what's gold and what's you know, and all that sort of stuff. And all the garden imagery in that temple You know, is I think is a hearkening back to Eden to show us that that temple is being constructed in a sense in a physical building. And so now the the temple is us, but in already not yet, because we're not fully glorified yet. And then at the final consummation, when the the new heaven and the earth arrive on the scene, then everything is restored back to how it was supposed to be back in the beginning in Eden. So to me there's this thread, this continuity It affects everything of how I read, and I know, well I shouldn't say I know, I would strongly suspect that somebody who's looking at the Bible with a dispensational view is going to think about a lot of those things very differently. And they're gonna have a hard time maybe even grasping where I'm trying to come from and I'm gonna have a hard time trying to grasp where they're trying to come from. And then because we get Fears of inadequacy. Sure. We get judgmental and dismissive of other people and we get into arguments with our brothers and sisters in Christ, which is ridiculous Because we're all arguing from the same scripture. And the reality is that is and that you referred to this last week, Chris, that that hope Is at the heart of this whole thing, right? Faith is the evidence of the of the things hoped for. Hebrews also says that that we have this hope as an anchor for our soul. Hope is essential to our ability to to continue to walk in faith, to not give up when the going gets tough. And so uh if we believe that certain parts of that have already happened, then the question is what are we still hoping for Right. And uh and it and it seems to kinda kinda um upset this sense of, you know, where's the hope? And and in fact that was one of the biggest struggles for me when I was when I was Seeing the historical data, you know, I was realizing that so much of the early church was really more omillennial uh than uh than otherwise. In fact the whole premillennial ideas didn't seem to show up until You know, the the seventeen eighteen hundreds is is when they really were put around eighteen thirty. And so so if that's the case and that's a late idea, then what did the early guys believe anyways What was hard for me to start thinking that way was, well then what am I hoping for? But the point is is that there's there's still the final return of Christ where he's gonna sit on his beam seat. You know, uh there's actually at the end of of the millennium, everybody, whatever you believe about the millennium, believes that at the end of the millennium that the the devil's gonna be let out for a season to to go out and and uh deceive the nations Um and uh and then of course, you know, the the coming of heaven to earth. And so all of that that language I realized that Okay, it means that I'm that some things have already happened, but it doesn't mean that that there's not still a significant hope in the future. And that that took me a while to get to get over. Like like do I lose my hope if I start believing that uh Christ had returned into the world. And that's why the wolf predators and thing is so um it's important that we denounce that because there can be no hope because I mean it's full. It's done. Right, right. So so you say, well where's the kingdom of Christ? It's here, it's now. This is it? This is what we've been longing for. We're already in it? No, that that can't be true. I give up hope right now, you know. So Yeah. But if I can jump in and just say that um you know we also look for consistency in the scriptures. Right. If you are pre-trib or dispensationalist. That's right. Everybody's trying to. Everybody's trying to. And so when we look at scriptures when God says um He's going to send the children of Israel or the tribe of Judah into Babylon for seventy years. Yeah. That literally happened. Yeah, yeah. They went into Babylon. It was literal. When he spoke through Joseph and said there'll be seven years of plenty and seven years of famine. That literally happened. Yeah. Okay, we can't mystify that or spiritualize that away. Sure. These things actually when God says he was sent in Christ, he'll be born in Bethlehem of a virgin. Right. And some of us believe he came at the t at the seventy week m or the sixty-ninth week mark of Daniel. Sure. So um so and there are other prophecies in the Old Testament that still have not yet been fulfilled. And so I uh I hear kinda unsaid but uh but behind all that is that it's very important to you to interpret all of those passages as literally as possible. As literally as possible. Okay. Okay so so I think it's good for us to address this for a minute because 'Cause I think that's very important uh when we're trying to, you know, read scripture and we're reading about beasts and reading about whores and we're reading about bribes and we're reading about um you know, uh seven seals, you know, and um uh uh actually the word rapture doesn't show up but but rising to meat The line being caught up in the atomy. Right. All of those all of those terms um present us with a problem. How literal is it a beast? Like like I think you would agree that that when we when we see the Antichrist, we're not gonna see a beast as we saw as we see it in scripture. I think you would agree that that when we see who whoever it is that is the whore of Babylon, we're not going to see a whore, but it's but but it's a it's a a metaphor, a big metaphor uh for what's you know what's really there, what's really happening. Right. And so this is the part for me that really started to make the difference. Right? When you read things about the Lord coming on the clouds of heaven Right, or you read uh things about where uh you know again the beasts, you know, and and what they're gonna do, uh what you begin to find or or like the stars falling from the sky and and the sun and moon no longer shining. What what you find is that all of these terms are terms that the Bible uses Often enough that if we study how the Bible uses them, there's a whole bunch of places that if we're letting scripture interpret scripture, then we can't interpret those things as being literal, meaning we're not going to see an actual beast, right? Because we know that that the Bible describes that the first beast is Babylon. The second beast of Daniel is uh the Meadow Persian Empire and then, you know, and then Greece and then Rome. Right? And and so if we know that to be the case and the Bible has defined it clearly for us then we stop looking for it to be so literal. So my point is just that that um I think it's very important that we not over spiritualize something that the Bible intends us to take literally, and I'm confident that God could do miracles in in all those ways, but My point is that a whole bunch of the things that that you described, like being caught up in the air, I see those kinds of things described that defined all through the Old Testament in a way that is non-literal. I'm okay with that And we're gonna have the Jonathan's gonna end up having the last word here this week as well. Oh man. But we're gonna be back next week. Um and I it's funny. It was a joke before, but you know, if you haven't turned your clock back yet after these many weeks, now's a good time. I'm George Skinner. This is the Faith Debate our sponsors Hilo Auto Sales online at HiloAuto dot com and tire pros of Frederick and the uh organization that Chris is uh Organizer over now, Life Baptist Ministries. Look it up online, Life Bible Baptist Ministries, and I'll put the link to their website on the Facebook page at WFMD. com keyword faith. Until next week, God bless the