Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate, Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Get a moron. And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of Bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious Big bridge builder John Sweiser. No, I'm just getting warmed up. If questions about the American Church and those questions that the American Church asks were viewed as food menu items Then the soupe de jour would be millennial gumbo. It's why Relevant Magazine recently published an article titled The Real Reason Churches Have a Millennial Void. So what do millennials expect a church to do? What What questions are millennials asking? And who are these? How are these things different from other generations in the questions they're asking? Here to address questions like this with me, Troy Skinner, are Jonathan Schweitzer, co-founder of Cross Bridges in Frederick. And Michael Bartlett, the pastor of Collective Church, also in Frederick. And this is the Faith Debate in Frederick, 930 WFMD, online at WFMD. com, keyword faith. So What are the millennials asking? Can I just make a point here as we're kind of moving into this, right? With the X generation when we when when we came into being adults Right, like like we came in like fighting for our right to party, you know, like you know, like like with this um uh you know, real rebel without a cause, you know. I don't think we came in that way. It ev I mean, it evolved into that by the time we were college age, but we came in As latchkey kids. Well, yeah, okay, so this is my coming through our high school years we evolved into this, you know, angst and all of this. And I don't get that sense among millennials. Like like like they came into this, you know, to adulthood in uh in so it's a it's a shift. Like we're we're kinda getting at in this set of shows here with Michael, you know, what is that shift? And yet that shift is is different from what it was with Our generation when we're coming in, you know, in in the nineties and mid nineties into, you know, adulthood where we were you know, uh looking to kind of redefine the workplace by being uh um you know uh doing things uh uh our way and sure enough these guys are coming in and it's just different, like they're nicer than we were. at the time. Am I do you agree with that? Nicer. It feels to me like you guys are a lot nicer than we were. I don't yeah, I don't know. I I think that Maybe, I don't know. My assumption would be it's because the way they are able to get their voice out there now is social media. So Mm millennials still are like fighting to be listened to. But the difference is they're doing it on Facebook through Instagram stories and through Twitter. And so there's just a gap where it's like where are their voices heard? Their voices are heard on a lot of mediums that people who didn't grow up with the internet aren't looking. And so they're just as angry. They just all happen to be angry with each other and having those arguments on on social media right now. Um not doing the public I don't know. I mean, maybe they are. But I mean, my daughter certainly had some difficult challenges with her contemporaries in school that weren't always nice to her and you know, truth be told, my daughter wasn't always nice to everybody. So I mean I don't I'm not sure. Maybe they're nicer. I don't know. Yeah. What am I what am I trying to get at? It feels to me like we weren't so nice to the rest of the other generations. Like we were kinda like, you know whatever you were, you know, we're kinda doing our own thing. Yeah. I always felt like Generation X was kinda like i it it was the passed over generation, the ignored generation, and they were like, Oh, okay, I guess I'll just go get a job and work hard because nobody's paying any attention to me. I feel like the the angrier generation has been the tail end of the the boomer generation. There's there's a lot of angry voices there and that's what's driving a lot of the political discussion right now in that generation. Uh but that's again painting with such a broad brush because some of the most marvelous people I know are from the boomer generation. So Hey, I don't know. It's hard You can't brush, you know, I've got two questions and they're kind of flip sides of the same coin. So I'm gonna have Michael tackle the first one and then Jonathan, you can tackle the flip side of it. So the questions are How does the church tend to view millennials and how do millennials tend to view the church? So Michael, you can ask answer the how do the millennials tend to view the church part of it? And then John you can after after that we can talk about how the church tens again, w broad rushes tends to view millennials. So how are millennials, Michael, tending to view the church in your estimation? Yeah, from our experience you see that a lot of m millennials believe the church is just useless. Um that it doesn't have anything to offer them, that it doesn't have anything to offer their lifestyles, um, their decisions. You know, they feel like the church And why do you think that they think that? Um, I think it's because to be honest, a lot of churches have kind of fought and died on hills that a lot of the millennials are fighting on the opposite hills of. Um when it comes to inclusion of people and when it comes to equality across the board. a lot of churches right and wrong, like, have a stance on those things or are very public about those stances or people just assume because they've seen like a meme online that Jesus teaches something that isn't necessarily true. And so a lot of millennials don't think the church has anything to offer their marriages or um their relationships or their peace of mind. Um Which is really interesting because it's all based on assumptions because a lot of millennials don't go to church. They're they're learning these things from news, they're learning these things from Twitter, they're learning these things from past generations who passively say things about millennials. And so in turn they just they view the church as something that their grandparents did, maybe even their parents. Now it's interesting and I'm gonna turn to John G Yeah, I don't know that I know the answer to this, but I'm trying to uh be prepared. But I do want to uh offer uh an explanation uh from from a church person's point of view on that. There are some bad actors. I mean Westboro Baptist Church is a poster child for that, right? But there there are some uh very angry looking, angry sounding people claiming to represent Christ. Uh did you see Unplanned, by the way, the movie Unplanned? Not yet, but early in the movie there's a group of you know, uh quote unquote Christians who are protesting at the abortion clinic in a way that is not particularly filled with grace. Uh, but that is dealt with in the movie, I thought and then the rest of the movie it th the the Christian characters are portrayed in what I would say is the way the Christians should portray themselves. But anyway, whenever those people that aren't filled with grace and patience and love and understanding and and and advocating for mercy and And and and uh and kinda wooing people to understand that Jesus and God loves them, like when that's missing And they and they're just angry and they're railing against the world. That's what the media focuses on. Correct. That's what the movies you know, the the the the the bad guy in a lot of movies is the the mean spirited pastor or the child abusing priest. or the self-righteous, you know, conservative Republican evangelical Christian who hates everybody. And some of those people do exist, but their caricatures And so that gets amplified. So the millennials aren't actually going to church. They aren't interacting with people that they know to be Christians. And that's what they are fed by of a very anti-Christian media then they're gonna we're gonna we as Christians are gonna be unfairly labeled. Yeah, absolutely. And I think y you know Wait, so you would agree with that Yeah, I I think like 'cause I definitely feel like this measure of defensiveness when I hear you describe, you know, like how the millennials view the church, that leads me in the direction of what Troy just said. in and like I'm fearful of my defensiveness because that that precisely leads me in the direction of looking like I'm that reactive person that the millennials already feel like is who we are, you know, like like how do we even respond to something like that without looking like the very you know, like like fulfilling what they expect us to be in that sense. Yeah. It's quite it's interesting. You gotta think about m millennials and how they're learning about the church. You you know, I grew up and there's a church in my backyard. I'm not I know nothing about that church. I never met anybody that went to that church. So you were fourteen, then you went with neighbors. Which wasn't even that same church. Different church. Completely different church. And so but you know, I didn't grow up where I knew where churches were around where I lived. There was one church that was like kind of in my backyard, don't know anything about it and never met any of the neighbors. In fact we used to play in the parking lot all the time. They used to yell at us because they didn't want us in their parking lot. So like Growing up, that that's in a different age. You know, internet was popular when I was in middle school and high school. So these millennials who are growing up with the internet in their hands. But even that, the church didn't want you in their parking lot. Yeah, I mean and that's it's their property. It's a parking lot, I know. I heard it. Let them play um the other day, um can't remember exactly what the context was, but it was a great quote. It was a pastor and he was talking about, you know Why don't we find examples when we read the the pages of the New Testament? We don't find examples of the disciples going out there trying to convert people, asking them a bunch of questions. Yeah. Socratic evangelism. Why don't we find that? And he said, I think it's because they were living lives that were so uh attractive that people were asking them questions. What is it that you have? I want that And so that church that wouldn't let you guys play in the in the parking lot wasn't sending that kind of vibe, that's for sure. No, I mean that's that's Acts two, right? Like you see all the things that they did. They functioned as a community, as a church. They took care of each other, they took communion, they prayed, they celebrated. to what God was doing, but scripture says that the Lord added to their number daily those who were being saved, which tells us there were non-Christians present, at least as observers. most likely participating or at least receiving some of the guests, receiving some of the the needs of their neighborhoods. And so it's hard for millennials. We did a whole series on Acts two, thirty-two through 40, like eight verses, and we just broke them up each week and talked about it. And most of our millennials struggled because they had never seen that version of the church. Now, they had never walked into a church before. But their understanding of the church came from media, movies, you know, right now it's the political climate. It's not great. So when I'm going to college in the late eighties, early nineties and started paying attention to the messages that was in the movies, right? Up until that point I didn't really pay attention. I just thought movies were cool or not, right? But when I started paying attention during those years What Troy just described became increasingly clear to me that there was nobody in even newspapers like you know in college that's for me when I really started reading the news and reading newspapers. And in all those places nobody represented what what my experience of church was accurately. Everybody represented it as we're just angry and we're railing and we're judgmental and we're hypocrites and we're power hungry and you know, all these different things. And yes, it's the case that politically, you know, I was like pro life and um and concerned about you know, the culture moving away from the things of God and Hollywood and and those kinds of things and and and advocating that that somehow, you know, there'd be pushback against all those things and voting in that kind of a way. But at the end of the day, the people that I was interacting with you know, for me they were caring, you know, uh sacrificial uh there for one another, praying with one another, all those kinds of things that, like you're saying, you know, you don't see in the news media. And so so I get stuck in this spot of like wanting to like prove to the millennials, you know, that that yeah no we're that way too, you know, and realizing, you know, that it's just not worth it. What all we need to do is just go be the church and We'll find each other somewhere in that space together. Yeah, I um when I saw the movie Unplanned, I posted on Facebook kind of my takeaways from the movie and one of the things that I uh wrote was that people who aren't Christian and don't go to church, you know, they're gonna look at this movie and be like, so unrealistic. Nobody has parents like that. Nobody has a marriage like that. Nobody has a faith like that. But Christians, I mature in the faith, real deal Christians, they're gonna see that movie and say, Yeah, that's my life. You know, so it it's by the way, so let me reset really yeah. Let me reel let me reset Jonathan Schweitzer is the one who just said culturally. Uh I'm Froy Skinner and we're joined this week by Michael Bartlett. So you had your assignment. Do you have an answer yet on what how the church has tended to view millennials? Yeah, I mean I think the way that that the church views millennials is that that they've been told a lie about us and they've believed it and that um that we don't know how to reach 'em now. because like this gap has been put between us and them and so uh so now that that gap is there and they're living in that space, you know, how do we you know, how do we get there? I don't know. Maybe I'm just maybe that's more me than than the church at large, but I do think that the church generally feels like like we were describing before that the X generation kind of didn't show up. you know, a whole lot. You know, we're still around but we just didn't show up a whole lot. And so like the millennials are coming through but but we're just not connecting them in our churches. And I think churches in gener general recognize that we went from being, you know, a more Christian society to a pro post-Christian society and that somehow the millennials represent that And so again, like we just don't know how to make the connection. Is that accurate? Yeah, I th I think there's a lot of truth in that. I and I think also Uh more antiseptically I think the church has tended to look at the millennial group as a target demographic. Absolutely. As opposed to individual people with with needs and souls to be saved and lives to be ministered to, and it's like there's this group out there and we have to target them with our with our messages, with our with our with our uh advertising campaigns, with our Yeah, we ha we have to figure out how to cater because and they're kind of thought of, I think, as a lost spiritual generation that they've somehow had uh whatever seeds of faith they might have had as a as a s young child robbed from them through by the school system, which is, you know, teaching some version of secular humanism a lot of the time. Which is one of our battles that we tried to fight through all those years that that we just did in. And so we died on those mountains and yet And then they go away to a you know a very non religious college and what and if they had any quote unquote faith it's completely lost by the end of four years and we have a tendency to have a defeatist view on that. And so the answer because you treat it like a target demographic Well, you gotta come up with a better product. And so we've we've I think we're trying to pitch a product at the millennials as a church, generally speaking. So we need better programs. We need you know better Sunday schools and and that's I don't think that's the an well I'll go so far as to say I'm convinced firmly in my mind that's not the answer. I think part of it too is like do churches think millennials are valuable outside of a demographic that doesn't go to church Because most churches would say, or most leaders, maybe privately, I've heard it publicly, that they don't go after millennials because millennials don't give. Millennials don't serve. Millennials don't have kids, which is a b a big thing in the church. A lot of our millennials won't go to church because they have been told where they felt that when they went to church because they didn't have children or they weren't married they weren't as valuable. Um, you know, imagine going to church on Mother's Day and, you know, like my church growing up and I like my church. They hand out flowers to all the women who are mothers. Right. Well, so if you don't get a flower where you are in the room. Right. Alone. And knowing full well we have millennials that go to our church that that have been trying to get pregnant for years and and they they've been married for four years, they're twenty six, four years they they cannot get pregnant. And the church has devalued them because they don't have kids. Can I ask uh in terms of again the demographic of your church, are there many that are single? Oh my gosh. Yeah. It's funny because then they're not even married in that sense. And you know, again, is that like a big no no? Is that a bad thing for them? How come they're not how come they're not married having kids already? What's wrong with that? That's why I have to pay attention to my illustrations because my children are great illustrations of Patience and great being a terrible parent sometimes. Right. But the thing is, like, we have a lot of people that just aren't there. And so when you go to a church and the pastor's only illustrations are their children, he's not saying you're bad because you don't have children, but ultimately he's devaluing the people who can't or don't have children. So while churches try to reach millennials They really don't see them as valuable. Yeah, so so this is where I feel like the church tends to be. We feel like the millennials are the fruit of us not doing a good job of winning our culture to Christ. And so you gu you guys represent you're not getting you know, married, you're not, you know, making these choices to serve, you're not making the choices, you know, to have kids, whatever it is. And we're like you know, it like it looks like the failure of what the church should have done, the the secular culture won the day. And in winning the day, here you guys are. And and so instead of us just loving, caring you know, reaching out and walking with we we have a little bit of this like discouragement and frustration, like And see what happened. It's interesting. When I first came to work at these radio stations years ago, uh feeling we still had some holdovers from the way that radio was sold to advertisers back in like the the eighties and even into the nineties, some holdovers into the early two thousands. And it was like this package of the day thing. You create this package and you go out and you try to and you work your route. Like a right s route salesman and you try to get people to buy your package. And it was one size fits all, boilerplate. You know, yeah. You wanna buy the package? Don't go to the next guy. And every no was leading you to a yes, we were told, you know, and You get nineteen no's and you've got twentieth is gonna be a yes kind of idea. And I think the church has kind of done that with millennials. Like, we need to come with the package. For the millennials. But what we've transitioned to in the radio industry, at least what we've transitioned to here, is what the is referred to in the radio industry as solution based selling, where you go in and you and you specifically d direct your attention