This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Where faith community leaders wrestle over the truth. Yeah, but in less than 30 minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble. Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Cemetery. Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Get a moron. And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges connecting needs and resources in the local community. Ooh, mama. The notorious big bridge builder, John. So wait there. No, I'm just getting long done. There's a church in Hagerstown called Living Faith Ministries, and I've recently, believe it or not, become their pastor. Before me, this church existed for two years without a pastor. How did that work? What were the words of caution that the leadership heard from others? Well, they are here to talk about that with us today on the panel with John Sweitzer, of course, again this week. Uh from last week we've got the uh the Lippenburg. There's there's three of of them. There's um I I'm gonna reverse the order out of fairness. So we got Diane and then we got Kelly and we got Mike and then we got the Stovers. We got uh Dottie and Roland. Um and we've got a teaser if you're listening to last week, if you missed last week So you can go back and listen to the podcast at WFMD. com. Keyword Faith takes you to the Faith Debate page or you can go to the audio belt section of the website. There's different ways to I think we're on iTunes and other uh outlets as well. So you you can find us if you want to. And I would encourage you to do that. But Mike began to let the cat out of the bag last week of of the early infancy stages. That's where we want to pick up uh this week. What we learned last week, we went around the room and there's what, one, two, three, four, five, six, there's seven of us, and we spent pretty much the whole time together. Talking about our our background, our church background growing up and and into our early adulthood or maybe even deeper into our adulthood and that sort of thing. And it's interesting, I might have missed some, but we had some Methodist influence, Catholic Wesleyan, Brethren, Baptist, Charismatic. Um if I had mentioned uh more, we would have had uh uh Presbyterian, I think I said Episcopalian Uh what do we leave out? Lutheran? Uh any of us ever go to a Lutheran church? That might be like the one we're missing. I don't know. What's that? Moravian church. Moravian church. Oh yeah, okay, okay. You can start to get into more of the the s the smaller splinter uh uh expressions and denominations. So anyway, and yet all this divergent background came together somehow. And um I Mike, I kind of rudely cut you off last week, so maybe I'll give you a chance to kind of pick up where you're where you were headed You were at a place where you were looking to do something different and you ran into Dottie. And Dottie says, Hey, do you realize my given name is Dorothy? So we should talk. That's the whole story. We can stop now. No, we we like we say we um had went to church with Dottie and Roll and Kelly and I did for a good many years and Dottie and I were um Bible s Bible teachers on Sunday morning, Sunday school for a good many years as well. And um we we separated. Kelly and I went to another church and Dottie Rowland uh went away from the church that we were all going to And Dottie had started a monthly Bible study on first Wednesday of every night and she had about a dozen people and like I said before Kelly and I decided to crash it 'cause we felt privileged because, you know We had we had been uh with them s for so many years and uh next thing I know I'm helping teach the class um to do that and um I think we I think we were part of that for well over a year, year and a half or so and um Uh something told me he's like, you know, this is how churches start in homes. How many how many churches have we heard that start in homes? And and I told God I said, we have like twelve people here that are hungry for God and Um, you know, everybody seems pretty consistent in showing up and participating. And then um just thinking about it, it's like why why don't why why don't we make this maybe God's telling us, you know, this is where we start, our church. And um so I I talked to Dottie and Roland about it and she's like, the the Holy Spirit's telling me the same thing, everything that I convey to her and I said, Well I mean we have no church, we have no pastor, so maybe we can rent a place and we'll have guest speakers because you know we figure we would take pastors that are pastoring on Sunday mornings would want to come and share the word with us on Sunday nights. I said I I can sing and play about six songs. Um so I'm uh qualifies me for worship leader, so we we went with that and um and Most of the people that um were in our Bible study didn't show up. And a lot of people we didn't even think that were going to that didn't even know we existed started showing up Um Diane is one of those. We had no clue. And um, you know, I remember after our first night, Diane came up to me and said, I need this in my life. And that that just, you know, vindicated everything that the Spirit had put upon upon us to do. Was the Bible study also on Sunday night? No, it was on Wednesday nights. Oh, okay. So was that part of what people said was the reason they didn't do Sunday is they're like, hey, I already do something on Sunday, I was just doing this on Wednesday. Right. Right. So Yeah. Evidently they were more involved in their churches than we thought they were on Sundays. That's why they you know they didn't Right. And you guys, the people in this room, you you weren't involved in any church at that time. So your Bible study was your expression of the church. Or you really weren't thinking of it as a church. It was You're in between how were you thinking about things at that time? We're in between churches, is that kind of thing? Well I think Dottie and Roland were s still searching for a church home and just couldn't find the right place. They would they can speak for themselves obviously. But Kelly and I were actually we were in a church on Sundays. very involved. Um I was uh leading the worship. I was picking songs and putting things together. Kelly was very involved in uh youth youth and child ministries and things like that. And we were still doing our Bible studies with Dottie and Rowland and we just thought it was, you know, God was saying, hey, now is the time to, you know Your talents and gifts need to go over here now. And that's when we we left that church and started with living faith. Okay, and I turn to uh Roland and Dottie for a second, because uh it was just mentioned that you guys w were looking for a church. You weren't finding one that meshed with what you were hoping to find. What was it you were hoping to find that you couldn't find? I gu we were looking for a church that combined traditional and contemporary. It seemed like everybody was either total contemporary or That was it. I mean they wanted they threw all the old hymns out. And I've always felt like they threw the baby out with the bathwater I mean, we like the contemporary but we also like the hymns mixed in. We weren't finding that. We did find one church that when we would go in and worship it was great. Um, the pastors' messages were fantastic. But every Sunday when we would walk out of there we would comment to each other what a great service it was, but then we would kind of look at each other and say, But this is not where God wants us There was just an unsettledness in us. I mean, we were looking for two years for a church and nothing. w was what God was telling us was right. And then when Mike and Kelly came to us one evening and said, you know, we really feel like the Lord is telling us that we need to start a church. And it was like a light bulb. It's like, yeah. Uh you know, we're in. Let's do this. Had no clue how to do it. I mean, it was like jump in with both feet and just God help us not to drown here. Um but like Mike said, we kind of expected a lot at least a lot of the people from our Bible study to join us. because they were some of them were kinda in the same boat we were. They had been looking but apparently the last church they went to they wanted to settle in there Um, but then God started opening other doors, just like Mike said, with Diane came in and the Saturday before we were going to have our first worship service, Roman and I went to a family gathering and my one cousin that I hadn't seen for quite a number of years, he and his girlfriend sat across the table from us and he was asking us what was new and we said, Well, we're starting a church by the end of the evening he said Is it okay if we come to your church tomorrow? It's like, What? Of course you can. So, you know, if God was starting to bring in people that we wouldn't have dreamed in a million years that he would have brought in So now it sounds like uh Mike and Dottie were the two prime movers in this. So I'm wondering what did your spouses think? Yeah, what did Roland and Kelly think at the time? Who's gonna go first? They're pointing at each other. That works really well on radio, by the way. I guess Roland's up. Yeah, I'm up. Um, do you think your wife was crazy? I don't know. My mind kept on jumping up and down. It's it's good and not good. I guess anything new is kind of like you're you're worried about it. You just don't know what you're gonna do. How y how's it gonna come about. So um I was in favor of it, but I just didn't know how we were gonna work it out. But as we went through it slowly, step by step It it came about pretty good. And uh just like that uh Mike and Dotty were saying, uh we took it uh slow and and uh people started coming in. Uh we were kinda disappointed with our Bible study group because we thought that they would join in with us and because we got along fine. We we worship the Lord in that Bible study. We learned a lot and we felt that we were gonna come together as a church, all of us. But uh it just didn't work out that way. But like uh Dottie said and Mike said Others did start coming in and uh so we're still growing. We're looking for that and we started out with uh other pastors from other churches coming in speaking and um that worked out pretty good. But w we needed a pastor. We wanted a pastor and we were looking for one for a long time and we finally got one with Trolley. Yeah, they look for a long time and they finally just gave up settled. You know what? Good enough. You'll do Yeah. So Kelly, what were you thinking about what was going on? Um, I definitely knew that the church that we were attending is not where God had intended us to be for much longer. I felt that at least what I was involved in I had done everything that I could do and it was time for me and Mike to to move on to other things. The one thing I can say about people coming to church and we said how Diane um we had no idea that Diane who was my mother in law was going to be attending this church when we started it. A huge blessing to me was that my mother attended the church as long as she physically could and uh that was just, you know, something I'm so grateful for. I was able to to um minister to her and to make sure that she was saved and that's just been something that I hold so dear to my heart. Now you just mentioned Diane, so and she was mentioned earlier. You weren't part of that initial Bible study, and so you weren't part of these discussions to bring things along, and yet you went early on, maybe the very first Sunday it sounds like What was it that made you think, I'm going to try this thing on the first Sunday? And then what was it uh it's two questions, so if you can remember them both. Well answer that one first. What m what caused you to to to want to try it to begin with I was just feeling I n I I needed the spiritual in my life. I ha didn't have it. I had stopped going to church. Um, I got tired of a lot of the churches I had attended. It just seemed like they were in it for the entertainment value. and I needed something that really, you know, that really reached me. And so when Mike, you know, gave me the little card that they were starting it and I went And I felt comfortable the very first day and you know, evening and then when I walked out, I felt like, yeah, I I I needed this. Something hit in me that I needed it Okay. And so that's what you're feeling if you went to Mike and said this is it? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. And how many were there that very first Sunday, do you guys remember? Yeah, yeah, 'cause my mom yeah, my mom was here. I think we had twenty two. Hm. No, I think we had twenty nine. It was up there. Twenty something. Twenty something. Yes. I was in charge of counting and it was twenty nine. Yeah, I thought it was five like that. He says that was some authority. I was in charge of counting, so let me just set the record. We had a lot of um ones that knew us and were backing us up. We knew they were going to other churches and they wasn't gonna be a part of our church. But they came and they backed us up and we had twenty nine. Yeah. That happens like when the church goes live, they call it, right? It was still up a little bit, of course it was down, but and I'll have to say throughout the two years we were up and down and the down Sundays we would leave church and say, Lord, are you sure? Is this really what you want us to do? They were some hard times. I mean God did just didn't say, Do this and boy, you're gonna flourish but I think maybe I need to back up even before we actually had our first service, Mike and Kelly and Rowland and I met because After we found out that the people from our Bible study group were not going to come. That was a big hit to us. And we came together There was a surprise and a shock. Yes. So it hit you in that way, but did you also feel I don't know, maybe betrayed is a strong word, but you felt let down? a little bit let down but more starting to question, Lord, is this really what you want us to do? Have we not heard you correctly? But the thing of it was that that morning before we the four of us met in my morning devotions, this is the way God works, the devotion was about a snake that the snake eats eggs. And the devotion basically said that a lot of times when God is trying to bring about something, Satan wants to make it stillborn. And I just said, Lord, that's the answer. Satan is just trying to make this church stillborn and we're not gonna let that happen. So I read the devotional um to Mike and Kelly and Roland that evening and I think after that we all four were just convinced that God was saying, yes, this is what I want you to do. Okay. I'm going to pull Jonathan here in a minute because he hasn't had a chance to contribute much in this episode. He had more time yesterday, but I'm sure there might be some questions you would want to ask, you know, or even if they're you know, uh challenging kinds of questions or good kinds of questions I'm not thinking to ask. But let me reset first really quick. So we have a room full of people uh this week. Yes, this is what I call Guinness. This is now the largest gathering. Uh I I put Rowan in charge of counting and he tells me that this is the largest gathering for the faith debate uh recording session uh ever. in our history. So uh we have the Littenbergs, uh Kelly, Mike, and Diane, and we have the Stovers, uh, Roland and Dottie. I'm Troy Skinner, and you're about to hear the voice of Jonathan Schweitzer. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. So You've heard about the the very beginnings and that first one or two Sundays. So it with that era of the church, which is a couple of years ago, with that era in mind, if they had come to you, because you were pastoring, I think, Crossroads Valley Church at the time, if they had come to you and said, Hey pastor What should we be doing? What should we thinking about? You know, should we even do this? What what might you have said to them at the end of the day? I was going to start by asking the question. So what did your Weekly service look like there at the beginning. Sort of like a traditional service, you know, we would have our announcements, um, had our we would have our praise and worship songs. Um we had a bulletin, yeah. We printed out bulletins. Praises and prayer requests. Um and then we would go into our message. And you know, like we said, we had a different speaker every Every Sunday and the and the thing of course in your mind well is this guy going to contradict what the person said last week or is it the person next week? But everything just seemed to be I think there was a one time it was three weeks in a row it was the same Bible Bible verse. But none of it none of it contradicted itself. It is it was almost like it was built right on top of the next one. And these and y So you had fifty two different speakers come in? No, we had a rotation about four or five or six different ones come in. And these are pastor friends of yours from uh from other churches that you knew in the area? Yes. Yeah, yeah. And but again they were from different uh denominational backgrounds or streams. Yeah. And that was good. Like what what was good about that? What was uh not so good about that I can't say that with there was any drawbacks. Um there was just so many times. I mean my never talked to the speakers. I never talked to the speakers ahead of time. And yet a short devotional that I would do in the beginning, a lot of times I was using the same scripture verse that the pastor got out to use to speak on, or Mike would have chosen songs that went right along with the message. So we knew that the Lord was just bringing these services together for us. And it always seemed to be the message that we needed to hear. So have you ever thought to just go ahead and teach the message on a Sunday yourself? I mean, both you and and your husband and Mike, you've all done a lot of study. Why not just go ahead and Preach a message. Did you ever do first Sunday? I gave the message the first Sunday. I am not a preacher. Um but no, um I have never been called to be a preacher, to be a pastor. And you know, we had hoped that uh if if we grew that eventually we would have our Bible study time before or after service time. And hopefully now that Pastor Troy's on board we can do that before too long. But you do see yourself as a gifted teacher, is that correct? Yeah? Yes. And same thing for you, Mike, you see yourself as a teacher, you say you don't you've done some worship leading. Yeah. And so the question is like what does it take for a church to be a church, right? What it takes for a church to be a church is a group of people that gather in the name of Jesus, you know, wherever two or more gather to my name there I am in their midst, right? And then You're bearing one another's needs, you're praying for one another. The word of God is being taught, you know, with uh with faithfulness. you know, with clarity. Um, I mean once you're doing those things, then as you grow, uh, bringing in somebody that that has a you know a preaching gift or worship leading gift or you know some of those kinds of things they just kinda grow up in your midst. And so it's a question really of just continuing to care for one another and to share with your neighbors and your friends. You know, what is what is it that Christ is all about? I mean that's the heart of what church is all about. Just people that have been changed. By the Lord sharing that with one another and with others. Did any of the pastors that you had coming in on your rotation to to speak you know, once a month ish on average. Did any of them say, Hey, why don't you just like come to my church? Yeah. No, I I I don't think so. No. No, not really. I think they were very happy to help us out as a startup. um and to be a part of that. And um, you know, obviously we knew this well before we had A, you know, we just didn't pick Joe Schmo off the street and say, hey, you want to preach. We've either went to church with these people or have known them very well. And so we had an idea of of what they were. They knew exactly what we were trying to do um from there. Now we did think maybe somebody would have uh stood out as maybe to be our pastor at some point and we actually kicked around that a little bit but it just didn't Just didn't feel it was from God, so it it just didn't happen that way. And that's when we went out for the search. Working as pastors somewhere else too, right? Some were uh chaplains. Gotcha, gotcha. One was uh works for hospice. Things of that nature. Yes, it wasn't necessarily just straight pastors, but it was people that have pastors or chaplains. Okay. Uh you have anything else you want to squeeze in? We've got about two minutes left. So the gist of your morning service or your coming together, like what made it a church, was just that you decided that you're going to start meeting weekly on a Sunday morning. Sunday night. On a Sunday night to gather regularly together and to share with one another. Would you do communion? Yeah. Once a month we do communion. Once a month and Um and uh are there uh and then you're still meeting for your Wednesday night Bible study, is that correct? We once a month. Oh that's still once a month. Mm-hmm. Yeah. And so um and you're just looking to invite people in just to just to share your lives with one another Yeah, so um you had mentioned earlier that the uh I think it was last week that some of your s churches that sometimes you felt like you guys were the meat and potatoes. Um and uh as opposed to As opposed to what? Like what what was the option? Like that seems to be a part of your DNA is a meat and potatoes orientation. Um well I'm gonna reference that. That's when Dottie and I were were going to church together and leading uh Bible study. We just felt that our Bible study was the meat and potatoes and Obviously when we say that it means that we opened the Bible and we hit the Bible and we didn't necessarily say things or teach things that's going to make you feel good. Okay. We brought things up. Yeah. If your toes got stepped on, then take it up with God, you know. And we we would bring those things up and um you know just just try to tackle the Bible itself and get away again from the cartoon fiction things that that sometimes cloud people's mind about Christianity. Yeah, I mean it seems like the heart of what you guys represent is a group that just really wanted to know the Word of God and let it change and develop you. And whenever that's happening, right, then there's growth, there's fruit, uh, just things continue to move forward, the kingdom continues to move forward and that's exciting. Yeah, and that's will be the last word. Exciting last word. John Schweitzer, thank you, thank you Lichtenberg And the Silvers, and I'm Troy Skinner, and this is the Faith Debate of 930 WFMD. Till next week, 167. 5 hours from right now. God bless.