What's the Bible say about energy healing? According to Doc Questions, it's a pretty good website by the way. I find them to be uh pretty solid but ninety eight percent of the time I would have to say. So you can check that out, dotquestions dot com, pretty Good resource. Uh what's that? Or dot questions dot com. Uh they say uh energy healing is another new age philosophy. It's Not in itself a religion, but is said to be a pathway to one's own spirituality. It encourages personal journeys to focus on self and how our energy is in sync with the energies of the cosmos. Reiki is a popular version of this energy healing technique. It's said to have been developed by a Buddhist monk who used cosmic symbols for healing and it claims to work by removing obstructions to the flow of life force energy throughout the body. And here's the thing that catches my attention. Many claim That employing this method is how Jesus obtained his healing power. So let's just set that record straight. Oh, you fundamentalist Christian here. That's uh Daniel Razvi, the fundamentalist Christian over there. Right next to him. See that to his right would be another fundamentalist Christian, Imran Razvi, known as Raz to his friends. You can find him on online at ConcordByLove. com. They co-pastor a church called the Church that meets at Imran's House. And David Force, you haven't heard his voice just yet today, but you will. He's also a pastor. They have a multi-location, multi-campus. Home house church. That's that's very in vogue to call your child your church a ho a multi campus church. Yeah. Yeah. But unlike the the what typically pass it for multi-campus where it's one pastor it just means we take turns hosting. Yeah, standing somewhere and they distribute it by video ever to a whole bunch of other places. No no David, they just move the locations all the time Um he doesn't have a website, so I can't point you anywhere there. But uh if you want to get in touch with David, you can go to my website, householdofinkrist. com. I am Troy Skinner. The host of this show, the Faith Debate, and we appreciate you taking time um uh to listen to us uh hopefully on a weekly basis. So last week we were talking about yoga. And our entree into New Age spiritualism. And we uh might have had some other things about yoga that we either want to address right away or we'll just kind of come up in the context that we're talking about here. But today we're transitioning into Reiki. I know a little bit more about this than I do yoga. But I know a lot less about that. Okay, well so maybe we'll balance each other out then. Oh, of the new age spiritual So uh David David, Daniel last week when I mentioned we're gonna be doing Reiki discussion this week. You should have seen the look on his face. He lit up. Man, did he light up. So you have anything to say about Reiki, Daniels? I have a I have a little bit mm possibly a a a I don't know. All right. No. I need uh I I I w I would just say a lot of these things it takes truth to make a good lie. So a lot of these things do and may maybe really do have specific health benefits. And God created this earth. God created everything on this earth. You can use it for evil and God can use it for good. Um if you're doing things that are taught and practiced by people doing 'em as a a as part of a demon worshiping religion and they're telling you this is how we communicate with, you know, the the earth or the or the spirit, the one spirit or my spirit or whatever. That that definitely can open you as we talked about last week, you can open your mind up uh and your soul up to uh demonic influence. But that doesn't mean necessarily, as we also talked about last time, that some of these specific stretches or some of the specific uh things uh wouldn't have health benefits and you might be thinking, you know, what kind of wacko are you? Waving your hands over somebody who's gonna have some energy benefits that are actually physical, not spiritual I don't know. There's been some interesting um research in the area of electromagnetic fields recently by some very uh reputable uh organizations. EMS for short. Maybe they're even atheists, right? And they would there there's instant claim theories that that the Earth's electromagnetic field and other objects which have electromagnetic fields, they interact with each other and if you can understand waves properly, you may be able to surround yourself uh uh with objects or clothing or whatever that is more or less uh harmful to to your health based on you know and and and a and a Um a commonplace uh version of this is people, you know, you oh your cell phone has radiation or your Wi Fi has radiation, that's that's hurting you, you know, that type of thing. Well that's that's one level, but there's there's uh some studies that will show that ev every object has a um w waves of some kind that are being emitted or or or yeah we're we're we're electrical beings. And and there's this interesting study I saw once that Um uh is is it attempting to make an explanation for why in the Old Testament God said do not weave uh wool and linen together And somebody was making a case that wool and linen specifically, their electromagnetic fields interact in such a way as to decrease your muscle strength while you're wearing it. And it's a very anecdotal study. That's your problem, Imran. Wear a different weave. You'll feel much more stronger and fit like David over. Only we're God. There's a lot of things that we may not be. The the the the point I'm just making is there's a lot of things that we may not we still don't understand about God's creation, and it is God's creation. right, that are physical and God is put there and maybe we can learn about it and use some of these things to uh to our advantage for health purposes. But you need to be very careful because some it Satan knows some of these same tricks too, and I think he's taught some of these things to practice uh practicing people practicing different religions, and that's where some of this comes from. That doesn't mean the thing itself is inherently evil. the t or the technology or the or the practice necessarily is e evil, but it you should not be doing it from that place. Where it comes from is is very important, I think. And related to the Reiki and the energy fields and all that s sort of thing would be the crystals. That's a big part of why people uh put some confidence in the crystals for the same kind of thing and I I don't know, maybe I'm in that same minority camp with Daniel, but um I think there is some science probably that's involved in this. And even David was agreeing, saying, yeah, we're we're electrical beings, you know, we're mostly water and you know there's these electrical pulses traveling up and down through our bodies. that kind of thing. I think there's something scientific that might just like we were talking last week about yoga, there's something good about stretching. There's something good about being physically fit and there's something good about meditation. You know, I think there's something to this this energy field thing, but One of the the f and we'll talk more about Chrysler, I introduced it, maybe we'll end up talking about that during this episode some more. But Reiki Um it's not just about understanding that there's elect there's electrical fields in the universe and that we're electrical beings, and not just about that. And if you're not familiar Uh I don't know the ins and outs, but you know, I know a little bit about it because actually, you know, somebody in my family was very involved with it for a while, is no longer, is now a committed Christian and has given all that sort of stuff up. But uh was a Reiki master different levels of becoming a Reiki master. They certified us different levels, whatever, and she was pretty high ranking Reiki master. I mean so knows knows this stuff or knew this stuff and hopefully has forgotten most of it at this point, right? But the uh special positions of the hands, uh and you're not actually touching the body, you're trying to funnel uh an uh energy from like from the universe or from yourself into the other person. And maybe there's even something scientific that what do I know But the problem is the spiritual uh aspect that gets funneled into the thinking of the Reiki, at least all the Reiki practitioners that I'm familiar with. kind of fall prey to this kind of thinking. And here's what the Got Questions folks said by the way. It says energy healing, which Reiki is a form of, energy quote unquote healing. Encourages people to put their full trust in self in their own bodies Which is a form of worship, obviously, right? Those who participate in energy healing, they give no recognition to the one true God, nor does he receive praise for healing. Getting involved in energy healing is spiritually dangerous, to say the least. And it's not that they don't have some I I I know some of these people that are involved in the Reiki world. They won't say there's not a god. But you start and they won't even say there's not a God of the Bible. You start talking to them about what the God of the Bible is as they understand it. It's not the God of the Bible. You know, and and it's it's uh it becomes this weird amalgam and and uh It's not just an attraction of electrical forces, it's an attraction of spiritual forces at play too. It's it's a very insidious subculture in in my experience anyway. I would I was ambivalent about yoko a little bit, like, well, you know, it's a wisdom question. Maybe if you can be discerning about it, there's something there. When it comes to Reiki, I would say st Hands off, don't judge with a ten-foot pole, stay away. Even though there might be something to the electrical magnet magnetic uh magnetic field thing, like there might be some value to earthing. Right, walking around barefoot on the ground and and and getting yourself kind of uh grounded with the the the the electrical current of the earth. It might be something Good to that. Um you know maybe use a place of of godliness and and always with the focus. God is the one that created the earth. God is the one that provides health and healing. And it is it's it's through Christ that we do all things. Yeah, I mean it's you know, i it's just it's dangerous to fall into a um you know the material the atheistic materialistic mindset and s you know, and separate, you know, modern medicine from God being the one that's using those things to bring healing, you know. Yeah, I the the thing is, uh frequencies do make a difference. There's been several cases of people finding and showing uh that frequencies have even cured cancer cancer. And they you know, their data somehow disappears, they somehow disappear or commit suicide after that. So I know that there's, you know, large medical companies that uh uh don't want that out there because they don't want people to actually be healed. But that doesn't have to do with Reiki. Reiki is more des uh in my understanding of it is more designed where a person or a Reiki master is using their life force and their spiritual force to change some of the the the the alignment of your nerves and other things or something like that. And that's not really what this is about. David has said earlier, the frequencies are definitely what we're made up. I mean that's how we communicate, that's how our brain understands as different frequencies. And I think frequencies do heal and I think that there's a lot of things we don't understand that God has has a has here that we don't have taken full advantage. So My caution would be I wouldn't study Reiki and I wouldn't want Reiki to be around, but studying frequencies and and other things and not giving glory to self is is perfectly fine to study because I think there there are frequently my my wife, um, you know, when she has is barefoot outside on the grass She feels better. She her health actually improves quite a bit. She's grounded to the ground and she goes and lies down on the grass, you know, for for a little while in the sun. It's a huge difference on our mental health, on our physical health, and those are all different frequencies that are that God has provided. So there are s there's a lot of truth to that. Just don't let the devil twist it into something like Reiki that's gonna cause you to to leave the glory of God to go after some person that's using their spiritual and life force or th or any spiritual beings to uh realign your nervous system. And if they're used the r you know in a scientific kind of a way, I don't have a problem with crystals, which is related to the Reiki power of the energy fields, all that sort of thing. Um but it's why are you using it? Yeah, I think there's actually some scientific evidence out there. I think they've done some studies and stuff that demonstrate the crystals actually can have an effect on electromagnetic fields and that sort of thing. So I think there's something to that. Uh but if you're wearing one around your neck as a talisman of some sort, right? Some sort of good luck charm. Okay. You know, that's not the so is your is your motive physical or is your motive metaphysical? Right. If it's scientific and physical, like there's some physical reality that this crystal's gonna help me with, I think I'm kind of on board with that. If it's this is gonna help me to connect with the universe and draw the power from within to have my own electric electromagnetic field be this wondrous healer and I and it's because of me and it's not about God. You you're crossing a line. I mean let's let's let's use this example. You know, in the in in the Old Testament, you know, God commanded okay, you do this sacrifice and and and uh um sacrifice the goat on on this altar in this way on this day. Well, there's plenty of pagan countries that also have altars and they also kill goats and on the altar. And those are worshiping demons we would say. So how is Israel allowed to do that and not only w allowed to, but commanded to and it was a godly thing and You know, Satan was accepting people doing the same thing in worship of him. The thing itself was not the the evil, right? It's it's who you're doing it to. Do it to to God and in the way manner and way prescribed by God that's you know Uh i that that's what we should be after. Now right before Daniel jumped in, uh David has something you want to say, but Imran's jumping in too. So do you have your hold on to your thought we're coming to you next, David? This is Imran. I would caution what Daniel said in that yes But Reiki by its very nature is is is in the in the devil's uh uh uh his play field. And so Yeah, frequencies and stuff, study that, use it. I mean the different crystals have different frequencies, the dudes have different healing aspects. We uh I think it was amber or some other uh crystal that uh helped babies you know, calm their stomachs and stuff we used it and it works and things like that. But if you're s if you're going after a whole area of study that has been known to be really self praising and and and uh d you know uh demonic I don't think that you should you should go in that direction at all. Eva even though you're you're you're it's still based on frequencies. Yeah, Reiki makes me very, very, m very nervous, probably because I know it better than the other things we're talking about here. I know people that were involved with it and I just saw what it did to them It li I was like wh it just took over their whole spiritual regard. you know, uh th the way it was originally intended, it is it it centers around uh f worship of false gods. It's it's it is in itself a false religion. Uh right and and what Daniel said earlier uh uh you know in the show about, you know, there's uh it takes it takes real truth to make a good lie. Like there's so and and you know, and and I'm so I'm I'm skeptical of anything new that I don't know about. Uh But I'm I'm okay with uh giving it some consideration in order to parse out. what is the truth, what is the lie here, because um you know god God has created the that all creation is from God. Right? He's made all of this and it all uh is much more complex and much uh much more good and uh and fascinating than than we know. And and and so all of these things can be applied understanding you know, in in ways that are true and good for us and and we can give glory to God for all of these things that he has made that are are good and helpful for us. But d do be careful that, you know, just because it exists and it's possible within nature that God created doesn't mean that there could ever be a godly reason for it. Not not this particular thing, but just something in general. For example, talking to the dead, it's certainly possible to do and well I know we're gonna get to that maybe in the couple weeks, but There's a verse in scripture that says, don't do it. Well it's not doesn't say it's not possible. Clearly it's possible, but you're commanded not to do it, right? So not everything that is possible or maybe even has physical uh benefits or mental benefits here on earth is something that Christians should be involved in, you know. Uh. And along those lines, you know, we g God made it. And crystals can be beautiful and some people might just look at crystals as like it it's it's a decoration, it's like having a pretty bouquet of flowers on the table as a centerpiece. And maybe that's okay, but this was a point that David Forcy brought up last week is what impact might it have on those around you? Like if people come to your home and they see a bunch of crystals as decor Are you sending a message that you're into all the new wave spirituality kinds of stuff that's not godly, not biblical? And if you can navigate that in your world, in your context, it might be okay, but be careful Now we're giving a softer at least I I feel like I feel like I am for sure, and I think the room generally is giving a softer take when when it comes to crystals as as opposed to Reiki. But I will say this, crystals, there's uh there are crystal wands and crystal pendulums as I understand it. And these things are used very specifically in quote unquote witchcraft and sorcery kinds of things. So having crystal decor be very much against that. Yeah, having crystal decor is one thing. Having crystal wand that you're gonna I mean the only reason to have the wand would be to cast some sort of a spell. Right. I mean so don't we're not we're not being soft on that. I don't think crystals are are okay in the sense that they are uh Rocks, gems, minerals, right? Like that they're the material things that God has made and maybe maybe they, you know, do something beneficial for us if we use them in a certain way. Uh you know, and but I I think as as time You know, as as as time unfolds, we um you know like with all of these things, like we we should be able to um understand more and more how it actually works physically. Now I did a little bit of homework because I you know uh this isn't something I spend all my time studying. I don't know all the ins and outs, all these new age things. And I thought this this was an interesting reminder. Uh we find examples of some crystals, if you will. I mean crystals are of like jewels, right? And we see some of that in the Bible, right? The breastplate. of the high priest, uh for example, right? So there's there uh so having crystals or or having high regard for certain combinations of colors and and jewels and gems and things, it doesn't have to be a bad thing, but it's How is its use prescribed in the Bible? What's prohibited uh in the Bible? Uh I I think that's important. And if you're trying to if there's some sort of magic in the crystal. This crystal is going to heal me. You know, miraculously. And he would say to all his patients, God heals you. I just send you the bill. And Okay. And so his point was that God is the one doing healing. He's going to help and do all the things that, you know, in his power to to use medical science to to heal you, but God's actually the one doing the healing. And ultimately the bill comes from him from from from the cardiologist, but you need to give God the glory for anything that happens. Now some people if they're into the crystals Um for clearly uh for from my pr point of view anyway, dark places, right? It's some sort of superstitious to ward off Bad luck to word off the evil eye that people uh carry and and wear, you know, that would be a uh example I think of Yeah, you know like like wearing garlic around you and that keeps away the vampire, right? You know Dracula can't get you through it. It'll keep away some people, that's for sure. Dracula and some other people for that matter. Maybe your wife. Um so Next week, let's see, I'm just trying to see my notes. Apparently some people use them as a as a way of cleansing or resetting their house from from like bad juju. That's weird. Yeah, that's weird. I wouldn't I wouldn't go for that. Um anyway, basically if it's an ungodly kind of a purpose purpose, if it's witchcraft or something like that, stay away from it. How should you cleanse your house? Honestly. You should clean your house. No, but spiritually if if you try to clean your house spiritually you should walk through every room of your house. You should pray to to to to God you should dedicate the house to God, dedicate each room to God. If you're really concerned that there is a demonic issue or presence there, you can audibly cast out any demons they may be in the house. And I I I do believe there is such a thing as a haunted house. And I I I think that you if you're a believer, God has given you authority over the demons, you can rededicate the house to Christ and cast out. But you should ta take a look. Do you have anything in your house that has an uh is an emblem or an amulet of some uh evil thing? that may be allowing or inviting demons in. You know, use use uh very ex extreme caution, especially with items or objects that are also used by purveyors of witchcraft for their witchcraft. Love it when Daniel says something right toward the end of the show is like, ooh, there's some stuff we really should talk about and we have to wait. But he set the stage for us 'cause next week we're gonna be transitioning into oil blends and smudging and that kind of relates to some of the stuff that Daniel was just mentioning. think that's what it is. That's a different kind of smudging, I suppose. Uh that's what happened when I on my on my penmanship papers and school. I always ruined them with some s smudging, some ill-timed, ill-placed smudging And in in future shows we're also gonna be talking about horoscopes, you know, astrology and that sort of thing. The zodiac. Be talking about hopefully poem reading and psychics and crystal balls, these thinking of crystals, right? uh and tarot cards or tarot cards for the uninitiated uh and the uh Luigi andor Luigi boards And seances and the uh Enneagram. We got a lot of things we're trying to get to. I think maybe they'll even have time to talk about like magic eight balls and other aspects of esoteric psychology and you're gonna tell me I can't do that now, Daniel. No, you can't. That's a that's a straight ticket to hell right there, buddy. No more billiards. No, no more billions for you. So anyway, uh we've got like maybe a minute. Anybody have anything that they really wanted to say on this episode they feel they could get off their chest and not save it for next week's episode? Because this is your chance. No. Exercise caution. Think and pray specifically about anything you do. Reiki or or what anything else you do, don't do it because your friend says it's a good thing or whatever. Do it because you feel like it read from God that this is actually a godly thing to be doing. And if not if not sure, seek counsel. Yeah. And if you don't have anybody that you can trust for their counsel, not you would trust ours, but you can reach out to us, we'd be glad to give you c our counsel for what it's worth. Read your Bible. Go to church. Some people need a little help trying to navigate if they're if they haven't read it much in their life kind of thing. Anyway, so this has been a two couple of shows back to back to back on this new age stuff. We should have done this topic a long time ago. Trying to think if I've ever done anything on the show New Agey and generically, but never specific stuff like this. So this is fun Nodding his head along that it's been fun is Imron Razby. Find him online at concordbylove. org. Um Daniel Razby, uh co-pastors with Imron at the Church that meets at Imran's House, they meet on Saturdays, and if you want to learn more about that, you can go to their website or come to my website and get in touch with me, I'll put you in touch with them David Forcey, he has a house church that meets in different locations and they meet on Sundays. So Sunday works better for you or your conviction is that it needs to be on Sunday rather than Saturday or whatever, then you know maybe David's church is we we've got to come up with a name. I guess we just the Force church. The forcey church, where they foresee things that are coming. And uh I'm Troy Skinner, my church is household. My church is called Household of Faith in Christ. You can find us online at HouseholdofInChrist dot com. There you'll find links to the faith debate. You'll find a pastor's blog, you'll find links to our decorating date night episodes, you'll find uh links to all of our sermons Sermons are housed for the most part at sermonaudio. com and odyssey. com, but you can link to those places through our website, Household of Faith in Christ dot com. And of course you can visit the website for the radio station. We're not opposed to that WFMD. com and Faith Debate has a page there and you can see what shows are coming up in the near future and connect with past shows pretty easily that way. So thanks so much for listening. We appreciate you taking the time and some part of your day with us here on News Radio 930 WFMD. Till next week, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from now. God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com