The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. Welcome to the Faith Debate. for spending part of your Sunday morning with us here at News Radio 930 WFMD. Also on the FM at 99. 9 HD2. And on the internet at WFMD. com where you can live stream or you can listen to this show later via podcast. You can connect to that podcast later or the live stream video that we're recording right now. You can check that out later Or you can uh you know check out other blogs and video content and trusted resources and all that sort of stuff at My Church's website. That is Household of FaithInChrist. com, Household of Faith in Christ. I'm Troy Skinner and uh joined by three other pastors, Imron Razvy, Daniel Razvy, and David Forcy. All of us are involved with three different house churches that uh meet together in Frederick County. And uh if you'd like to know a little bit more about them, you can find out some information about them through uh the Household of Faith in Christ website as well because it's got their pictures and it's got a link to one of the ministries that uh the Razvies do, uh Conquered by Love. They have their own website there, I'll give it a plug, conquerbylove. org. So you can check that out. So We I promise you we didn't all do a toke right before the show. So uh any any missteps or misstatements we make is purely our own ignorance. It's not because we're under the influence of any sort of illicit uh drugs. But that is the topic today. Drugs. Should they be illegal? No. Should they be regulated by the government in any way? No. What does the Bible say? Why do you say no? Do you guys are you guys echoing his no, by the way? That was that was Daniel, by the way. He's apparently the drugie in the room. He's a lawyer. All any and all. I think that there there is so I'll give the political answer and then the then the biblical basis for it, but no, there is no in in constitutionally for sure in America, there is absolutely no reason that any drugs or substances should be regulated of any kind. Medicines, drugs, uh does not matter. That is not to negate the fact that what one does while under the influence should still be a crime. Or w if you're giving substance to someone within and you knew or you shouldn't should have known that it would cause XYZ problem, then sure that's a that's a crime and murderers should be killed and and uh uh just like any anything else. So I'm I'm in in favor of very harsh punishments for murder and and and things like that. So to take a step back though. That's a very politically speaking, that's a very libertarian kind of view, right? As opposed to Republican versus Democrat. Sure. That's more of the libertarian. Sure. Yeah. I mean it's not the government's b job to to say what I think I can't do. So what would that be? So biblically d the Bible commands us to act in a certain way, and so I think that it would be uh a sin P quite possibly for a Christian to be doing drugs depending on what the drug is and and so on. I mean it's just a medicine, that's one thing maybe. But If your recreational drugs we're talking about, right? The doing cocaine not as an ear eye and throat doctor might give somebody cocaine to open up their nose pathways, which they do or did at some point in the past in various uh various places. But as recreationally, right? Cocaine, marijuana, whatever, uh any different um drugs. The Bible I guess the best and Like comparison to that in the Bible, because the Bible doesn't really speak to cocaine or heroin, it talks about wine is probably the closest thing, and it says and a strong drink, and it does talk about how it it's a bad idea to be drunk. And Christians listening to this are probably gonna have a v wide variety of opinions. Many Christians actually believe it's a sin to drink any alcohol at all. Um and they would say when they when it when you have Jesus drinking wine or you have godly people drinking wine, they just it just means grape juice. So I don't hold that opinion. Um but regardless, I think and most Christians would agree that it it's wrong to be drunk. Uh certainly as a matter of course, or be a drunkard. And I think the same would apply then to any any sort of drug that is going to ham uh uh impair your judgment, just like Alcohol does and in many cases to a greater extent, right? You could have hallucinogenics which actually open your mind up to some s uh very occultish uh spiritual things, satanic uh rituals and and things like that, which I think are very very ungodly. So but something can be and it's certainly if it's involved in witchcraft and that would be something the government has a position to ban or to stop. if it's just like alcohol, and some would argue that marijuana or tobacco is is sort of like alcohol. It's addictive, it c maybe makes you feel a different way, but it's it it's not gonna make you hallucinate, right? May I don't know, I've never done I'm probably one of the very few people who went to who went to college and didn't do drugs, but um but that's That's my opinion biblically is certainly don't be drunk and you know your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit. You want to treat it right and treat it treat it right. So David, are you uh I think Daniel makes some good points. Yeah, it's uh so so I I I'd agree that like the the context that we have all we have biblically really is um you know, is alcohol. That's really the only example that that we have in scripture of uh of a a substance of some kind that um You know, can be uh can be useful and can be harmful. Yeah, directly. Uh which is the root for where we get our whole idea of pharmacy and drugs and things. If I'm going off my memory here, which is always as I get older, I'm not sure I trust it as much, but I think that the context there w when it speaks against is basically speaking against the sorcery witchcraft use of it is not necessarily saying don't use this stuff, but in that culture it was used So I I I'm just throwing it because we got the little nitpicker theologians who are gonna want to give you a hard time, David. I'm just fearing you an email. But I would agree that as far as our usage and w uh abuses of of different things, I think that alcohol, probably more specifically wine, although strong drink, and some people want to translate that as beer. uh feels like a stretch to try to make that connection, but at at least alcoholic beverages of some sort are what's at play. So Anyway, I just saved. You can save your email. We know the issues, okay? We've all read the Bible, at least three quarters of it, all the way through at some point in our life, all right? So leave us alone. So Anyway so Dave I'm sorry I cut you off. Nuts. It's okay. Um Yeah, I I think I think when it c so so I think we have instructions about, you know, biblically how how we ought to handle ourselves. Um and then when it comes to how to deal with you know the actions of others, um I think Daniel Daniel makes a good point there to say, right, like there is if someone is choosing to do something that uh where they are no longer in control of what they do and then they do things that harm others, they should You know, a and and it's true, you know, if we are if we're consistent about that, um, you know, in in in that we we punish crimes fittingly and reasonably, um you know, that that that would give people a lot more pause, uh, hopefully before um partaking of things that will uh you know make them no longer in control. of uh of their actions. Um yeah, I th I think politically we it's you know that's it's a little bit of a a more difficult um thing. I I I I guess I'm thinking, you know, there are uh you know maybe there are populations that are more more susceptible to or or You know, where you have where you have drug dealers or, you know, cartels, whatever, where people are, you know, seeking to make a profit. Um via the addiction of others. Like the FDA, for example? Uh yes, like the FDA, for example. Uh big big big pharma. Big cartels. Uh yeah, I I I do think, you know, that uh you know the motivation of um you know, uh of business solely, money solely by itself. Well uh we'll well I mean gre greed will lead people to to do harm to others without you know, without regard for the well being of others. So uh to me uh this topic if you're a good Christian, if you care about people, you won't don't want drugs around. Right? That's what it's all about. And that's what people people will come back and say, hey, aren't you a Christian? Don't you love people? Why would you want them taking drugs and ruining their lives? But that's not what this is about. I mean God gave us free will. Okay. He wants us to choose him, but everything is here uh and every herb plant is for us, right? So where do you where do you draw the line or what uh what what happens? Yeah. Yeah. We'll get to that at some point. Yes, we'll get to that. I think in this context, I think we're all on the same page there could be a s uh a semantics argument to be had that would lead into a theological debate, but we're not Doing that one. But Yes. Do I want my children doing drugs? No. I don't. But do I think it's the government's job to regulate them? Absolutely not. I think that when you regulate and when you criminalize something, it creates violence and it creates more criminals. Um just recently our great governor uh didn't didn't uh sign it but let the bill pass that, you know, a ghost gun is now your felon if you have created a gun and haven't doesn't have it registered and and serialized. Well, it's creating a criminal of people that were not criminals. Instead of that, why not enforce the laws of somebody that actually uses something to hurt somebody? Make sure they come down hard on that. And not make new laws to make people that are that are law abiding citizens. And you know what, Troy? If you want to sit at home and smoke a joint or do cocaine and that's what makes you happy and Yeah, I would certainly like to talk to you about why why you should find happiness in joy. Notice how he used me as the example there. I'm not sure if I should take that personally. As in yeah, you find happiness enjoying Christ. and how that could be much more fulfilling and and a longer lasting joy than the short term of of a high. You know, that's my job to help you uh do that. But you should definitely be held responsible for any actions you do while you're under the influence So that's where the difference is. I don't think that the the the uh the government should create more rules to make more criminals. They should enforce the ones that actually hurt somebody. And Danielle you were really fired up, so go ahead. Yeah, it it's just there are there are things in the Bible that that you know, going back to the biblical side of it, there are things It says the government's job is to do that, especially with crime and and and things, is to punish but even when it says you shouldn't be getting drunk, there's no prohibitions against Buying wine, drinking wine, selling wine, all that. Right. So it's not the there are a few things that you're not supposed to have possession of. One will be idols. We talked about that last week. Uh but very uh all the other things in the crimes are based on actions and thoughts. What do you do with various things, right? So that you know, you mentioned the gun thing. It's not having the gun, it's what you do with the gun, right? You could be you could kill somebody that in self defense you could kill uh somebody as a murderer and that those are two very different things. Same thing with wine. You can have the wine, you can drink it for Passover. Or you can waterboard somebody with it. Yeah, you don't even need any wine for that, right? You can use anything. You can use anything. And if somebody wants to damage their body, they can damage their body without a drug. There's plenty of other ways to do that. Right. So I mean I joked after that horrible uh thing at the parade in Waukeshaw, Wisconsin. And if we remember so we've all forgotten what on the heels of the Rittenhouse uh thing, like a month later, I don't know if it's directly connected or or tangentially, but the time frame fits. And I was joking at the time, like, you know, we need more SUV control laws. I mean, 'cause you can you can turn anything you want. You c like to your point, you can use uh water as a weapon. Right And the public policy r thing f with drugs is I I really do think that prohibiting things make more violence. That that's what happened with uh the prohibition of alcohol in the nineteen twenties is is it created more violence people didn't drink less. They drank the same, but now they were uh there was a lot more violence associated with it. So I don't think um legalizing drugs is gonna make things worse necessarily. I think it could make things better as far as less violent. We should still advocate for people not doing them. So is there a place for uh i you know, i if if if someone is knowingly uh giving something to someone uh they know it will do them harm Or they know that that person is going to use it in a way that harms themselves or others. You know, is is there a place for uh legal lawful intervention there? If I if I give you uh m the keys to my car And I know that I cut the brake line before I do that, and then you die, I murdered you, right? Right. So that's the same thing. I would say it's the same thing. What's the brake line on a big bag of cocaine. Like well, how do you cut the brake line on a bag of cocaine? Well if if if it can be Well it i it so w so that that has to be litigated. We have to figure that out, right? But I think there certainly is a way that you could you should be able to um show in in in court uh what the intent was with that. It's it did you know that this was gonna be a problem and that it it's very likely to cause X, Y, and Z to happen and as a risk. Now if X Y and Z doesn't happen then How can he be liable? You know? But yeah, and right now we have the probably the worst in history of slavery. It's slavery that is more slaver slavery use in this in this world now than every time in in history and people don't even realize it. And most of the slavery is done through drug use being gay people getting especially young people addicted to drugs and being a and forcing them to do things. So those are crimes The drugs don't really have anything to do with it. It's the people that are doing that are criminals and they should be punished as those. They're they're hurting harmfully hurting somebody else. And if I wanna go some place and and buy a bag of cocaine and hurt myself You know, the person selling cocaine, I don't I'm not gonna I can't hold him liable just like I can't hold the gun manufacturer liable for if I want to get a gun a gun and I misplace the gun and somebody uses a gun to to shoot somebody, it's not the gun manufacturer's uh responsibility. Uh so The crime itself should be punished and and you can't make the manufacturer or distribution of something a crime. Unless un unless that's can that's the only purpose or the main purpose of that Manufacture, right? If I'm i i i if I if for example poison gas. Right. So if I'm making yeah. And there's no purpose to it other than to cause meaning like a musker gas kind of a thing. Yeah. But I mean if you can make legitimate self-defense reason to have muster guess. I mean I we we talked about this before. You know I uh Right it does raise that question, right? Can can can the can should Americans be allowed to own bazookas? And most people just on instinct, well no, who needs a bazooka? But others would say, Well, have you seen the size of our of our government's uh military? Yeah, we need bazookas. How are we gonna defend ourselves against that if they'd want to force their will on us? And the people in Ukraine are ho wishing they had that before. Or in that I forget the name of the city, but in China. It's a city of like twelve million people and people are actually wailing. Because they're they're they're in lockdown, they can't leave their their apartments and they're starving to death. I bet you they wish they had a bazooka. Yeah, th I mean there s really shouldn't be any limit as far as s uh, you know, constitutionally again we're talking about American constitution or what what it really should be there, right? The Second Amendment is for any and all weapons. It has nothing to do with specific kinds. But going back to the Bible, right I think part of the issue is in our society we have really softened response to crime and criminal activity and uh unlawful or sinful activity. And what I mean by that is is we don't actually punish for crime, which causes people to not view crime as such a big deal and then they do it more. And so, yes, I would legalize all drugs, but I would actually punish for what the Bible tells us to punish. The Bible says if you murder somebody, the punishment is death. Not twenty years later. Yeah, not t and not twenty years to w wait to die, and certainly not twenty or thirty or forty years instead of dying. If you mu uh rape uh rape somebody, you die. If you murder somebody, you die And there's there's several things that you die for. If you steal something, you don't sit in jail and make the person you stole from pay f taxes to feed you for the next ten years. Right. And that's how you pay them back. So this I'm I can't remember the verse, but there is instruction in the uh Old Testament law that if somebody uh you didn't properly uh fence in your roof and somebody falls off their roof and hurts themselves that there's a concept there's a penalty for that. Right. But there's no penalty for not having a fence on your roof. There's only a penalty if you didn't take the necessary precautions and somebody was injured as a result. Exactly. So I think that connects with what you're trying to say with the drug thing Maybe we should be careful about how these drugs are dispensed, but if you're not careful and everything's fine, okay, well you didn't really do what you should have done, but there's no punishment because everything worked out fine, no harm, no foul to use a basketball lingo. B but if somebody ODs on a drug you sold them, then you might face some Consequence, possibly, right? If they do an investigation, they determine you should have known better, you shouldn't have sold it, and you could be held liable. Is that the gist of your argument? Right. Yeah, I mean some things are just so dangerous that it without a lot of care they should be. That's the whole reason why you have warning labels on things and I think sometimes we take them to the too extreme. Um but Oh yeah, the warning labels are those are ridiculous. Right. They're so ridiculous nobody even pays attention to the real ones anymore, right? I mean you got a list of twenty-five warnings, only one of them's really legitimate But you ignore even that one because the other twenty four are so foolish or this is just a wreath that ridiculous. uh TNT or dynamite, maybe they're in the demolition business and they want to you know destroy old buildings to try to uh be able to tear them down and build new ones. But if you Walk in to say someplace and say and somebody asks, Hey, I I need something to be able to you know, remove a stump and then you hand them a stick of dynamite and say Yeah, this should be this should do the trick and you don't explain to them that, you know, you've got to stay back ten, fifteen, hundred yards, two hundred yards when you light it off. And you don't say anything about that. Well yeah, but what was it your fault that they blew themselves up with that dynamite? Yeah, probably it was your fault Okay. So that doesn't mean you should have a law against selling the dynamite, but that the that's the thing is that's w reason we have warning labels on things. I feel like I I understand pretty well your argument So hopefully in somebody listening understands where you're coming from and and uh Imran you're echoing much of it. But based on body language and things already said, I feel like David might have some questions or potential pushback or need for clarification something. No, I I don't think so. Um I misread ya? Maybe. I'm I so So I I I think what what I hear Daniel saying is if we um punish the clear the things that are clearly criminal the way that we ought to, that that that we wouldn't have to that that would do away with the need for all of these other rules and regulations to try and prevent people from hurting themselves or hurting each other or or things like that. Um and so I think I think that's a good point. I think uh I think you're saying like we we're not getting at the root of the problem. Exactly. Um Yeah, I mean what is the punishment for attempted suicide? Death It it is some places I think actually. Or has been or has been at certain points in history. Yeah. And it would have other implications potentially too, because this is because this argument's been around forever, in my lifetime anyway. Uh and things like border crossings. Right. At the southern border, a lot of that problem might go away if you get rid of that whole illegal drug culture. Or the freebies. If you stop giving free things away to people that haven't earned it, then they won't come here for free things. When uh my f family came over here from Pakistan, they didn't come for free things. My father was out of work for six months looking for work and doing a darn good job looking for work and having a h tough time 'cause he was brown, but he did find it and he w he loved America for it. And that I mean I think we're out of time for really getting into the into that. But the biggest thing in in the drug problem is really the the breakdown of the family. If this country did not have that huge breakdown of the family, the drugs would not be as much of a problem. And if we're gonna legalize drugs, uh what I heard you just say right now is they shouldn't be free. Hey, all the COVID drugs are free. Why? Yeah, well yeah, yeah. Anyway, you y you were right, you're you didn't you I don't think you can see the clock that I can see, but uh we are running out of time. Uh uh I do want to say a lot of times people are abusing uh drugs uh legal or illegal, because there's some legal drugs that people are abusing too that uh having all sorts of problems. It's because you're chasing after something, you want to have some sort of a relief or some sort of um you know, feeling good about life or being distracted from your problems or stuff. You can truly accomplish that. In fact, it has been accomplished for you by Jesus Christ. And those that are following him are indwelt by his Spirit and have those things you're chasing after. And it gets only better from there when Christ returns and you And you live without any of those wants. No more crying, no more tears, no more pain, no more sadness, no more nothing in glorification. Things are returned back to the way they were intended at the beginning, a creation. Of course, we have screwed that up with our sin, and so we do have to have regulations and discussions about this to figure out how to navigate it. But it's all solved at the cross of Christ. And if you'd like to know more about that. Go to my website, household the faith in Christ. com and we can connect from there. Thank you, uh Imran, Daniel, David, I'm Troy. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Till next week. God bless.