Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930W. WFMD brought to us by Footman Plotman Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Ken Gosnell, the area chair of the C Twelve Group in the Washington, D. C. metropolitan area. I want to encourage you to visit us online at Wfmd. com Keyword Faith, where you'll find a daily Monday through Friday blog. You email me, Troy at WFMD. com. I take your emails and post them. My blog is your blog. Yes, I'm a nice guy and also a lazy guy. It's the easiest and best way to put a lot of stuff up online in a hurry. And I gotta say, by the way, not too many shows ago I kinda offhandedly s uh said, Jonathan you might remember, that you know, a lot of the stuff that goes up on the website is kinda junk. Yeah. I it's gotten better. Oh the junk is improved? Yeah, so let's hire quality of junk now. So so all you needed to do was to tell everybody to to send in better material and sure enough they all responded. Yeah, well I didn't even say that so much, but it yeah, it's it it w it was never junk that wasn't really fair for me to say, but Maybe the whole internet is just improving as a whole over the last couple of months. So I've actually found that I'm posting more stuff on the page each day than than I used to. It used to be that, you know, I'd try to find one thing that would be somewhat interesting to put. Now I'm having a hard time deciding which is the one that's best. So I'm posting three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine things. The most that I can do in a day at least and have it all show up on the face page or the faith of a page is nine. It won't let more than nine entries, blog entries display it on the page at a time. So I haven't done more than nine yet. And so we want to thank you for making that possible. The listener in your car, they're taking your shower this morning on Sunday, headed off to church. You are the ones that are making this happen. So the thing I've got to check into now is uh see how this appeal thing works, all right. So small unmarked bills would be good. Let's see if that will be my PayPal account number. Yeah, that'll get me in all kinds of trouble. Well you might remember not too long ago, maybe six months ago something went there we had Tom Cooper. Yeah on the American team on the Bright Hill group Yeah, so there's like a season of leadership on the faith debate. Yeah, and he's become a a friend of the show, a friend of mine, and uh and and he connected me to today's guest, so we're we're glad that that connection was made. Um and before Ken gets into talking about who he is and what C twelve group is and all that, I want to give Jonathan a second 'cause I'll forget be f by the end of the show I'm sure. You are the senior pastor of Cross Rose Valley Chapel, that's correct. But you're also the I'm also the Frederick 48. Oh, okay. I was wondering which hat you wanted me to put on there. We are having a 48-hour fast again on September 27th and 28th. You're like the founder of that or something. I'm the I'm the I'm the founder and president and CEO. of this event. Last year we raised twenty-five thousand dollars. There was another twelve thousand that was given by the Convoy of Hope in the context of Trying to raise funds for those who are most hurting in Frederick. And what we're doing this year is we're going to expand that uh in a significant way. We're we've been in talks with uh Pittsburgh. give. They did a one day give in Pittsburgh and they brought in over six and a half million dollars. Now we're a lot smaller than Pittsburgh, so you know we're not expecting uh to quite be in the millions, but we uh we are uh following the leads on how to make a short-term once-a-year event very effective at drawing together the whole community. So you're gonna want to tell all your friends about it. It's gonna be really good. I'm looking forward to it this year. We've already got a lot of buzz going behind the scenes and we're expecting it just to continue to grow. Okay. Cool. I'm excited. Yeah. I'm excited because you're excited. You look excited. That yellow shirt It's just like, you know, it's glowing as you're sitting there with the green tie and the little yellow spots on it. Yeah. It's nice. But Ken Jonathan's like a play by play announcer for sports. You know, he always describes the field action, the color of the uniform, the the wind direction. uh glistened with joy as he spoke about this deep theological issue. He was channeling Danielle Steele there for a second, actually. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know what that was. Steve, you went weird on that one. All the color left your shirt, I'm telling you, it just was gone. All right. So you are the area chair, Ken, of the C twelve group in the Washington, D. C. area. That sounds really nice. If only we knew what the C twelve group was. Why don't you take a second and tell us? Sure. Thank you for having me today. I appreciate it. It's uh nice to be with you guys today. Uh the C Twelve Group is a uh Christian CEO, business owner, Christian executive round table. And the C stands for Christian. Twelve is the number that we have into the uh into the group. So we have groups of roundtables that meet from twelve to fifteen people. And we're just now launching in the Washington Mot uh Washington, D. C. metropolitan area. And it's so it's all over the place. It's been around for a while. Right. This is our twentieth year, our twentieth anniversary. Twenty years ago a Christian businessman by the name of Buck Jacobs down in Tampa, Florida, decided to run his company as if Jesus was the CEO. What would Jesus do? What would Jesus do? That's exactly right. Yeah. How many years ago did he start? Uh well the the C twelve group started twenty years ago. He started that practice probably about thirty thirty-five years ago. Very interesting. And then uh he worked in a chemical company, him and another individual that owned that company, and so they changed how they did business. Uh with that premise in mind, if Jesus was the CEO of this company, how would he run it? What decisions would be made? How would he treat his employees? What kind of practices, what kind of products would they develop, and so on and so forth. And from that experience he started to connect with other Christian businessmen, primarily in Florida, primarily in the Tampa area. and recognize the importance of pulling together um men that have that same vision, that same idea of how can we build a great business here in this world, but do it for a better purpose, do it for a greater purpose, and that's to have an eternal impact. And so twenty years ago it's just continued to grow and develop. We now are in sixty five metropolitan areas. Wow. And uh we have about twelve hundred CEOs that are part of our group. How many CEOs are there in America, do you think? Seventeen. At least seventeen. Uh you're also the pastor of a church, right? That's correct. Well give your church a plug. Sure. I'm a bi vocational pastor. Uh our church is Restoration Point Christian Church. We're on the web at www. therestorationpoint dot com. And it's just a small church that uh meets here in the uh here in Frederick close to in the Whittier neighborhood by Fort Dietrich Okay. How long have you been doing that? Uh for about seven years. Okay. So then how do you go from, you know, the shepherding a a local congregation to even knowing the C twelve exists and becoming an area chair? How'd that happen? Sure. Well I'm bi vocational So the ministry component is really more just uh in an aspect of using my gifts and talents, just like any other church member would. um m meaning that uh the church really pitches in together to do a lot of the tasks that the church is called to do. And so I've always had a full time um career uh p position apart from the apart from the local church. So uh I've um been in consulting, uh worked for the Dell Carnegie organization, did largest training consultant uh consultant organization in the world and then spent some time uh with a national nonprofit here in the um Washington DC area did some work with the government as well. And I've always been uh you know, trying to live out that value of having my faith in the workplace. So wherever I would go I didn't leave my Christianity at the door. I mean I tried to live out those values with my employees, with my customers, my sir you know, the products that we developed. And uh heard about the C twelve group about twelve years ago and was al always resonated with with the idea of of what C twelve stood for and how they challenge Christian business owners to live at a higher level and to to really think about not only their impact now, but an internal impact. And so uh about a year and a half ago, uh the opportunity came for us to launch in the Washington, DC area, and so I took it. And Jonathan, you pay close attention because you could learn how to win friends and influence people today. Yeah? No, you really you think that that's something that is learnable It is Jonathan. You don't have to be born without ahead of time, like is leadership caught or is it taught? That's what I want to know. Like You know, is it innate or can anybody be a leader? Depends on who you are, I guess. See now that totally confuses the question. So let me A year and a half ago or whenever you're th you you're launching into doing this, what gave you the confidence that you could do it? What gave the C twelve guys confidence you could do it? And those that have now joined your your group here uh in the DC area What gives them the confidence that you can do it and help them? Sure. Yeah, why you? Right. That's a great question. I'm not sure. Yeah. I feel uh um next question. Moving along. Honestly, you know, we my wife and I spent a season in prayer about it, uh, initially and the what it really comes down to, we believe for our chairs, our uh business owners, and f those that are uh part of the C twelve group is we we call them the cadre of the called. And we believe that God has a calling on our life to make a difference and an impact. And we saw an opportunity here in the Washington metro area. You know, there's uh we've estimated close to thirty thousand CEOs in the Washington Baltimore regions That's the number I was trying to get to earlier. That's just in the Washington-Baltimore area. 30,000 CEOs. And how many of those do you do you guesstimate are probably Christian CEOs? Well, you know, Gallup has done some studies on the What's with the seventeen number? Did your daughter just turn seventeen or something? Today is this Is it the date or two seven are both good biblical numbers? You add them together you get seventeen. Surprising enough when I told some people that I was launching this Christian organization. They said are there any? And some people you talk to, well that that's I mean uh grist for the mill to talk about whether or not you can be uh Christian and have, you know, a business and all that money, you know, what do you do with it all? I mean uh there's definitely people that are of the opinion that if you have that kind of money in you're uh just using it in a b in a business context or whatever that that you are not using those funds appropriately You know, you hear that kind of stuff all the time. There's so many implications uh to all of that. So before we get into that, is there any market research that would give you I mean, there's no way to know. But is do you have some guesstimate as to how what percentage of business CEOs Uh are cre out of the thirty thousand, how many might we estimate that about three to five percent of CEOs are Christian CEOs. That would that would make it uh uh that would that would be part of a C twelve group that would be qualified to be part of a C twelve group. And what that what that means is that they they run a company that um uh you know is in existence that has uh a business model that's growing and developing and that they have a faith component that they really want to make an internal impact. So you think there might be, let's say, a thousand companies out there run by CEOs in our area. Correct. And and you only have C twelve in your group, so like what are the other nine hundred and eighty-eight there? Well it is an exclusive group. We actually hope to launch at least four C twelve groups in the Washington Baltimore area. We currently have launched two We have a group that meets in Rockville and we have a group that meets outside of Baltimore in Catonsville every month. And so those groups are about half full currently. We launched uh had our first group meetings in December. And so we've already got our groups about half full. And once we get to twelve to fifteen, we will close those groups and we'll launch the other two groups. Okay. Yeah, I got all kinds of questions. So if you get to four, uh, and there's interest, you just you'll just keep on launching. Sure, absolutely. Yeah, sure, I would think so. Right, absolutely. Yeah, so uh I was gonna ask It is the percentage three to five percent like higher down in the Bible belt than it is up here in the northeast? Well there is generally five percent is DC Not other places. Are actually Christian? Re because that's the kind of what you're saying, right? Would qualify. I mean, they're like real deal, committed, Bible believing, active in their faith, steady church going. Right. There right sa they could be if if they had this form of government in their church, they would be the kind of guys that would be suitable for eldership or or being a deacon or something like that. Right. So they're like Those kind of guys. Very committed sold out. So how many really committed sold-out Christians as a percentage do you think there are in our area? Uh we know we know that what probably uh twenty to thirty percent claim to be Christian and you gotta figure of that number certain people are claiming it but not really living it. Then some p people are wanting to live it but, you know, uh really aren't being honest with themselves, you know, and so I don't know. And that's probably with seventeen Y you you end up with a seventeen. Is that like like the size of your you know, your t shirt or you know, your your shoes are getting bigger? Seventeen dollars a gallon of gas or you know Jonathan, I don't know where you've been, but I see a lot of Christians on the uh interstate, especially as I'm in traffic. Uh uh. I hear the name of the Lord Jesus on the top. There you have it But I'm all I'll learn run and shop machine when I need it. Uh the one cracking the jokes is Ken Gosnell. He's the area chair for the C twelve group uh here locally. Uh national. Is it international or just a national organization? We are looking to launch international in the next few years. And uh Jonathan Schweitzer, he's inter he's international. He's been to Israel a couple of times. And you're Uh bivocational pastor? Is that the title you go with at your church? No, I'm just I'm just Ken at my church. Okay. But uh it's officially Pastor Ken. It is bivocational in the sense that it's not a full-time Right, okay. But you're like the the lead teaching pastor at the church. And is your congregation a um is it Presbyterian, is it non-denominational? Is it non-denominational. Yeah. And do you connect with other churches in any kind of a network or uh we don't have a network? We're independent. Very nice. Where did you receive your call to ministry? Uh w when did I receive my call? I received my call to ministry when I was fifteen years old. Yeah. I went to uh church camp for the summer. And uh they had these different groups of using special talents and so on and so forth. So they had a music group and they had a drama group and they had a they had a preaching group. And uh so I went to the drama group. I wasn't stupid, you know, all the girls went to the drama group, so I wanted to go there. And uh all of a sudden my preacher came over to me and said, Hey we don't have anybody in the preaching group I think you ought to go try it out, learn how to preach a sermon. Yeah. And so I went over there and that that Friday night at the end of the camp I preached my first sermon when I was fifteen years old. Was anybody saved? Uh nobody was saved. Uh the girls. There were girls over there, but they I don't think they were saved. He was counting on that right now. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But if he was seventeen, he might have gotten them, you know. I did get a girlfriend out of that. A girlfriend Earl actually you know uh invited me to come speak to her church. Oh So I started that's when I started. See that guys? You want to meet you wanna meet girls? Frederick Faith Debate. Stand out the corner and start preaching. Relationship advice, week in and week out. Come here So nevertheless, uh have you pastored other churches, planted other churches? I have. I thought so. How many? Uh three. Yeah? Very cool. My grandfather planted thirteen Baptist churches during his lifetime. So you planted three other churches and where were those? I started in Missouri, where I grew up, that's where I was born and raised. I didn't plant that church but I'd worked for it was a larger you know uh three hundred four hundred Tot card vision. That's an important question. So you alluded uh to it early, but I wanted to get all this background stuff so I didn't follow up to your illusion, but I will now. The the founder of the C twelve group down in Florida twenty years ago says, you know, we gotta do this thing, we gotta do business the way Jesus would do it. Right. Okay, what does that mean? How does Jesus do business? Well I think it means three different criteria primarily. Number one is How do you spend your money as a business? Do you do it in a way that is with good stewardship in mind? Thinking about it's not just about developing profits for yourself, and the Bible talks about very clearly Of course not because prophets are evil. Right. Well, not that prophets are evil by any means. We encourage it. You mean Jesus would g if he ran a business, he'd he'd take a prophet? He would take a profit. He was a prophet, I know that. I think Jesus had a profit. If you read the Bible stories you see that Jesus had a very savvy bus uh business mind. I mean he talked about uh how to manage employees, he talked about what what it meant to be a good steward, he talked about how to how to pay employees. He you know he talks about the story of the He does talk about money a lot, doesn't he, John? He talks about money a lot and most of his parables are in the context of a master who has Uh many of his parables, uh rather, the master that has given responsibility for business aspects of his uh his responsibilities over to servants that that do or do not follow through the way that he was intending for them to. And so the story of the three men given the three coin each given a coin. Right. And they come back and One guy got like a tenfold return on his on that money and he gets a huge reward. The other guy gets just a couple of you know, coin return on his, but he still gets a reward and the other guy says, Well, I don't want to lose my coins and went and buried it in the backyard and Parable of the talents. And he didn't make a profit. But in that story he gave the one guy five talents, one guy two talents, and the other one one talent. five and the two talent guys doubled uh their uh r return on their investment and the other guy buried it. And there there's a principle of to him who much is given, much more is is expected in return, right? So there's kind of that Philosophy. Right, exactly. But there were three, that was a good thing. But the focus is not necessarily uh we want them to make a profit. Obviously. com, you see what we can do. That's the second time you snuck a website in there. Well you do it every week. I guess he can do it too if you want to. The C twelve we we call the C twelve difference and what we did was we compared our members versus blue chip companies. And what we found is that our members outperformed profitability wise. By like three to four times profitability. in our country that we often look to as well. What you gotta do is you gotta set up a C twelve mutual fund. Right. I want a percentage of the idea. That's a very good idea. But the critical piece is that when we tell our CEOs this is You we want you to develop a profit, but the Bible speaks very clearly as what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and lose his soul. And so, you know, we want our ch we want to challenge our CEOs and executives. to think about what are they doing right now in their company as they build that profit that's going to impact the kingdom. And we will tell business owners that even a small business, even a mom and pop you know, so proprietor type of business has an outreach of five thousand people. There will be five thousand people that they touch in any given year. From customers to vendors to employees. People, you know, that come into that business and they have five thousand opportunities to minister to that those people for the king for kingdom purposes. And that's where the real profit. So we look at not only, you know, the the profits that from a financial perspective, but we challenge our CEOs to think about the eternal profit. How many souls are being saved by that company? How many lives are being changed? How many employees are being converted because of they see the faith of the CEO? And we would suggest and I love the church Uh as you guys will see and know. But that the business has a greater opportunity to make an impact in community. I mean there's not many churches that have the opportunity to reach five thousand different people in any given year. Yeah, and we're gonna talk a little bit about that whole part of it. Uh very interesting as we progress. We're gonna you know do a series of shows on on this issue. Uh C twelve and the you know being a Christian in the in the workplace and a particular CEO. But before we run out of time, by the way I can't get Toby Mack out of my head right now. Toby Mack is a contemporary Christian artist and he's got that song I Wanna Gain the Whole World and Lose My Soul. Yeah. With uh Mandisa from American Idol Fame, she sings on that song too. I got that song stuck in my head now. But thank you, Ken. If I sang it, you wouldn't recognize it. That's the problem with that Uh but you said there were three main things and we've um pretty much t tackled one of them. So what are the other two? Yeah just or you can even recap. Just run through the three. Sure. Well the the the profit is one, how do you handle your money? Secondly is how do you handle your employees? Okay. And as from a leadership perspective, if there were we really talk about leadership. Helping make sure that we're So we have touched on two, I guess. Okay, so what's the third one? And then the third one is really your vision for what you're trying to do with your company. Do you have that eternal vision for what you're doing? Rather than just the temporary vision. Because everybody's all kinds of questions to ask there about what that what that represents. Even how you treat your your employees uh is is a very interesting question because that always comes up in the news about whether or not, you know, it's always the Dilbert, you know, the the the the uh expert comes in Rat Burt. You know, and he's gonna whip everybody into shape about how they're supposed to, you know, do things in the company and then Ratburt leaves and everybody goes back to doing things how they always did it. You know, and and so does the does the boss really care about his people, you know, the boss that has the has the uh the hair that looks like he's the devil. You know, and does he really care about his people or does he only do that to act like he cares about his people but at the end of the day he's just trying to make more money through them and he's not really showing interest in them. You know, so I'm interested to see how it is, you know, like to ask some questions about how How does a business owner go about doing that in a way that doesn't uh doesn't increase the cynicism that, okay, he's really just doing this because he wants to make more money? I mean, just like you said. those that are part of C twelve are outperforming their peers, you know, by three to four times. I mean that's significant increased money and so, you know, how do you how do you communicate that down through the ranks in a way that um that motivates and inspires and doesn't create uh a sense of cynicism instead. Yeah. And we just a quick take. Okay. A quick take. How similar is is what you just laid out these three main principles to what you uh can as a pastor and you John as a pastor think about in terms of the church. You have to worry about you know your church's finances. You have to worry about your y the your people in your church, right? And you gotta worry about the vision Am I missing uh something or is it kind of the same I think it's very similar to what we're about as a church. I mean w I I don't think I've ever uh have been concerned about profit. But we always were concerned about being good stewards and trying to make sure that we were raising the funds so that we could be about what the calling and tasks that God had called us to complete. But we are always about people and you know uh I think our churches are motivated on that component of, you know, what Jesus said is the greatest commandment to love God and then love others. And you know, that's w uh what we always try to teach in our church. And before you do anything else, please. Yeah, you know, product and profit, y y you're not trying to turn a profit in the church and your product is uh spiritual in nature and so Um those two elements of the of the of the scenario are different, but yeah, the other two parts of uh yeah, it's an interesting tie-in that you're making. All right, Jonathan Sweitzer, who's uh Yeah fascinated with my interesting tie. Is that what you're saying? Green and yellow. He's senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, uh pastor at Restoration Point Church and also the uh area chair for C twel group here uh in the Washington D C Frederick. area. Ken Gosnell, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate brought to us by Putman Plumlin Heating. How can we make you smile? Until next week, thanks so much for listening. God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Put in Plumbing, how can we make you smile?