Ho ho ho Mirty Christmas. Did Santa come last night? No. No? No. Is he coming soon? No. No? No. Did he just come like a week ago? No. Okay, just get on with the date. But do you know how to say anything other than no? Yes. Okay, good. But today is Christmas. Merry Christmas. Uh yeah, we don't do the whole Santa thing in our house, so anyway. That's a that's a debate for a whole nother show. We're not here to talk about that today. I got my kids to s to to uh to commit to not getting any presence this year, but we're building them in the garage a fort. with all that extra space that we have in our garage. And uh they think it's the coolest thing ever, and I'm hoping that they're not disappointed at the end of the day. But the reason is because everything's in one big big heap. Ties into what I've been reading. Okay. Right. I I've uh recently read Will Metzger's Tell the Truth. Okay. The whole gospel to the whole person by whole people. Tell the truth. That sounds like the laws and people. So we're gonna we're gonna talk about telling the truth about the bibla. Also known as the Bible. The Bible. So on the show today to talk about that, Jonathan Schweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and senior pastor at Poolsville Baptist Church, Church, a doctor. Jace Broadhurst. And I emphasize doctor because I mean, I don't know, he spent like twenty-five years getting that the he deserves give him his due. That's right. It's a lot of work. So I I appreciate But seriously, this sounds like a basic fundamental kind of a question, right? The Bible. So what is it? What is that thing that's usually bound in black leather or Or burgundy leather or something. What is that thing? And so we're gonna go down to the basics and we'll probably stay at a very basic level for about three seconds knowing you guys. But if somebody were to come up to you, John, and they've never seen you a Bible before and they see you walk around with this, you know, this book in your hand, and they say, Wow, what is that? What do you say? I would say that this is a book that describes The revelation of God to each one of us Over a 6,000-year period of time, showing his interactions with mankind and revealing the magnitude of his grace and his love. to a group of people that have have desired and chosen to not receive what he has for them, but instead to go other places. How do you just do that off the top of your head? Just we know that written down or anything. That's pretty incredible. Well I'm glad because I was a little concerned there for a minute that I was going to get anything out. And so by the grace of God. Yes, but brevity is the soul of wit, and so for you to uh have said it in such a short term manner is probably uh The wiser way to go. But he did say something that I think that you might say, oh really did you mean to say that particular thing? You said it's it's something that uh covers a six thousand year history. Which I think assumes a young earth, right? You trying to pick a fight here? Yeah, what are we doing here? Is this is this a question of the Bible or is this a question of young earth? Is that what the well is that what the Bible is is it is it a six thousand year history book? Is it a history book? And if so, is it merely covering 6,000 years? And how would we know that that's the case? Like is that is that we should approach it? It's a history book? Um I would say it is a record of the revelation of God over a six thousand year period of time, and so it shows the interaction of those people that received the revelation. and what happened when they received it and lived it, and what happened when they did not. And so it has history, it has philosophy, it has wisdom, it has uh laws from God, it has uh all of that, but it has it in the context of God's relationship with those people that he was wanting to reveal himself to. Because that's what he's always wanted. So good Dr. Roy, what do you think the Bible is meant to be and to do? How should we look at it? Well I think the Bible has a lot of different purposes. Um if I were ha had to define it in an elevator quickly, I would say it's to reveal God. And if I were to give it more information than that, I would try to explain what who God is. Um so I would say it's the revelation of Christ, of of a Savior and a King. Um so, you know, Old Testament, New Testament, all the different uh things that you said, I I I would argue it I would have trouble saying it's a history book, but you caveatted that enough that I'm probably pretty happy with it. Um there is history in it, of course. It is telling a story that that leads to Christ. Um I I'm I think we m we might end up differing and I can't wait to find out um as to how much of that story is historical. Um But yeah, that that's probably how to say it. A revelation of Jesus Christ. It's it's designed to point back or forward to the cross. Now if the story is not historical, what does that mean? Does that mean it's made up? You mean it might be wrong in certain areas? What does that mean? Because when when evangelicals, and I think uh that's probably how all of us would more or less define ourselves Evangelicals. When we talk about scripture, we say a lot of people. And and I I I barely make the evangelical list, I have to say, because uh every year, for instance, I I go to the Evangelical Theological Society. It's a bunch of professors that Wait a minute. I I've I gotta ask, 'cause I I don't think I know what what what's on that list of criteria to make the evangelical. Well the checklist is very, very short on this particular one. Okay. It's one that I can barely sign. Okay. So the two the two things that you have to write every year when you send in your dues every year are um you have to believe in the Trinity and you have to believe in the inerrancy of scripture. Okay. But those are the two basic things. And you have to be able to check both of those things off. And every year I look at that and say Yeah, I I'm an evangelical. I believe in the inerrancy of Scripture. I believe in the Trinity. But then I have to ask myself, what does that mean to say to to find the word inerrancy. So as evangelicals, we say things like the scripture is authoritative. We like words like infallible. We like words like inerrant. Um we like work inspired. Right. All the ins. We we take all of those uh plus you know the authoritative um We take all of those and that seems to be the end for us. You know, the bumper sticker, God said it, I believe it. That settles it. That's it. But I I think it's a lot more in depth than that. And that's I guess that's probably what we're going to get into over the next slide. The word inerrant is really the the Historically it's only been around a shorter period of time. It's a great question. I I don't I don't know. a uh a way of enlarging upon the concept of infallibility uh in the context of the attacks that were coming against Christianity from the Enlightenment perspective. And we throw those words down in lumps and kind of just they take on kind of the same meaning. But there's a s there's a shade of gray difference there. I I say it's much bigger than a shade because I can easily I can easily say I believe in an infallible Bible. I also I have a lot of trouble saying I believe in an inerrant Bible. I can still say it. As long as I define it in my particular way that everybody's comfortable with. Like FF Bruce and those guys all seem to admit that if you're talking about uh infallible versus inerrant that you can still be evangelical and not believe in inerrancy but still believe in an infallibility. Infallibility basically means that you believe that the Bible is true and that it presents truth to us and that it can be trusted. And Arancy says that you believe that it is true in all of the things that it says. uh whether it it like if it touches on something scientific then it's true about what it touches on. If it touches on something historical then it's true about what it touches on. Right. And so uh there's a couple places where infallibility focuses on the lessons that we're to understand, whereas an arrangement speaks about all the little jots and tittles of facts. Is that the difference? Infallibility deals with the character of God, and erronecy deals with the character of Scripture. So I can say the Bible is infallible, and what I mean and what what generally is meant by the word infallible is God didn't make a mistake in inspiring that. Now we have to get to the question of what a penustas means, what it means to God breathe. But God Yeah. Don't use the big words. All right. So God didn't go, Oh, I didn't mean for that to get in there. Darn it, yeah. Oh darn, I made a mistake. It it's not as if anything in scripture was a mistake of God. He is totally okay with what's infallibility. Key phrases apparently when uh Moses is describing which animals you can eat and not eat, uh ones that chew their cud generally uh are ones that you can eat. Is that correct? Ones that do not chew their cud or like a cow chews its cud you can eat. And so it refers to the fact that a rabbit chews its cud. And apparently if you look at a rabbit sitting around, a rabbit's always moving its mouth so it looks like it's chewing its cud, like a cow does when the cow's just standing around. But it doesn't actually chew its cut. And so that wouldn't have been known scientifically or biologically or zoologically until you know the last couple of hundred years. But previous to that point it wouldn't have been known. And so the you know uh the fact that Moses uh says you can't eat because it does because it chews its cud. You know, I get a little confused uh exactly what he was intending there. Did I get too confused too? Yeah, no, no, no, no. Well the rabbit doesn't have hooves feet either. So those are the two things. Chewing his cut and having hoed feet. My point is that but science, the scientific explanations of all these things, that's a question of inerrancy. And we believe that that that is an error. But I am not I'm convinced that God didn't somehow make a mistake in that. That's what its infallibility is. Okay, that he is well aware of all of those things. No, I mean that it's right that the whole thing is there. That that everything is there. If there's nothing wrong with what's going on there. Our job is to figure out what he's trying to do with it, what he's trying to get across. Is he trying to get across a science textbook or a history textbook? or anything like that. If he's not, then we need to stop worrying about those things. That was clearly the you know the sense of that that specific one. And so uh what uh what you're saying is that it got that across, don't eat the rabbit. but whether or not it was accurate scientifically as to why the rabbit might be uh bad for them and and and not eating would keep them from disease Uh you don't know the answer to that. Yeah. The question of why certain animals were chosen to eat and certain ones were not is a I mean, we could do Tons of debates on that. There's so many books and articles written on why it is God chose certain things. I mean I would ask the question, did God really choose those things or this is the question of what what is the Bible? Did God really choose those things or did man write those things down? And God was like, okay, whatever, that's fine. Um that's a bigger question maybe for later. Hence the reason why he's barely an evangelical. I'm I'm an evangelical I uh the gospel is is strong within me. Um and I can still sign off on their their statements. But inerrancy uh I mean inerrancy is something I think we we probably need to deal with. in some more detail. What does it mean for something to be an error? And there I I'm gonna s uh start what I'm gonna say by by acknowledging there are dominoes that fall, so you gotta be careful at you know how far you want to back up. But you're not s uh the people in this room are all Christians. We don't believe that you're saved because you believe the Bible's inerrant. Right? So your position on that has nothing to do with whether you're a a true blue Christian or not. It's just a question of whether you're an evangelical. Can you be a Christian and not be evangelical? I would say yes. Because we're not saved by doctrine. However, if you start lining up a whole bunch of faulty doctrines, and if you don't have confidence that the Bible is proclaiming and teaching and presenting the truth. Well, if you can't believe what the Bible says about rabbits and you can't believe what the Bible says about how many days or hours it took to create the world or You know, you can't believe what the Bible says about some sort of historical factoid that we're not sure is accurate. Then all of a sudden it raises in the question, well wait a minute, if I can't trust those things, can I really trust that a guy named Jesus really died on the cross and rose from the dead Yeah, the reality is that in with the Enlightenment came an attack on the authority of Scripture, whether or not people uh whether or not it was in people's interest to live their lives according to Scripture, whether or not it uh reason was capable of guiding us into all wisdom and into all, you know, righteousness and uh uh finding out what we need to f uh to live our lives. as as a world, as a society, as a as a human race. And that's the root of it because the inerrancy uh uh terminology arose to defend against all these that claimed to be scientific and that therefore they began to find a whole bunch of things about the Bible that they were saying was wrong or archaeologically where they would go back and they they would uh they would say, well, you know, we don't have any record of this group of people existing or that group of people existing and the Bible says that they do so, therefore the Bible must be wrong. You know, so between the scientific and the the historical data Uh the question was whether or not we could trust all those things. And sure enough, it created a crisis of authority in the West. where many people did not want to any longer submit themselves to the authority of the Bible because they felt like it was or that what they would say is it's just a bunch of myths and it can't be trusted. And it's a major issue. You you could argue that that uh that that issue has driven the de-Christianization of the West. So what should we do well I mean any if you wa if by the way, if you're not having a crisis of faith listening to this show, uh there are ample resources where people will very intricately explain away these problems so that you can still have you can still hold to an inerrant position. You know, a good example is, you know, the passage by will talk about the sun rising and setting as though the the the sun revolves around the earth as opposed to the earth revolving around the sun. You know, that's explained as well. From our human perspective, and we still speak that way today. We know that the earth revolves around the sun, but we still talk about the rising and setting of the sun. Even though the sun's not moving, the earth is moving Yeah, so that that is explained away. The rabbit I don't know what the answer is on the rabbit's foot uh eating its cut, I don't know, but I know that there is one. Otherwise you wouldn't have evangelicals saying the Bible's inerrant So Google it or, you know, whatever, your search agent of choice, and uh you'll find some answers that will maybe give you enough cognitive rest that you're like, okay I I I guess they'll be a Christian and be okay. Well the bottom line is that issues like that Do we need to do that? Depending on how you approach scripture, issues like that go go to one of two places. One, to make you say that the Bible's not inerrant and that it contains some errors of, you know, smaller magnitude or make you think that, oh well there's certain things that we just haven't had explained clearly yet and when when Christ returns he'll explain the rest of, you know, what needs to to be explained. And so either you fall into a errant is pr uh uh approach where you think that, you know, people have made mistakes or you fall into the to the uh the camp where you say, uh it's it's probably not Not the big an issue, and I'm sure God will explain it when he needs to. That's Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, also joined this week by Dr. Jace Broadhur, senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. Uh I think you were about to jump in and say something before I started speaking. Yeah, uh whether you're an inerrantist or not, you can still believe in the authority of scripture. You can still believe You can still be a strong Christian, I would think. You can find I mean there there's different levels of inerrants of you know, people who are errantists, I guess. Uh people who believe there are there's error in scripture. So, you know, someone could find error in every single page, consider everything just to be myth and fiction made up to begin with, or you could also, I mean, there's smaller things like different traditions that are going to show up next to each other for different purposes. So I I would hope at least that that you can believe there is there are errors in our technical modern sense in Scripture and still believe that Christ has died on the cross for your sins and um still be a strong Bible believing Christian Right and so the question I think comes down to and this is probably where where we would end up differing. And it gets kind of arbitrary, but the question is, okay, if you begin to to believe that there's room for error and still be believing that the Bible is infallible, meaning error in some of these details or um even uh interpretive approaches, i. e. Genesis 1 through 11. you know, we we approach the interpretation of it differently and you don't have to read it historically. Then the question is w is where you draw the line on those things. As a teacher, James says that we who teach will be held doubly accountable, so you shouldn't want to be a teacher because you're going to have to give an account for whether or not you led other people astray. And so it's one thing to, you know, just believe something that's wrong but you still believe in Christ, but it's another thing if you're teaching something that ends up undermining the faith of other people. And this is this is the big question for those those in the church, why it becomes so uh heated a discussion is because there's the concern that if the line is drawn in too loose a manner then people's faith will be undermined. And so it seems to me like like ultimately that's the uh uh an important question for us to resolve is is uh you know where is that line there's a difference between pastors and scholars. So there's no question. As pastors we have a certain job to protect to protect the faith of our people. And we need we need to care about that question. And so there are some questions that perhaps we shouldn't even bring up to them that are just going to cause more angst than it's worth. Um I can't tell my children everything about the Bible yet. They're just not old enough to understand some of these things. And some of the things are downright scary that are mentioned. They're just not ready for those things. So different people are at different stages. But I would think in a in a debate, in a scholarly kind of debate, we'd have to admit certain things that scripture is doing. And if If it's doing those things, we have to have an answer for that. If we want to hold the scripture and not throw it out when different traditions come up, you know, when the when numbers tells you two different directions that you know the wilderness people end up going and it's it's nearly impossible. I mean you can harmonize anything if you want to try hard enough, but as you look at it you just go That just doesn't sit right with me. I'm gonna go for the harmonization because I'm afraid of anything else. Um when Matthew tells you that, you know, he's born in Bethlehem and never seems to mention Nazareth, but Luke mentions you know, this whole Caesar Augustus thing and and when Caesar Augustus and Corninius aren't even around at the same time. Those kinds of things make us nervous. Now can you answer them? Yes, but But I'm not sure if we're being honest with our reasonable reason abilities. I think we've got to admit there are some struggles for us at least. And there are some scholars or pastors out there who just who would say all of these things are answerable by a modern view, as if somehow the Bible two thousand years ago that they understood everything because well God inspired it. If God inspired it, then therefore everything understood. So when it says that God hung the the planets in space, well they he hung them in place. Uh I don't know what that means, but it it means something um geographical. There's a spatial thing that's going on there. It astrophysical I I mean, there's something that's happening. So this is MacArthur's view on on things and it always kinda frustrates me as much as I love MacArthur. Uh he doesn't seem to notice that that the Bible is is a book of its time. I'm not sure it's fair for us to bring it into the modern world and ask it questions or expect of it things that that we have questions about. Does that make sense? Okay, right. And and so then for somebody that's not studying these things out, that's not a scholar then there's still the question as to like if you're saying that then then is the Bible somehow irrelevant to today, meaning you can't read it and draw from from it um like like a non-scholarly person, somebody that that is in a congregation that's not a scholar, can he read passages and draw from it um lessons for today that are meaningful and that that can be trusted, or does he have to be a scholar in order to piece out what can be trusted and what cannot, which is very interesting because it drives us back to the question of uh whether or not uh there's sacred scripture and sacred tradition. Because sacred tradition was the idea that the Bible has to be interpreted correctly. And so the people that interpreted it correctly were the apostles and the prophets, and then the anointed men and women of God through the ages that would interpret it correctly for us. Well, in the Catholic Church, that became the Catholic Church or the Eastern Orthodox Church, that they were defining all those things for you. They were doctors of the Church. And so they would explain for those that are non-scholars what they should believe and what they shouldn't believe. And it sounds to me a little bit like you're kind of leaning in the direction that some of the Elements of scripture must only be approached by those that that are able to handle them. Um If you say I'm leaning in that direction, yes, I would say I have leans in that direction. I wouldn't say that the Bible is something that is exclusively for scholars. That would be uh ridiculous. I I think there is truth to be had in. are. I would say the Bible is for all, but that doesn't necessarily mean that all are equal interpreters of it. Um I I don't think that my seven year old son interprets scripture as well as I do. Now, does that mean that he's not going to get some incredible truths out of Scripture? Sometimes even more powerfully than me? Perhaps. The Holy Spirit's amazing. And he does those kinds of things. But I think there is something to knowing ancient Near Eastern context that's important. I think that's why God gives leaders to the church, people who have studied all those things. Well, you know, the thing that's frightening to me is uh I know Jace's seven year old and he interprets scripture better than I do. So Um I'm gonna put a little bit of a bow tie on this. We're gonna pick up this conversation uh in next week's show. And in case you're wondering, why are we not doing a show about Christmas on Christmas? Because we've been doing this show for seven years and for seven all the other shows leading up to this year in the seven years, we've always done a show about Christmas. uh on Christmas or near Christmas. So if you're interested in those sorts of topics, they're all podcasted and available online. Go to WFMD. com keyword faith. It'll take you to the Faith Debate page. From there you can get easy access to the Audio vault, particularly the faith debate section of the audio vault. We should put together all the Christmas shows on a C V and we can give it to people. They can get it out of the way. We've we've beaten that horse. Yes, we're going to do it. So we're not going to do that. So now we're grappling with something a little bit different. And I do want to leave this this is the bow I want to put on it. Nobody in this room is saying you shouldn't have confidence and faith in the Bible when you read it. And that you shouldn't have confidence and faith that Jesus uh is your savior and that God is real and he's in control and all those sorts of things. But it might sound like some of that was what was being said We'll unpack some of that a little more fully in next week's show. So make sure that we're going to be able to do that. Thanks to our sponsors, Putm Fleming and Heating, Help We Make You Smile, and Deer Valley Heartscape, Landscape and Masonry, Jonathan Sweitzer Senior Pastor Cross Valley Chapel and Jace Broadhurst, a doctor Jace Broadhurst at uh Poolsville Baptist Church on Croy Skinner. Thanks for listening. God bless Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service. Because we believe you deserve it. Put in plumbing, how can we make you smile