Broadcasting from the West Side of Big Brother City in the heart of Grig Lux. County, you know what I'm talking about. Where freasy with impact is like plowing pavement. John knows what I'm talking about. And people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. Khalil knows what I'm talking about. This is the Frederick Faith debate On British News Radio 930, WFMD, brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating, how can we make you smile? You know what I'm talking about? Visit us online. Go to WFMD. com keywordface. There you'll find podcasts, including this one if you wait a couple of days. uh links to all sorts of religious tradition information and uh uh news items and the faith debate blog. Our blog is your blog so email me Troiskinner at clearchannel dot com. I post what you send me eighteen times a day Monday through Friday as ninety blog postings. A week. Pretty much each and every week, except for the weeks I'm on vacation, which isn't all that often. Amazing. So Jonathan Sweiser, he's amazing. He's a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church And equally amazing, but in completely different ways, Khalil El Shazli, he's the uh member a member of the Board of Trustees for the Islamic Society of Frederick. And we've been talking about Buddhism. No, I'm just kidding. The last three weeks and uh this week as well, we're talking about uh Islam and Christianity and last week on kind of a a word study as it relates to the Quran and that was fascinating. And now this week we are going to talk about um the Middle East being on fire. Everybody agrees that if you can't agree on the definition of words, then you cannot trust one another. I didn't understand a single thing that just came out of your mouth. Actually, do we agree on that? Ironically, ironically, if I were to just pull that last sentence that you said. and apply it to those that have s uh criticism within the Christian church about tongues. They might say something like that. I'm talking about a guy who stole Mahana I'm just saying that there's some good phrases out there that we can all use. Oh man. Anyway, so I do want to get back to my thought This is our fourth show together now. And I thought by now we would have certainly spent a lot of time on it and we haven't. So I'm gonna force the fit here. Okay, here we go. Because I wanna know. And I'm gonna tell you why I wanna know. And I wanna know sooner rather than later, because growing up You couldn't watch Walter Cronkite growing up on the CBS evening news and not hear him talk about struggles in the Middle East and Israel, and that's the way it is. I'm Walter Cronkite. Growing up I I heard about it every single day 'cause my grandparents watched Rock Walter Cronkite every day and I watched him with them. I had no idea what they're talking about I knew it was in the news, I knew that it must be important because Uncle Walter is talking about it every night. But I had no idea, and it was years later before I began to even have an inkling of what's really going on in all of that conflict So that's where you decided you wanted to go into radio. So this is Walter Cronk. Maybe, I don't know. Well you gotta Face for it. Yeah, okay. I'm sorry I didn't understand a single word you have a face for radio. Okay, keep going. So in recent months there's been lots of talk about ISIS. I think I have a ch very generalized sense that ISIS has something to do with Islam, or at least they claim to be related to Islam. They claim to be Muslim. Seems like they're involved in uh what the American media would label as terrorist activity. That's about all I know. So educate me. What's it that they seem to be taking over Iraq and Syria. Like all at the same time. Who are these people? Where do they come from all of a sudden? Or is it all of a sudden? That's a mystery. So we don't oh so they are all of a sudden. Who's supporting them? There are uh reports that say Saudi Arabia is financing them. The report says that uh CIA is financing them. The reports that says some of them are Mossad Asians. Uh nobody knows who they are. Uh the thing is, uh f for the longest time, uh Iraq has been ruled by Nurin Maliki. Uh he's a Shi'at and ever since he took power he's he marginalized the Sunni uh neighborhoods. And uh Kurds neighborhoods. And uh he was massacring uh some of the Sunni neighborhoods uh using the military, uh like what happened in uh Fel Fallujah. Yeah. Yeah, okay. Northern Maliki So what happened is uh all the pockets of Sunni groups uh got together and revolted uh against the government. And this is and this is where? In Iraq. In Iraq. This is since nine one. So the Sunnis they are the the overwhelming majority in Iraq, aren't they? Mm. They are majority, but Ironically when Saddam was in power uh he was minority. So he was ruling the majority. He was ruling majority which was Kurds and Chia and there are pockets of Sunnis as well. Which is the opposite of Syria, which is majority of Sunnis and ruled by Alois, which the Assad regime. And that's how the Brits set it up. You know, you have it to To maintain, divide and conquer, to maintain dictatorship, you have minority ruling the majority. I've heard some try to connect or or just to flatly make a connection between uh ISIS and Al Qaeda Is there a connection or we don't know? I I have no idea. It's all news reports. All I know is one of uh constituents here in Frederick. His family was in uh live in the Sunni neighborhood and they lived under uh the Iraqi armies, uh Nur Maliki armies. and the shops were closed, it was unsafe, uh, they were robbed, there were thugs all over the place, the military abusing them, so uh what have you until this revolution happened and they liberated from the Iraqi army said now streets are safe, shops are open, kids are back in the streets. uh kids are going back to school. It's a virtual revolution ISIS revolution? That's it's not I ISIS actually is a minority in the group. Right, but in the media the the way the media portraying it, it's like the ISIS is the leader of the pair Well, it's certainly been the catalyst for the change. No, not them. Uh part of it's it's a piece of the puzzle. That's what I'm saying. It's a chemical reaction the catalyst goes through, helps to make it happen. So the the piece of the the coalition that that revolted against the government. But uh w it depends which media you listen to. Uh each one will give you different perspective depending on Uh the leadership in the country and which way they want to direct uh populations of what ISIS has been has been a part of, not maybe r you're saying they're not running it, but maybe a part of it First of all, the fact that you're saying that they're not running it is like you know, like that's a huge perspective shift. But you're saying they're not running it, but one of the fruits has been that the Shiites feel more at peace now. They feel more freedom. No, the Sunnis. The Sunnis rather feel more freedom now because the army, the Nur Maliki's army is not abusing them and So you're saying that's a good thing. That's that's the report I got from there. Okay, so we we're a I'm still a little fuzzy on who ISIS is, but that might be because we're not entirely sure who ISIS is. What is ISIS? Is it a political movement? A religious movement? A sect? A a political party? A a movement within a political party, for example, a Tea Party is a movement within the Republican Party. I mean, what is ISIS? All of the sudden they appeared in Syria. There are too many groups that went to Syria to topple the Assad regime. And so all of a sudden they appear in Syria in what context? Advocating for political change? the dictatorship of Assad regime. And they had some other Uh opposition coalitions fighting with them. I don't know if Al Mazri who is not friendly with the rulers there and so could it be that his Al Mahri followers a leader were told worked with any of that happened. Al Qaeda. Yeah. Yeah, but I'm talking about those who, you know, inspired by this movement that bin Laden uh led that they're taking up Where he left off? Is that uh uh uh possible or depends which in your aid with Al Zakhari, uh, who was the leader of Al Qaeda and Iraq. And so Mazri, who is leading ISIS, was a senior aide to Al-Qaeda in Iraq, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. So um is this maybe a more organized political entity of Al Qaeda? Is it is that they're trying to take over and overthrow the government And maybe they're gonna try to take over Iraq and who knows if it continues to sweep through, maybe they would try to take over Afghanistan and Pakistan and and the way they started in Syria is the the Arab Springs. You know, after that that happened in Tunisia, then Egypt than Libya and Syria simultaneously. So it was all people revolting against dictatorship and dictatorship regimes. And of course when something like that happens there's a lot of outside influence. A lot of countries, groups that go in with weapons or send uh fighters or what have you. So uh As far as who they are and what their agendas a what their agenda is and where they're going with this, I have no idea. Does ISIS mean something? No, that's that's an English uh acronym for what they are. Okay. But th th they're called in Arab, they're called Daesh, which I don't know what the origin of that word is. Huh. Okay. So they're like mis just mystery all the way around. Who are these people? It depends really. If it depends on Are they good guys or bad guys in your opinion? It depends. I have no idea. I personally have no idea. I mean mostly to the media here it's like I should they they practically to death about it. Of course the media were scary about anything, you know. Uh But uh It said that they're demanding a caliphate. Yeah. I mean th there's no such a thing as a demand there's no such thing as demand caliphate, you know. You don't have a nation, you don't have a country, you don't have a constitution, you don't have law, you don't have uh a country to rule. You can't say just say I'm you know, I'm I'm I'm declaring a chilef. It's it's the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria. Yeah, yeah. That's that's how they that's that's how they state Iraq, Syria. Mm-hmm. Right? In so our Arabic acronym is Daesh. Right. Now they're now they're simply just called the Islamic State and they're it's a self proclaimed status as a caliphate. Which was which was denounced by most Muslim scholars. So should we think of them as a coup party? Well, is this you never know what the reason is. There there's too many players in there. There are too many intelligent So uh you are very ambivalent. You're not sure if you like 'em or not. I have no idea if I liked them or not. Wow. For somebody who is Muslim in this major shift going on in the midst of Muslim, what would your brother say? I have no idea we never talked about it. But talking to Iraqis who live there is Wahhabis. It is Wahhabi Islam. Wahhabist. Wahhabist is uh they believe in in uh I think they originated uh no Wahhabis are uh in S Saudi Arabia their version of a very strict uh group originated in Saudi Arabia. Yeah, I'm still not an expert. I think I've heard them in context of like the ultra fundamentalist uh Orthodox, ultra-conservative, austere fundamentalist, puritanical. There you go. Islamic reform movement to restore pure monotheistic worship. By the way, as someone who has a a a a a warm heart in a lot of ways for the Christian Puritans. I don't like the word puritanical being thrown in there. They had their phone for sure, but they had their upside. The majority of the world's Wahhabis are from Qatar uh United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia. Twenty-three percent of all Saudis are Wahhabis. Mm-hmm. How many? Twenty-three percent of all Saudis are Wahhabis. And that and the Wahhabis that's Al Qaeda. So they adhered to the Wahhabi movement. The Taliban, and now they're saying more recently the IS the ISIS. And so apparently Those that are paying attention uh say that that r is Wahhabi a religious movement? It's one of the method or political Well here you go again, trying to separate religion and politics in Islam, and I don't think that's I don't think you can slice it that way. You know, you could go and say, you know, I'm a Christian and I'm gonna You seem like you're tired of trying to figure all this stuff out. You know, for me uh it's matter. But I'm tired of it too, and it and so I end up with caricatures because it's hard to keep up with. It's it is very difficult to do. It's exhausting up and it really is exhausting. I'm I'm tired already. Which is what I was hoping you could just clarify it for me so I wouldn't have to be exhausted anymore. You're not helping here, Billy. I mean it's it's very much like You know, Christians you have the Orthodox, you have the Protestant, you have the Catholics, and you have too many, many different denominations And certainly in our history we've had our moments, but right now the world's not on fire because of these divisions. But the world is on fire because of the Islamic divisions. No. So we need to try to figure out what's going on and hopefully. just on fire and just fighting with one another. That is the case World War Two as well. The Christians? In Europe. Yeah, I don't know if that was a that wasn't a r that wasn't a religious war though. Wait, wait, wait. This is very interesting to me. You're saying that after World War II, divisions in Europe were driven by religion? Because nobody in the wast would be along the same lines that you characterizing what's going on now is because of But happen in Muslim countries because of Islam. I'm I'm just playing the same tune real quickly. Crossroads Valley Church. Khalil El Shazley is the member of the Board of Trustees for the Islamic Society of Frederick. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on WFMD. Okay, so go ahead. Communists define themselves as being atheist, right? Post-World War II, the United States defined itself as being a secular constitution that has roots in Christianity, but it's secular. Right? And all of those peoples, nobody was agitating for uh a return to any kind of a theocracy. Nobody in the West was doing that. And so e even World War Two World Wing Republicans don't claim that this is a Christian country? No, they claim that we have qu Christian roots. No, no, no, no. I've heard quite a few of them speak and say, Oh, this is a Christian country. This is a Christian country. Yeah, with a secular constitution that is not driven by a theocracy. There's a difference between a theocracy and a constitutional country under George W. Bush Yeah. Wow. He was a president that was limited by the by the superior. He's limited by the Supreme Court and he's limited by the legislatures. He only has very limited powers and he's not allowed to go outside of that or else he's gonna be impeached. He is he is controlled as a president, not by his religious beliefs. So it brings him into his his his thing. He was Uh he he certainly has religious beliefs. It's okay to have religious beliefs, but he was ruling the first word that came out of 911 and said this is a crusade. Sure. And he retracted after that. That's religious belief came poom right after. And so you're saying that that means that he was running a theocracy. George Bush, so I I'm saying that that that understanding of George Bush so thoroughly violates everything that I think about when I talk about George Bush. that I can't even begin to have a conversation with you about politics and religion. Because your definition there meaning meaning if you're if you're going to call that a theocracy. Okay, fine So I'm going to grant you, I'm going to grant you that that was a theocracy. If that's a theocracy, then what the Old Testament was was something totally different. I can't call the Old Testament of the Bible a theocracy if you're calling what George Bush was a theocracy. Because there are so many severe differences that it destroys the English language to say that what George Bush did and what the Old Testament did were the same thing. I'm not saying it's the same thing, but he was ruling the ruling by his religious Well the same thing when you guys say Islam and terrorism. Why is it difficult now? Because George Bush claimed to be living under the Constitution and the Constitution. And to the extent that he violated the Supreme Court And the first thing that we're going to do is that the first time we have to do that. He lied to us. For the record, there's no mushroom cloud. Whoa. Wasn't that the reason that we went over? Nuclear mushroom cloud refers to a nuclear blast. That's the mushroom cloud. There was no nuclear weapon. Yeah, he has mas uh weapons of mass destruction. He had mobile launchers, he had uh anthrax, he had this, he had that, and none of that was there. Okay, I understand that I understand that he claimed that that was the case. That's how they built that's how they build the case in this country. That's how they build the case in the United Nations. And it was the darkest moment for the discussion with a little bottle of anthrax and say, oh, look at the. And I'm trying to define terms. And because we can't define terms, we can't have the discussion I'm willing to concede to you that that maybe George Bush intentionally lied. I don't believe that, but I'll concede that to you that maybe he did. Even if he intentionally lied The nation worked together and uh a whole number of other nations, Western nations that are not uh Christian nations, but are secular uh socialist, you know, or democratic governments worked together with him and none of them were saying that what they were doing over in Iraq was driven by Christianity. Every single one of them claim that, even if they do in it, no one will claim that. Flat out, no one's gonna come and say, okay I did it in the name So do you understand I'm just trying to get to a definition Because if we can't define any words, we can't communicate. What are we talking about to begin with? The definition is whether or not ISS is trying to be a theocracy and whether or not that's different from what George Bush was doing. And you're telling me that you don't see any distinction between the two. Absolutely. I think that's a good thing. And that being the case, you I I I can't even have a discussion with you about it because Because I can't use that same term for ISS and for George Bush. ISIS, by the way. Yeah. Sorry. ISIS. Which apparently is the goddess out of Egypt. Anyways, my point is is that if you define both of those as theocracies then we lose the ability to communicate because all of the differences that are myriad and abundant from my perspective are automatically ruled out and we can't even discuss anything. Because you sweep everything into a theocracy that George Bush did. Mm-hmm. And and so then at that point, everything that is a government action anywhere on the w in the world is a theocracy. Like if you throw George Bush in that in in that that category, then then I'm unable to differentiate uh there being any non-theocratic government anywhere anywhere on the earth. Because everybody brings with them their spiritual beliefs and understandings. But the difference between a theocracy and a democratic government is that the democratic government is ruled by a constitution and has separation of powers and the laws that are developed are not based on the religion, but they're based on what the people voted and decided. And so they bring their rel listen, please follow this. They bring their religious beliefs into the discussion about which laws should be voted upon, but once they become laws, they're the law of the nation, not of a particular religion. Right? And so it's separated. Once it once it becomes a law of the land, it's no longer just a law of Christianity. It's a law of the land. Like for example, abortion is clearly not a Christian law. in the United States and Christians are are hoping to overturn abortion. But once it becomes the law of the land, it's no longer just a Christian, it's the the US law. And that is a democracy. A theocracy is where everything is driven by the religion alone. My point is even Hillary Clinton, if you listen to her recently She admitted she made a mistake based on the information that they were getting, which turned out all the information were false. Bush admitted that that they ended up with false information? Of course they are they have to blame somebody. But they knew it was false. Are you saying that only the Bush administration was a period of time of theocracy? Because Barack Obama professes to be a Christian. There's some debate But he f but he himself professes to be a Christian, just like George Bush did. Uh Bill Clinton claims to be a Christian, and we have Plenty of photo ops of him walking in and out of church. Jimmy Carter, Ronaldra, Christians, were they? No, but so we've got a theocracy of the thing. So Abraham Lincoln was a theocracy? 'Cause he claimed that the to do the civil war because he felt like God himself was driving him to do that. That's who that's that's his fighting for freedom. Franklin Delanor Roosevelt? So so basically you're saying that that the US is a theocracy. No, no, no. During George Bush it was almost it was theocracy. And it became a the Okay, because my definition of theocracy means that whoever it is that is in charge, when there's a decision about anything that needs to be made They don't consult their law, they consult God and God alone. And they make all their decisions only based on what God says to you. So then why is it that Bush didn't outlaw all abortion in the United States? Why didn't he outlaw all homosexuality? He can't. Why didn't he outlaw ad he can't why? That's the parliament and and uh That's my point That's a democracy. Pass the laws. I understand how the system works. Right. But the system George Bush ruled the president. It doesn't define the president. It defines the system. He ruled the country as it was theocracy. But he's not the king. He didn't rule the country. He did. Him and the group around him. So we live. So please understand that that might in the name of Patriot Act in the name of terrorism, in the name that the countries under attack. They did all what they did. Okay, so please understand to fulfill their beliefs. You're using English words that you and I define very differently. And so when you say that's that it's a theocracy and I say it's a theocracy, we mean totally different things. Which means that you and I can't communicate about theocracy until we come up with different words that we agree on. And actually this is true because this has been one of my complaints about Muslims 'Cause in the United States Muslims accept the definitions of the Democratic Party. And the Democratic Party uses definitions like theocracy in ways that I feel like are out of alignment with They use them in pejorative ways that don't allow for a a a free exchange of ideas because you're always shackled to the pejorative meanings that they're going to be. Kind of like terrorists. They call you a terrorist? They call me a theocrat, and as a result, I can't have any discussion with them. As soon as they call you a terrorist, what happens? Discussion stops. Because we can't have any discussion. They do the same thing with me. They say I'm a theocrat because I'm a re Republican and I voted for George Bush. Because I'm a theocrat And and I kept voting for him. I didn't vote for him the second time. Right please understand, you understand what I'm saying? As soon as they call me a theocrat I can't have any discussion with them anymore. And that's what I'm saying is that that term, how you're using it right now, is not facilitating discussion. It's facilitating. Right. So that's my point is that how we gotta find language that we agree on then. And this is my concern so often on this show is that we end up spending a lot of time often on this show trying to do that because different worldviews uh are used to using particular words within their sp typical sphere of influence in a particular way and somebody else is using those exact same words in a different way And we have to figure out wait a minute. Did you just say what I thought you s said? There's no lingua framework. And it's it's tough. Well, we're out of time. So that'll rescue us for now from Mercy. This is a I thought this was a this is a very on again soon because I I would really look forward to my pleasure. I'm going to call this the Frederick Faith Dictionary. Okay. There you go. Jonathan Sweitzer. The definition of the dictionary, definitionary. And uh Khalil Al-Shaw's Lee, thank you guys for being on the show. Uh I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for our sponsor. Put my pum plumbing and heating. How can we make you smile? What have I been reading? 7. 0 inside The Convoy of Hope's Response to the Haiti Earthquake by Kirk Noonan. Not particularly a great read, but anyway. God bless