This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Thanks so much for tuning in every Sunday at 9 o'clock from 9 to 9. 30. I'm Troy Skinner, pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. We're online at HouseholdofInCrist dot com. I'm joined this week, as uh every week now, uh with by Daniel Rasby and David Forcy and uh absent AWOL this time. is uh Imran Razby, but he'll be around maybe in a couple of weeks and we'll give him a hard time. Actually I I joked, but if you guys really wanted to sneak in some conversation about Imran when he's not here This is our chance to talk about him. Not here to defend himself. That's right. Yeah. He'll never know. We'll just make sure he doesn't listen to this episode. Yeah. Anyway. So um I'm gonna start with this, I guess. Um you are fearfully and wonderfully made. So a joyous Sunday to you. I think it's important for you to know that you are fearfully and wonderfully made. Therefore you are of incredible value and your maker. Um Really has a special place for you. However, we have a problem. We have uh damaged the relationship through our failure to do right things, righteous things. We have sinned against God's law. Even if you don't consider yourself a Christian or a Bible believer, you have to admit even by your own standard of what's good and bad, you've done some bad things. So you've got a guilt problem. What are you gonna do with your guilt? How are you gonna be redeemed to put a uh you know, Christian theological label on it. There is a great Redeemer who has uh provided the solution for your guilt. So you know where to put your guilt. You put it at the foot of the cross and Christ takes it upon himself And through that redemption, you begin the process of restoration where that broken relationship that you're meant to have with your your creator who who made you in his image, who has made you fearfully and wonderfully, you restore that relationship ultimately to at the end of all things being glorified. So you were made with the ability to sin, and sadly you did, but there's a coming a day when you will be remade forever and all time and eternity where you will no longer even be able to sin. And that is only possible in and through the person and work of Jesus Christ. I would invite you, if you want to know more about that, to reach out to me. The easiest way to do that is go to household of faith in Christ dot com. You can find my email and phone there. I'd love to talk with you. about it. So last week we had Daniel talk about the church that meets at uh the Rasvi's house, and then we also heard from David talk about what goes on at the church that meets at the Forcey's house. And they filibustered me, so I didn't have a chance to talk about what happens at the Skinner house. So I'll uh just real quickly I'll run through what you could expect. If you were to show up uh at Archer and you know you guys didn't talk about this and I'll be curious to see if you uh how you handle this. Maybe you haven't had the issue because of not being so public like on the internet and those sorts of things that I have with with what I'm doing. Being more public uh on the internet and all all of that. But the um The climate of the times is negative. And there's a lot of negative energy, a lot of potential risk uh inherent. You're inviting people into your home. Mm-hmm. You know, not just your home, but it's your wife's home. It's your children's home. It's still it's their safe place kind of thing. And so I vet people before they come. I nobody uh so I I'm very public with what we do, but our address is not So we we're not gonna be surprised if somebody just, surprise, we're here to check out your church this week. They somehow have to reach out to me and I have an opportunity then to either meet with them beforehand or at the very least talk with them over the phone or or you know, whatever. Um so during that process they might hear me say, so what you might expect when you show up is so this is something that they that they would be hearing So we generally start everybody shows up at our house on a Saturday around 5 30, in uh not in the morning, in the evening. And uh there are occasions when it's earlier. So uh on a week by week basis it starts around five thirty, but uh there are occasions when we'll say, hey, we want to do something extra long We're gonna do a barbecue or uh you know, play games in the afternoon or watch a movie together or you know, what ha whatever. Uh people might come earlier like two or three in the afternoon, and then around 5. 30 we would transition into what we typically would begin doing at 5. 30, which is a little bit of time for some you know, socialization and catching up on the week and that sort of thing. And then uh w we depending on how much of that there is Depends on how many songs we'll sing. So if we get very chatty and there's lots of catching up to do, lots of sharing happening, lots of fellowshipping that's taking place then we might only sing a song before we get into the more formal part of what we do. But if there's not as much ch chat and stuff going on, we'll transition into singing sooner and sometimes and uh we'll I think only one time they can remember we sang one song, uh, before we got into the formal part of things. But uh y it's at least two, sometimes a third song before we get into the formal thing. The formal thing starts, you know, pretty close to six o'clock and uh opens with Um introductory remarks for those who are joining us because we put this part of what we do online through Facebook Live. And I can explain why we ended up how we came about to do that. Um but anyway during the so after a few couple of minutes of of that then we have uh a time for some opening prayer. Uh sometimes we'll read um an extended passage from scripture that's connected with what the message is going to be about. Sometimes not, it depends. uh um um that week's message. Usually by six oh five or six ten at the you know if there's an extended reading of the scriptures by six ten the sermon uh begins. The sermons are generally about 30 minutes long. Short sermon might be twenty-five minutes long. A sh a long sermon might be thirty-five. Once I did a forty-minute message, and uh for our context that was probably felt long in the room kind of thing. So I think thirty minutes is a kind of a sweet spot for us. At the conclusion of the message there's There's uh a group discussion about the message and the passage that was preached on and the themes that were touched upon and people have a chance to ask clarifying uh questions. Um um you know, bounce off of an illustration that was was used or you know, clarify something that they thought they heard somebody else teach and preach once upon a time that you know wasn't brought up in the message or was brought up differently. that sort of thing. Um that portion and and then but when the discussion is over, uh you know, we have uh closing prayer and uh some closing remark announcement things and we wrap up the Facebook live part and then we continue to exist together as a local church if you will And uh we sing songs there. If we we generally sing four to five songs a week and so if we only sang one or two You know, earlier, whatever songs we didn't get to that we would have gotten to earlier, we sing on the back end. So and you pick those songs ahead of time? Yeah, and I don't. Uh somebody uh and I'll I'll get into some of that I guess too. So and then um We do we don't do the Lord's Supper every week. Uh at some point I might uh begin to get into that habit for but for now we're we're doing it uh every fourth or fifth week Um and we don't have a meal together all the time, but we always have a meal uh and big social function gathering. At least once a quarter. So far a habit ends up being a little more frequent than that. It's more like it seems like it's on average been more like every eight-ish weeks. Interesting. Uh it's more just a spontaneous, hey, I feel like maybe we should just hang out and and so those that's the structure. So I'll give you some of the reasons, I guess. Um The songs aren't chosen by me. Part of that is I want to have as much participation from people as possible. And so I'm trying to figure out what are ways to get different people involved. And we have you know somebody might be really comfortable uh uh praying and somebody else isn't so comfortable praying. So the person who's really comfortable praying, I might kind of lean on them more often than the others and say, hey, could you open us in prayer today? Or will you be the one to close us in prayer today? And those who are not as comfortable, uh, we work towards that Uh and so so far working towards that has gone well. Uh everybody who's been uncomfortable praying inside of two months, uh has gotten to a place where they are willing to put themselves out there and pray in front of people for the first time. So that's gone well. Um so we've got kind of a music coordinator, if you will, who shows up with that week's song selections. And to be honest, they're not always the songs I would choose, but uh that's less important to me than than everybody feeling they have a role. And then other people aren't comfortable reading aloud. You know, I have one person who's uh uh you know who told me they were dyslexic And uh didn't know that and they were really nervous about praying. I said, you know, and I encouraged them and over time they finally got comfortable and decided to pray. And afterwards I you know, said, Hey, I've really pr I know that was hard for you, you were nervous and you know uh how how to feel and you know I'm really proud of you for putting yourself out there. And that's what I found out they were dyslexic. And I was like, I don't know if I would have put as much gentle pressure on you. But I'm glad I did because, you know uh uh you know, it was God's providence that I didn't know that until after the fact. So I'm trying to get everybody involved. And then after the message and I'm so far I've been the one to uh preach the sermon every week Um not that I'd be opposed to somebody else in our church preaching, but nobody else right now is equipped to handle that. Um so that would be a difference. Like the Raspbee Church you guys have, I don't know, thirty, forty, fifty people maybe that come with really depends on the week. Some regul yeah, but in and out you probably have, you know, several dozen people that are kinda coming in and out of your church over the course of a year. And a number of those probably uh have some experience and some ability and some gifting and the spiritual maturity to handle those responsibilities, perhaps I don't know that our thing is there just yet. So at the at the moment when that comes, I'm gonna be 'Cause that's part of my model is I wanna have I wanna be I wanna launch a uh another house church out of our house church. But it's only gonna happen if somebody in my house church becomes equipped to lead a house church And right now there's nobody in my church that's equipped to lead a house church. And one of the steps in that development of leadership will be taking on the responsibility of leading a teaching. Uh with so you know, at least once the outgoes, and with some increasing regularity, that sort of a thing. So and Well what one of the things yeah, one of the things I noticed you know was last week when we were talking about our um gatherings, uh David and and and my own and then Troy, you're you mentioned one thing that's that's kind of been this the same or not the same but a similar theme in all three of our stories. Which is very different from most churches is that discussion aspect, that discussion about the sermon or Bible study or whatever you want to call it, the preaching session or the teaching discussion by the congregation, whether it's just the men, whether it's men and women, however, um it's very highly encouraged. Whereas in most churches, if you go visit ten churches You're probably not gonna hear anybody speak up other than Amen if you're in the South. You might hear that a lot. Right? But that's about it You the uh uh in not only doesn't anybody do it, it's kinda discouraged. If somebody does make a comment, that's kinda rare a rare thing. Yeah. So but I see this theme a lot with health churches, it's a very common Yeah, so I'm trying to say what were some of the other things I said that were a little bit different than you guys and I went to Well you don't have a meal every week. We don't yeah, we don't have a meal oh yeah and so one of the reasons for that is um Those that are members of what we're doing, we're we're we're small. If everybody shows up uh on the same Saturday evening, which happens most of the time. Um, you know, praise God for that. But if everybody shows up, it's nine people. Mm-hmm. Yeah, so we're not huge And those nine people, uh, you know, one of those is the teenager. Uh the the reason I'm gonna mention these other things is doing like a potluck style thing doesn't lend itself to easily coming together. One of them's a teenager, one of 'em's a a young twenty something couple that um I I I um given w their family dynamic and their their little their two little ones and stuff. Um I'm not so sure having them bring uh uh food for a meal and stuff w with consistency would uh at least at at this stage in of things would make the most sense and somebody else is, you know, a a a a single woman who normally is cooking for one and they ask her to suddenly figure out how to cook for nine times as many. Um so the point in me mentioning all that is when we've had a meal, it's fallen to my wife. And I'd just not comfortable uh putting that level of responsibility and pressure on my wife to prepare a large meal for a bunch of people with different tastes and different food, uh maybe allergies. It's you know, it's it's work And for her to do it on occasion is fine. She and she likes doing it. But I'm not gonna prey upon her liking to do that and burn her out. And it's just it doesn't it seems like a burdensome request. I'd like to do it more often as we get bigger and we get more people and maybe somebody's like, Oh, I could bring the meal, you know, we'll we'll make it and bring it or how about the two or three of us all together, we bring a little something and we can and take the pressure off, but I'm not gonna throw all that pressure. on my wife, um so so that's one of the reasons we do that. As a Facebook live thing, that's different than what you guys do. And one of the reasons we do that is the way we came to be a house church is different. I mentioned a couple weeks ago that I've had this idea about doing a house church for years and years and never actually pulled the trigger on it and then finally last year did. And part of the circumstances that led to us pulling that trigger was that I was pastoring another church And that church, uh the board-led, not elder board, but uh board of trustee type of uh board-led church, made a decision to uh to stop meeting when COVID hit and they made that decision without even having me part of the conversation, which was interesting. Uh hadn't hadn't been the uh I part of it is I hadn't been their pastor that long Um so they maybe weren't feeling like it was that important to involve me. I don't know. Uh and the other thing is I'm suspicious that they might have known that I was going to push back on like no no no no no no no no. Let's talk about this. Uh because we would we would have made a different decision uh if it were my call exclusively, that's for sure. Anyway, closing the church uh down temporarily turned into the church closing its doors down permanently. Now I've heard s some buzz that maybe they're beginning to try to put something together again in in a different form and fashion after you know, like a year later they decided to try to pick up the pieces and put Humpty Dumpty back together again and and whatever that's you know I'm not involved with that anymore. But the context was we got shut down and it was it was a couple of months later before the church was closed. So we stopped meeting we're shut down, meaning we we shut ourselves down, stopped meeting, and then closed the doors semi-permanently a couple of months later. Well during those couple of months We were still doing church. And so I was by default forced to do what so many of the churches had to do. They did virtual church. Everything was streaming. And so I thought, okay, well d well in the process of me doing that, a number of friends and family and you know people that are close to me and close to my wife and stuff started following along online And we started getting a Facebook Live following, actually that was larger than the church. And so when the church completely shut things down, I was like, well, I've got Well at that I I think it's diminished to be honest. I'll may I'll if you care, I'll explain later why I think that happened. But we had about a hundred and hundred to a hundred and fifty people that were faithful every week paying attention to what we were doing online. As I I'm just gonna pull the plug on that. Like there's something there that these people are wanting or needing or feeling like they need from us. I'm gonna continue it. So then I decided that, oh, well if we're going to continue it, maybe this is something we could transition into doing a house church, like I've been thinking about for so long. And it took me a couple of weeks to persuade myself and a few more weeks to persuade my wife and uh and then we decided that yeah we're gonna do this. And so we were already doing the Facebook Live. And so once we became a church the household of faith in Christ was born. Um it didn't feel wise to just pull the plug on the Facebook Live at at that time. And so it's just become a part of what we do. I could foresee a time when that would go away. Um but right now I'm not feeling like we need and we're not catering what we're doing to Facebook Live. Maybe what I will allude to it on occasion. Oh at the beginning I do. Whenever we turn it on, it's always, hello Facebook, hello YouTube, because we put it on YouTube later so it's like hello hello YouTube if you're watching this later. So I acknowledge that they're joining Facebook Live that's something different. And in the sermon, on occasion, I might make mention something to uh a Right. So it's got a broad but generally speaking, you know, ninety-five-ninety-eight percent of my focus and what we're talking about is what's going on in the room. So if we were to lose Facebook Live, it really wouldn't change anything. But some of the people that w without getting all in the personal weeds on this, some of the people that are faithful every week watching and apparently hanging on the words I say because I then get comments and phone calls and questions. So I was like, whoa, they're actually listening. uh it's f filling a need. Right. And I think the only reason it's filling a need is because pardon the you know common vernacular on this, but you know I'll frame it this way. I was listening to a podcaster, uh actually it was just earlier today, and he was being critical of one of these mega church pastors who's gone full woke and is teaching a bunch of garbage and stuff. And he kind of closes out his podcast with the words to this this effect, saying, Look, if you're going to one of these, you know, big mega church woke pastor kind of things, you know what you need to do? You need to leave and find a church where your pastor doesn't suck And I think unfortunately there are a lot of pastors out there that they totally suck. They're not teaching the gospel. In fact, in l in some cases I think they're preaching and teaching an anti-gospel And uh and I think that they hear something that's as unpolished as as what I do. Yeah, 'cause I'm not you know, y you watch these guys that uh you know, around the country, these big uh first high personality, high woo kind of pastors, they're very gifted communicators. And I mean, I'm not competing with them on that level. And yet In more cases than not, I'm providing people that are consuming what I have to say. I'm providing something to those other guys, as gifted and smooth as they are, that they're not giving. And that is the truth. You know, if if nothing else, they're getting the truth on Saturday nights watching you know me on Facebook. So it's all kind of evolved. Um it's interesting that David you have a uh like the family's kind of your structure model in your head for how things should go. Yeah. And uh I don't know family is your thing. Uh it's more of just a uh anti-institutionalized Yeah, I mean I I read in the Bible in the New Testament I read examples of how the church is and we try to copy that. And I don't see a building in there, so we don't have a building. Um I don't see just one guy speaking all the time. Paul talks about in uh Corinthians, he talks about don't all speak at once, as in there are lots of men trying to say stuff. So his whole point in that passage is don't all speak at once, with the implication being there are several men who will be speaking and sharing something of value, not just a comment, but something substantive. So uh we try to encourage that. Uh and I think singing is very important. If it's done properly, music is ex very important and I have some strong opinions on healthy music and unhealthy music, especially in the church. And how that is uh directly related to backsliding and doctrine in churches. We can talk about that someday maybe. Uh one of the things we all have in common and that maybe all ho well I'm sure there are exceptions. But generally speaking, almost all house churches are going to have this in common. They're going to be family integrated in their model. Yes. It's going to be the kids are going to be a part of it too. You're not going to shuttle the kids off into a completely different part of the house for children's church or youth group meetings or things. So Sunday school, children's church, youth youth group, nurseries. I mean if if your if your baby is screaming to the point where it's disruptive to the service and you want to take the baby into another room and uh and nurse or something, that's fine, but that's not even a requirement. That's like No, that's that's your personal preference. But generally kids are very much expected to be in the service. I think a lot of parents don't realize Your children, even your toddlers, can sit still for three hours and not say anything. It is possible. We actually wrote a book on it. Uh my parents wrote a book on it. Children can sit in church. You can sit for three hours. Not that we'd spend three hours necessarily, but you can sit for three hours in a church service and not say anything, not be distraction, um and so on. But uh you know that's not how it always happens. There's certainly kids will make noises and they'll move around and stuff. But I I think it's important for them to get the same message. Yeah, and and to uh to observe their parents worshiping. Right. Right. Whether it's worshiping through through through teaching or yeah, or singing or praying. Um Yeah. They're picking up things through osmosis, whether you realize it or not. And our kids usually are way more attentive to what's going on around them long before you realize they're attentive to what's going on around them. By the time you realize they're noticing something, they had been noticing it for months before then. Right. And and they're gonna learn a lot more sitting in a church service than they are in a Sunday school or a children's church or something like that. Which is usually the the material is dumbed down so much that they don't know. The only clarification I would make is I don't I don't know that they're going to learn more. They're going to learn something different. Something correct. That's true. That's true. More more deep things, I guess. We're we're gonna uh uh put a wrap on this one because this one I again I think I talked too much at the beginning. I apologize. Next week I'm just gonna introduce you guys and say go and then you guys talk for the rest of the show. Uh I'm Troy Skinner, uh David Forcy of of I think was the well I'll no you spoke. I was gonna say the last voice you heard was David Forcey's but the Second to the last voice you heard was David Pussy. Before that was Daniel Razley. Uh this is the Faith Debate on nine thirty WFMD. You can connect us with us most easily by going to Household of FaithInChrist dot com. You can connect with the show and everything else that were involved with their household of faith in Christ. com. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless.