This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The faith debate is on the World Wide Web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with a master of divinity from Reformed. Theological seminary, the faith debate master of ceremonies. Oh yeah. Troy, Skinner. What happens to us when we die? Do we exist eternally in either heaven or hell? Or does life even spiritual life? When our fleshly bodies pass away in death. And how does the Christian understanding of bodily resurrection fit into all of this? Here to help us think through these sorts of things are Jonathan Schweitzer, co founder of the Faith Debate program, and Morgan Kokenhauer, pastor at Frederick Seventh A. Adventist Church. This week uh we're going to be talking about death. When is it? What is it? How does this shape our understanding of the state of the dead in the hereafter? These are Big important questions on uh I think today, if I'm not mistaken, check my calendar is Palm Sunday. Yeah. So So uh that means that we're thinking about these sorts of things. We've got the Jesus entering Jerusalem. Yep. Uh beginning his march towards death. That's right. So uh now we kinda had a cliffhanger episode last week, which happens uh some from time to time on the Faith Debate show. And uh if you missed that and you're interested to hear this thing in a continuum. You can catch the podcast. Go to WFMD. com. Keyword faith takes you right to the Faith Debate page. Or you can find the little menu, uh drop-down menu of the shows that are on the station and click on Faith Debate. as though there are other shows on the station. But there are. So uh we were talking about whether or not there's eternal uh the the human soul is eternal or not. That was the thrust of last week's show. Um Morgan representing kind of the traditional Seventh day Adventist uh position is saying, no. Uh there's not, and he was explaining his reasons why to listen to last week's show for that. Jonathan's saying, yeah, yeah, I'm I I I'm not sure I know the answer to that. But he seemed to be uh not comfortable fully with uh with Morgan's uh take on it. So he's not ambivalent, he's just confused Welcome to my world. My wife and kids are home. And then we started to shift because you naturally would, is okay, well if it's not immortal that means it it dies at some point. So what does death mean? That's what we got last week. That's why the cliff hanging. Yeah and if there is such a thing as a death of the soul, like when would that happen or what would it mean? And if and the Bible talks about death Right? Eat of the tree, you will die. Um so in what way is that true if the soul doesn't die and exists for uh e uh um time immemorial? So I think if I'm not mistaken, I cut Jonathan off last week. Do you remember what your thought was? Yeah, and don't you forget it. Um I don't remember exactly what I was saying. We're grappling with the definition of death and we're recognizing, I think I think we're in agreement, but w at least that there's two definitions of death that the Bible for sure recognizes. One that there is is some sort of spiritual death that is no longer death or that that we're we're We're talking about in the Garden of Eden that the two trees. You know, you will surely die. And then you are explaining uh your point of view on that, at least where you think you are on that right now in your c state of confusion. That's right. Is that uh I don't know if um to be fair, I don't want to put words in your mouth. I'm not sure that you were saying it's your position. I think you were saying that you have understood the general classical evangelical position to be that it's a spiritual death not a soul death. And you were kind of parsing that. That's kind of where you were. Did you have anything more you wanted to add on that front? Or 'cause I think Morgan probably wants to respond. Yeah. Let's Well I yeah, I have no problem with that. I think um uh for me w we're we're grappling at what the definition of death is. I feel like we're trying to define define other definitions, I guess, that's happened in politics before, but When you look at death, for me you have to understand what's life. And so when g like one going back once again to the original construction of Adam and Eve, all it is is is dust and breath. Those are the two ingredients to life. Okay. So then what finishing my thought on that is so if biologically I'm okay with that. Biologically. So but we've also agreed that there is no consciousness before Uh whenever we believe life begins or when consciousness begins or or a soul begins, I should say, what we were talking about earlier is there was no soul for there was no Adam soul before the dust and the breath came together. Agreed? I would agree with that. Okay, so then when God created Adam and Eve, he said, here's dust, and then he breathes into him breath. Which can be translated as spirit as well. So he breathes breath into his nostrils and then he becomes soul. So then dust and breath combined together make soul. Much like a light bulb, you have a light bulb without electricity is not A light bulb, it's a bulb. Connected to electricity, it's light. You take the bulb away, you have electricity. It's only when these two are combined that you actually have Life. So that raises a question in the context of of some of those definitions that I was just saying. So that definition, dust and breath equals life in a soul, right? then then what what does it mean that we were dead in our sins? Perfect. So that's where when we talk about spiritual sin. Yeah, I agree. I agree that If you haven't accepted Jesus Christ, in my in in in my understanding of the Bible, we're all dead men walking until we accept Jesus. The dead men walking still have dust And breath of God. And breath. But when I say but when God says they're still spiritually dead. But they're still spiritually dead. But when God says, in the day you eat of this fruit, you will surely die. Yeah. He's saying before They were good. I mean once they made the lives, they were well they were alive, but everything about them, God said, I've created you good. So as Seventh-day Adventists, we believe there was no spot or blemish in Adam and Eve. So there was no thought in them that said, you know what? I think I'm gonna go flip these people off. I I think I'm gonna go run them off the road. There was nothing in them that desired anything that was sinful. Yeah, I think they tend to use the word innocent as opposed to righteous. I feel like righteousness is something that that that comes later when you're facing wickedness and you choose to be a little bit more created righteous. So so I'm I'm not willing to say that because the word righteous shows up with Noah who is doing what's right despite wicked people around him and and I get the sense that righteousness is a term that sets off against wickedness, whereas good Is a is a word that defines something previous. So that's just something that means just and justified. So they're just. They're they're at peace with God. Just So was Adam so before the sin, before Adam ate the fruit, was he at peace with God? Well okay so there was no there was no incorrection. by his suffering, by by what he went through. My my point is that is that we don't know that there was that that they would be justified by faith until they've been tried. And if the We don't know that until they've been tried. And when they got when they were tried, they fell. And so I would argue that that that over attempting to say that they were just by faith previous to that. Uh we didn't know yet. In fact that's why Christ was crucified from before the creation of the world, because God knew that they wouldn't be and that there was going to have to be a process where Christ himself would demonstrate what trying to borrow from all these terms we're throwing out and tie them to the topic at hand. If we're going to be talking about, you know, what does it mean to be justified? What is righteousness? That's a little bit different than than death. But let me but again, let me frame it this way and pull it all together. Is someone who's unrighteous dead? Because those who are outside of Christ, right? They don't they it's not accounted to them as righteous. So those are as a Christian, you would say that those outside of Christ are are are unrighteous. before God. They stand condemned before God. So are they dead or alive? That's kinda swinging us back to kind of the question Jonathan was asking before. What is the dead in their transgression? I think we're in agreement. I agree with that a hundred percent. Now the the issue for me though, when you go back to Genesis is that when God comes down, Adam and Eve's entire makeup is different. Everything about them is w the whole reason Adam eats the fruit is because he listened to his wife, he doesn't want to lose his wife. And so now He's looking at Eve and says, you know what? She made me do it. He is not there to defend his wife. So his whole entire view of his life is totally. Eve, why'd you do it? Well I got deceived. Okay. Serpent, you're crawling on your belly the rest of your life. So even today, snakes are a living symbol or a parable of what happened in the in the Garden of Eden. But then he says, I'm gonna I'm going to put enmity between you and the servant. So now he has to he just like he divinely intervened with dust to create life, he divinely intervenes to put be to give us choice again. So I'm going to give you enmity between you and the devil. So in second the reason this all ties together is this is that God gives each one of us opportunity to choose Jesus Christ. He is a very long-suffering God. So for me, I look at death and there's a spiritual death, I agree. That unless you accept Jesus, we're all dead men walking. But then the wages of sin being death will be an undoing of God's origin when God breathed into our nostrils, Ecclesiastes said Solomon says, you know what, I've seen it all. I have seen it all. And you know what our fate is? It's the same as an animal. My breath goes back to God, and my body returns to dust And that's the same as an animal. So why am I doing all of this stuff if that if I had the same result? So why so Seventh day Adventists believe that death, when God says, in the day you eat of this, you will surely die, is not so much you die on that day, as much as it is your verdict is read that day. You're going to die, unless and if somebody intervenes, which Jesus does And he intervenes on the cross and then it's through Jesus Christ that we then gain back this eternal life. So you're not saying that they died when they ate the tree and that that death that they died was was was intended to s to to describe spiritual death. You're saying that that the verdict was that they would die Eternally meaning that their breath would be taken away and that they would not have an eternal life. That that was that that was the judgment Well I want to make sure uh and I don't know if this is for next week's show or not, uh but getting into the whole Lazarus situation, the Seventh Avenue, we believe there's two deaths. So We believe the first one. No. The first one is sleep. So when Jesus goes to raise Lazarus up, he goes, listen, you know, we're I'm gonna go I'm gonna go uh to Lazarus and they say, Why are you wasting your time with Lazarus? He's dead because he's not dead, he's just sleeping says we'll be sleeping, let's all go. Okay, let's all let's go sleep. And he goes, No, no, he's dead. So in your mind, I what you think is death, I call sleep. Now in Revelation 20, the Bible says that there is a second resurrection, and blessed and and holy are those and and blessed are those who take part in the first resurrection. over them the second death has no power. So for me, what you believe about sin, what you believe about death, ultimately influences what you believe Jesus Christ accomplished on the cross and ultimately what Jesus Christ does as far as eliminating sin. Eradicating sin, because the Bible says Jesus Christ became sin for us. Yeah, it's a big deal. So then ultimately that means that if we don't choose Jesus, each one of us becomes sin. That's the voice of Morgan Kochenhauer. He's the pastor at the Frederick Seventh day Adventist Church in town. And Jonathan Schweitzer is the other voice you're hearing on the show. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930. W F M D. So I I'm I'm not sure. I think I was tracking pretty good and then I Did I lose you. And then I felt like I might have gotten sideways and I'm sure it's not you. I think I uh was probably trying to process something you said and I might have missed like the next sentence of like, wait a minute, now I'm playing catch up. So, in the garden, Adam and Eve sin. Yes. God, therefore, you're dead. But you're saying I guess they're as good as dead because they're going to eventually die a physical death is what you're arguing there. That there's a first death, it's a physical death that is sleep. But you're call is that am I track is that correct? Am I just so when when God says that you will die, he's talking s merely about their physical animation. And that they would at one point because they've now eaten from the tree they weren't supposed to, there will come a day when you will no longer be physically animated. And you will sleep, or what we sometimes call death. So it's not the ultimate kind of death which normally gets uh understood, at least in the circles I've traveled. We're talking about a spiritual death, a separation from the favorable presence of God. Right. Uh there's a passage or two that I think would be used to argue that there's more going on there. For example, when Jesus um tells the parable uh about A man named Lazarus. Rich man and Lazarus. The rich man and Lazarus. Mm-hmm. Which is a parable. Uh which is a parable, but Like like uh in all of Jesus' parables, um there's parts of the parable that that are assumed to be Normal to everyday life, normative. And then there's there's the point of the parable, right, which is related to normative life. Right? Like Jesus in no other place telling a parable creates a fantasy world in order to make his point, meaning Jesus never uses myths to tell his parables He talks about a woman that lost a pearl or a you know a guy that's sowing seed. These are real life situations that we're supposed to we're supposed to draw his point from the real-life situation. So for us to assume that the parable between Christ uh about Lazarus and the rich man, all of a sudden for the first time Jesus is creating a kind of cool little fantasy story to make a point. is a pretty big step for me, even though whenever I talk to people about this passage about eternal life, they say the same thing. And it's I'm just not comfortable with with saying that Jesus all of a sudden decided he was gonna use a fantasy story to to to make a point. Especially when he's dealing with something that he's dying that we could have eternal life. You know, he's He's talking about Moses and and and you know, people that show up on on on the Mount uh you know, uh Mount of Transfiguration you know, that are historical figures, for him to all of a sudden throw a fantasy story in there is hard for me. So anyways, but in that story The people that there are people with Moses or Abraham and there are people in torment, and they are conscious. Right? And so that that seems to give me the impression that Jesus is using the oppos opportunity, you know, to make the point about repentance that he's trying to make. uh to also recognize that he believes in resurrection and he believes in in a judgment after death and he's he's giving us a picture into that that only he would be able to have. And so I'm just saying that it's hard for me to to well, especially if if there's spiritual if if there's sleep like you're describing and then Jesus the one time he talks about, you know, people that are dead and and what what they should face, you tell him this story about judgment. And then in that one story he's going to uh make up a story and not even say, look, you know, people really are gonna sleep for a period of time. But look, let's just imagine if this was happening. I mean he doesn't say anything like that. He's he's saying that this is this is what could have happened because it's normative and uh this is an issue. So that so the story between Lazarus and the and the rich man is that Lazarus was the the the poor man Uh that was at the city gate and and the rich man. Uh they both die and go to heaven. Turns out that the rich man was a sinner and goes to hell. Lazarus is up in heaven And the story describes the rich man begging, is it Abraham or Moses? Abraham. Begging Abraham to let Lazarus get a little bit of water, bring it and touch it to his tongue. Right. And then he's saying, look, at least let Lazarus or somebody go back and tell all my family members how bad this is so that they don't come here. Jesus' whole point is look, you know, if they don't If they don't uh repent at the preaching of other prophets, telling them what hell is really like isn't going to change their mind. Right. He he makes a very dramatic point there. Yeah, but when you look at that parable, that's not s that's not a parable Jesus made up. It's a it's a it's a parable that was contemporary to Jesus' time that he used to prove a point, which is If you don't believe the word of God, then if someone comes back from the dead, you're not going to believe them either. And so what he was trying to prove is in all those miracles were only there to bolster what does Scripture say? What's the Bible say? And ultimately that's the debate across denominational lives is do you believe what this book says? Clearly Every conversation, whether you believe you go to church on Saturday or Sunday, what do you believe the Bible says? And ultimately, what do you believe your interpretation is? And I was talking to you earlier, is ultimately, I mean, the Bible says Trust in the Lord with all your heart, lean on on your own understanding. Well, do you know when you're leaning on your own understanding and when you're not? No. No. So that's another terrifying thing. In in Saw uh Solomon says God he says listen. I'll give you anything. I'll give you a long life, I'll give you this, this, this, and he goes, I want wisdom. I need a discerning heart to know the difference between good and evil. Now, when we talk about sleep uh Jesus that's a key key passage. That's Ecclesiastes six, is it? What? The the passage about when a man dies. Uh Ecclesiastes three, uh but then but going to the sleep passage when you look at First Thessalonians, when Paul's writing to them, he tells this message that, hey, listen, Jesus Christ is coming back. And all these people believe the message, they join the church. And now they're watching all their loved ones die and they're thinking, oh shoot. I thought they were gonna I thought Jesus was coming before we're gonna die. What's gonna happen to all these people that are dying? And he says We do not want you to be uninformed, brethren, about those who have fallen asleep. So even he is reaffirming that these people are sleeping. So God can bring you back from this death. Because there's a lot of people they say, well I don't want to get cremated because I don't know if God can bring me back from cremation. So is am I right that Old Testament and New Testament that the language of sleep is used to describe those that have died? A bodily death. Yeah, for us. Yeah. And so um the question is whether or not that falling asleep refers to what we seem to see with their physical body or whether or not it refers to something in terms of like where their soul is, you know, uh in terms of e you know, heaven or or, you know, whether or not there's an existence that that is beyond um that is beyond the body after death. And and my point in in asking that is just that um I think your key passage for driving in that direction would not be passages about sleep, because the question is how do we define that term sleep? Because it could just be you know, like the Bible doesn't come out and say uh Adam and Eve had sex. Hm it says they slept together But it's clearly not saying Adam knew his wife. Well look, I know you, but I don't know you like that. Right? And that that's my point, is that the Bible in various places uses terminology. Uh that it's important for us to recognize what it's saying, what it's not saying. And it it appears to me, let me know if this is right that the Ecclesiastes passage is the key is is a key kind of crux passage. for you defining that that sleep in the Bible means a spiritual s uh slumber, uh you know, a state of not knowing things that are happening. As opposed to just physical death. Let me jump in here because uh we're we're running out of time and uh I'm I'm thinking of a couple of verses in Ecclesiastes chapter nine and maybe we'll we'll Next week we can begin with some of these ecclesiastic verses and and uh and try to grapple with those. Uh for the record, uh I would agree that we don't want to rest our entire argument on a parable uh that Jesus told But I don't think that's what in fairness, I don't think that's what Jonathan's doing. I think it's it's part of his arsenal of his argument. If that if his entire argument rested on that parable, I'd be a little bit nervous because it's It's it's merely a parable. But as uh as additional ammunition for your argument, I think it it helps your case. But I don't think it's interesting. But I I don't think it's definitive. Well you could be wrong. That's okay. I could be, but I'm not in this case. And uh it's interesting we talk about a di different Lazarus, but there's a play coming up uh at your church, Morgan, uh in about two weeks, um that's talking about a different Lazarus, uh uh Glorious Unfolding is what it is called. If you Go to the website again, I'm sorry, it's AriseforGod. org. AriseforGod. org. You can find out more about the play. It's going to be the 6th and 7th of April, 7 o'clock, both nights. That's a Friday and a Saturday night. It's a free event, however, you've got to get a ticket. So go to ariseforgod. org and uh see how you can go about getting your ticket. All right, they won't let you without a ticket. They will treat you as though you're dead. No they won't. Could try. No. I I'm trying to tie it all together. It's not working. Anyway Thank you guys, uh John and Morgan for being on the show. Uh thank you for listening. You can visit us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. Until next week. How long from now? 167 and a half hours from now. Hey, use that time well, huh? Yeah, please. Yeah. Get some rest of it. God bless.