The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. So you're going to a church and you're thinking about leaving, should you? Or you're not going to church, you're thinking about going to one, but you don't know which one to pick, and you find one you think maybe that's the one it should go to, should you? We're here to try to help you navigate through that on this week's edition of the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMB Also on the FM at uh 99. 9 HD2 via one of those fancy radios. And we're heard all around the world and probably out into the uh universe somewhere at www. wfmd. com. You can listen to us live or you can listen to the podcast later. And you can connect to the podcast uh and all sorts of other information at my church's website that's household of faith in christ dot com household of faith in christ I'm Troy Skinner, pastor of that church, and two other pastors of another church in Frederick County are Imran and Daniel Rasby. They're on the show as well this week, and they've got a ministry that has a website. It's called conqueredbylove. org. Conquered by love dot or g. So last week we started with the idea of the setup was that I had mentioned a few months back now, probably five, six months ago now, on the show. that I was hard pressed to in good conscience identify churches in our immediate area, in the Frederick County area, that I could feel good about recommending because I just don't know There's some I know I I would never recommend. And there's some I felt like, yeah, I I think I would recommend them three years ago, but what I still recommend them today. And we talked about some of those things. They have to they have to be believe in the Bible, they have to read the Bible, teach the Bible uh not make up their own stuff, make the Bible say what they want it to say. They have to be uh you know they have to defend the the right to life of the unborn. Uh they they have to uh be biblical in their sexuality questions, what you know, whether it be uh uh uh promisc uh promiscuity in or outside of marriage among uh a man and woman, or, you know, sexual identity issues uh among those that identify as uh uh as um same-sex or homosexual or anything like that. They have to be difficult on those questions. Um I'm trying to think so we said that some of the non Issue well they they they're important, but they're not the kinds of things that would keep us from recommending another church is if they disagree with us on questions of baptism or end times view. Um or trying to think of anything. And we made a strong recommendation for finding a church that has kids and parents worshiping together. Right. Yeah, that wasn't a knockout blow, but yeah, we have we would have a strong preference trying to find a church that's gonna really Help to equip the parents to train up their kids rather than take that responsibility from the parents and try to train up the kids without the parents. That's that's an important thing. and say, hey, uh you know, I think I have a good church and this is why. We'd be happy to talk to you. We're not here to bash churches. We're here to promote God, to promote the Bible and God's word. So this is not a a uh a show that we're trying to say, hey, we're better than everybody else. No. God is better than everybody else. Oh I try the Bible is the truth. It's not just uh like a cliche thing to say, oh I know I'm sure we get things wrong. No, I'm sure We get things wrong. There are things that I know that we're not doing as well as we might because of you know, the stage of development our church is in, the nature of the people we have. my own personal will uh limitations and I I I would benefit from having somebody who has different skill sets to to come up and join what we're doing. Or there are certain things that I know at week in and week out. I was like, boy I wish we did that better. So I'm not saying that we're perfect by any sense, but but we're being as ob as diligently obedient as we can identify given our situation from the pages of scripture. That is by f that is the motivation. And that's what I'm saying with these other churches. Yeah, and one of the other things that that we came up after the we uh the show last time is there should be a um specific leadership and uh accountability. When a pastor does not have accountability, that tends to lend itself to being become cultish and led by the the pastor with no accountability th th it can change. Unless it's a church plant and there's like three people at the church or something, you need you need to have elders. You need to have multiple Right, in that case multiple men, not Men and women, multiple men that are accountable and the leaders. Absolutely. And in that case they're gonna have some other sort of oversight and accountability and structure in place that's gonna help them with the church on usually, not always, but usually. And if they're smart and savvy, they're gonna realize pretty quick I better address that and they're going to figure out how to build that quickly. So if yeah, you find a a new church and they don't have that in place, there's just the one pastor, but you talk to the pastor and he says, Yeah, you know Uh it's a it's a ch challenge for us, but we're going to have some sort of an elder-led structure in place inside of the next calendar year. Like that's definitely where we're going. Okay Good answer. That's fine. 'Cause like you said it might not I mean if you've got like ten people in your church and the only person qualified to be an elder is the pastor We're not gonna take unqualified people and make them elders. That's just not gonna happen. There's a there is a list of qualifications in the Bible for what to be in Timothy and um in one other book. Uh the two. There's two different lists of you must be this and this and this. We're not going to go into it today, but you can look it up What are the qualifications for an out of the Bible is very clear, so it's not my list or your list, it's it's what the Bible says. There's one thing that that may come up, and I and I think you'll agree with me Um do you think it should be a requirement that the pastor or elder i has a seminary degree? No, because there's no biblical requirement for it. I'd say if anything, it takes the skills against the church, not for the church. Who went to liberal seminaries. By liberal, I don't mean they voted for Hillary Clinton and Joe Biden. I mean liberal theologically. And by that, there is some overlap. Because uh liberals politically, uh part of what defines that is the words on the page of the Constitution don't really mean or need to mean what the words on the page of the Constitution mean. And I take that same ideological stance with the Bible too. The words on the page of the Bible don't really mean or need to mean what they really say. They can mean whatever I want them to say. It's a living breathing document and I'll just import my own ideology into the white space on the side. So that's what I mean when I say liberal, but so definitely stay away from a church that believes or teaches that. Your pastor may have been trained in one of those seminaries and that's something you should be very careful, make sure he doesn't actually agree with that or believe that. But uh many many I I guess most seminaries these days are liberal seminaries Um even if they don't overwhelmingly. Uh we've had a few of them over the years, and one of them would introduce me uh as you know Troy Skinner with an a Master of Divin Divinity degree from Reformed Theological Seminary. Well that's not something I want to brag about anymore because RTS has drifted increasingly in the last few years in a uh woke direction. I don't think that they're full-scale hardcore woke right now But they're right on the edge and the face might not be, but the professors are teaching. Exactly. And some of them I know some of those professor uh professors I know really well, and I don't think that I I like to hope they would never actually drip but they're gonna be outnumbered before they know it. So that you give us a good segue, right? There's a lot of passages we know that we were really surprised they oh they would never And then two years ago something happened. So what happened, Troy, two years ago in March of twenty twenty? Yeah, well and it and um three years ago almost now. And it's not just related to uh the um the virus that came out of the lab in Wuhan, it's also related to all of the protests and civil strife that were happening that year. Twenty twenty was just a crazy, crazy year. And so you got the combination of a I feel unbiblical response, generally speaking, by the church to the government uh dictates about how to handle worship or not handle worship. Uh and on top of that I mean wokeism has been a rising thing for year. People who have been paying attention. It's been gathering steam for decades And it really started to pick up a lot of steam of probably about seven, eight years ago. And then three years ago-ish, 2019 it just it was a hardcore sprint to the finish line and that came began to really come to a head where people have were able to see that the next year in the summer of twenty twenty with all those BLM riots and all that sort of stuff. So the combination of the And I don't know if everybody knows what I mean by woke. I'm talking about this idea that uh well you're hearing a political ad probably uh if you if you consume much media, you're hearing a uh political ad right now. Michael Huff running for county executive is running uh an ad or his people who people who support him, I'm not sure if it's him or people who support him running an ad, uh a hit ad against uh Jessica Fitzwater, the Democrat candidate, where she back in twenty twenty She's on record is a video recording of her saying that she's a white person and therefore she has white privilege and she says, I am a racist. So Jessica Jessica Fit Fitzwater is an an admitted racist, but we gotta understand people uh you know you just shook your head. I first time I heard it too, I shook my head. Like what is she what's going on She can understand from that point of view th they're not ashamed of that. It's a good thing. Now there's a hypocrisy thing because if she really believes that she has too much privilege and that she's taking power from somebody who's a person of color then she should not be running for the lead position in county government. She should be backing some person of color for that position. So there's there's that issue. But they they're proud of it. And there are a lot of churches, uh a a lot of churches that pastors stood up and they told the white people in their congregation that they needed to go to the black people, either if they if there were black people in their church, or black people they knew and apologize to them for being racist. And even if they did this, they would still be guilty of having white privilege and being racist because you can't ever change the color of your skin so you're always y you just are always going to be. And where exactly that is that in the Bible? Well That's the problem. When they're teaching social culture and not the Bible, that's the problem. See their argument would be and I'm not making the argument for them, but the just the their biblical argument would be that, you know Jesus and God always cares about the down downtrodden, the underprivileged, the poor, and we need to be concerned for them. In our cultural context, that would be you know, blacks and Hispanics and people who have been held down for generations and so if we really love them and we're going to recognize that our ancestors played a hand in that and so we have some guilt by association and we need to own that The problem is, uh my grandfather's sin is not my sin. I do believe the bot the there's a biblical principle of generational sin, and it can be become habits within families and there and there can be these these these strongholds where, you know, um I I don't believe that alcoholism is an inherited thing, but I do believe it can be passed down because if somebody grows up in an alcoholic environment they're more likely to take on that habit themselves because that's what they've been immersed in. So I do think there's a generational sin in that regard. But if my father was an alcoholic, I don't and and he beat my mother, I don't have any responsibility for that I didn't beat my mother. He did. And so to to t for me to take the guilt that belongs to him is is is not biblical. And that goes into an honor honor and shame discussion as well, which we maybe we'll have in a few months also. So The um anyway, so but they would make what they think is a biblical argument, but the problem is it's only focused on taking care of the poor. And so you're showing partiality to the poor, which the Bible explicitly, specifically says not to do. You shouldn't show partiality to the rich or the poor. And so it's a to but they're not d they're not reading scripture. And so any church that is quote unquote woke, that has bought into this It's not a church of God. Exactly. It's not a church of the Bible. And that's a lot of the churches, and so I can't recommend any of those. Right. And they're sneaky because you go off to a pastor and you say, Hey But let's say you were a woke pastor. You're not, Imran. I know you well enough. I know you're not. But if Sunny didn't know you, I didn't know you well enough. The last thing you want to do is go so Imran, are are is you are you in your church? You woke Absolutely not. You're gonna say no whether you are or not, right? You're gonna say no even if you m probably eighty percent of them are gonna say no because they realize it's kind of the third rail and You want to nuance it, well, I don't know, it depends on what you mean by a woke. And so you gotta ask some questions carefully, like, do you believe that all men and women are created equal in the image of God? and that uh melanin count in your skin has no effect on whether you're sinful or not sinful. You've got to ask them very specific do you think it's okay to show partiality to the poor because Jesus says we need to take care of the widow and the orphan? He's phrased it that way, they're gonna say, well yes, of course. And you got 'em. Because the answer should be, well, no. We don't show partiality in anybody ever. God's not a respecter of persons, and neither are we at this church. That's the right answer And and when you're doing your research and you look at the websites of different churches, if they have yoga and reiki and mazes, stay away That's all Eastern cultural mysticism that's gone in and that's no that is demonic. It's very dem demonic. I was taking a stand here and say that yoga is demonic. Yeah, if you were listening to this and you've done yoga and you're thinking yeah. Yeah, actually yoga has its roots in Hindu religion and it invites demonic possession. I think that uh yoga uh as originally imagined. I w I agree a hundred percent. But I wonder about, you know, uh mostly it's women, but it could be men too. The men and women that are just doing stretches that have been developed by people that practice yoga and they and they would call it yoga, but they're not actually spiritual. I'm just doing push ups in front of the bale statue. It's just to build my muscles. I'm not I'm not actually if you're if you got the bale statue involved you've got a problem. But but that's the same thing. But there's what I've said certain poses and stretches that they do that were probably developed in a yoga context, but that at this stage have zero typically the certain order of poses is designed to open up your uh mind and soul to demonic possession. And it works the same way whether you understand it's being done or not. Um that's maybe a topic for another conversation. I know. Um but definitely stay away if your church is sponsoring yoga. I'll make a I'll make a note. That maybe we can bring that up 'cause I I'm curious. I I might throw personally I think I might throw that into the category of uh of uh of like food offer offered to idols. I think I might put it in that category. So what Daniel's saying is look, there's a locked door. And if you press the keys in a certain order, it opens the door. Whether you know that you're pressing the keys in that order to open the door or not, you're pressing the keys in that order to open the door. So when you're doing yoga, and again we're all kind of like it's kind of like um uh uh hypnotism. Hypnotism opens up your mind to suggestion, including by demonic uh presence. And you could be doing hypnotism just for fun or because you think it's funny or a joke or for psychological reasons, but it opens up your mind to demonic possession. Well I will say this is to take these topics and swing them back into the main If a church is advertising Reiki and yoga and uh and and some sort of uh enagram uh diagnosis personality profile or something Those may you might not be as hardcore as Daniel and possibly Imran are on those, but I will say those are tells. Like if you're playing poker. The red flags. Right? These are flags that are popping up. It's like you shouldn't need an Enagram profile. You've got the Bible You shouldn't need Reiki. You've got, you know, uh biblical prescriptions of how to handle certain things. So those would be red flags at the least. They for me they wouldn't automatically be knockouts, but boy they would raise a lot of questions and I'm be I'd be willing to bet. that if I dug just a little bit deeper I'd find a whole bunch of other issues that I wouldn't need to have that be the knockout issue. There'd be other things that would just be part and parcel that goes with it. So the other big thing that happened in 2020 was COVID was COVID and the uh and the lockdowns that went with that. What is your guys' view on if a church went along with the lockdowns? I think it depends on the c how long Right, because w w they kept telling us at the beginning, oh it's just gonna be two weeks, we need to make sure we protect the people who are too vulnerable and we would not you know, that they're gonna g this is gonna spread too fast, we don't want to overwhelm the hospitals Two weeks and then it turned into two months or whatever. But if your church was still shut down, what say June of twenty twenty, that was a problem. It's one thing to say, okay, you know, if there's an outbreak, there there is biblical precedent for mask wearing. There's biblical precedent for quarantine. Look at the what the what lepers is supposed to do. Lepers are supposed to put a covering on their upper lip and stay away from everybody. That's for the sick though. We're bottling up the health what There's no there's no biblical precedent for that. Right. So the the what Danger thing is at that point we had a lot of mixed information. We didn't know what to expect. We were given a lot of false information, uh false guidance. And if you're if you don't know what to expect about the sickness, somebody could be carrying it. Yes, it's it it's prudent to be w and wise to be cautious. But cautious for a little bit, but not to the point where you're shutting down service and you're requiring people to wear masks and you can't sing without masks. I'm happy to be able to say that we did we did absolutely nothing to protect our church from COVID. We uh wore masks you're still alive? I I must be. We n nobody ever wore masks in the church And we never ever asked them. In fact we encouraged people not to. Um and nobody ever required vaccines or anything like that. We never stopped anybody from wearing a mask. Now The there are some many churches that required masks for the longest time and some of them actually required vaccines or they separated vaccination. That to me those for me, um you guys can see if you tell me if you agree or not. For me, those would be knockouts. I would not recommend a church unless they've repented of that, then I would recommend them. But So me it's not just I'll start with the points you did make. You made the point about the length of time. That is important. Now I, because of the nature of the way my my brain and my motivations work and because I happened to catch wind of the story in a particular context that had me way ahead of the curve compared to the average person. I was very early, like before the lockdowns, I was predicting the lockdowns were gonna come And people are like, You're crazy, it'll never happen. It's a free country. Constitution will not be. I was looking at all the data and I was like The narrative they're trying to weave here that I can tell I could feel the momentum. It's not true. If they're lying to I don't know the absolute truth of it, but I know they're lying. And it's nowhere near as bad as they're saying this is crazy. But not everybody's gonna be be as insane about that kind of stuff as I am. So I get it. So we're caught off guard and everybody's panicking and saying this is the worst thing ever and the death rate's like five percent, which is catastrophic and so they they shut down their churches. So the length of time because you shut down for a few weeks to figure out and you you Take the time to dig into the data, to dig into the stories, to see who's telling the truth. And it should have only taken a handful of weeks, a month at the most, in my opinion. 'Cause that's about how long it took me to figure out. If it took me a month it should take and I'm not you know, I'm not the smartest guy in the world. So if I could do it in a month, other people could figure out a month too And I think a little more meaning. I say by the summer of twenty twenty. Everybody really knew. Okay, so a f a few months. But it's not just how long. That's that's part of it. But also the motivation. Did they do it because of pastoral concern for their congregation? And this seems like it could be the worst thing ever, and I don't want my people to die on my watch, I'm gonna protect them. Or did they do it in their heart of hearts because the government told them to and they didn't want to get in trouble? Well if you ask them they're gonna say because we can't make it that was their motivation then they gotta answer to God for that because the church was more needed then then na maybe any time in the last twenty years. The church was needed and we went AWO. So aggravating to me. So many of the churches and the church leaders have said, well we have to obey the laws. And if the laws are these mandates, we have to go by these mandates. And I I know a few pastors that really had a good heart, but they really did not want to disobey what they felt was a law And they were not able to rationalize what the Bible said compared to what the law said. Right. And that's what happened with Sean MacArthur famously, you know, now in California. They shut down for about six weeks I believe Uh and then they realized no we need to open back up and then they got challenged by the government there and then they won and then they really dug in deep and they came out with a statement against it and they they went to court and they won and they got a financial settlement and all that sort of stuff. So they ended up on the right side But they w didn't start out on the right on the right side. John MacArthur is one of the more famous pastors in America and so hiz when he speaks it it resonates and it travels through you know social media and stuff. And early on, back in March and April, he was saying, You need to do what the government tells you, Romans thirteen. And I'm at the time like aghast. I'm like John MacArthur is one of the good guys. How is he so wrong on this? Well when there's a bomb exploding, you step back and assess the situation. That's what he did. It took him several weeks to figure it out, and they said no. This is the one. He basically he he hasn't gone quite so far as to admit that he specifically was wrong, but what he's saying now is the polar opposite of what he was saying in the spring of twenty twenty. So he is I I feel like he is uh uh matured his view of Romans thirteen where now it squares with what scripture teaches where it was wrong before. And I've got some grace for that. But McCarthy they say, hey, we righted the shit, we did we shouldn't maybe shouldn't have shut down as long as we did, but we fixed it and now we're moving forward. I would recommend his church. Very much. Right? If he wasn't Frederick, I'd recommend it all day. Uh and if somebody moves to California, I would recommend they go to his church. So that's not what I'm talking about. But the other thing is the requirements. If a church recommended somebody recommended, no, if somebody recommended, recommend all you want. If somebody said you must wear a face covering in order to come and corporately worship God, help somebody help explain to me how that's not a violation of Scripture. There is no ac that's an ex-biblical requirement. There's no requirement to wear In fact, there's precedent for certain false religions requiring that. Many thish to worship is done with masks on and six feet apart So you go figure. And if you've got a num uh just the right number of people, they would be six, six, six feet apart. And that was made up, by the way. I mean the whole thing's Peep pastors m I I've I've had some doozies on this show. I've had pastors that didn't know that Christ and Messiah were the same thing on this show. So I mean not all pastors are that bright. But as a general rule, pastors are generally pretty bright people And for them to be so hoodwinked by this sort of stuff is just i it makes me wonder about the condition of their heart and the condition of their of their strength of leadership, which is what we really need to get into, and we haven't even gotten into that yet, and now we're almost we're up against the clock on another episode I think we're gonna carry this over one more week to talk about because I still do. We've teased it last week and we didn't even get to it this week. Let's say you're going to a church you've been wrestling with I I think I maybe need to leave. We need to help that person figure out when it is time maybe to leave, and if they do, how they should go about handling that. We haven't addressed that at all. And I think that's an important pastoral thing for us to do. Uh we got about a minute. Um give me your elevator uh pitch. I'm in the elevator with you and I'm some pagan heathen Satanist and you need you need me to know what the truth is. You would share the truth with what words, Emran. Well, you you want to build a relationship. If you're just preaching, the person's not going to hear. You have to at least ask questions and find out where they are and find out what they're looking for and and go f go from that point and care about somebody. You know, ask questions and listen to what they're saying and then say questions. What kind of questions? I mean the questions are, you know, where are you going to go for eternity? Do you know what's going to happen after you die? D and why do you know that? Where does that knowledge or wisdom come from? And who makes for the rules? You know, why do you do something right when you say it's right? Why is it right? Who makes those rules? And that gets you the question of actually finding out where God is and who God is. Because if they don't have the fear of God, there's no wisdom. You can't argue with a fool And we're going to let that be the last word for this week's show. Imran Razley is the voice you just heard. Thank you. Daniel Razley also on the show this week. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. You can find Uh a whole bunch of information about the show and us and our churches, and you can put out a request for prayer or ask a theological question at household of faith in Christ. com Household of FaithInChrist. com. Of course, you can go to the station's website to connect to the show as well. That's WFMD. com. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless.