The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. And today is probably as good a day as any to present to have that announcement running because I'm sure we're gonna tick some people off. A number of months ago, before we started our series um on all the family and and uh parenting issues and stuff, we did a series of shows on that. I think it ended up being, if I'm not mistaken, somewhere on the baker's it was either a dozen or a baker's dozen. It was like twelve or thirteen shows that we did. on those. And so that covers like three months worth of shows. And before that, I can't remember exactly what the topic's for, but somewhere in the mix of a month or two before that series started Um I made a c I don't know if it was a topic or if I just made an offhand comment about, you know, it I'm hard pressed to find a church in Frederick County. that I in good conscience would feel comfortable recommending to somebody outside of the people that are re represented on this show. And this show, by the way, is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. You can find my church and information about this show and people on this panel at our website, Household of FaithInChrist. com. And the two voices you'll be hearing additionally are Imran Razvi. You want to say uh hello so they recognize your voice? Hello. And Daniel Razvi. Hello. And uh they're pastors with a house well they they have a uh ministry called Conquered by Love. They're online at Concordby Love. org and they uh have a church on the northern end uh the thermott area of Frederick County. Called the church that meets at Imron's house. That's right. So you put a lot of uh marketing research behind that to find out what would really resonate and that's it was the Bible. Yeah, and actually that's where House of the Faith came from. You know, Galatians talks about the House of the Faith And the only one here with any faith, so you have faith in it. So I wanted to make it I wanted to make it clear that we were not just any random faith, but you know, a Christian faith. And so that's where we added the in Christ part. That's how we got our church name. So it wasn't not a lot of marketing research good in that either. And well go ahead. So uh so in in in the topic that you had, you can't find people or churches to recommend to people. And it's not because we're not tolerant or we don't, you know, like people or whatever. It And also it's not just a general feeling, oh I don't I don't get along with this pastor or whatever. No, there's actual logical reasons why you would choose to go or not to go to a specific church. And that's kind of what we want to get into today, right? Yeah, and there's two aspects. And the first thing I want to uh uh to throw out there just so we remember that this is at least for now not what we're talking about, and maybe we'll swing back to this as a separate question But we're not saying is if the things we talk about today aren't checking boxes where you already go, we're not saying that means you must leave where you are. Right. Because that's a separate question. But if you're not going somewhere already, or if you've made up your mind, you know what, I mean, my church jumped the shark a while ago and I've been doing the best I can and I've got to find a better situation to worship for me and my family, that sort of thing. And they might come to somebody like us, because we're pastors in town. We have a radio show, and they're like, hey, you guys probably know a lot of people. And I'm not really so keen on going where you guys are you're not close enough or I don't like the smallness of your churches or you know, there's some weird theological thread that you guys are involved in that I just it's not where I am. Who else would you recommend It's in that spirit where I'm like, I have a hard time because my rubric has changed in the last couple of years. A lot of churches that I might have recommended a few years ago have exposed themselves as people that given the the moment in history that we are, I don't know if I could tr to trust or recommend them. Or did you s uh s stand strong and the world moved? Yeah, well, you know, I like to think that, right? We all like to think that. So the world changed. I'm fine. I'm steady as she goes. So anyway, so if somebody comes to us. Let's run through some of those things. So you can start disqualifying churches really simply and really easily just by asking a couple of simple questions to the pastor. And if they if they don't have a satisfactory immediate answer to these two questions then you know to run, first of all. So one is during your service do you read from the Bible at all? It's amazing how many church services just never do. Yeah. So that'd that be one. If the answer is no or oh sometimes or we teach about the b then run. Run f don't don't walk. Run away from that church. And the other one is what do you believe about abortion? And the answer should be immediate. Abortion is murder. It's killing a baby. If they can't say that or oh it's a complicated or I'm s then run. Those those the w the one about the Bible and the one about culture, those give a really good um sounding board for which way a church is going. But there's a th you can get a lot deeper than that. And these days you may want to ask other questions about traditional marriage and things like that. T yeah, traditional marriage, homosexuality. First of all you have to have a biblical worldview. And if you don't know or don't don't are not sure about your biblical worldview, that's the place you should really start the your study to find out what is a biblical worldview. And uh then from there then those are the questions you should ask the any prospective church or pastor uh about those view views. If they don't have a biblical world view, then they're not a biblical church. They're just a um a funhouse waiting for people to show up and and make money. Yeah, the problem is I think that people who really want to go to a good church that's going to teach the Bible and have a biblical world view They might want that because they realize, you know what, I don't know that I have the view the Bible tells me I should have yet. So I want to go to a church where I can learn what that view is. So they don't even know how to ask the right question. I will say this, and this is where I say we're gonna you know we're gonna take some people off. You can lop off the vast majority of the churches uh in Frederick County from from my position for two very simple reasons. Uh I'm a Protestant So I'm not going to recommend a Roman Catholic church because there's a reason why I'm not Roman Catholic. And so now th all the Roman Catholics are what's you're you're bigoted. Hey, you're you're not Protestant, so you wouldn't recommend a Protestant church yourself with that. But haven't you heard that the Pope said that the protest is over? Come on back to the Catholic Church. Yeah, well that's a that's a that's probably a good topic for another show, by the way. Um the other thing is the mainline Protestant churches, I couldn't recommend any of them a good conscience because they they exposed themselves years ago as being theologically liberal. And by that I mean they don't believe the Word of God is like the inspired, inerrant, infallible, you know, authoritative word of God. And well, okay, then I might as well just join a country club and ask everybody their opinion about things. So I'm not and I'm obviously not gonna recommend any of the uh uh non-Christian organizations or the places that might call themselves a Christian church that are, you know, among the Christian cults, not going to recommend those either. So that's and even pretty narrow right away. So even out of those people that will say the Bible is inspired Word of God There's a lot of churches that either have now or would not be opposed to having a woman pastor preach on Sunday mornings Right, yeah. So now we're getting into some of the the uh the more specific things that will help add some clarity. Yeah. And I you we're on the same page, right? I'm not gonna recommend a church that has female eldership. A female preacher, pre uh female leadership. I'm just not because I want to be a bigot or a uh a a misogynist or something like that, but because Based on what I see in the inerrant word of God, I don't see where you can be in accord with Scripture and and go there. And so I want to argument church is in accord with Scripture. are are very clear in scripture, but these gay w for one is something you cannot be acting in that lifestyle and be a Christian. But Uh uh being a woman and being a pastor, there's some verses that are very clear about that. So you can't really hold positions saying the Bible is a hundred percent true and inspired and you must obey every single word of it. But also you can have a woman pastor. Th those two things don't go together. So if you've compromised on one issue like that, then you're likely to compromise on other issues. That's what you find with people who start becoming more accepting of the gay community and so on, transgenderism When you compromise on one issue, then you're more likely to compromise on other issues. Give them enough time and they become the churches that have, you know, uh so you people who identify as homosexual or even engage in homosexual activity. uh preaching. So so you may not you may not have a deep understanding of the theological arguments about the different types of baptism But you can see from the church leadership, just Google them, go on the website, if there's a gay pastor, there's a female pastor, or if the church tells you that being gay is okay when you're a Christian. Those are some easy things you can look for and you don't have to be steeped in Christian theology to understand what that means. And having had conversations with people who listen to this show and then they see me, you know, uh out and about or something, uh I I know there's at least a couple of people that They they listen to this show hoping to learn a little something beyond just the the very sort now we're not there are better resources than us for really going deep. But for those who want to know, the issue about women uh in leadership would be the complementarian versus egalitarian uh position. And so churches that are egalitarian are men and women they can both do the exact same thing. The scripture doesn't uh what scripture says about that can be nuanced in such a way and contextualized in such a way and culturized in such a way that it doesn't matter. And there's the complimentary uh complementarian view, which is that it's not that women are unimportant, that they're not valuable, that they're not gifted, that they're not talented, or even less important, that they're not amazing. In fact I'd be willing to bet I could identify a handful of women I know personally who could preach a far better sermon than most of the men that stand up and preach on Sunday morning in this county. But they can't. Because the Bible says they shouldn't. So it's not about hating women, it's about trying to be having integrity towards God. But you brought up the baptism question. That's not one for me. I would recommend a Presbyterian church who baptize in at baptizes infants as readily as I would recogn uh recommend a church that would only uh baptize uh a a a a more mature someone who can give uh a testimony of their face. And also immersion versus sprinkling and things like that. Yeah those those are not knockouts for me. No. They they shouldn't be. Because I think peop people Have uh the hills that they die on that they really don't need to die on those hills. And there's a lot of issues doctrinally that are another one. Even I would say to some extent um reformed Calvinism versus Arminianism. And to some extent I think even that is is not necessarily a knockout. Depends on to what extent, maybe, uh to one extreme or the other. But So it's a lot about salvation. So do you want to take a second? However I can't assume everybody's listening to every show we've ever done. So Calvinism, Armenianism, those are probably terms that should be I can define them, but I've been doing a lot of talking already. So Calvinism comes from John Calvin and uh the theology is people now call it reform theology generally. Um it's uh it not trying to be associated necessarily with Calvin's name. And our meaning would be the opposite of all of the reformed theology, but there's a lot of nuances between them. And so generally reformed theology is more has more emphasis on the sovereignty of God and controlling when who gets saved and when they get saved. And the the uh Armenian's uh um or free will doctrine has more emphasis on the person having a choice to come to Christ or not And if you look at it, there's actually verses in the Bible that talk about free will and predestination and they're both there. Um and so that's kinda why I say, look You can be really bigoted and dogmatic about one side or the other, but there are verses that talk about both, and I don't think it's a reason to knock out the the church. churches that would uh be recognized as Calvinist, Reformed churches, I wouldn't recommend if they're hyper Calvinist, if they're like cage stage Calvinists or they're just like crazy and and it's almost cultic and and that's a real problem. Well can you can you give an example what that means? 'Cause hypercalcism is kind of a Both word two. Yeah, well, okay. Well let me finish my my thought and I'll swing back to that. And then on the Arminian side, uh which is uh named after Jacob Arminius, um uh with the emphasis both both views have a view that th that uh that individuals have free will the question is to what degree do they have the free will. And so the Arminian view would be that humans have free will to such a degree that that is preeminent when it comes to salvation. And the Calvinist or Reform view would be that yes people have free will, but it's below God's free will. Free will God's free will trumps our free will. And even though we have free will, we're slaves to sin, so we can do what we want, we can choose what we want, but we're gonna choose Sinfully. We're gonna seem to reject God because that's the state we're in now. So it it's it's it's very nuanced, it's very difficult. All of us on the on the broadcasts are reformed to some extent. He would fit that bill as well based on the conversations we've had on this panel before. So But the Arminian, I will say that most of the Arminians uh that I know, if you start to have a dialogue and you're not getting into the argument, you're not labeling, you're not trying to prove a point They're just talking, they're sharing as a pastor or as a believer. Functionally they're way more reformed than they admit. They have a much higher view of God's sovereignty than their system even allows them to. But the problem with the hyper Calvinists is it becomes um plastic. That's where you get the idea of the frozen chosen. Like you don't have to evangelize what's the point. God's already decided. And it's like And it's like, no, no, no, you're missing and they get argumentative and they want to put it the phrase I've used is when it comes to my reformed ideas, I hope there's there's we won't get into them now. There's five basic pieces to reformed doctrine. They're called the doctrines of grace. The tulip. Yeah the tulip is uh is an acronym that's used for it. Is it an acronym or acronym? Acronym? Acronym. Acronym is the word. Anyway, I hold all five, but I hold them nobody can well on the video we have a video going right now Uh uh people on the video can see. I hold them like this with an open hand. Yes. I hope my hand is open, my fingers are spread, and I'm holding them like this, and it's like the doctrine is like it's like spaghetti and it's kind of dripping and oozing through my fingers, but I'm hanging on to all of it The hyper Calvinist attends if they clench that fist and they squeeze the snot out of that spaghetti and it's not only that they're holding it so tight, there's almost they've almost made a an idol of a doctrine, but on top of that that's a fighting posture And they're very prone to want to fight. And I don't think that should be the Christian attitude on these sorts of things that Christians are wrestling through together. So yeah, that's not an issue that I would not choose a church over. Um but what are some of the ones that you would say in in addition to the ones you've already said, maybe some newer ones. Trinity is one. We've come across this. I I've come across this a number of times. I think we talked about this on the broadcast before. There's a growing number of believers, especially in the home church movement, and as uh and especially in um some non major denominations, you know, that are rejecting the idea of a Trinity. Um to the to be more specific, they're believing that Jesus is a lesser God or less than the Father somehow, or that he came from or c was created by the Father. And that is heresy. The Bible is very clear that Jesus is God. He is the creator. He is um the Almighty, there is no difference. They're they're different manifestations of the same person, but they are all the same person. Um and you can go farther to the extreme and you can have the oneness, the uh oh they're just one, they're not three I think actually that's more doctrinally sound than saying that there are three separate completely and one's better than the other or or greater than the other. That's a doctrine you want to ask do you believe in the Trinity? And yes, the word Trinity is not in the Bible. I understand the word Trinity is not in the Bible. But Jesus and God are equal. No, the the teacher and and the Holy Spirit for that matter. And people who teach it have come up with a they've coined some somebody, I don't know who, but somebody somewhere along the line, of Athanasius or somebody, coined the term And we use that term to recognize what this system of teaching from the Bible is all about. There's a lot of things that that we have labels for that uh you know It's not about you must believe in the the Trinity. What you must believe is you must believe that there's an eternal Father, an eternal Son, and eternal eternal Holy Spirit there Coequal they are one being three persons. You must hold to that. If you don't hold to that, you do not understand the Bible. You're not teaching the Bible And A UI Christian. And so if that's the case, then I can't recommend your church to somebody if that's if you're not teaching that. So absolutely that's the well-known The pseudo-denomination that holds to that would be the Jehovah's Witnesses and they would not be a Christian denomination. They're a separate religion. But there are some that call themselves Christians that that would also hold to that that Jesus is less than the Father. Right. Yeah. Well all of all of the what are called the Christian cults would would pretty much as far as I know they all deny the Trinity. That's that's they do they do other things that theologically are wrong with that. They I think they all pretty much have that one in common as far as I know in my sphere of the thing. And if you have to have another book or another set of books or people to explain the Bible. That's a problem too. You should be able to uh just really rely on the Bible and the Bible itself can uh can reference the other parts of the Bible Use the Bible to prove the Bible. That's it. You don't need somebody else's theology to say, Oh yeah or that God changed. He did not change. He's the same yesterday, today and forever. And you know, is that a problem with some some believers that's believing that there was a different God for the Old Testament and a different God for the New Testament? So that would mean that like you wouldn't recommend the Seventh day Adventist Church because they got the writings of L and G White that they kind of hold on a very high level to make it scripture, right? New revelation. Ellen White's writings to that degree. They b view her as as the author of books that are commentaries, just like you can read Calvin's commentaries too. Um so and old school Seventh day of Venice. But the denomination as a whole is still I think the official denomination the the the domination's official position in the last thirty years or so has been that the her writings are not scripture, they're not divine, they're not sure. So they've officially changed that. A as far as I'm aware of that's interesting. That's interesting. Um I I do I disagree with Seventh day Adventists more on the existence of hell. But again, I don't think that you have to believe in hell to be saved. Um I I think you should probably look for a church that does believe in eternal hell. I think that's probably important. Right. Um but I don't I don't know that you're not going to be able to do that. So yeah, there's a lot of things there that I might call them a cult. The Jehovah's Witnesses. I wouldn't be a cult. Or Mormons. Or the Mormons. The LDS. But I would not um recommend a seventh day Adventist Church because of all the reasons why I'm like, yeah, I just there's just too many things I can't agree with. No, I would recommend resting on the seventh day. I would recommend resting on the seventh day as opposed to the first day, but that's a separate issue. That's not really a um about the denomination. And I don't think that that's gonna be something that's keeping me personally on it from recommending a particular church one way or the other. thinking of because it's not really a doctrine thing, but I think it does speak to kind of the culture, the broader culture about the church. I would hesitate before going to attending met or being a member of a church that had a Sunday school. for children that was separate from the service. I would very much hesitate to go to any church or to recommend a church that has programs for children that teaches the children separate from the parents, that they're not in the worship service. I'm very much in favor of family integrated services, meaning all the family is there at once. You hear one service for everybody. If you want to have additional small groups time or outreach to different things. But the parents need to be involved with the children. The church should not be teaching your children separate from you. And I have a strong preference for that, but I don't know that if somebody said, Hey, I'm looking at a couple of different churches and I find out that both of them have what you just described, I don't think, Oh, you gotta stay away. I think that it'll be up. Because there's a lot of danger of having your kids hear things that you don't know what's being taught. It's just like sending them to public school, just like you shouldn't have your kids in public school or private school for that matter. It should be in homeschool. Um for the same reason you should not have your kids being taught by Sunday school teachers. Oh, but they're saved. Yes, they're saved. Maybe they're saved. We're hoping that they're saved, but there's a lot of weird, nasty stuff that goes on in the youth groups in Sunday school. I have a lot of um Anecdotal and personal experiences with people that I that that I know and have talked to. I mean they had had seances at youth groups. Um like Bible believing really inerrancy of scripture preaching churches. um have had, you know, um uh uh uh fornication and things during Sunday schools and youth groups. There's a lot of weird weird stuff. A lot of it's just some sort of a glorified babysitting in a lot of cases. They're playing fun and games, they're watching movies, they're doing something silly, they're getting themselves in trouble. They're not really learning anything that's edifying or gonna help them mature and grow a lot of the time. There are some good ones out there, I'm sure. Mm-hmm. Um and a lot of them have great intentions. But the the the thing is, is that what they should be uh uh Spending their time or s would it be more edifying for them to learn actual theological truths from the pastor in in the church setting? And in most cases you know it's it's much better in the in the group church. And when will they be ready? If they're in a youth group all their life, when will they be ready to understand the actual Bible? And so if you're with them and they're learning with you, then you can also actually have that discussion with them on the d at your dinner table in the car ride home. But if they're not with you, you can't discuss anything. I mean what do you know what uh you don't even know what they're learning. You know, we've only got uh a little over two minutes left on this week's show, so I think uh and there's some things that I anticipated would come up quicker than they have, uh, but we're talking about some long standing issues that the kinds of things we've talked about so far, the kinds of things that I would have said and you guys might have said Five years ago, ten years ago, fifteen a lot of the same things. But there are some new things I think that have garnered some well deserved attention. That we need to be thinking through and deciding where do we draw the line on some of those things. We haven't touched on those at all. I'm talking about things that are related to the uh so-called uh pandemic and that that sort of stuff. So and and and re things related to that where people showed their hand on some things that are troubling to me and and give give me some pause on whether I could trust them with somebody's soul to recommend that they go sit under their leadership. And then uh maybe we'll pivot from that point too and talk about that if if somebody's maybe going to a church is not checking some of these boxes we've already mentioned, some of the additional boxes that we might mention next show, when it's time to think about leaving and what the circumstances need to look like and how you can best handle that and you know um and some people struggle so bad. Some people struggle with hey I'm the salt in this church. If I leave then there's nobody left to even help these people Yeah, so that's and and that's and that's uh can be an interesting argument and I've heard so many make it and you know In some cases maybe it was the right decision, actually, and in some cases I'm not so sure it was. So maybe we can figure out how to help people find some wisdom in all of that. Right. So this has been the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. The person you said heard say right just a second ago was Daniel Razby. And the person talking right before that was Imron Razby. In case you're wondering, yes, they're related. They're twin brothers. No. Uh Imron is Daniel's father. And uh they pastor a church up in the the uh north end of Frederick County up in the Thurmont area. Uh Household of Faith in Christ is uh pretty much dead center in Frederick County and hopefully he'll be here for next week's show. If not, well he'll be here eventually. David Force is usually part of the panel and he's pastor of a church it meets in the southern end of Frederick County. Find us online at household of faith in Christ dot com. And of course you can follow the show at WFMD. com. Uh keyword faith. I think the keyword system still works. I haven't checked it in a while. And all the podcasts are there. But really, one stop shop. The the podcasts, my sermons, uh past pastor blog information about the panelists on this show, uh and anything you might imagine, resources you might need, uh if you want to make a request for prayer, our contact information, all that sort of stuff. Is there household of faith in Christ duck dot com? Till next week, 167. 5 hours from right now. God bless.