The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. I mean think about it. I'm not sure that this show repres represents the views of of me or the panelists on this show sometimes. I don't I don't know. What does that say? This is the Faith Debate on NewsRadio 930-WFMD, on the FM at 99. 9 HD2, and on the web. at WFMB. com. You can listen live or you can catch out uh catch out check out the podcast later on. Of course you can connect with this show and uh Sermons I've preached and the the church I lead and the pastor's blog and and vetted trusted resources and learn about the people who are on the panel on this show and all that sort of stuff. It's a one-stop shop for all of that, household of faith in Christ dot com, Household of Faithinchrist. com. On the panel again this week, Daniel Razvy, Imran Razi, and he missed the last couple of weeks, but he's here to join us this week is David Forcey, all four of us are pastors of churches in Frederick County. And I made the as I rec recalled it was kind of an offhand comment. I think it was the topic of the show. I think it was an offhand remark about me feeling hard pressed to comfortably recommend a church in Frederick County outside of the churches that are represented by the men that are in this room. It sounds very church, reach out to us and find out if we win. Exactly. Yeah. And I'll I'll I'll and I've done that not locally. Well uh in w I've helped some people try to find churches in Washington County. Uh I've helped people try to find churches in Virginia. Uh where else the people reached out to me? Uh I think in the Carolinas. Those people that find me online and they say you look like the kind of church I would go to if I lived like within driving distance, but you don't Do you know anybody near where I do? And in some cases, uh you know I might in one case I actually did know something uh of a church. In other case I don't really know, but I did some homework and I was able to help them figure that out because I know some of the red flags and yellow flags to look for that they Might not I don't know them all I'm sure but I recognize certain ones and so and some of those would be I look at their leadership And uh if they uh don't have a board of elders or not elder led, it's a church I'm probably not going to be comfortable recommending. Doesn't mean that it's a bad, unbi uh uh ungodly church. I do think they're unbiblical in that regard, but it doesn't mean that they don't do everything else perfectly well and that's their one blind spot because we're obviously going to have them. Um even if they are elder led, if anybody who's uh one of their preachers, teachers, or making spiritual leadership decisions for the body uh is a female. I feel like that's out of accord with the Bible, and so I'm not going to be comfortable recommending that church. Um if they don't take a biblical stance on sexuality questions, sexual identity questions, on the uh the importance of protecting the life of the unborn, those sorts of things. Uh so basically so far we've knocked out all the mainline churches. Um right? All the traditionally big, you know wha what used to be big churches, now they're just big buildings with no people in them. But the big mainline church, what are called the mainline churches, the old line Presbyterian, Lutheran, uh Methodist, um th those kinds of uh churches. I'm a pro Protestant, so I I really wouldn't probably ever see myself recommending a Roman Catholic Church. Um certainly not going to recommend a uh a a a Christian cult. So there's lots of things that are you can knock those out right away. And we we I don't know if it was on the air or in between shows, but uh if it was Daniel, I think it was Imron said, Well we just like knocked out ninety percent of the churches less like that. And it's true, I think we did. So you're left left with ten. And so I would say that as recently as three, four, five years ago, I probably would have been reasonably comfortable You know, m maybe I would have made some mistakes, but reasonably comfortable probably recommending about ten percent of the churches in Frederick County. And then the DLM riots happened and all the wokism went crazy and the COVID lockdowns happened and all the restrictions that were placed on worship happened. And I'm like, okay, I don't think it's ten percent anymore. And so the question is, what percentage is it? And if and I don't know, let's say there's three three hundred churches in Frederick. I don't know, that's a made up number, I have no idea. But if there's three hundred churches and we're the only three that we would recommend, we're down to one percent. So but I don't know. So what are some other we did not finish talking about the restrictions because of the government mandates. We did talk about um catching David up and you listener catching you up on if you missed last week's show. If your church shut down for any length of time Uh more than let's say uh if you want to be hardcore more than a month, if you want to be a little bit more gracious more than let's say three months and they didn't open back up. And they haven't repented from that, saying, you know what, we're never doing that again. That's probably not a church I would recommend. Uh it doesn't necessarily mean it's a church you should never attend. I'm just saying it's not a church I would recommend. Um if they put in place a recommend uh a recommendation that you keep some distance or wear a mask, I'm not a fan of that, but I wouldn't recommend against that. I could oversee that, but if they required it. If you could not come to worship unless you wore a face covering You already got a vaccine. Yeah. Yeah. Or or yeah, or require that you got the shot. Or require, you know or separating the body and saying, you're you're the clean, you're the unclean, and you must stay apart. You can't you can't greet each other with a holy kiss. I've got real problems with that and unless they've repented, publicly repented of it, I don't think I would be comfortable recommending them. And why am I so hardcore on this? Because of the times we're in. Things have changed palpably Things are way more dramatic and hardcore now than they were just a few years ago. And a few years ago you could kind of get away with, well, you know they probably shouldn't have done that. But you know what's the big deal? It's a big deal We've had a lot of freedoms as the church in this culture under this government for reasons that are slipping away in one regard, being stolen from us in another regard. And if we don't do something about it, it could happen fast. I mean i Troy, are you just now realizing we're in a spiritual war? We're feeling the profundity of that in America uh in a new way in the last three years. It's becoming much much more evident and much more easily definable that this is a spiritual war, it's not a war uh uh of anything else. And whereas before people could have hard to pinpoint that, now it's very visible this is the partial war. Yeah, so the I think I hit all the big ones that we ended up talking about. I mean there was some talk about yoga and reiki and things like that, but those were secondary things. And we did also mention there were a few things that We wouldn't uh choose to make issues to not recommend to church. Like if they differed with us on our view on baptism, uh our view on end times, I'm trying to think of some other things. There were some things where like, you know what, those are important, but we I wouldn't tell somebody don't go to a church Yeah, if they're Reform versus Armenian, you know, something like that. You know what, I would say if they're hardcore Armenian, if they're hardcore then they're really Pelagian, and I'm not going to recommend a P Pelagian church. I'm using some real theological buzzwords here. But uh uh if if but Basically, if they so emphasize human free will that God loses his sovereignty, I'm not going to recommend that church. We must maintain the sovereignty of God. And oh the Trinity, they must be Trinitarian. Uh you know, we talked about that a few shows ago, a couple of shows ago. So those are all must-haves. Um and I said if they're if they're reformed, I'm certainly okay with that because I'm essentially reformed. Uh I I don't know if I'm as hardcore as a lot of the reformed guys would like me to be, but I'm essentially reformed. Uh but I am nervous about some of those uh hyper Calvinist cage stage guys, the frozen chosen. We don't need to evangelize Uh if you don't believe in limited atonement, you by definition are among the uh the damned and you're going to hell because you disagree on that s on that issue of of s uh of soteriology. Okay, I agree with your theology, but I can't agree with your attitude behind that theology. Yeah, I I I heard a pastor from there argue that he said, you know, you should go out and evangelize, save as many people as you can, let God sort it out. You know, I think you can sort it out. Yeah, we're we're called to be obedient and to share the good news and and God knows those who are his. And and I don't know and I don't know those who are his and so I have to assume that everybody I'm meeting might be one of his who needs to hear the truth and I can be useful. any God's plans to uh have the Holy Spirit save that person. So are there any those are the big are there any issues that you know you're thinking about David? Yeah that you're like I would never recommend a church that did or didn't do or No, I think I think you had a a lot of good things and you know and certainly those are um You know, and I think it's good that you mentioned this, right? Like if there is a church that uh in some way responded to um, you know, in like manner uh with their their churches all the businesses were, you know, during COVID times, if you will. Um You know, a a and I think it I think it is good to say, okay, what is you know, what is their their perspective now, having looked back, like have they realized that they were you know, in the wrong. Um you know, and I and I think a lot of that is also in the church is like evidence of, you know, what are their how how how well do they discern things? You know. Um and the times call for discernment right now. Yeah. Yeah. But also a question you might want to ask yourself, uh, when you're looking for a church, are you looking to be entertained or are you looking to have a relationship with Christ? Because a lot of these churches, that's what they do, they entertain. They have basically, you know, it's a rock concert. very soon. But yeah, that yeah, you don't that's not a reason not to pick a church. Right. Because because uh because they don't have gifted enough singers, so I'm not gonna go there. So a couple a couple of things that sort of come to mind. Um and you know, you might need to spend a little bit of time there at the church to to be able to observe this, but uh, you know, is if a if a church is trying to um do th do everything entirely new, right? Is is not looking to um practice the the faith as it has been, you know, regularly practiced throughout centuries and millennia. Um, you know, if they're trying to do things very, very new in every way, uh that to me is a flag. Yeah, but David the uh one I think one of the peop things we're trying to answer is people that don't know what those traditions are. Because we talked about that briefly. Okay. Some of these people really don't know what's what is the biblical worldview. If you don't know the biblical worldview, how do you discern that this is a church that has it or doesn't have it? Well the the worldview or like the You guys talk through like formative practices like uh I think it they're both related. Formative practices of what the church has done for the for millennia b as well as what the biblical worldview is, because they're related. If if you don't have a biblical worldview, then you are going to bring in you know, uh the unnecessary or or uh uncall for senses or the the sense that God banned and and those are new things, uh new ways to worship God. That is not acceptable. Strange fire, yeah. Right. So I I I understand what you're talking about, but w what uh we would we've discussed a little bit is how do you dis how does somebody that does not know or is not as d uh does not have that experience, how do they find over red flags uh before they get indoctrinated and and realize they're n way over their head. Yeah. Uh I mean I I also I I guess I'd say you know, my approach would be like I'm looking I'm looking I would look for green flags first. Mm-hmm. Right? 'Cause the the more the green flags. And the first green flag we said is do they do you preach from the Bible? Do you read the Bible? Yeah. Yeah. That's a good green flag to have. And and do they pray? And do they uh um you know do they Do they believe in the power of God that it still exists? Right, right, right. Many churches don't. They they believe that the power of God is gone. Do they use the Bible to interpret the Bible? Scripture interprets itself. So I'll tell you one of the things I look for, you know, like when I've helped people try to find a church like that's not in our area and I'm and and they and I'll say, are there any churches that you know are near you that you're that are on your radar screen that you're curious about? I'll look at those first. And one I'm looking for buzzwords. Because a lot of people, like if you go to a pastor, we mentioned this a couple weeks ago, if you go to a pastor and say, is your church woke? Most of them say, no, we're not woke. But if you say, so do you uh do you believe that um Does everything end in justice? Yeah, exactly. Do you believe that yeah, is everything social justice, economic justice, uh sexual justice or whatever? Are are they using words like diversity a lot on their website or equity on their website Uh uh uh a a lot, things like that, inclusion, things like that. You know, if if if they're emphasizing the now there is something to be said for diversity. I mean we're all there's gonna be great diversity in heaven. But we've got to be careful having uh what I like to use a big theological word every once in a while, overrealized eschatology. So we take what's gonna be real for the future in glory and we pull it now as though we must have it now. So if a church is all about their main goal is to have an ethnically diverse and uh uh and uh demographically diverse uh eighth age group and that sort of thing, congregation, and that's their drive. I've had pastors say that. Oh, we're we're all about being diverse. Well, don't you think it should be all about sharing the good news? Like shouldn't that be your main thing? And if God chooses to bring different people into your context, that's great. You should be welcoming to them. But you shouldn't have as your mission to be diverse. God will bring the diversity. You shouldn't have as your mission to share the good news, to go and make disciples. Absolutely. Right? That's you have a great commission to fulfill. And it doesn't have anything to do with being diverse. So if they have all those kind of buzzwords, those are huge regards. They're off topic. The topic is the Bible, is Christ, and they're off topic. When you bring in those words, that's off topic. And then I'll listen to a sermon and see if they actually preach the scripture or if they bring up a verse and then they have just some topical thing that has almost nothing to do with the verse they read. That happens a lot. So are we gonna get to why we would leave a church? Okay. I was going to a biblical church. I knew the pastor. He was a great pastor. Really understood the Bible, really a preacher for the Bible. And we miss you, Imran. We hope you come back. But uh over a over a period of time and I was involved in teaching Sunday school and uh very involved with the church and and all sorts of things my wife was as well. But it got to a point where we were starting to feel that we were not growing any longer and uh there were some other people that were getting upset with us because we were actually having our children memorize the Bible and they felt uh convicted that their kids didn't know the Bible as well and and we were judging them and that we were being more conservative in our dress. Um we weren't letting our children wear, you know, very skimpy outfit. And so those things started culminating and um so it took us a year. We have decided that this is not working, we want to start changing, want to start trying to do something. We talked to the elders, talk to the pastor. And it took us a year, but the the way to leave a church is to talk to the elders and pastors. You shouldn't leave on bad terms. We should put bring your concerns. Say hey, this is where I'm uncomfortable, this is you know what I'm being led to. And you should really pray through this. Spend time in God's word. Spend time uh or searching out what God wants you to do and then talk to your pastors and elders and say, Hey, this is where I feel uncomfortable, this is what I'm looking for. Um and don't expect the church to change for you. Because that's not gonna happen. Okay. Now you may have said some things that might convict the elders of the pastor to move in a certain direction, which would be awesome. And you should try to do that. But at a certain point there you just have to look someplace else. We ended up leaving a a very good Bible church because we wanted more growth. We wanted more um deep discussions meet and getting into the with the word of God and actually discussing things as opposed to just being preached at. And so we ended up with a house church and the pastor that ran the house church I didn't agree with on a lot of stuff. But you know what it did? Just like s iron sharpens iron, when uh when you're when if if both irons the same, they're not gonna sharpen anything. If they're there's friction is what sharpens the iron, right? So there was friction and that made me go much deeper into the Bible, learn more And you know, pretty soon we parted ways from that church. Not too soon. We it took spend a year or so, but it we grew a lot. But the whole thing was we my wife and I, my family really were searching out what does God want for us So the right way to leave church is talking to them and and talking to the pastor and elders and actually having conversation and saying, these are my concerns. And it has to be something that I I feel is best if you don't just have a conversation with the pastor and say, hey, we've been thinking about it, praying about it, talking amongst ourselves about it, and now we're informing you that we're leaving. I think you I think it's helpful to let the pastor and the leadership of the church know that we have concerns and we're we're seriously making some cons giving some consideration about making a move, making a change. on giving them a chance to address your concerns before you just made up your mind we're leaving because maybe there's some things that they could correct you on that you misunderstand where they're coming from or they could make some accommodation like wow we never realized that that was so important to you Give them a chance to try to salvage. I don't think just showing up and saying we're leaving I've made that mistake in the past and uh it wasn't well appreciated by the pastor and he was uh rather uh rather um agitated in how he Yeah, the I don't think he handled his I don't think I handled as as as courageously as I should have. Uh but I don't think he handled it as pastorally as he might have in response to my lack of courage. But I would just encourage I would encourage anybody who's thinking about it. This should not be an easy decision. This should be a hard decision. A very, very hard decision. Absolutely. And with us we remained friends. We had a lot of friends in the church. It wasn't um we were leaving the church because it had a woman pastor or it had uh started ordaining uh homosexuality or things like that. It it wasn't that It was we wanted something deeper and we wanted uh we were really concerned about the promiscuity of the the the dress of people that are coming to church and erasing the clothing. I mean, when you know, my son Daniel was only about eight or nine years old And he's saying, Well, how is that woman's dress staying up? You know, now we had an issue there. So we wanted to that's something that was something important to us. Let's just use some of the issues that you just mentioned. Like uh rather noteworthy people pay attention to the the big names in uh American evangelicalism. Uh Rick Warren is a big name. You know, he uh he he he did a discussion with the presidents uh a number of years ago. It was a big televised event, the c presidential candidates. Uh he wrote a uh a very successful book about you know how to live a more Christian life. Uh I would not recommend his church. And so we think, oh Rick Warren, he's a big name, he had a best-selling book. He must be good. But he's been drifting more and more and more over the years and he's gotten really wobbly on the question of we talked about this, I think, our first week on this subject matter a couple weeks ago. on the egalitarian uh complementarian issue and he's totally fine with female pastors and teachers and leaders and he's still he's still in the Southern Baptist Convention which goes against their doctrinal statements. I don't understand how But they now he's now stepping down and he's being replaced by a husband wife tandem team. So if that's you It's like okay, I guess this is my last Sunday coming here. Is that the end or do you go talk to them about it first? Let me clarify because husband and wife can I don't know the situation in this case. But there's a lot of churches that I've I've seen that I actually would recommend that are led by a husband wife team. They're listed both on the website as Pastor and Pastor and Mr. and Mrs. I actually would still recommend those churches And you see this a lot in the black community actually. It's a very common way of of putting it on their leadership team. The woman is not actually preaching. But sh what does it mean to be the pastor then? They just call them both because she's leading the women in the church. She's pr teaching the women in the church. But he's the only one preaching. Not I'm not I don't know what Rick Warren's church that may be different, but there are certain churches where the the pastor and his wife are both listed in the leadership team, but she is very explicitly not given any teaching of men duties. Most of the tri and I know the the The uh the environment the cultural environment you're talking about there. Most of those churches I'm familiar with that have that kind of a setup or at least the ones that I feel like are trying to be really biblical. they will refer to they will make up a title, at least it's not a misapplication of a biblical title, and they'll refer to the pastor's wife as the first lady of the church. Yeah. That's that doesn't really bother me. It's like okay, that's not really a biblical title, but at least you're not calling her past but those that call pastor, I gotta say in my experience You maybe know some of the exceptions. All the churches I know where it's a husband-wife team that both have the title pastor, they both preach. I don't know I don't personally know. So that would be uh I would not be a favorite. So let's say you're let's say you W Rick Warren had a church in Frederick. Actually, we have an example of this. One of the biggest churches in Frederick County is uh Frederick Christian Fellowship and they had uh a male pastor for the longest time and now his number two, if I understand correctly, is a woman. So and I don't know if she preaches or what her what her role is in leading and discipling and shepherding the because there's shepherding involved that doesn't always involve preaching. Right. Right? So and and there's example in the Bible. If you were going there, would you leave FCF? Well there's an example in the Bible of Priscilla and Aquila, right? Aquila and Priscilla were husband and wife, and they both mentored and discipled Apollo's together. They took him into their house and they both mentored and discipled Apollos. It's in Acts 17, 18, something like that. Is she ever p is she ever positioned in Scripture as a pastor though? She is positioned as a mentorship and di uh mentor and disciple work Well all Christians are called together. Right. So that that's the type of role that a d w a woman can have in the church, but not preaching in the church service. And I think that's a that's that's a misnomer, right? I think the only the only job the pastor has is to preach. Trust me. It's not the only thing pastors do. Uh it can be rather overwhelming. The other kinds of things you have to do that have to do with the the discernment issues we've been wrestling with on these past few shows. Like what's the direction we need? How do we respond as a team, as a elders, we need to determine how are we going to respond to these government mandates? Whether you're preaching or not, you're involved in making a spiritual leadership decision, and that's something that I think the Bible reserves for those who are the elders. Right. I mean I think one of the issues that you know that comes up with you know your example of Rick Warren or you know or even probably uh FCF is You know, is there's a I I I would be leery of a church that is so large that you don't have uh a personal relationship with with at least one or several of the elders. Of the elders. Yeah. Um because there is no very good way to leave such a large church. And and you won't be as missed probably unless you're one of the few people that you know, is so involved that you that you do have a a close personal relationship with with some of the elders. So m you guys didn't really give me a straight answer yet. If you were at Rick Warren's church, then that would be a time to just get it. I do differentiate there's some ti some church services there's an open time of testimony and sharing. And there'sn't I don't think there's any prohibition in the Bible of prayer. or giving a testimony by woman. Right. Yeah. No, I I I'm agreeing there. Okay. No, that's not what I said. Right. Right. Right, yeah. No, I'm preaching the sermon. That's what I'm saying. Okay. I think we're gonna actually transition probably into the music question, but it actually is related a little bit to this. uh uh the question what you're looking for in a church and and and what what what's good biblical. So we're gonna talk about uh worship music, worship style, worship uh song choices, those sorts of things on next week. show. So thank you gentlemen. David Forcy joining the party. Daniel Razvy, Imron Razvy, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD online at WFMD. com and you can follow us. um through my church's website as well, household of faith in Christ dot com. That's going to put a wrap on it for this week. Till next week, about 167. 5 hours from right now. God bless.