Broadcasting from the West Side of Big Brother City. In the heart of Gridlock County, we're preaching with impact. It's like plowing pavement as people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate Sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? The faith debate is online at WFMD. com keyword faith There you'll find links, the podcasts, news items, and the faith debate blog. Our blog is your blog. So email me, Troy Skinner at clearchannel. com. I post what you send me 18 posts go up each weekday, Monday through Friday. That's 90 per week. So there's a lot of stuff there, even if you don't send these stuff, a lot of stuff for you to check in out check out and read uh yourself And there's a little something on there for everybody. Over the course of a week, something will make you laugh, something will make you cry, something will make you angry, something will make you say, hmm, hadn't thought of that before Uh some of the some of some of us shake your head and say, overset that in. They're crazy. Do a little bit of all of that. Anyway, on the Faith Debate Show, today we're going to have uh the the the part two of a message called Where's Your Hope? A message centered on unpacking Psalm 127. Normally this is a panel discussion show, but in recent weeks and months we've been having some logis logistical scheduling uh issues, and so the show must go on and I have a uh handful of uh audio recordings on hand. I'm running out though, so we better get uh real panel here together. real soon or it'll just be me uh twiddling my thumbs for a half hour on the show in a in an upcoming week. But in the meantime, that is not the case. I hope you were Um edified and blessed by the first part of the message last week. Where's your hope? And I hope the same will be true for now this second part here on the faith debate. We have a similar story in the last half of verse one that we had in the first half of verse one. The last half of verse one in Psalm 127 says, unless the Lord watches over the city The watchmen stand guard in vain. A simple survey of American history will teach us this lesson. Our nation won its independence in large part. Because of guerrilla-style military tactics used against the better trained, more heavily armed British. But we can't count on such tactics always working for us. Less than a couple of hundred years later, our nation got bogged down in a military conflict with North Vietnamese who used guerrilla-style military tactics against us. In another case, we basically ended World War II by dropping a couple of atomic bombs. But what hope did that bring? The Soviet Union developed atomic bombs of their own and thus started the 40-year Cold War. More recently, we've strengthened our homeland security policies. We have beefed up our terrorist surveillance. We have developed new and interesting bonds. And yet, two brothers bypassed the surveillance and blew up both the finish line at the Boston Marathon and the hopeful illusion of complete national security. By using new and interesting bombs of their own. But our guards stand watch in vain unless the Lord is watching over the city. The city image in this Psalm is also to be understood as Jerusalem, the city of David, the city of our God, as it's called elsewhere in this Psalter in Psalm 48. The ancient capital of God's chosen people, the Israelites placed their hope in this city, and they stood watch over it. And they watched. is it was attacked and sacked and overrun by foreign powers. And this happened because they watched in vain. They did not have their hope and trust in God. In the New Testament, we learn that there is a New Jerusalem on the way. A new city that God watches over. And Christians are already citizens in this city to come. Let's hope in that. Acknowledging that God is the true watchman. Otherwise, we stand to watch in vain. This is a city that God brings to us. It's his city that he builds. Unlike the infamous building project that was recorded for us in Genesis chapter eleven In that case, the people said, Let's build a city, and in the middle of this great city, let's build this gigantic tower that will reach all the way to heaven. They hoped to build a city and work their way to heaven. They had it backwards. God builds his city and through his work brings heaven to earth. The people in the Tower of Babel story, they had it backwards because the focus of their hope was backwards. They said they wanted to make a name for themselves. They weren't hoping in God. And so they built in vain. And don't think too smugly of these ancient sinners. As contemporary sinners, we do the same thing. Even with the church, we have delusional hopes that we build heaven here on earth rather than being the living stones in what God is building So even our church activity can be in vain if we forget that God is the builder. Everything we do is in vain if it's absent of God. Our homes, our nation, our work. Verse 2 of Psalm 127 says, In vain you rise early and stay up late, toiling for food to eat, for he grants sleep to those he loves. This one kind of sounds wrong. It feels right, but sounds wrong because we know that God doesn't reward the sloth. Right? Laziness is bad. We should work hard. This is what the Bible teaches. And more importantly, some of us think it's what America stands for. Right? Wanna win. We want to win, so we're going to outwork the other guy. You want to be successful? Show some hustle. Get up early, stay up late. Burn the midnight oil. Bring the candle at both ends is a badge of honor. This week at work or at the store or at school, wherever, ask ten people how they feel. And a number of them will give you the generic, oh I'm fine. Not counting those people. Count how many of them will answer with tired, stressed. I've been better. Hanging in there. Part of this is the result of the curse that we brought upon ourselves. In Genesis chapter 3, we learn that Adam sinned and thus work is hard. And we continue in this path. The curse for original sin means that work is hard, and we make it harder still with our own sin and our misplaced hopes. We insist on putting our hope in running the rat race. We run unempty, sleep-deprived. How many cups of coffee have you had today? How many caffeinated soft drinks will you have this week? How many times will you be overheard in this coming year saying things like, Man, could I use a jokes of caffeine or sugar? Or both. What is wrong with us? I heard someone once say that we beat our brains, tire our spirit, and rack our conscience. Yes, we do. We refuse to rest Even when we lay down at night, too often our head is spinning with plans and obligations and deadlines, false hopes. Building our house, our church, our nation, our career, it's all vain And it'll drive us all insane unless we turn to and place our hope in the one who loves us and grants us sleep. And the one who grants us rest, invites us to rest, provided for us examples of rest. Jesus rested. Jesus tells us in Mark chapter 2, verse 27 that the Sabbath is made for man, not the other way around. Several times in the Gospels we read of Jesus withdrawing from the crowds for prayer and for rest. One of the most famous stories of Jesus at rest is when he calms the storm. He's asleep in the storm, then he calms it. Matthew, Mark, and Luke all tell this story, and Mark is found in chapter four, and beginning with verse thirty-seven, we read, A furious squall came up, and the waves broke over the boat so that it was nearly swamped. Jesus was in the stern, sleeping on a cushion. The disciples woke him and said to him, Teacher, don't you care if we drown? He got up, rebuked the wind, and said to the waves, Quiet, be still. And the wind died down and was completely calm. He said to his disciples, Why are you so afraid? Why are we so afraid? Why are we too often so frantic in our lives? Why won't we rest and trust God to give us the desires of our heart while we sleep? He did so for Solomon, whom many think wrote Psalm one twenty seven, and maybe he did In 1 Kings chapter 3, it was in a dream that the Lord appeared to Solomon, and Solomon, in this dream, famously asked God for wisdom, and God granted him historic wisdom. While he slept. To sleep is to be at peace. To be at rest. When we're restless and stressed, we don't sleep so well. But when we finally fall asleep, peace. God gives sleep, peace to those whom He loves. And those He loves are those Who hope in him. Now, if you're battling the insomnia as a condition, I don't want you to mishear something here. That does not mean that you're not placing your hope in God necessarily. It certainly doesn't mean that God doesn't love you. I think it's entirely possible, maybe probable, that you were under spiritual attack. Satan is meaning to oppress you, and so be in prayer about that, and the people who love you and know you, people in your church should be praying for you in that situation. But even in that situation, know that God is in control. God is in in charge. And though Satan and his demons, the devil and his minions, they might intend it for evil, but even that God is using for your good. Talking about peace and sleep and rest, I wonder if we might have here even a metaphor for death In many ways, sleep is like death. With death, we die to the worries of the world. Consider the Christian dies to self. Lives by faith in Christ, who lives in the believer. Jesus Christ brings peace with God. So we can say, death, where is thy sting? The Christian need not be so afraid to die. Will not be so afraid if hope is resting in God. Not the little gods we fabricate. There is a purposeful compare and contrast in the opening lines of Psalm 127 and that the original audience likely would have noticed, I think. We don't see it in the English. But in the original Hebrew there's an interesting word choice. The word vain is used three times in short order, and this word is not the same word It's used for vanity in Ecclesiastes. It's a different word. Instead, it's the word shave, which sounds kind of like shalom, which means peace. It's sort of an alliteration that helps to draw attention to the contrast. We want shalom, but instead we have shave. Unless our hope is in the Lord. You know, before moving on to verses 3 and 4, I want to take a moment. to make a distinction because of things that have been in the news of late. As you might have heard, a woman named Jody Arias was recently convicted of brutally murdering her boyfriend. And after the verdict was rendered, she granted an interview to a local TV station in which she said that she hoped she'd be given the death penalty because for her, death is ultimate freedom. Let's be clear on what God's Word says about this. For Christians, to live is Christ, and to die is gain. And so we do yearn for that day. We get to go to be with the Lord. But we want to live because this is Christ. Christ is the way, the truth, and the life. Christians again also realize that when God Plan calls us to our physical death, and then we're given the privilege of having our spirit go to be with the Lord in a way that it is not now. And so we do look forward to that, but that is not the same as desiring death. And it's certainly not the same as the fate awaiting non-Christians. It's important, I think, that we keep in mind these truths, these biblical truths about death and life, with all these distractions in the world of news media around us. Now looking at verses three and four, there might appear to be a sudden turn from the theme that we've been marching along so far, the first two verses, but there's not. Verses 3 and 4 say, Sons are a heritage from the Lord. Children are rewarded from Him. Like arrows in the hands of a warrior are sons born in one's youth. So earlier our attention was drawn to building a house and a city and a career, and now our attention is drawn to building a family. Of course, building a family and building a house that kind of go together is part of building a home. We can draw this a uh connection even in our American English. language, but it's even more striking in the Hebrew poetry where there's a pun at play. Not a pun as in, oh that's little punny. But a pun as in a play on words that involves a word that can have more than one possible meaning. The word builders in Hebrew uses the exact same letters As the word for sons. The words sons and builders sound almost exactly the same when they're pronounced. Bonim and bonim As do the words, by the way, for daughters in the house, which are bat and bayat. And also the plural daughters in the singular build sound an awful lot alike: banot and bana. This verbal connection between children and building brings to mind a common idea in the Bible. It's all over the place in the Bible, and it's clearly seen in 2 Samuel chapter 7, which has such an emphasis on building God's house. Which is ultimately a house of people, and on God's provision in doing so. Reading from 2 Samuel 7, God says to the prophet Nathan, Go and tell my servant David, this is what the Lord says. Are you the one to build me a house to dwell in? Wherever I have moved with all the Israelites, did I ever say to any of the rulers whom I commanded to shepherd my people Israel, Why have you not built me a house of cedar? I took you from the pasture, from tending the flock, and appointed you ruler over my people Israel. I have been with you wherever you have gone, and I have cut off all your enemies from before you Now I will make your name great, like the names of the greatest men on earth, and I will provide a place for my people Israel, and will plant them so that they can have a home of their own and no longer be disturbed. I will also give you rest from all your enemies. The Lord declares to you that the Lord Himself will establish a house for you. When your days are over and you rest with your ancestors, I will raise up your offspring to succeed you, your own flesh and blood. And I will establish his kingdom. He is the one who will build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. I will be his father, and he will be my son. When he does wrong, I will punish him with a rod wielded by men, with floggings inflicted by human hands. But my love will never be taken away from him as I took it away from Saul, whom I removed from before you. Your house And your kingdom will endure forever. Before me, your throne will be established forever. We can see here that God promises to build a house for David. And it's not a house of bricks and mortar, but rather of children. And do you notice the strong allusion to the Son? Jesus Christ is the true Son, the true offspring. And of course, those who are converts, those who are Christians, sons and daughters of God too. As Christians, we are the living brick and mortar, if you will. The church is God's house that God builds. We're not talking about a physical building with a steeple on top. We're not even talking about the religious institutional system. In the Old Testament, Israel lost sight of this, and so the house of Moses. devolved into something to be maintained by legalistic adherence to tradition and ceremony But religious institutions, even the religious institutions of the church, can fail. It fail all the time. When our hope is not in God, as the one we trust to build and guard his people. And he does build and guard them. Through the Spirit sent to us by the Son, we experience God's blessing in our church and in our family. Psalm 127, verse 5, says, Blessed is the man whose quiver is full of arrows. They will not be put to shame when they contend with their enemies in the gate. The arrows are children. Contrary to what zero population growth advocates might say, children are a blessing. Children are an inheritance, not an encumbrance. God uses them to do his work. Think about it, the children don't even belong to us. They belong to God. We have them on loan from God. We are to be stewards of the children, to guard and watch over and protect them and train them up in the way they should go so that God can use them to do his work. He uses them so that they will help provide for their parents in old age. He uses them to help till the soil for the bread that we reap from it. He uses them to defend the family, defend the city. Even when the enemies are storming the gate. To put a New Testament spin on that idea, he uses them to prevail in the fight at the gates of hell You see the imagery, as was the case earlier, it's layered on thick, as you would expect in a poem. This psalm is talking about children blessing the family. It's talking about the sons and daughters of Israel blessing the nation. And we can see that it's talking about God's children. The sons and daughters of Christ's church, and the great blessing that there is in numerical growth in his church, and spiritual growth too, for that matter. Children, like arrows, can fly where the father sends them. Children go where the father aims them. This is true at least when the father has done his job of forming the arrows in his hands before placing them in his quiver. Remember, they start as mere sticks. But the children who bring blessing are arrows, not twisted, crooked sticks. And so it is with the children of God. Jesus Christ is the straightest of arrows. And his brothers and sisters are being conformed in God's hands to be like him. We are being conformed as the Apostle Peter was being conformed to be like Jesus. Peter performed some amazing works in the name of Christ, to be sure. So we head down the home stretch of this morning's message. Let's recall an episode that's found in Acts chapter 12. It shows what we've been talking about. In Acts chapter 12, Peter is in prison, scheduled to be killed. An angel appears and leads him out of prison, right past four squads of four soldiers each. What did Peter do to make this happen? Nothing. He was sleeping. The angel had to wake him up. And even after he was awakened, Peter wasn't quite so sure he wasn't still dreaming. Now, we are told the church was praying earnestly to God for Peter. But Peter was simply at rest. His hope was in the Lord. And God answered the prayers of other believers who also placed their hope in the Lord. It's a great story. But God's people don't always do this very well, do we? Even Solomon, who was granted that great wisdom while he slept. And his subjects in Israel didn't always do this very well. Solomon's temple, his kingdom, his family, his marriage, they all ended in disaster because of failure to trust God, failure to maintain hope in God. And that's going to be our pause point for uh this week's episode. We're gonna have to get the tail end of this message on next week's uh show and uh then we'll go from there on this special edition of the Frederick Faith Debate. What have I been reading lately? I've been reading Yeah. You wouldn't think this was religious, but in a sense it is. A book by Lou Graham with spot pitoniac. Does Lou Graham mean anything to you? Jukebox Hero, my five decades in rock and roll is the name of the book. Jukebox Hero, my five decades in rock and roll, Lou Graham He had a bit of a successful run as a solo artist, but uh is mostly known as the lead singer for the rock band Foreigner. And if you didn't know, and I just found this out relatively recently, and he touches on it in this book, Lou Graham almost lost his life to a brain tumor, and what got him through that was a Just before that, a recently new found faith in Jesus Christ as his Lord and Savior. So He has uh recovered to an extent from the effects of the brain tum tumor and the medications and He actually put out a a new album a few years ago and the new album is entirely a Christian album. Every single song is a Christian song. It's really an interesting story. So it might be a A book worth reading. I would say only if you're a big foreigner fan should you read the book because it doesn't have anywhere near enough in it about his transformation process to to make that carry the the load on the book. Anyway. I'm Troy Skinner. I want to thank our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. Let me say that a little slower so you can get it right. Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Visit us online, WFMD. com keyword faith For my uh partner in crime, Jonathan Schweitzer, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on 930 WFMB. Thanks for listening. God bless.