This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Where Faith Community Leaders arrest over the truth. Yabba do in less than 30 minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble Let's get ready to rumble. Out. Yeah. In this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Fate to Bate, Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Get a moron. Is that it? And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher. And founder of bridges connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder John Sweiser. No, I'm just getting warmed up. Where is there room for Christians to disagree amongst themselves while still considering one another to be fellow brothers and sisters who are right thinking in Christ. Shouldn't anticipation of a coming rapture from a great tribulation separate people within the church? How about definitions for understanding the age called the millennium or accepting that the gift of tongues is for today or not, for debates over baptism of adults by immersion, and baptism of infants by sprinkling. Our panel today includes the founder of Bridges in Frederick County, Jonathan Schweitzer, and the senior pastor at Trinity United Methodist Church, doctor Lie Azer Valentin Castagnon and we got going last week. If you missed that show it's available on podcast at WFMD dot com. Keyword faith or go to the just to the website's uh drop down menu on under shows, find faith debate, click there and you'll you'll see what's coming up on the show pretty soon and you'll see shows from the past, and if you see one that's interesting, you can click on the Audiobault podcast and and listen. They stay up there pretty much forever, I guess. Nothing stays up there forever, but they stay up there a long time. So uh we didn't really Uh when when I started to outline the flow of the conversation for these four shows we're gonna be doing together, my initial thought was that we would spend last week's show talking about things that all Christians would would need to agree on uh in order to be considered orthodox, be within the same family of belief. And to be Christian. Yeah, to to have to have Christian understanding. Yeah. Uh and that this week we would then focus on some things that hey, Christians are gonna disagree on these things. They're important, but it'd be kind of a stretch to say, oh well you're a heretic and you can't take communion and you you know that sort of thing. So but I'm not sure we're there because we didn't make as much headway last week uh as as one might have hoped So but but I think that also speaks to the fact of what you're talking about, which is um you know, uh first first in any conversation is is you know setting the groundwork for Um, you know, how do we how do we manage language and how do we deal with the reality of how you know the conversation? Um we we were talking about uh the idea that if you know you need to believe certain things and uh and certain things that will d define you know who's a Christian, who's not a Christian. And the challenge with that as I was, you know, as as we then follow up in the conversation after the the show was that that's precisely where the challenge has been historically for the church is you know how do we define that? And and part of this, you know, one of the things that um um Jonathan mentioned um i after the conversation was precisely that that chapter from James that talks about the idea that, you know, uh even the demons believe in God. So that the idea is not simply that you say you believe. Uh that there has to be something more. And that's exactly the point here is that, you know, people will say and people will proclaim, people will, you know, beat their chest and say, I believe in Jesus. And then they go out and do exactly the opposite of what it's supposed to be. uh the meaning of believing in Jesus. So if I if if I proclaim in my church that I'm a true believer in Jesus and I believe in Jesus as my Lord and Savior, but then I go and exploit people and I go and insult people of, you know thinking and believing that they're less than me because they're black or because they're Hispanic or because they're from whatever other uh which they're different than me because they don't have as much money as I do or because, you know I mean whatever it is that we use to define people in our society Society, then the issue becomes so it's not enough to for you to say that you believe in Jesus if your actions do not show that. And part of the challenge we have with this issue historically has been that when we talk about this idea that You know, solo solo f solafide. Solo only by faith that this is what what uh Luther meant that you only need to believe in order to be saved. Um even Luther had issues with that when he realized how how the Protestants were were were using that expression from him. Because he didn't believe in the idea that you just have to believe and that will be just your safety uh guarantee of salvation that the idea was that if you truly believe and and I think again as I was saying to Jonathan is that you know with with with Calvin and with Luther Um the idea was if you truly believe then your actions should show that that's the right. Right. It's salvation by faith alone, but faith is never alone. That's right. So it's accompanied by by works that provide the the evidence that your that your uh faith is true. So yeah, absolutely. But I would say if somebody uh professes to be a Christian but is unrepentant in their sleeping around, stealing from their neighbors, uh uh beating their neighbors' kids uh poisoning the neighborhood cat. Then we're gonna say, you look, you can say you're Christian all day long, but I'm sorry, there's no fruit and what you're saying just is outside the pale and I we we we can't say that you're we have no reason God only knows the heart, but we have no reason to believe that what you're saying about yourself being a Christian is true. And we're given in that context clear instructions both by by Jesus in Matthew 18 and by Paul in First Corinthians uh about how a person like that should be put outside of the church itself uh if they're if they're acting you know, with with such blatant hypocrisy, with such blatant, you know, inconsistency. So now the question on the what people should believe if they're Christians Uh I'm not so sure for the layperson who's not in leadership, who's not teaching and and leading congregation, if the rules would be a little bit different there. It would be a little bit different there. There's a higher accountability for those who are in leadership. But let's say if somebody's in leadership and they say, Jesus isn't really God, uh there's not really a Trinitarian idea of God, there's not a Father, Son, Holy Spirit. um uh Jesus didn't really die on the cross. Uh they buy into the swoon theory or something like that. Uh could we say, yeah, you're you okay, you you're still a Christian leader and you can teach those things. Or we say, no, that is not acceptable teaching to be to to to be uh separated from the areas where we can well denominationally they might uh hold firm on these things. Uh but within the larger body of Christ, we wouldn't say somebody's in the out group to use the word from last week, who's in and who's out. If somebody says, I believe that the gift of tongues is alive and active and well within the church today Uh and somebody's gonna say, Yeah, I don't know about that, uh, but I'm not gonna call you a heretic, or somebody says, No, the the th that particular gift is no longer available to the church today. I don't think somebody who believes in that gift today would say, Okay, you're a heretic. They would agree to disagree But they wouldn't be disagreeable so much they say, okay, you're you're you can't even call yourself Christian. But think if somebody says Jesus isn't really God then that's not Christianity that's being taught, right? I mean there are certain things we aren't there aren't there things it could be Judaism or it could be Islam or it could even be, you know, you know, something that is like an atheism But to but to to say that Jesus is not the Son of God who uh was crucified on our behalf, who who we worship, I mean That that that means that the that they're choosing a different religion. But this is in you know perhaps again in I don't know, I'm I'm I'm not trying to be the middle of the road. I don't you know I I I never see myself as the middle of the road, but Um but you know part of the challenge even with the questions, you know, is precisely that you we're we're trying again to to ascertain, you know, uh from from a person's faith understanding how do they see themselves. You know, if if what you're describing and what we're trying to describe is For me to proclaim to be a Christian, it means that I need to accept the Christian Orthodoxy that was declared in the in the early church councils. Um were were were again, you know, thousands of Christians were left out because they were considered to be out of the of the canon of what was understanded. was understood as um as the orthodox Christianity. Um n now people So let me just be clear, I hear you saying in that that that the Aryan the Arians, th those that believed as Arian did, that that they should have been included as Christians. Well, to put it simply this way, um you know I'm not even trying to make the judgment, but they saw themselves as Christians and they were willing to give their lives for their faith in that sense. So Given the lives for Christ. So I'm wanting you to make a judgment, but you're kind of not willing to do so? Like I'm just trying to understand like what you would say. Because again, we're the issue we're trying to define is how do we define from the early church, because you know the the even this conversation we're trying to to hash out now. It goes it has to go back to the early church because it was the early church that actually started to talk to talk about the fact of how do we define orthodoxy? In orthodoxy, of course, you know, right belief. So How do we define right belief? And so the the Christian church in the you know in the in the year in the the three hundreds and the four hundreds um tried to define for the for Christianity what that was supposed to be I'm not sure if I'm a hundred percent not wanting to jump in uh on this because I I don't I'm not sure that it's From my perspective, at least, uh, I don't think it's fair to say that the councils came together so that they could define things. I think that the back in the day, if we were living back during the council times, they would have felt like the truth of God's word was under assault. And so they had a crisis and so they called a council to say, Whoa, whoa, whoa, we've always believed this to be true and now there are other people saying differently, so What is it? Is it this new different teaching or is it what we've always believed that understood to be the truth? I don't think that they came in out of whole cloth and and wrote new doctrine. I think they were acknowledging what they believe to be the teachings from Jesus and the Apostle Paul and and Matthew and John and all those things. Completely and I think I would I would go farther, and you know this to be true about me, Troy, that that that I've I've tried to say, okay, you know, the councils are good. I value them, but ultimately I judge the councils based on you know, the New Testament. And so so my appeal has tried to be consistent through the years to say, let's go back to the New Testament. And what does the New Testament teach? You know, and we've got really good uh clarity about the text of the New Testament you know, as it's come down to us. And so just taking that text and and you know, basic meaning of the words, uh, it's clear that that the apostles, that Paul uh that when when John speaks in Revelation about the seven churches, that in each one of those situations that the that that there is a These are the people that are in and these are the people that are not, and that that they are uh they are feeling responsible as leaders of the body of Christ. to uh to to do two things, to to help people to be in, to be clear about who's in and who's not, and to strengthen those that are in. So that's three things that I see him doing. You know, and so uh So my point is that that that being the case, I feel like they they gave us an example that says watch your life and doctrine closely to to to contend for the fake, you know, these kinds of things That's the voice of Jonathan Sweitzer, founder of Bridges. We're also joined this week by Dr. Eliezer Valentine Castagnon. He is the uh senior pastor at Trinity United Methodist Chair, Tom Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFM Day. So Doctor, you're about to jump in? Well, you know Yes. But, you know, w we actually cannot even dissociate our the theology and the history that comes with our church, with our Christian church, um, as we haven't been interpreting scripture throughout the centuries. And so we don't only read the scripture simply by just saying, Oh, uh you know, exactly what it says here is what I what I think it is is actually most of it has to do with you know what we have been taught and a lot of the things we have been taught have to do precisely with how the church historically has been defining these concepts. You know, let let me give you this an example. You know, um historically we uh you know we have taken the role of women and not that I want you know we can t use any other example but you know just just is the only one that came to my mind right now. as you know the role of women and how women are seen and perceived in the scripture in the New Testament. For some folks still today, women are supposed to be subs you know submissive to men. And we will say, and we quote scripture saying that's what women are supposed to do Um uh but nobody will well at least we'll say I will say most people will not agree that that is actually essential to Christian faith. Uh to say that I believe that women should be submissive to men and and the men are the head of the household and so therefore if you don't do that, so you're not a good Christian I would say that. Right. Right. Some people say that. If I were the pastor of a church, that would be an essential part of what I teach But I would also go a step further and this is where I think the gap is. But you wouldn't say that's necessary for explaination? Not for salvation, no. But but for what what the biblical understanding of the word submission and submit means, because I think that's where we get astray. Let me phrase the question this way. Is there a uh Drawn from the Bible, using that as the framework, okay, a biblical world does the does the Bible give us a worldview where We can have confidence that there is anything, any one thing. We'll start to see if we can find one. If there's any one thing that is absolutely true. I will say from my perspective, I think you can find that the scripture sustains clearly from Genesis to Revelation. that God is a God of love and that this God offers grace, has been offering grace to the human race since the beginning. And that that grace is pregnated with God's love. Um and and you can find that consistently from Genesis to Revelations. Um I will say that you find this, you know, this this God who is consistently seeking us out, consistently looking after us, consistently coming after us to be in a relationship with us. I think that we can find that also consistently from from Genesis to Revelation, that this God is always looking for us. And um so okay, I asked a question about that one. And it's probably irritating to you because it probably feels to you like we're trying to box you in and probably. So if somebody in your church were to argue that God that that we cannot have a personal relationship with God, um, would you Well, I feel like I gotta back up, right? There's different levels of of of drawing these lines. One one lesson of drawing these lines is who would you who would you let teach from the pulpit? Who would you let be a leader? Who would you let who would you let come and sit in the church? And I think all of us would let any of these people come and sit in our in our churches and we would love them. But the question is, would you let somebody teach a Bible study uh with with a role of authority to be leading other people that that argued in your church that that God does not want to have a personal relationship with us. That's what I was getting, you know, going to that. No, I mean I will not have somebody in church teaching that because For me, essential to Christian teaching is precisely the idea that we enter in a relationship with God. And in this case, in a very, very evangelical sense in a personal relationship with God. Um the the challenge that I find in in many of these conversations, however, is that, you know, if Is the is when people start to define what that means and how do I define relationships. No, I was gonna that was gonna be my next question. How do you define relationships? Well for me it's you know what What is how is God entering into your life and how are you accepting God to be part of your life? How are you allowing God to be the one who rules in your life and who the one who takes the leadership in your life. Um and and for me that's that is to be in a relationship with God. My relationship with God depends on me accepting Um the personal level. So now I want to start asking it like a slew of questions. You're married? Uh do you feel like and you have kids? Mm-hmm. Right? So in your relationship with your kids, uh if they do something wrong, like they they yell at their their sibling or they they take something that's not theirs. Um uh is it I is it right for you to call 'em on it? Sure. And to to bring some kind of uh I'll call it discipline or training that would that would uh help them to change how they approach things. Sure, sure. And would you require them to and I'm asking questions that I think relate to uh forgiveness and salvation, you know, in in Christ. And so, I mean, uh would you require your children to admit that they had done something that was wrong? Sure. But all that have come as a as a consequence of my relationship to my children. And so, you know, if When we talk about having a relationship, of course, a relationship is is something that is builded. It's not something that you know something you mentioned, Troy. You know, a relationship with God and and um it's something that has been that is built little by little, you know, weaknesses. What's the what's the distinguish what uh I would uh uh define as an orthodox Christian teaching as opposed to Judaism? as opposed to Mormonism, uh Jehovah's Witnessism. Uh you know, the the things that most Orthodox Christians would say, you know Uh again, I'm not saying Mormons or Jehovah's Witnesses are bad people. I'm just saying that they traditionally fall outside the pale of orthodoxy uh among most Christians. They say, okay, that's Christianish but it's not Christianity. So they would say I have a I have a personal relationship with God who loves me and therefore I'm a Christian It's gotta be more than just that, doesn't it? Well, you know, in this case, for instance, and and you described what I what I mentioned earlier is you know, I do believe if f if you if if we are to proclaim that we are Christians, it means that it's because we believe in Jesus. Now he here The the the challenge with that, which is what this whole conversation has come from, is um is that when when when we say faith in Christ or faith in Jesus is that we have an issue because then we st we start then to build up what it means to say that I have faith in Jesus and who is this Jesus supposed to be for me. Do I need to believe in the in the Holy Trinity? as we have been taught again by the o by you know Christian Orthodoxy and that that is the and that's the only way that we can believe that Jesus is. And it sounds like you're arguing against that? Well my argument simply is that I think that God is bigger than that So what will be the difference between what passes for Orthodox Christian teaching and Islam? They believe in Jesus. Well, let me put it to you this way. My faith in Jesus means that Jesus is everything in my life. And so that I connect my life into what I understand as Jesus wounds for me and in my life, and that I want this Jesus as I believe in Jesus to rule my life. Now I don't think that that's what a Muslim believes or what a Jew believe. So then part of it in that sense I'm you know we're a little bit different. But then what undergirds your You're thinking on that and your and your emotional center on that is the trust you can have in Jesus because you know that he is sovereign, he's in control, he is who he said he is, right? Well it it it Again, the issue with uh with language, as I mentioned earlier. Um, you know, I I for me, Jesus is central to who I am. central to my core of being, who I am as a human being. And because of my relationship with Jesus and my relationship with the Father, um my my relationship then enters into an an understanding of this divine being uh uh as being in control of my life. And so um do I need to sustain certain words as in Christian Orthodoxy as we as we inherit it, as we continue to use So the question that I'll have to put off to the next week. Or not. Yeah. So we're gonna do round three next week. Uh this has been fascinating. Uh I've been able to follow along, I think, but I've been working hard to make sure I follow along with the different threads that are popping up. So I hope you the listener are able to do the same Again, the show is available on podcast if you uh want to listen again or if you've missed part of the show and you want to get a sense. And and this might be one of the sometimes the arcs The individual shows with an art standalone by themselves very easily. I feel like uh at the very least you might want to try to listen to last week's show and this week's show in succession via podcast if at all possible. And you can do that by going to WFMD Dot com keyword faith. Jonathan Sweitzer is the um uh uh founder. That's the word I was looking for. The founder. There was a movie about him. The founder He's the founder of Bridges in Frederick County. And senior pastor of Trinity United Methodist Church is Dr. Eliezer Valentine Castañon. Thank you guys for being on the show. Uh again you can visit us at WFMD. com keywordfaith or the drop-down menu, find the faith debate. There you'll see a listing of what's going to be on next week's show, and you'll find a list of the most recent shows, the last ten or twelve shows. And all the podcasts for the show over the last couple of years anyway is there. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Till next week. Doc less.