This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master of the Master of Ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Where faith community leaders wrestle over the truth. Yeah, but in less than thirty minutes, learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Ooh, how convenient. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound? the freedom? Let's get ready to rumble let's get ready to rumble. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Fate Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Get a moron And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of Bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder John Soister. No, I'm just getting warmed up. Perhaps you've heard about or even been subjected to quote unquote training at work or in school that tells everyone that all white people contribute to what many like to call racism and that all Caucasians must lament their white privilege. And even further, all institutions of the Western world are systematically prejudiced, something called systemic racism. These are the claims And they are increasingly the sorts of claims that are being heard within professing Christian churches, from ministers of the gospel as they stand in the pulpit even. One of these ministers of the gospel of Jesus Christ has a podcast and a YouTube channel dedicated to warning against positions such as these. His name is Adam A. D. Robles. Adam, I know that you're not currently pastoring a church and I still refer to you here as a minister of the gospel because you haven't been defrocked as far as I know, and in my opinion, if somebody's been ordained as a minister of the gospel, they remain ordained as a minister of the gospel and till their dying day unless they're somehow uh ha having having that uh anointing, you know, recognized by the churches having been removed. So Uh so but you ha you had a church kind of fall apart because of this sort of thing. It's which is c sad and I'm concerned that's gonna ha and and it sounds like yours was kind of a a start up church plant shir you know, situation so it wasn't like hundreds and hundreds, thousands of thousands of people but I'm concerned that we're going to see that happen, or maybe we've already begun to see it happen with churches that have hundreds and thousands of people, that they're having a big divide and there are splits taking place. And so this is an important issue. You would agree. I would agree. I would agree. Now, way back on the first show we did together a couple weeks ago, John Schweitzer asked the question about George Orwell's nineteen eighty four and whether or not we could preach the gospel In Newspeak. In Newspeak. You know and we never really answered that question. So uh I think people are trying. Uh what's what's your what's your take on that, AD? Do you think that uh That the gospel and this this critical theory language can coexist Yeah, that's a that's a really good question and um it's one that I haven't really thought of too much but but but I but I I'm a big believer in the idea that when you change the meaning of words Um you change the entire conversation around them. Um and you know th people that are listening to the show w probably have heard the word racist thrown around a lot. And when I was a kid, racist used to mean a certain thing, and you hatred towards someone of another race, stuff like that, very basic stuff And we we would understand that, you know, the the Bible condemns partiality, the Bible condemns hatred towards people and things of that nature. So so so racism was a sin when I when I was growing up. But nowadays racist can mean all kinds of things that that that would not be a sin. In fact, um according to some i certain skin colors cannot commit the sin of racism because they don't have the requisite power or the requisite institutions in order to commit racism. And so when you change the meaning of racism, but people still are thinking of the old meaning of racism, all of a sudden you can create sins out of thin air. And so I think it's quite hard to preach a gospel when the meanings of words have been completely turned upside down sometimes in in some cases. And so um I haven't really thought about that question too much. It's a very good question. My heart would say no. You you actually can't when you're when you're full s full sale adopting some of this language from critical theory. And so the part of what makes me go there is that I have a large number, large number. I'd say fifteen African American pastor friends that I know are preaching the gospel with uh with authority and clarity. uh in in discipling, you know, their people, you know, uh at every level and they are uh you know probably eighty percent Democrat, meaning they live in terms of politics in the world that is uh in you know, increasingly a critical race uh world and has been probably for decades now. And so Uh when I talk with them, something interesting happens uh in my conversation with them that they're pressing through with all of the terms that they're using. to define them in a biblical way, meaning meaning that whatever the world has changed with definitions or to whatever extent the world has um even a different definition that is more stable, right? You're talking about language changing all the time and that's a problem in and of itself. I think it's probably why Venezuela, why Germany, why so many nations end up falling apart in such a huge way because, you know, if language is changing all the time then you can't get along with anybody. You're just gonna fight and fall apart. But my point is is that these African American pastors are diligently pressing through to define things biblically and so it's almost like there's a third language. There's a language of the right which you know, maybe we we could argue is more traditional English. There's the language of the left that is ste steeped in critical theory. But then there's there's all these that have lived in the context of critical theory but are pressing through to try to define things biblically, you know, uh using Isaiah um you know uh say Isaiah 61 and other passages to say this is what we mean when we talk about justice. Right. And uh when they talk about systemic uh problems they would say, Well, you know, we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but principalities and powers spiritual forces of wickedness in the heavenly realms, right? Those are things that we don't see and touch, but we know that it's influencing people in negative ways. And so racism wouldn't be the only one of those uh that is systemic, but there's systemic sexual immorality throughout Hollywood and uh throughout our entire business world, right? Because sex sells. There's systemic greed uh in uh in um in Wall Street, uh even though there's a lot of good men with integrity that are doing business on Wall Street, right? And so so um my point is just that um that just because the la well so changing language is a problem in and of itself. But but if a language stabilizes, any language stabilizes I think that within a short period of time, believers that live, say, in China, in in a Maoist environment, or that lived you know, grew up in communist Russia within a period of time are able to use the metaphors uh and the um the ideas, the the words, you know, to to say, well, this is what Christ is all about. Mm-hmm. Well, you know, I I it's interesting, you know, the things the examples that you use, you use systemic sex, uh sexual immorality and systemic greed. These are things that can be very easily identified. I mean you y y you know sexual immorality, I mean, we can see the the pornography that's that's been promulgated. You can see the amount of sex that's in movies and you can point to that and say, oh that's an example of uh sexual morality and we can see that. Um with greed the same thing. You can see how much fraud there is, how much um how much um taxes um you know you know kind of cultivate uh uh sort of a a greed even amongst the poor, even amongst um, you know, people that are just desiring other people's stuff and things like that And racism, we can point to examples of racism too. But the problem is that that what every every time I've I've I've asked the question about where is Can you identify the systemic racism, the the racism that's baked into the system that we hear so much about? Um the responses I get are are very weird. They're they're just like, well if you can't see it And I don't know what to tell you. Or just look at the uh statistical disparities, or just look at the wealth gap or the income inequalities. And um those are interesting to me, especially 'cause I'm a minority and you know I'm on the losing end of those income and wealth disparities Um but but that that to me doesn't that doesn't actually demonstrate racism. That demonstrates a wealth disparity. Um there could be a numerous numerous reasons behind that. And so I I'm with you. I I I'm not opposed to the idea of systemic racism. Uh certainly systemic racism existed in the past. We had laws that were f very racist. Um, but the things that you've identified to me they don't strike me as quite the same at all. So what about the red line? mortgage uh issue. Um and what about Brian Stevenson's work that has overturned significant numbers of death row um uh punishments, um I don't think that's the right word. What's the word when you give somebody a um a sentence, you know, death row sentences uh that uh, you know Shows the disparities uh had something behind them that was really off And so I'm not saying that it's ever and and so this is the thing. I'm I'm not saying that it's everywhere, but I am saying that that for Every African American person that I talk to, their okay, and so now I'm talking about perception. Their perception is that there's a lot more of this out there than we are willing to admit. And because of my respect for all of these men, I find myself deeply committed to saying, okay, help me to see it, help me to understand it. Yeah. Right? To staying in that conversation longer. if only to help them, maybe I mean, if if it's the issue that it's their perception is off, then good, let it happen. But if it's the case that my perception is off then I want to stay in that, you know, uh, for their sake, 'cause I really care about those guys. Yeah, that's that's absolutely fair. I recommend everybody do that because Um, I'll be honest, it doesn't look good when you have these disparities. That's not something that that I take lightly, especially again, 'cause I'm on the losing end of those disparities typically Um so I I have no problem with people wanting to sort of um you know you know you know go with their with their friends, um maybe their black friends or Latino friends and explore some of these issues. Um but but what what you find typically when you do explore these issues is that like everything in life there i things are complicated and oftentimes uh it's i race is not actually the only issue that's been at play in some of these things. Right. But it could be part of it. Potentially, yeah. Potentially, yeah. But but but the thing is the Christian is committed to the truth, right? And so we actually need to figure out what is so, not just what looks like it's so. Um and so um we we can't just Um I'll give you a perfect example. So so bec let's just say you you accept the idea that police officers um have a some kind of partiality in their hearts that that leads them to treat black people differently than white people I'm okay with that idea, okay? I'm okay with the idea that that's that's true. But that doesn't allow you to the next time a black guy gets shot by a white cop to assume that that white cop was racist, which almost everybody and their mother does. And so That's a biblical principle. We have to have witnesses. We have to know what the case is before we just assume it. And so this is the difference between true racial um equity, uh, where where we have, you know, equal balances and equal measures, you know, unequal balances and unequal measures are an abomination to the Lord. But true, equal uh measures uh it are are from God. And we have the narrative problem that is uh that is so pervasive in today's politics and and that at some level and this is my concern at some level those on the right have bought into the idea of building a narrative and um and You know, so when Trump Trump, for example, can't now named him, uh starts uh going you know, fighting a political battle He's decided that narrative is the way to to beat them, right? So he he jumps into a narrative that uh I think most of us agree that he goes too far oftentimes with how he says what he says. Um but the you know he he's kind of going head to head on the narrative. Uh certainly it's the case that critical theory has an inherent narrative. How would you describe that inherent narrative? Th the inherent narrative of critical theory is that there's a certain class of people that are oppressors and a certain class of people that are oppressed and um and that's the way it is. And so In order to do um to do the right thing as someone in the oppressor class, you need to empathize and and m essentially become part of the oppressed. Um so it's this dynamic this power dynamics thing. Everything's about power in critical theory. Power, of course, being a big topic in scripture. um and oppression being a big topic in scripture. And so those those issues in certain cases and even many cases uh then critical theory is uh is addressing things that scripture addresses forthrightly. And so the problem seems to be w that critical theory only allows those categories and doesn't allow for additional categories, i. e. sexual immorality, greed. Um well, greed is uh a major part of critical theory, but sexual immorality and lying, cheating, you know, the these other aspects of, you know, false gods and false religions that that are also a part of what the Bible speaks against. And so uh I guess that's my point is that can we use critical theory to recognize that sin oppresses in every place where sin is engaged, you know, in identifying the oppressor uh, you know, appropriately that uh that uses sin and uses power in order to oppress. Like like is there ways to do that? Before you uh uh uh before you jump in Adam real quick I just want to reset. This is the faith debate on nine thirty WFMD. You just heard the voice of Jonathan Schweitzer Uh, I'm Troy Skinner and the person I just so rudely interrupted is Adam A. D. Robles, and I'm gonna give him a chance now to respond to what John just had to say. Yeah, fair fair enough. Um there's no reason to use critical theory for that. Um we you don't need um a theory to identify an oppressor. You just need to look at their activities in a in a fair and uh and objective kind of a way. You see the Bible does talk about the oppressed and it talks about oppressors. Um, but it also is not i i i it part and parcel of the scripture is a law of how you treat people. And um you we we we have to be committed to that law. We have to love our neighbor as herself, regardless if they're an oppressor or an oppressed. The Bible is very explicit about that. You shall not hate an Egyptian in your heart because you were a sojourner in in their land. The Egyptians, no question, no Christian would deny the Egyptians oppressed the Israelites, yet God is saying you can't hate that person. You can't treat them differently. You can't have partiality in your heart against them. The Bible says in in the same passage that talks about loving your neighbor as yourself, it says, um, you shall not be partial to the poor or defer to the rich. So it's like It doesn't like like critical theory i you know, it might identify an oppressor right every now and then, but the reality is that It's completely unhitched from any kind of objective standard that how uh about how we should treat people. You're supposed to empathize with the oppressed No matter what essentially. The oppressed is right. They their their story is the story that you should identify with. And the scripture will have none of that. You can't be partial to the poor in his lawsuit. It doesn't matter how poor they are or how rich they are, you should judge with righteous judgment. And so we don't need critical theory to identify an oppressor and an oppressed class. The Bible does address these things, but it does it in a way that also honors the truth. Okay, so that's very important for a Christian. That's very important for a Christian because the truth is a person, and we need to be more devoted to the truth, Jesus Christ. than anything. So I would agree with that that we don't need critical theory, but I also don't need Russian. I also don't need um, you know, the uh uh the language of uh a tribe in the Amazon, you know, in order to understand Christ. But it is the case that if I'm gonna go to those places, to the Jew, I'll be a Jew, to the Gentile it'll be a Gentile you know, to to uh to whichever group I go to, I'm going to look to communicate to them in the language of their culture. And it feels to me at this point that that the Democratic Party has lived long enough in that environment that you're just not going to be able to communicate with them if you're not speaking their language. And so I'm not saying that that we need it uh in an absolute sense. I'm saying that we need it in a more relative sense, pardon me for being a a relativist in this sense, uh in order to communicate with those that live in that context. Yeah. The big difference though of course is Russian is not a worldview. R Russian is a language where you can communicate truth Um critical theory does have language in it, but part and parcel of that language is an entire worldview. They smuggle an entire worldview into words like oppressed or you know oppressor or whatever it is And so, um, there there there is a there is a line that you have to draw. I mean, yes, you you don't need Russian, but you'd want to use Russian if you were speaking to Russians. But you wouldn't want to become a Satanist to reach the Satanists. Obviously, that's an extreme example. But when we're talking about worldview issues here, you don't become a Muslim to reach the Muslims. Although maybe you might wear a turban, but that's there's no worldview attached to that necessarily, or might be maybe there is and we'd have to consider that. And so um there's a difference, I think, between language and um and entire ideologies that include a system of law, a system of atonement, a system of um, you know, sin, all all of that kind of stuff. is part and parcel of critical theory, but not necessarily part and parcel of the language. And speaking of language, one of I've let it go because, you know, for just the the sake of letting the show flow and for the ease of of understanding because I know that's how the world speaks these days, but boy a bob I I'm not a fan of even using the word the way that it gets used with race. Because somebody that has darker skin tone than somebody else is still part of the same human race. I don't even like using the word race. I ethnic groups is okay or things like that. And so therefore, if I don't like the word race, I have to find a substitute word for racism. And I like partiality, but partiality isn't always necessarily going to be about ethnic groups. And that's Ethnocentricity, but that's so many syllables, nobody wants to use that word. Ethnic pride kinda gets there. So I don't know what a different word, a better word might be, but I I feel like we're surrendering uh too much ground just by using the word race and racism to begin with. And then systemic racism. I know that uh Ada you said that you know you're willing to admit that there's been systemic racism in the past. And I and I will agree so far as the way we want to define that, but I want to be so careful to define that because, again for ease of understanding, the way the world speaks, racism is a sin. Right, ethnocentrism, ethn o uh overabundance of ethnic pride is a sin. Uh but systems don't have pride. Systems aren't showing partiality. So all the all the system is is it's taking the sin that's in somebody's heart and codifying it and turning the law into what represents what's going on in their heart. And so we can't scream against and rail against systemic racism. We need to scream against and rail against the the the sin that's in the heart of individuals and work to convert people, right? That's the only way this changes, isn't it? We can't we're not going to change the world by changing the laws. We're going to change you know we're going to change the world by changing hearts. And I'm not even so sure that that Jesus came to change the world so much as Jesus came to save the world. So maybe I've maybe I've stepped into something there that I shouldn't have. Yeah, but so this is the thing though, Troy. You're you're you're hitting this very well. I'm I think I'm uh I'm in agreement with you like completely. But I think there's a caveat to that, right? When when my parents were growing up, my dad was a part of a very sectarian part of the Baptist church, right? And you have come to understand this because until I uh until about like well, most of my life I don't have any cultural uh knowledge, right? You'll bring up a movie, you'll bring up a song From the sixties. And so it's happened so often, right, that that I've spent a lot of time in my life recognizing that the language and the culture of my upbringing that was really helpful for me to find Christ and to You know, to to understand his grace and to walk in uh you know the the fullness of the spirit, you know, all those things that that are represented um did not set me up well to connect with or to communicate to people around me, right? And so uh so I've been willing uh in those spaces to learn and to recognize that there's spaces to be a missionary, right? And so y you know, you brought up um Islam. Well, I I've been to the West Bank uh among Christians that are preaching the gospel on the in the West Bank and it's amazing to me how Arabic and their uh metaphors, there's still biblical metaphors that they use, but the reality like they use all of them use the word Allah for God Every single one of them. And there's other terms that uh that are Arabic, you know, and even Muslim terms that they use, but they use them in a way that preaches the gospel. And so Uh I think that there's a lot more culture tied into language. Ask any linguist, somebody that studies language, they'll tell you that that that The words you use define how you see the world and that culture is wrapped up in our language. I mean that's even your point. That that critical race theory is a worldview and for that matter that the United States English has a worldview to it that we think is better. He's John Tweither from Cross Bridges. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. Our guest on the phone this week, Adam A. D. Robelist. Follow him on YouTube. It's A-D-R-O-B-L-E-S. And that's you can find his YouTube channel. Thanks for listening. Follow us online at WFMD. com. Uh keyword faith will get you there as fast as we may to get to our our faith debate page. Till next week, one hundred sixty seven and a half hours from right now. God bless