Welcome to the Faith Debate, sponsored by Hilo Auto Sales, online at HiloAutoSales. com and Tire Pros of Frederick. We have a special edition of shows lined up for you these next few weeks. By the way, welcome to our new time as well. We now have the Faith Today program airing Sunday morning each and every Sunday from nine o'clock until nine thirty actually just after the topdale nine o'clock news all the way until nine thirty where we'll be followed by the Covenant Family Chapel program with Pastor Neil Echempong. We have part one of a three part series today. We're breaking it up into three pieces so that it will all fit. What you're gonna hear here in a m in a minute is the tail end, the very last piece of the three part series, as an introduction a teaser, if you will, as to wow, if that was the response what came before it. We'll also hear a snippet from Jonathan Sweitzer who's not on the panel there is no panel today, so he's not here on the panel today, but uh he will be in a couple of weeks as we'll have our more typical panel discussion, uh debate style panel discussion uh coming up and I'm excited about the the subject that we'll be talking about there. After we hear from Jonathan Swipes we'll done here the beginning part of the message that you're about to hear the response to. And then in the following two weeks you'll hear the bulk of the message, basically parts A and B. This week you're kind of getting the polar caps. You're going to get the end cap and the top cap with the meat of the message coming next week and the week after. So here's the tail end of everything, the response to what you're about to hear throughout the rest of today's show and next week and the week after that as well. Shall we stand together? Right. That's a powerful story. Jesus is Lord, He's Savior, and He's King. Is somebody encouraged you today? You serve a God who can do anything. He can do what? Anything He can do anything. He can do anything. I'm trying to keep my emotions in check, but um he can do anything. Stretch your hands all towards May Father we pray upon the words that we have heard, the story and the testimony of God of this kind of family. We're thankful that Lord we are a people of purpose, and because of your purpose. You would do anything to bring it to pass. Our hearts rejoice in you. Lord, you have just challenged us. Today with a testimony that you are capable of doing any things. Desire fourteen, you said, I will have my way. My purpose was stand. You came. You were born to raise the sons of men. You are a Immanuel. May everybody that is sick today be healed. Even those who are listening to us over the radio, those who are Watching us by the way of the internet, wherever you are, that you are topic to this service, we pray today. Jesus was born to raise the sons of men. May your body be healed. And may your spirit be regenerated. May your power rest upon us, not just for the sake of it, but to change who we are and to make us your own. Grab the hand of the present standing next to you. As you pray for the person that you hold in their hands. And say, Lord, may the spirit of this individual be healed. May they receive. The provisions for which you were born. You were born to raise us from sin. You were born to deliver us from the powers of darkness. You were born that those who are sitting. Darkness was he a great lieu. Thank you, Jesus. Bring your prayer to a close. Amen. As I listen back to the response, I'm not sure. Response that followed the message that preceded it, which you haven't heard yet, but you will. You'll hear the beginning, very, very beginning part of it here in a few minutes, and you'll hear the bulk of it next week and the week after. I hope that you can capture the the range of emotion in the response. It was a pretty uh neat thing to experience in person. The the absolute exuberance and and uh confidence of faith And then the uh sobering, um humbling reality of the story as well. I think you capture both. Obviously you can tell by the way that the the message was delivered on Christmas morning this past year. It is very rare that a pastor will give up this pulpit on a Christmas morning. But the spirit was moving, if you ask me, and uh Pastor Neila Chemp, you might have recognized his voice Uh his is the program that follows this one now at 9 30. Um he felt led to ask me to share a message, not really knowing for sure what I would share on Christmas morning. And um You're about to hear the results of that and you heard the response to the results of that. But before we do that, last couple of weeks we've heard some snippets from John's John Sweitz has been doing this show with me for many, many years. By the way, I'm Troy Skinner, and this is the Frederick Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. John's been doing the show with me since its inception and other than except uh times like this, he's always on the show with me. Um But you don't have a sense maybe of all that he's doing with his church, Crossroads Valley Church. And he's gotten involved in social media and videos and different audio podcast things and that sort of thing. So I want to give you a sample of what John is up to. So we'll hear one more sample. From John Schweitzer, what he's doing with his church, and then we'll jump into the message that I have been teasing uh since the beginning of this this morning's program it's good to be with you here again today. Uh we are regularly getting time together. You, me, several others are getting together here through this video on a regular basis so that we can grow in Christ, so that we can be more like Christ, so that we can can be transformed by the renewing of our minds so that we can be saltier salt, so that we can be uh the light of the world that Christ called us to be. And so um today I want to talk about uh the issue of uh conflict and uh how the enemy of our soul tries to use conflict to overwhelm us with sorrow, right? But the Lord doesn't leave us all alone. So I praise God as we're starting out together that God does not leave us stuck in uh conflict and overwhelmed with sorrow. He gives us the tools that we can break out, that we can walk in joy and that we can We can win these little battles that uh try to tear us down. So there's two things that are very important in the context of dealing with conflict that comes out of Second Corinthians chapter two. First thing, that's very important, is that we have a uh a proportional response to the problem. Uh if somebody has uh miscommunicated with us uh on a scale of one to ten. If it's only a five, then we don't need to act like it's a seven. Right? If we get really angry and uh and and lose our temper for something that is smaller than it inhibits the ability to to uh adequately ru adequately resolve the conflict. And so Paul talks about a response that is a an appropriate response, an adequate rebuke even. Sometimes it's appropriate to give a rebuke. But if the rebuke is is uh an overreaction then it limits the ability for the person that is being rebuked that has done something wrong but it limits their ability to respond appropriately because uh they uh are like well I it wasn't that bad, right? It it i we need to keep things proportional. The second thing that is super important is that once there has been A admission of something going wrong, right? There's a proportional rebuke. It's not an overreaction. Once there's a response saying, you know what, I did that wrong, it's important right away, very quickly, to respond with an affirmation of love with forgiveness. It's gotta happen right away. We can't allow there to be this ongoing heaviness coming from us like oh you did this uh that somebody had done something wrong to me and I'm I'm going to continue to be upset, but that I quickly forgive, that I quickly respond and reaffirm my love for the person. Right? So first of all it's got to be a proportional response, not an overreaction. But secondly, as soon as there's an admission, we need to Quickly forgive. That way we're not overwhelmed with sorrow. That way the problem doesn't become bigger than what it uh needs to be, and we're able to keep things moving forward. We're able to keep uh I love this phrase short accounts. So the challenge today is are you overreacting or are you ready to forgive quickly when somebody admits that they've done something wrong? It's really good. Thank you for being with me today. I thank God that we're not left overwhelmed with sorrow, but we can break through conflicts and walk in peace and joy with one another. Thank you for uh again joining with me today. This is So important that we take time to grow in Christ, to study his word, to spend time in prayer, that he can change us from the inside out, from the heart outward, and make us more like Christ. I'll see you. Again next time. There you have an example of some of the work that Jonathan Schweitzer, pastor of Crosswoods Valley Church, is doing with his congregation and in the community besides his appearances on the Frederick Faith Debate program which you're listening to right now on 930 WFMD. I am Troy Skinner. We don't have John with us today, but he will be back on the show in just a couple of weeks. We've got a excellent uh panel discussion set up. I'm excited about that. But without further ado, I have been teasing since the beginning of today's program a message that's going to come to you at in three parts. We're about to hear the very first part, which is very short. to take us through the end of today's program. And then parts two and three will air the following two weeks. That will be the bulk and the remainder of the program there. This first voice you're about to hear might be recognizable to you as that of Pastor Neil Achemong. He is the pastor at Covenant Family Chapel, which uh has a program that airs right after this one now, nine thirty to ten o'clock on Sundays. And uh in case you're wondering, you might have overslept, you're not sure. Yes, the Faith Debate program has moved. It's no longer at 8. 30 in the morning. It is now at 9 o'clock. Each and every Sunday moving forward. The plan is 9 o'clock till 9. 30. You can hear the Faith Debate right here on 9. 30, WFMD. Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas? There you go It's not a usual one, but this is unusual, but it's still good. Amen. Alright. How about me praying for all of you for Christmas? Amen. That would be great. Amen Alright, but um this morning I want to introduce the um uh the partner and the wife of the preacher. Then she will introduce The husband. Is that okay? Alright. Um we have in our midst today a dear friend who uh the Lord opened the door for us to meet uh some few years back. And um I think our relationship has been growing gradually. And um I am excited that today he's here to share God's word with us. Amen Um but I want to introduce um his wife Dina uh first of all and um She will come and introduce the husband. You you know how good it is when it's your wife giving you good words. You got it? So if if you got good words from your wife, you know all of a sudden everything you swag everything is in and you're ready to do it. And so I feel like let me just change the tables a little bit today But their son and their daughter are h are home at the moment because they are not well. Uh Tyler and uh Danny are not here. But ladies and gentlemen, let's stand together and welcome Dinah, as you can see introduced to Hasbro, I just want to say that I am blessed. You are blessed. We are blessed. Amen. This is the day. The Lord is with us. So so th so very thankful. So our story began about twenty-five years ago. Uh little bnowns to my husband, the Lord spoke to me before before I even accepted him We were in the newsroom, we work in radio together and we were having a conversation and I had my whole life planned out and I said, Well, you know, I have to be married by the time I'm, you know, twenty five and he said, Wow, you know, you're like twenty three, I guess who you know who you're gonna marry And in my head the Lord said, You And I thought, Wow, really? And so our story began. And he denied it and denied it and tried to send me away. And I said, No, you love me It's true. This is a true story. So long story short He prayed about it and he said, Lord, how could this woman be for me? And the Lord said, Nope, this is who I have for you And so our story began and truly this man was handpicked from the Lord Because I grew up confused about God. I grew up afraid of God. I grew up wondering that if I could ever talk to God, seeing if I could please him, if he could ever accept me. And the truth is Through Christ we are accepted. Through Christ all things are possible. And my husband shared this message with me. And I cried and I cried and I said, No, don't you understand I can't accept it. I'm not good enough And he said, That's the whole point. You're not good enough. And one day I was alone and I prayed after reading he said, Read the Gospel of John I was afraid to read the Bible because I was taught you don't read the Bible, someone else reads it and then they speak to you. So I read the Bible, read the Word of God with fear and trembling, and the Lord spoke to me and said, You are a sinner and I bawled even more. And then I said, If you will please Please give me this gift, I will accept it. And from that very moment I began a new life. And it's because this man who said, No, no, no, this can't be my wife. She's not a believer, and God said, No, this is who I have for you. Because he was faithful to what God spoke I am saved, of course, by the grace of God, but he used this man, and he will use this man to speak to you right now. So without further ado, I Introduce my wonderful husband, Troy Skinner. Merry Christmas. Well before we launch into the message today, I want to uh say that it is an honor. True honor to be granted the privilege of sharing God's Word with you today on Christmas morning of all days. Um Especially as I get to share with you a personal favorite topic of mine and my family, and it might become one of your favorite topics after you hear what the Lord has for you this morning. Many of you are becoming familiar with me and my family these past several months as we've visited a few times, but again, a reminder of who I am. My name is Troy Skinner, and I am a sinner. A horrible, depraved sinner. Saved by the blood of Jesus Christ. And it is my hope this morning that by the time I am finished you will believe the same thing to be true about yourself. Please pray with you. Father, we praise you and glorify your name for who you are and what you've done. And what you continue to do. And what you will do in the future. We ask that your Holy Spirit open our hearts to receive your truth. As you open my mouth. to deliver it. I pray that you will keep me faithful to your word and make up for the shortcomings that I bring to proclaiming the message of the gospel. And put at rest the distractions that face many of us today. We are here to worship you in fellowship gathered in this place. Help us to do both well. Worship and fellowship. In the name of our one and only hope for salvation, we pray. The name of your eternal Son Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Daddy, tell me what it was like when you were a kid. Mommy, read me a bedtime story. From the time we are children, we love stories. Tales of long-ago ages, faraway places. But the best stories are the true ones. Especially the ones that still affect us today. This is why when company comes over for gender, tell me if this isn't true, the children are so eager and enthusiastic and encouraging their parents to Tell the story of how they met. Go on, tell us how we met. Stories of their courtship, their mad dash to the hospital when the kids were born. Well, what's your favorite story? At a time like this, you might say, oh, my favorite story is Frosty and the Snowman. Rudolph the red-nosed reindeer maybe. For perhaps it's a wonderful life. At one time my son and daughter, they might have said that their favorite story was elf. Or The Toy That Saves Christmas by Veggie Tale. Now these examples are all fictitious, but not all stories are fiction, of course. So maybe your favorite story is that of the Reformation or the French and American Revolution. Or maybe a biography by about someone like Mahatma Gandhi Or other historical stories rooted in reality like that. What kind of story are we giving regarding Jesus? This morning you are going to hear about the greatest story ever conceived. And you will hear a personal story that illustrates in An intimate way how this greatest story ever told is retold in new and wondrous ways. Even in the lives of those seated around you this morning. After this message, you will know my family quite a bit better than you already do, and By God's grace you will know in the marrow of your bones what it means to be a part of God's family. It is a powerful, powerful truth. And because it's so powerful, I've been challenged all this week since I learned last week I'd be preaching today to just wait and be patient to share with you this once upon a time. So that you will have your heartbeat stronger for the hope that is happily ever after. And there you have part one of a three-part series on the Faith Debate program, a message that we've shared titled Who Is This Jesus? Rascribers will share the Congregation of Covenant Family Chapel. Their program is up next, by the way, Pastor Neela Chempong's program. airs every Sunday from nine thirty till ten o'clock. And now, starting just a couple of weeks ago, the Frederick Faith Debate program is heard every Sunday morning from nine until nine thirty. So welcome to our new time. Jonathan Schweitzer and I will be doing a panel discussion show in Three Sundays from now. The next two Sundays you'll hear parts two and part three of the three parts here that we just began this morning. I want to thank our new sponsors this year Hilo AutoSales online at hiloautosales. com and Tiger Pros of Frederick. It's wonderful to have them on board as part of the Faith Debate family. Thanks so much for listening. I'm Froy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930WFMD. Until next week, God bless.