This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Hoorah! Where Faith Community Leaders Wrestle over the truth. Yeah, but in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Let's get ready to rumble Let's get ready to rumble. Out. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Fate Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. Is that it? And in this corner, weighing in the middle of the day. Weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of Bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder, John Sweiser. Oh, I'm just getting warmed up. You warmed up over there, John? Now I feel like I I need to come to the show in a different mode than I did previously. You're not just the big birth big bridge the big bridge builder. You're the notorious big bridge builder. I need to pay more attention. Attention to how that presents to you so that I can you uh rip on you. What does it say about you? I I'm the uh I'm the mixed master. The mix master. What does that mean? How do I how do I rip on that That's what I'm here for. Weighing in. All right. So uh last week we had a show that was just Jonathan and I uh doing a recap, a kind of a post scheme analysis on a series of shows It wasn't exactly a a shining moment necessarily on how we motivation for doing this show. Uh one is to talk about things that are interesting to us. Part of it is to uh to make sure that uh different points of view are fairly represented and people are honest about how they represent those points of view because there's so much of that needed. Yeah. So many people are pretending or lying about what they because they're playing it safe or they just pretend they agree when they don't. We live a Facebook past that, yeah. But then the other thing is, okay, well if you're gonna get past that Facebook reality and you're gonna be real and you're gonna be authentic, you can take a chance to show what you really think about something Well you're hanging yourself out there to dry if you're not careful. And so there's I think there's a bit of an art and and certainly of a a respect and a sensibility about how to go about doing that. And so I'm hoping that in the way we conduct ourselves, talking about some things that are really important to us, and maybe to you. Yeah. Uh that we disagree on, sometimes vehemently. Yeah. And do so in such a way that is winsome and and good natured and and uh and and patient. Uh and I'm not sure that we did that so well when we were recording those podcasts that are now lost forever. It was one of the toughest ones for me. So it's probably good that it got lost. You know, can I just say this in our current vitriolic conversation politically, religiously across the nation. Uh y uh I feel like you and I were prophesying that fifteen years ago when we started the show, when we said people need to be able to have conversations about significant disagreements about, you know, religion and politics or whatever it is, cultural, you know, distinctions, or else We're not going to be able to have those conversations. And that's the way it's turned out in uh in our con you know, immediate contemporary society. People can't have those discussions anymore. They don't know how to be respectful. They don't know how to how to get inside of uh somebody somebody other some somebody else's worldview and why they think the way that they think. And so instead we just all throw stones at each other. And part of the problem is that people don't know why they think what they think. They might not even really know what they think. Did so if you ask it could uh i it feels threatening to them that you would even question it. It wasn't too long ago that Jimmy Kimmel well, you know, I can take him relieve him, but I happened to see a clip from his late night show where he did a man on the street thing. Okay. And he We walked up to random people and asked them and I'm not kidding. This is like was really on his show. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Walk up to these random twenty and thirty somethings and said, literally the question was, can you name a book? A book. A book And Kimmel even sets it up by saying, look, they could have said the Bible, right? They could have said, you know, any uh uh Dr. Seuss. Yeah, they could have said anything at all. Green eggs and hay. Right, they could have said anything at all. Any book would have qualified. And they he talked to like, I don't know six, eight, ten, twelve fe I don't know. None of them can name a book. Yeah, but they could name a website. I'm sure they pr I'm sure they could. They could name a movie, they could name a T V show, they could name a favorite song. But they couldn't name a book. They couldn't name a book. Well if you're not reading You're not really engaging your mind in a way that's gonna help you formulate what you really think about things. But anyway. Anyways that's been prophesied by enough people, you know, that it's so Speaking of uh shows, that was a reference to a TV show, Jimmel. There's another show. We don't have it on our radio station, but it's a nationally syndicated show. They've got about a hundred affiliates around the around the country. Almost as big as we are. Almost. Not quite. But uh you know they keep trying, they they can they can aspire. So they uh have been around for a couple of years. I'm not sure exactly when they started the show. Um I first came to know who they are because the guy that does the show used to be the executive producer for the Laura Ingram show. Oh okay. Laura Ingram used to be on this station and actually named proper I personally know Laura, not like well. Yeah. But I used to work for Westwood One, which was at the time syndicating her show. Okay. And uh she was uh wonderful to work with. She was a big supporter of the affiliate sales team and she would actually check in How are things going? Anything can do to help you with the radio stations. Wow. So that was cool. And she always remembered my name because at the time she had a dog named Troy. Very nice. So I was like so I always have like a special spot in my heart for Laura Ingram. I heard that her former executive producer, who was the executive producer I believe, back in her Westwood One days Started doing his own show. Huh, let me check that out. So I started following him online a little bit. Anyway, their show is called Our American Stories Okay. And they feature stories and some of them they produce themselves, these sound effects and voice actors and things like that. Okay. And other things it's just interviews with people or people s they invite people to submit their stories. Share us a story about life in America. Nice. And if we can, we'll use it on the air. And so I'm listening to uh the shows they're they tend to be feel-good stories. No, not all. It could be negative. It could be horse. Yeah, really. Talk about people who died horrible deaths because of Four choices they made or some of them are eulogies, story in the form of eulogy. Exactly. It was a video about America. Right, this is America. Presented pretty negative view. And so the question was, how honest was it? By the way, I know the power our voices can have. We just mentioned a video that's out there called This Is America. I'm gonna throw a disclaimer out there. If you're oh what's that? If you if you want to watch it, that's fine, but just be warned, it's very graphic. So if you're troubled by graphic visuals, you don't want to watch it. Okay. So just know that. Okay. Anyway, so I submitted a story. Yeah. And I'm thinking I'm not sure if they'll air it because it's got kind of a religious vent to it. Yeah. But th I've noticed that they were including some stories that had a religious story. And yours was a negative story? And I thought, you know what, they might so I submitted a story and and they and here's here's what it I was surprised by. I was listening to their podcast all of a sudden I heard this. This is their bumper music coming out of the commercial room. This is Leah Beebe and this is our American stories and we love to tell stories about everything here on this show. And we also love to tell your stories when you send them to us and we promise we'll do that. That's why it's called Our American Stories. Because it's you and us making this show together. And this next one comes from a listener named Troy Skinner, who sent in a recording of this powerful testimony that he gave at his local church. My son Tyler was born Very sick. One of my earliest memories following his birth is his breathing. His entire body convulsed so violently in and out that his ribcage practically touched his spinal column I wouldn't have believed it was possible for a human body to do that if I hadn't seen it with my own eyes. He was struggling to force down every breath, and he was failing in the struggle because his lungs weren't able to do their job yet I thought for sure he would die within minutes. He didn't. Over the course of a few days, his breathing steadied. But his skin had purple dots all over it and it was yellow. Really yellow. Caused by elevated Billirubin uh in his blood. You might know this as having jaundice Now bilirubin is the junk that's supposed to be cleaned out of our blood, and a normal bilirubin count is supposed to be something like point zero zero zero zero zero zero zero one. I mean but essentially it's it should be zero And sometimes the baby is born with an elevated bilirubin and their jaundice number is a one or a two, maybe a more dangerous three or a four. Well Tyler's bilirubin number was well over three or four. Kept going up. The liver is what cleans the garbage out of the blood and Tyler's liver wasn't working and so his jaundice number kept climbing. The doctors assured us that as long as the number didn't go into double digits, we'd be okay And then it went into double digits. So then they explained, well, there's two parts to Billy Rubin. There's direct and indirect. And as long as the direct doesn't go into double digits, you'll be okay And the direct one is double digits. Now a skin with a yellow. It was green. I mean seriously green. Sometimes he would have this crunch cup look on his face and he looked like a Grinch who store Christmas And I would joke, it's not easy being green. Billy Ruben climbed to well over twenty. And that's when I asked the doctors how high can it go? They said, we're asking that same question. They checked the databases, they called around other hospitals and experts in the field trying to see what the deal was, and they said they couldn't find any record of anybody ever having a number so high. And it kept going up all the way to thirty point five. Tyler had a liver biopsy, underwent liver surgery, consultation was sought from leading medical experts all around the nation. Nothing helped. We thought for sure that Tyler would die within weeks. He didn't. Tyler was sent home from the neonatal intensive care unit after two months, and we're convinced of this day that he was sent home to die. He had eight specialists needing to see him every week. Most of them needed to see him two, three times a week, and so every single day we took him to doctor's appointments, two or three appointments a day. It was on twelve different medications. We used to have to feed him by using a syringe to shoot the food down the back of his throat because he was too weak to suck and swallow. He'd be back in a hospital in about a month. He had biliary atresia surgery and bilateral hernia repair and hypospadia surgery and strabismus surgery and exploratory procedures and gastrointestinal intervention for reflux, esophagitis and thrush, and other issues, both serious and relatively minor. And because of his condition, he needed to eat every two hours. And so we'd spend an hour getting his food and medicines prepared and then we'd get him into his stomach with that syringe and then we'd spend the next hour cleaning up his projectile vomit. All day. Every day. Tyler was sick. Everyone thought for sure he'd die within months. But he didn't. And the biggest threats of his life I haven't even mentioned yet Tolerate hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and pulmonary stenosis. His arteries are way too narrow and in the weld his heart muscle is way too thick. Four times thicker than it should have been. He weighed five pounds, and his heart was as thick as that of a forty-year-old man We'd gotten to know our cardiologist pretty well at this point, we're seeing pretty much daily. So we had a relationship and we asked him, be straight with us for our sanity. We needed an honest prognosis. And he hesitated, as doctors do when they're asked that sort of a question, but then he said there was no medical reason why Tyler was alive even at that moment. And he would likely not see his first birthday, and there is just no way he would see his second He should have died in less than two years, and he didn't. Why? God had a plan and a purpose for this boy born sick. Fast forward a number of years, we have a ten-year-old boy who still couldn't eat solid foods. Everything had to be put through the blender first, pureed. He had recently learned to feed himself with a spoon, so that was good. We prayed in the name of Jesus Christ that and with not just us, it was a dedicated circle of prayer warriors praying with us for years. And when Tyler was thirteen He finally was able to eat non-blenderized food for the first time. We threw a party We celebrated this answer to prayer with all of our prayer warrior friends. We invited them all over with an official invitation. We had an invitation blown up to poster size, and everybody who attended the party signed it. If you come to our house, it is one of the first things you will see. It hangs in our foyer as a constant reminder that God answers prayer. So the lung problem went away, resolving itself on its own, so the doctors told us. The liver problem with the impossibly high bilirubin count went away. in spite of the failed efforts of the medical community. Many of his physical and developmental issues uh were successfully addressed by highly trained professionals, doctors and therapists, with uh Unreal. Effort, love, and patience from my wife, Dina. Sustained by God's grace. And now, after thirteen years, he could eat real food. Amazing answers to prayer. But there's still this ticking time bomb, his heart. The hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and the pulmonary stenosis were not getting better. He saw specialists in Orlando, New York, Syracuse, Buffalo, Baltimore, DC, the best in the world at what they do, and there was nothing to be done. Every few months he needed to go see his local cardiologist, a beautiful Muslim man, Dr. Hassan Abdallah. And every visit Gina would say, Well, pray for a miracle, Dr. Abdallah. And he'd smile and encourage. And then Tyler started having these episodes where he couldn't get his breath and he would come into a room at night panicked, turning gray. Dean would hold him and rock him and would pump his arms and legs trying to get blood flow and take him into the steaming shower, anything to try to help. And Dr. Abdallah then started asking to see Tyler every month And every visit Dina would say, we're praying for a miracle, Doctor of Dalla. And the doctor saw it second and third opinions. Sending Tyler to medical facilities throughout the region. And suddenly Dr. Abdallah stopped accepting payment for Tyler's visits. And we couldn't understand why. We found out later, because Tyler was dying, and the doctor didn't have the heart to tell us. His heart was breaking for us, as Tyler's heart, after years of struggle, was finally ready to just call it quits. That's why he couldn't breathe sometimes. That's why he turned gray. It was a heart failure. There's nothing to be done. All the doctors had exhausted all of the options that their training and technology gave them. And yet Dina kept trudging Taler to doctor visit after doctor visit. And after seeing so many echocardiograms and EKGs, she became an expert in reading them herself. And it was time for another visit to Dr. Abdallah and As usual, Dina greeted him by saying, We're praying for a miracle, Dr. Abdallah. And as usual, Dr. Abdallah politely smiled, got to work. And as he performed the echocardiogram, Dina watched as usual, but somehow it didn't seem as usual. The echo looked different to Dina. And Dr. Abala noticed too. He kept looking and he adjusted his view and he checked where he'd already checked. Then he went back again. He kept performing the procedure and taking much longer than usual. And Dina began to think she understood why. And the doctor turned to Dina and said, Do you see that? And Dina said Yeah, it looked to her like the image of Tyler's heart. It was normal. Dr. Abdullah removed his glasses and wiped a tear from his cheek. And he looked Dina straight in the eyes and he said, Who do you pray to? She answered, Jesus. We pray to Jesus. And Dr. Abdallah said, well, your Jesus has healed your son. And they embraced and they enjoyed a long cry together, and they rejoiced together at what Jesus had done, one of them having just been reminded of who Jesus is, and the other one having just been introduced to who Jesus is And what a beautiful story. The Skinner's story, but in the end, an American story. How we really live, folks. Who we are, how beautiful we are, and my goodness, the heart we have. This is our American stories. Uh I set that up. I I my son was as you if you listen to the story, he was born incredibly sick and uh it it's it's literally a miracle that he's still alive. And his heart is, to this day, a hundred percent healthy. There's no issues there. Uh and it was in the context of a sermon and I there's a national show called Our American Stories, as you just heard the host Lee Habib say And they s basically solicit stories that people want to send in their story. Uh it's some people send in eulogies or some people send in uh uh stories about their coming out of a bad drug addiction or or uh there's a story of childhood abuse and how they've made something of their life in spite of that or because of that even or uh and then some a lot of it's business stories, people how they started their business and grew to be successful But they also feature stories about like George Washington and Abraham Lincoln and you know that sort of thing too. Or World War II and that sort of thing. Yeah, hist history. History. Yeah. Uh so anyway I thought, well, I'll I'll send that in and see what they do with it and then they put it on there. They edit it a little bit. You might have heard some of those edits, but they they put it on there and I gotta tell ya, I was uh uh very satisfied that they left on the part that to me is the most important part, which is uh yeah, prayer works in a sense. I I'm not a fan of that phrase exactly, but prayer is uh uh prayer can be an effective thing, is always effective in some way. But God and God hears your prayer. Well that that's what you're meaning to say. Not that prayer works, but that God uh heals. Right. But not just prayer, any old prayer. Yeah. But prayer in in the name of, by the power of, the Savior Jesus Christ. That's right. And so I had a little bit of concern that they might edit it in such a way that that part would be absent when it hur was heard on this national show that's on like a hundred stations. And they left it in. And they left it in, which that's awesome. Right? I think that's awesome. Yeah, you know the uh th there's a um a discomfort with the name of Jesus and as a result with the the discussion of who is Jesus and uh and what is the significance of what he did in dying and rising from the dead in our culture that that I almost feel embarrassed. You know, like like here on the faith debate, uh, talking about Jesus in in the context of a real life situation of how he responded to your prayers and healed Tyler, your son, and uh and yet this aspect of of who God is that that his son died not just to forgive us of our sins, but to take away the effect of sin, which includes disease. And includes, you know, poverty, which includes, you know, uh uh all of the the brokenness, abuse and and fighting. Right. His intention was not just to uh die, you know, to forgive us, but to restore us. And uh even though, you know, like it's important to remember that sometimes God says no. Sometimes he says yes, sometimes he says wait, that in in this situation, God heard your prayer and he healed Tyler. you know, amazing. Yeah, it's incredibly emotional story. Yeah, it's incredibly dramatic. And obviously you can imagine living through it was incredibly dramatic. And if that sounded familiar to you, uh the entire message, the entire sermon within which that story is told uh has aired during the faith debate time slot in the past. Uh that unedited version is out there somewhere probably. I'm not sure if it's still up on our website or not, but um Yeah, I think that part of why they uh I had hope that they might inc not only feature the story but include the Jesus aspect is I've been listening to enough of their podcasts, their show via podcast, to get a sense I believe that Lee Habib, the host of the show, that part of his personal story is that he was an ardent atheist and has now come to have a belief in Jesus Christ as his Lord and Savior. Mm. So that's part of his personal story. So I think that that makes him sensitive to And did you say that he comes from Lebanon originally? Well I think either his parents or his grandparents came over from Lebanon. So he's I don't know he's I don't think he himself did. So he might be second generation or something. Nevertheless I've heard stories of people that have come out of that part of the world and just feel like, you know, there's so much war over religion. Yeah You know, that science is a better way to go. Well, we're gonna have to go to wrap on it. Thanks so much, John. Thank you for listening. This is the Faith Debate on nine thirty WFMD. Find us online at WFMD. com keywordface. Until next week. God bless