Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I am Troy Skinner, our sponsor for Hilo Auto Sales, online at HiloAutoSales. com. Entire pros of Frederick. This week we have the concluding portion of our three part series on Who is this Jesus, a message I was uh invited to share on Christmas morning of all days at Covenant Family Chapel, that is uh Doctor Neil Chempong's uh church here in Frederick. His program airs here on WFMB nine thirty still ten o'clock uh every Sunday morning. And welcome to our new time. If you're if you've been away for a few weeks, yes We now air nine o'clock to nine thirty instead of eight thirty until nine. I guess technically more like I don't know, nine oh five or whenever the the top of the hour news and our show goes from that point up until nine thirty. And and uh if if means you're wondering, yes Jonathan Sweitzer not on this week's program, but he will be on next week's program. We will get back to our typical style of show, the panel discussion programs. We have an exciting guest and topic lined up. I can't give too many details, so I'll just have to leave it at that. But next week's show will be a panel discussion, faith debate program and we're excited about that. Anyway, so this message it came in three parts. The very first part was heard Two weeks ago on the Faith Debate Show, the middle section was heard last week and now the ending section was is heard. It all comes together in a flourish here, uh here in this week's program. So um if you missed the first two, you can go online to the podcast. Go to uh wfmd. com, keyword faith, that takes you to the Faith Debate page. And from there it's really easy to access the podcast. So if you'd like to hear the first two parts to what you're about to hear, the third part now, you can do that online. Alright, so without further ado, here's the concluding part of who is this Jesus? So let's fast forward a number of years and now we have a ten-year-old boy who still couldn't eat solid foods. Everything had to be put through the blender first. He had recently learned to feed himself with a spoon, so that was good. But we prayed in the name of Jesus Christ with a dedicated circle of prayer warriors, and when Tyler was thirteen years old He was finally able to eat non-blenderized food for the first time. We threw a party. We celebrated this answer to prayer. We invited all of our prayer warrior friends. We had the invitation to the party blown up the poster size, and everyone in attendance signed it. It is framed and hanging in the foyer of our home today as one of the first things you will see when you walk in our home as a testimony that God Answers prayer and heals the sick. So the lung problem it Went away, resolving itself, so the doctors told us. The liver problem with the impossibly high bilirubin count Went away, in spite of the failed efforts of the medical community. Many of his physical and developmental issues were successfully addressed, in fairness by highly trained doctors and therapists with uh just unreal effort And love and patience from my wife, Ina, sustained by God's grace And now Tyler could eat real food. Not all foods, but solid food. Amazing answers to prayer. But there was still the ticking time bomb, his heart. The hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and the pulmonic stenosis were not getting better. Esau specialists in in Orlando, New York, Syracuse Buffalo, Baltimore, DC, the best in the world at what they do. And there was nothing to be done. Every few months at this point he needed to see his local cardiologist, a beautiful Muslim man named Dr. Hassan Abdallah. And every visit Deena would say, We're praying for a miracle, Dr. Abdallah. And he would smile and encourage. And then Tyler started having these episodes where he he couldn't get his breath, and he'd come into our room late at night, panicked, turning gray And would hold him and she would rock him and she would Pump his arms and legs to try to get some blood flow, take him into the steaming shower, hoping that anything might help Dr. Abdullah asked to see Tyler every month now. And every visit Cena would say, well, pray for a miracle, Dr. Abdullah Then the doctor saw second and third and fourth opinion sending power to medical facilities throughout the region. And Dr. Abdullah at this point stopped accepting payments for Tyler's visits. And we didn't understand why. We found out later. We found out later it is because Tyler was dying And the doctor could not bring himself to tell us. His heart was breaking for us. As Tyler's heart after years of struggle. was ready to call a quince. This is why he couldn't breathe sometimes. It's why he turned gray. He was in heart failure. And there was nothing to be done. All the doctors had exhausted all the options that their training and technology gave them. Yet Dina kept trudging Tyler to doctor visit after doctor visit, and after seeing so many Echocardiograms and EKGs, she was becoming expert at reading them. In dozens and dozens of echoes, with the doctors and the technicians always explaining what they were seeing Where the problems were, what a normal echo should look like. It was really sort of fascinating, actually Then it was time for another visit to Dr. Abdallah, and as usual, Dina greeted him by saying, we're praying for a miracle, Dr. Abdallah. And as usual, Dr. Abdallah politely smiled and got to work. And as he performed the echocardiogram, Dina watched as usual, but somehow, this time didn't seem as usual. The echo it looks different to Dina. And Dr. Abdallah, he noticed it too, and he kept looking and he adjusted his view and he double-checked where he'd already looked, taking Much longer to keep performing this procedure, way longer than usual. And Dina began to think she understood why. The doctor turned to Dina and he asked, Do you see that? And Dina said, Yes. It looked to her like the image of how his heart was normal. Doctor Abell removed his glasses. And wiped the tear from his eyes? He looked Dina straight in the eyes and asked, Who do you pray to? And as you might imagine at this time Gina's eyes were flooding with tears and she answered, Jesus, we pray to Jesus. And Dr. Abella said, well, your Jesus has healed your son. Tyler's heart was normal. And so Dina and the doctor they embraced And they enjoyed a long cry together. And they rejoiced together at what Jesus had just done. One of them having just been reminded of who Jesus is. The other one having just been introduced to who Jesus is. I know that this story seems utterly fantastic. But it's 100% true. It is true. As documented medical evidence that this really happened I'm going to share with you a portion of Dr. Obella's medical report to Tyler's primary care physician, which we've had framed. It hangs in Tyler's bedroom. I had the pleasure of evaluating your patient, Tyler Skinner, a 13-year-old young man with Williams syndrome. He had bilateral branch pulmonary artery stenosis and severe hypertrophy of the right ventricle Since I saw him last time, he's done tremendous progress. He does not have any chest pains. He is more energetic. A 2D echo revealed the presence of normal segmental cardiac anatomy The systemic venous return was normal. The right atrium was normal. There was no atrioseptal defect. The right ventricle was normal. Both arteries demonstrated normal color and Doppler flow velocities. The left ventricle was normal in size. The aortic valve was normal. The ceprialvular aortic area was normal. There was no aortic or supraarctic valve stenosis. The peak systolic velocity across that area was 1. 2, which is normal. The aortic arch was normal. There was no patent ductus arteriosus. There is no procardial effusion. Conclusions. I am truly amazed at the spontaneous resolution. Of this child's cardiac findings, this is not what we expect to see in a typical patient with Williams syndrome. The natural history for the branched pulmonary arteries in patients with Williams syndrome is progressive worsening, progressive right ventricle failure and dysfunction. This patient currently does not have any cardiac abnormality. Looking at the other outstanding improvement that happened to this child with no medical intervention at all Just makes me feel miraculously touched that this thing happened. This child, as you know, was doomed at birth that he will not live with multiple failures, and his cardiac was severe, at one point by more than one pediatric cardiologist including myself I only thank the God for how good this patient is doing. Recommendations, normal treatment for age. Signed Azam Abdallah MD Let me review the basics of Tyler's story. Tyler was born sick. Trust in God proved to be the only option. Our efforts, the medical community's knowledge fail. But God had a plan and a purpose for this boy riddled with sickness. And when God heals Tyler, the Muslim doctor asks, Who do you pray to? Allow me to review the basics of your story. You were born sick. Dead in your sin, in fact. Trust in God, your only option. Your own efforts, even your increase in knowledge, fail to rescue you. But God has a plan and a purpose for you, riddled with sickness. And so now as you reflect on your Personal story of healing, let me ask, who do you pray to? In whom do you trust? Like Tyler, all of us are born sick. A death sentence hanging over us. Nothing anyone but God can do about it. Like Tyler, we must fight to persevere, to overcome, to allow others into our lives around us to minister to us with the talents and gifts that God has given them. We are just like Tyler. All of us, exactly the same scenario, just minor differences in degree. Tyler's heart is healed today because Jesus is Lord today. Your spiritual heart is healed today. Speak if you're a Christian Because Jesus is Savior today. Christ's kingdom is advancing today, even to the witness of Muslim doctors, because Jesus is Kingdom. Today. Jesus is Lord, Savior, and King. Right now. Don't forget. Don't neglect to proclaim it. That would seem a good ending, wouldn't it? However What are we to do with the fact that Tyler still has difficulties despite all these miraculous healings? He is still affected by Williams syndrome and autism spectrum disorder Well, we see a connection even here between Tyler and our condition. In Christ, Tyler is one hundred percent healed right now. We just cannot fully see it yet. As is written in Hebrews chapter ten, verse fourteen For by a single offering he has past tense, he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified It is finished. In heaven we will see Tyler's full healing perfectly. Just like with us. In Christ, we are already healed, but cannot yet fully see the fullness of this until we arrive in heaven. So don't be distracted by what your eyes can see through a glass dimly. The truth remains clear to those whom God has given eyes to see. We needed God to come and live on earth as a man, to rescue us from being dead in sin. And he did this for us. He limited himself. He condescended to become man. The true God truly became man. This is the point of Christmas. And he is Savior of the world today. He is risen. That is the point of Easter. Trust God. He loves you. He made you. He has offered you the promise of heaven. Not because you deserve it. There's nothing you can do to earn it. Just love him back. We love him back through repentance and obedience. Just love him back. Once upon a time, and happily ever after. And right now, Jesus reigns. We close with a word of prayer. Thank you, God, for your creation and For the trust that we can have in your never-ending wisdom in ruling over it. We praise you for your plan of salvation revealed to us in your written word and in the life of Jesus Christ. We celebrate the things you have done throughout the ages, and we yearn eagerly for the consummation of your work in us at the time of the second Advent as we today celebrate the first Advent. Please, Lord. Lord, slam open the eyes of our hearts and keep them open. To the comforting and courage-inspiring truth that you reign in our lives and in the entire world right now. As Lord, Savior, and King, praise be to your name, now and forevermore. In the name of your transcendent and imminent Son, Jesus the Christ, we pray. Amen. Amen. And there's the conclusion. to the three-part message, Who is this Jesus? Now, it wasn't a three-part message to begin with. It was one message heard on Christmas morning at Covenant Family Chapel at Neil Champunk's church in downtown Frederick. You'll hear his prayer. program coming up in just a few minutes here on WFMD. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on nine thirty WFMD. I know this week and last week and the week before that didn't sound all that much like a faith debate show. We will be back to a panel discussion program Next week, more about that in just a second. But first what you heard was the tail end of a three part message. Now that was the you know, this week and last week were the lion's share of the message. But the very first week, going back two Sundays ago, I would encourage you if you missed it to go to the f to the uh Faith Bay page at WFMD. com, keyword faith, that'll take you easy access to the podcast, also in the audio vault section of uh the WFMD website. But that first installment, not only did you hear the very beginning minutes of this message It's the shortest part of the message there. But you also heard kind of the introduction, the ramp up where uh Neil Champong speaks and my my wife actually speaks. We hear a a piece from Jonathan Schweitzer as well in that program. But you also heard the response to this message. Kind of played things out of order. Took the response in the congregation, in the sanctuary, and put that in the very first show as a kind of a teaser. So you'd like to hear the response to what you've just heard. You have to go check out that podcast and listen from The uh show from I guess it was the last Sunday in February is when that program aired. So find that show. Um I want to thank our new sponsors, Hilo Auto Sales, online at hiloautosales. com and Tire Pros of Frederick. And I want to thank you for following us along our uh many moves all these years. We started this program back in the uh Two thousand and four if you can believe it. So how many years is that? We're coming up on um how many years is that? I don't know. Thirteen years, something like that, whatever it is. Yeah, I think we're coming up on thirteen years. We started out, I think it was six o'clock in the morning on Sunday mornings. there for a year or two and then we moved to eight thirty on Sunday mornings where we've been for the last decade or so and now this past month we've been hearing the show at nine o'clock nine till nine thirty here on WFMD and that is the plan moving forward, at least until they tell me to put the show on at a different time. But this is our new time. Uh thank you so much. And if you weren't able to listen before because of your schedule and now you're discovering the program for the first time, welcome to the Faith. debate and I encourage you to listen next week so you can get a feel for what the Faith Debate Show usually is all about. Until next week, 167 and a half hours from now, God bless.