This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Tremble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-brawl forum. We're faith community leaders. Over the truth. Yabba. In less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble out. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Fate to Bate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor. Teacher and founder of Bridges connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder, John Swisser. No, I'm just getting longed up. Who is in and who is out when counting followers of Jesus Christ? To be in, does there need to be agreement that there is one eternal God who created the entire universe? That Jesus was born of a virgin and lived a sinless life, that Jesus is God and a man who died and rose from the dead, that heaven and hell is this that all people are sinners needing a savior, that Jesus is the only way to a restored relationship with God. Must there be agreement on all these sorts of questions for us to say someone is in the in crowd as opposed to the out crowd. On the panel to discuss such questions. We have the founder of Bridges in Frederick County, Jonathan Sweisson, and the senior pastor of Trinity United Methodist Church, Dr. Eliezer Valentin Cassignon. I think I got the pronunciation somewhere in the ballpark Yeah, that's a really good baseball name by the way. You know? Seriously, that's like a good like e either like a relief pitcher or a middle infielder or something. You were you were made to To sw to swing the swing swing the lumber. Anyway. So uh Jonathan uh I I think was out picking a fight as he's meant to do, uh back in the spring, if I'm not mistaken. I think it was uh uh at at a public event. Yeah. Uh that had a lot of different people with li different views gathered together. Okay, but all I think probably claiming to maybe be Christian or at least part of the Christian world. And he got into a got into a dialogue with uh Eliezer about uh whether or not it was you know, appropriate maybe that all those people should be there or should they include other people that weren't included, that sort of thing. If it's a Christian event, who should be invited? Should I share a little bit of that story? We're gonna do you know three or four shows, in an arc here on this, and we'll get into the specifics of of that context. But I just want to explain why are we talking about this? However The reason I'm mentioning that is since that discussion there have been some new studies that have come out. I don't know if you've seen these or not. I don't know. You familiar with the Ling and Ear Ministries, the old R. C. Sproul thing, uh the the now late R. C. Sproul continues and they did a a survey And they talk to people who are not professing believers, they talk to the American public at large whether they profess to be believers or not, and then they talk to people who are self-proclaimed evangelicals to see what they think about certain things. Okay. And fifty-one percent of the people who uh claim to be evangelicals uh s evangelical Christians say that God accepts the worship of any and all people for any and all religions, doesn't have to be Christian to be Christ that they're worshiping, and God's totally fine with that. That's Fifty-one percent of evangelicals believe that. So are those evangelicals maintaining a biblical worldview uh is one? And if they're not, is that sort of a Um I think it was seventy-eight percent uh of e pr self professed evangelicals uh denied the deity of Christ. Will you say that again? Seventy seventy-eight percent of of evangelic people who say call themselves born-again evangelical believers say they believe in Jesus Christ, but that Jesus Christ is not The son of deity. He's a creature. He was created by the Father. But he was created by the Father. He's not eternal. He's n he's not God in the full sense of what we typically mean in the Christian world by God. So my question is if somebody is part of that seventy eight percent Is it legitimate for them to call themselves evangelical Christians? Are they part of the in crowd? So I don't know who wants to jump in first and think about what the answer to that is. Johnny wanna go first? It's a good question, though. It is a great question. When you go to the Bible, if the Bible is is a um standard for uh defining who is a member of the body of Christ and who is not, it would seem that the Bible, you know, uh It says in Romans 10 that if you if you confess Jesus is Lord and you believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. And so Jesus is Lord. I've always defined as, you know, that that he's divinity and and then in in first John John the the disciple that Jesus loved, the uh uh the one of the three closest to him, uh writes first John and and he says that if anyone denies that Jesus came in the flesh or denies that Jesus is God, then then the love of the Father is not in them. Like it's it's it's pretty clear. And so uh so when I go to define who's in it and who's out, uh what You believe about Jesus, his divinity, his death, his resurrection, uh you know, that his death and resurrection uh paid for our sin. You know, gave us eternal life. Like like these are uh I think some people would call 'em the fundamentals of the faith. The faith today we like to say essentials because we don't want to be fundamentalists. Nobody wants to be called a fundamentalist, even though I think I tend to be called that by uh many people, but I do feel like that's essential to to the definition of who's a believer and who's not. Yeah, that's interesting. You know, one of the things is that perhaps perhaps in in in in goal, let me just say first thank you for the invitation to come and and share the the word. um and the conversation. I think this is a wonderful opportunity and I'm just so grateful to Jonathan and to Troy for the blessing of being together here. Um but let me just say uh you know First is the question goes into, you know, who's in and who's out in in this conversation. But I found it interesting because, you know, you started from from uh from the study or from the survey. And the survey is asking questions to the evangelicals. And so an evangelical is it an evangelical? Could you be considered an evangelical if you don't believe X, Y, and Z? Um and maybe within the context of the evangelical community that may not be the case. But does that mean that that covers for the rest of all the other Christians who are not evangelicals in the same sense who might not share the same values as the as as the in in the evangelical community. Um and also with that is a question about, you know, do you do we define evangelical meaning that we all believe the same thing? Or do you know do we sustain that the the Bible is inner and therefore that we can uh we all agree on that and therefore that that's the base for our understanding of how this you know we define this thing. And I think that you know i in in in this conversation if you know what you're saying Jonathan is is is going into understanding well if you claim to be an evangelical then you need to also then sustain this belief. And then within the context of the evangelical uh community is the question is is is that the question Um or in who's defining what is supposed to be within the evangelical community, what is supposed to be the the the uh the the true belief in Jesus. Um Yeah, and let me clarify something real quick because I don't want to I uh for this for the purposes of our discussion, I'm I'm thinking in terms of the evangelical Christians being a subset within the church. Right. Right. Not all believers in Christ would identify as evangelicals, would be accepted as evangelicals uh by those who identify as evangelicals, you know, that sort of thing. So Let let's not I don't want to get bugged down to the evangelical question 'cause it means it's a politically loaded term. It's it's kind of a fuzzy term. It doesn't mean today, I don't think, what it meant thirty years ago and it it it Well in fact I feel like sure that begs the question though, because the the question is are evangelicals uh can you be an evangelical and not necessarily be somebody that that fits definitions that the Bible seems to set as boundaries on on who would be in Christ and who not. Right. But I don't want us I don't want us to have a I don't want I don't want to have a a discussion about evangelicalism. I want to have a di uh a discussion and a debate about um about the church, about Christians, the body. So who's part of the body that Christ is the head and who's not? Okay. So you're defining it that way. So I use the that I I I th that study might have gotten us off on a turn. I'm just saying that these are ev evangelicals are those that are culturally are typically identified as these are the Bible thumping, Bible belt hardcore Christians. So I don't know if that's fair or accurate, but that's kind of the perception. So it was interesting that that group of people was off the charts. The overwhelming minority of the overwhelming minority of them thought that Jesus is eternal. That's Pretty frightening actually, like one out of five. Sure. But anyway, but if somebody doesn't believe in the deity of Jesus Christ, but they claim to be a Christian, are they kidding themselves? Well it's interesting in that conversation because when you when we when we talk about that then, you know, for me it's always then having to go to the historical to the historical um uh you know to our historical past, to our historical reality as as as Christians where we have had a a long standing reality in the Christian church for the past two thousand years where you have people who are in that camp who not necessarily proclaim the divinity of cr of Christ, who do not does not necessarily uphold to the idea of Jesus as being equal to the Father, which is this what we're talking in in this what you're addressing here. Um because you have Christians who will say, well, you know, yes, I believe Jesus is divine, but as you also mentioned, but not necessarily Jesus divine as as um equally equal to the father, which is interesting because even though it is today we're having we're still having this conversation You know, that is exactly what the the the the Nicene Council was debating. Exactly the same question. So it's amazing to think that yet almost Two thousand years ago, about you know, eighteen, seventeen hundred years ago, we had the church debating exactly the same thing and people in both camps proclaiming to be Christians, proclaiming to be followers of Jesus, being willing to give their lives for their faith in Jesus Christ, sustaining that, no, I don't believe that Jesus is actually divine In the same way that God the Father is divine. I'm not sure if we're gonna put all of our uh if we'll be comfortable all three of us in this room right now, putting all of our eggs in the council's baskets or not. I know that John has some issues with some of the councils and some of the creeds over the years and so it's gonna be an interesting Sure. However, uh that was uh if I remember my history correctly, that was Athanasius and Arian, right? We're having the battle and and Arian uh what we now call Arianism was saying that Jesus was some sort of superhuman or a demigod, like some s he was deity but maybe not really. And the the council that you're talking about in in Nicaea called Arian and his people heretics, meaning they're in the out group. If you hold to this, you're not really a Christian. Is that still what passes for orthodoxy today, or did Nice get it wrong, I guess, is another way of thinking about the question today. Yeah, so I think I've answered that question. I'm not sure that you've answered for yourself that question. Or maybe you're saying that in in uh in answering history in in recognizing that historically that was a discussion, you're saying that that maybe it's not necessary to believe that Jesus was the Son of God uh in order to be And and uh i I'm not even sure that I understand what you what you're asking, Troy, in terms of what is a Christian like are you talking about who it is that that will have eternal life? Let's see if we can come up with a with a list of bullet points maybe that we could all possibly agree on saying, okay, if somebody is going to profess to be a Christian, we can know that they're going to believe this, this, this, and this. Because if they don't believe this, this, this, and this, whatever they believe, it's not Christianity. So are th are there w are there litmus test kinds of things that we can say, look, there's I I would say a Christian must believe there is a a personal God who created all that has ever been created, that he created the universe. And if you don't believe that you're outside the pale of Christianity. So you're wanting us to agree or disagree as you go down your list? Well I'm yeah, I mean I'm making them up off the top of my head. But that's one, right? Would you say if somebody if at your at your church, you know, one of your parishioners comes up to you and says, You know, I don't really think that there's a personal God who created everything. I believe that everything is a cosmic accident and which led to evolution and that we're just here by chance. And yet I think there's some good social value to being in the church. Uh I think we do a lot of good. I think Jesus Christ existed and he was a good moral example. And so therefore I'm a good Christian Would you know would you as a pastor feel like, Yeah, okay, you're you're a Christian or would you say, Yeah, you know, I I I I don't think you understand what Christianity is, because you you're missing the boat here. Right. Well there is and you know, these are questions as you mentioned before that have been that we consistently keep asking ourselves in the Christian church, you know, and and again going to the question about who who's in and who's out as you started the the the show Um because you know, uh in most cases we're trying to define for everybody who needs to believe exactly the same thing in order for them to to proclaim their faith. And my my issue simply is You know, if I have a person in my church who says, you know, I don't believe in Jesus, um, then I will say, Well, then you're not a Christian. You know, um, do I kick him out of the church? Well, no. But but the the difference here is, you know, I don't um that person not necessarily have to agree with all the things that I believe in or all the things that some you know that my church proclaims as you know this is who we are in our identity as and this is what makes us be Christians. Um my sense is you know Can I find common ground to work with this individual to work for the common good in my church and in the middle of the year? Can I hear that? By the way, let me reset real quickly. Uh that's the voice of Dr. Eliezer Valentine Castagnan, joined by Jonathan Schweitzer, of course, the founder of Bridges, a uh a new group. this year in Frederick County doing good work on on the social scene right now tackling the opioid crisis uh head on. Uh and I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Yeah I'm not suggesting that we would physically tell somebody you can't come attend worship uh and and that we should not have communication that we should uh blackball somebody or put a scarlet letter on them. However When you say Sony sa uh if they said that they don't believe in Jesus, believe what? That he existed historically, that he they believe in the deity of Jesus, the resurrection of Jesus, the the substitutionary atonement, death of Jesus? Like Believing in Jesus can mean so many different things. I think that's what we're trying to clarify, right? I think we Christians have to believe in the deity of Jesus, I would argue. They have to believe in salvation by grace accomplished by Jesus at the cross, I would argue Right? So uh z so you if you merely believe that Jesus is some example like Gandhi, then you can be a nice enough person, but you're not a Christian. That's so put um does that help put it out there for you, John? So in in James it says you believe that there is one God good, even the demons believe that and shudder. Right, which which seems to give the impression that that there are things that we can believe about God that that merely believing those things about God does nothing to move us into, you know, the camp of of the saved and the redeemed. Right? And so then first John says that that if anyone does not believe that Jesus is the Son of God then uh then uh then he is not of the Father. Or if anyone does not believe that Jesus comes from God, right? There's a couple phrases there that that feel to me like like they're very specific. You know, and then Jesus when he says, you know, I'm the way, the truth, and the life, no one comes to the Father but by me like, you know, there's there's a there's a a a very specific thing to believe about Jesus and that is that he came from God, he died, and he rose again. And I don't want to leave uh any room for um false assumptions that would be harmful to the spirit of the discussion. So I'm gonna this occurred to me, and it might be part of what uh you're pushing back, uh Doctor, on on a little bit. I'm not meaning to suggest that if somebody isn't that I wouldn't consider somebody to truly be a Christian, that therefore they're a a rotten person. that they're uh you know, that they deserve to die in health, you know, kind of I'm not m I'm not I'm just trying to talk about what's identifying 'cause if somebody isn't really a Christian then that means they're not really saved. And if I go along pretending that they're a Christian when they're not, then I'm not investing in them the way that I need to to maybe show them the error of their ways I leave them in their lostness. So I'm not trying to make a moral judgment. I'm just trying to make a uh uh a a judgment of what is true, what is accurate. Is that so I don't want anybody to think that, oh, he's he thinks he's better and if you're not a Christian, you're a bad person. That's not what I'm saying at all. Right. You know No and I get the point, you know, and in here um in uh my pushing on on the issue is, you know, that sometimes we You know, I spend a lot of time with of my life in in a church where we, you know, love to quote Bible. And we spent a lot of time in Court and Bible and of course by by then deciding who was in and who was out was, you know, how much you know of the Bible and how much you agree with my theology and my un understanding of what the Bible says Um, you know, and I can say, you know, to John, you know, I agree with with all the passages you you quoted about about Jesus um and what the passages you know uh proclaim. for for believe in Jesus. Um and and by the same token said, you know, but even when we read the same those same passages They in no way have an implication that says that you have to believe and agree with me in my interpretation of what that means. Even if your interpretation is that Jesus is God? Right. If they disagree with you on those fundamentals, you would still say, well, so so let me set the context for a second. Like in in the evangelical ministerial fellowship There's uh Presbyterians, Baptists, Methodists, Pentecostals, uh African Methodist, Episcopal. uh you know, like there's a pretty broad spectrum in that group. Uh and uh and so that means they differ on baptism, they differ on uh ask you know uh eschatology meaning what's gonna happen in the future when Jesus returns they differ on um uh either what happens at the Lord's Supper. Yeah what happens with the Lord's Supper All of these kinds of things, you know, they're they're really Uh they they're in different places on like they couldn't build the same church because those those disagreements, but all of them would agree that we're all in Christ, right? And so so what what we're not meaning to have a conversation about tonight, uh this morning rather, is uh is how you know, all those nuances of theology, right? We're trying to we're trying to dig back to the basics, like is there a set of basics that that are are necessary for salvation in Christ? And um and in fact that's at the heart of the split between uh Protestantism and Catholicism is the question of um you know, do Catholics include an element of works? uh in order to be saved, uh and Protestants would say that that no works are necessary for salvation, that it's solo Fida only by faith, solo gratia only by grace, right? And so so that distinction is a is a pretty significant distinction, you know, grappling with things that the Apostle Paul said in in much of the New Testament, you know, trying to grapple with well You know, even Jesus when he rebuked the Pharisees, he rebuked them for coming to God the wrong way, right, and trying to earn their salvation with God. So the question is, is what then is the basis for And this might sound like too much of a a nuance, but it's such an important uh nuance that I'm gonna uh say it Because I don't think that I that I'm comfortable and I I don't think you mean it the way the words were formulated, so this is not an attack on what you just said, Juan. But I don't think It's helpful for those who are kind of uninitiated to the kinds of language that we use in these sorts of discussions among you know Christians who are kind of in the leadership spheres of of of the local. uh beliefs that are sufficient for salvation because I don't I don't think that we're saved by having right theology. I think we're saved by By the grace of God, through faith that He gives us as a gift. But if you are saved and identify as a Christian, then it's up to the leaders, and I'll count myself as one of them, it's up to me as a Christian leader to say, okay, now that you are saved Here's what that means. So I need what you are to believe. I need to clarify on that. You're saying that some people can can be saved without believing that like Like I thought you were I thought your question up until now was was that question like what is necessary to believe in order to be saved? And and you're saying that that's not your question. I'm not saying that people I'm saying that once someone is saved, then they need to be turn they be m need need to be made disciples. So now I don't train up. I know what you think is the basis for salvation. You just told me. Well I know what I the solos. The solos. So you know So you're in agreement on that? Yeah, by grace by faith. Oh okay. So it's it's the move of God. So we're not we're not saved So you and I might disagree on this. I don't think we're saved by making a decision for Christ. I don't think that we're saved by having a right doctrine. I think we're saved out of the mercy and grace of God But once somebody is then saved and the Holy Spirit is indwelling them, their mind is illumined by the Holy Spirit, and they're open to hearing the truth And uh and then it's up to us to tell them, okay, here's what the truth is, here's what you need to believe. We're not saved by the way. And we're out of time. So we just moved into a cowboy. This is the bait debate. We're going to uh we're we're gonna have more of this next week. Till then, God bless