Welcome to the face to base. Wow, that's too loud. There we go. It's been like what a month since I uh since we last recorded and I forgot which buttons to press. This is a face debate. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks so much for listening on 930 WFMD. Happy Sunday morning to you. And if you've already seen this on Facebook Uh this is what you heard us do and watched us do live on Facebook Live back in uh early August. uh that you're now hearing on the radios. So if you were part of that history making moment when we went Facebook Live for the Faith Debate Show for the very first time, you're now hearing the results of that. I know it's kind of creepy and weird, isn't it? Again, I think I mentioned I'm Troy Skinner, I'm the pastor of the Household of Faith in Christ and the longtime host of the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Not with us, but will be a regular part of the panel is Imran Razvi. But his son Daniel is here, and Daniel Razvi is going to be a regular part of this panel panel as well. And uh he's involved with Conquered by Love Ministries and uh involved with the leadership of a house church. And uh then we got David Forcy who is um the pastor of a house church as well, the church that meets at David's house. So we um it's not an accident that we have and and Imran I mentioned he's also with a house church, so it's not an accident. We have four people involved with this show. And all four are either pastors or associate pastors or somehow in leadership with house churches in Frederick County. Uh that's not by accident, and we're gonna be talking about that to uh today. If you listen to the last four uh I think the last five, I guess, the last five uh faith debate shows, this panel came together for the first recording session and we kind of took turns sharing our testimony, our background, giving the listener a chance to understand who these voices are. You're going to be hearing with some regularity what we're all about. They live on as podcasts forever, so that's w one of the reasons why I wanted to do it so that if a year from now somebody wants to know more specifically about any one of the four people on the panel, they could find one of those old podcasts and kind of get a sense of the narrative around their life kind of thing. So We got that part out of the way, but we only began to touch on the idea that we're all involved with house churches And it seems like a logical logical progression for us to this time spend some time this week, next week, as many weeks as it makes sense. talking about okay what is it with this house church thing anyway um why is it good, bad or indifferent? How does it compare with what most people might be used to in a uh house church and what are the related issues surrounding that? So I don't know who wants to tackle the question first, but I think we can start broad with house church. Why? What what do you what do you think people usually uh What usually comes to people's minds when when they hear house church. Right. or any of that that's probably a stigma mm-hmm that's associated with the idea of house church. Um when I think house church, I just think a church group of believers that meets in a house as opposed to a building that is set aside for church or just any other building. Right Um the idea being that it's a small enough group of people that don't need a separate building to be able to fellowship together. Um I don't know, I I I kinda A lot of people I think have a more positive association with the term Bible study than they do with house church. And I would say that a true house church that is the biblical type of house church would look a lot more like what you might think a Bible study is or a a uh a small group study than what you might think if you have a bad impression of the word house church as far as Is it is it because we have like uh Sort of like an institutional association with the with the w the word church usually. Yeah, I th I think a lot of a lot of people assume that a church is a structure, it's a rigid structure and it's a institution that This is the way it has to be and whether it's w whether it's the building or a set of bylaws. Right. One or the other. Right. Yeah, I want to say the my experience has been uh N wh when somebody finds out that I'm pastoring a house church, the first thing that they say to me is not, oh, are you a cult leader? Well they may not say that to your face. Oh yeah, but uh even reading their body language, the first thing that seems to be the most common response is, Oh yeah, I was part of a church too that started in a house. So I I wonder if that's it. think it's a church plant that's gonna grow into something much. Oh right. I wonder if that is because of where we are as a culture. So uh you know you know decades ago when uh you know, in the United States the majority of people would have uh identified with a church, maybe even gone to church every Sunday. It was y a cultural thing. They weren't going to house churches, right? They and there there weren't really church plants in the same way that there are today. And so I wonder if You know, uh that's what you know uh there would have been a stigma around a house church much more so in the past in our culture. Yeah. Yeah, I d I don't I don't think we really run into a whole lot of people that think it's a w it's a bad thing necessarily. Um but I I actually take the position that it's a bad thing in general to have a building. Um but Yeah, maybe we can go more into that later. Yeah, that'll be part of what we're talking because we're com compare and contrast what's happening with uh you know, within house churches and what's happening with what we're the culture is most familiar with. Uh but I do want to talk more about what the perception might be because it's interesting. Your instinct uh Daniel was a cult. That's what people think. It's a cult. And that was not and maybe uh people who've listened to this show for a long time might recall if you've been a long time listener, you might recall me sharing this story uh in the past a couple of different times But maybe I don't have that first reaction because m me and my family when I was younger we actually were part of a Christian cult. We were intending a Christian cult. And so I know what that looks and feels like. And so it looks and feels so different from a what we're doing as a house church that I was like, yeah, it's not a cult. I think Hollywood uh portrays well, they portray Christians in general as buffoons. Um but whenever there is a a group of Christians in in a Hollywood production that are meeting in something other than a building. They're just meeting in a house and it's a very tight knit group of people. that lends itself to a co like storyline in that plot of whatever film or d or or or a T V show it is. It's the idea that all these people are kinda weirdos and they do their own thing and they don't interact with society and they don't you know, tha that's that's sort of implication. Um so maybe that's that's why you know. Are you foolish? Right. Right. That's that's what I think. And Holly Hollywood does like to uh uh You know, do stories about the outliers and the strange and you know, because it's it's more entertaining. That's kind of the extent of it. And and they're gonna it's gonna vary widely whatever house church you go to, what denomination. Some of them are part of a denomination. Some of them are in independent, some of them you know, do various different things, but Some some are more organized, some are less organized. Exactly. Some of them don't even have a name. So not all so not all uh house churches are in Kansas meeting in the town of uh Westboro? No, no. No. Because I think that would be uh a stigma too, I guess, right? The Westboro Baptist folks over the last fifteen years or whatever it is now they've been kind of in the news on and off. hasn't done it the house church movement any favors, that's for sure. 'Cause it's basically a family in the house as well? Yeah, it's just a family. There's only like fifteen people and it's all the basically all related. I mean there's a couple of people probably that aren't, but it's It was the dad and then his the dad got older, so his adult children and then their children and it was just like you know, dozen and a half people, basically all the same family. And for the young initiated, these are the people that once they tell you what they're famous for, you'll be like, oh, that's who that is. They're the ones that infamously uh likes to go to funerals of uh fallen military members holding up hateful signs saying that God hates English cigarettes. If you know what an English cigarette's called. Uh you know, the three letter word starts with an F. Okay. You know. Right. You know, hate hates gays, but they don't use the word gay. They use a different three letter word for that. And they made the news because of their hateful rhetoric and they have the name Baptist in the name of their house church. It's Westboro Baptist I I just assume Baptists, see how hateful they are. These are not Baptists by any stretch of the imagination based on the Baptist Ido. Yeah. They had a a building and were uh same thing. Oh no. I don't think so. Let's take a step back from that. Let's talk for a second about that, because it'll lead into some of the things I want to talk about anyway. What are some of the advantages and disadvantages? And let's use Westboro as a chance to bounce off. What are some of the disadvantages to doing a house church? Because I think Westboro Baptist embodies some of those. Sure. Yeah, I mean I there's a um there can certainly be a uh uh a lack of uh a lack of diversity in in thought or Um or an interest. Which can cut both ways. There can be an advantage and a disadvantage, depending on which uh which thoughts you are trying to include. But certainly if it is just one or two families that are meeting together, within, you know, a few months you're gonna kinda know all the theological beliefs of the other family and There's certainly more growth that can be done and you walk with Christ and you and you're gonna be reading new sc reading scriptures again and getting deeper understandings. But you're not gonna be hearing a whole lot about different doctrinal ideas that may or may not be correct. It just you know, you need to be able to defend your stance. You need to know why you believe something, and if you only li if live in an echo chamber then you don't hear that. But but I would say a lot a lot of churches like the meeting buildings, you don't get any of that either because it is just just the pastor saying his own thing and the congregation doesn't even participate in a lot of churches. They just sit there and listen and then they go home. Sometimes they don't even sing. They have a band singing on the stage and they just listen. So that may be a it may be something that doesn't really affect just house churches. Yeah, that's a good point. I think one of the uh significant challenges for a house church, and I think again Westboro's a good example of this, is the If you're not purposeful about figuring out how to do it, there's no built-in accountability structure. Right. So if you've got a group of ten, twelve, eighteen people who are getting together and they s become cult like in their doctrine. And uh cult-ish, if you will, and the way we typically in our culture think of that word in their behavior. Uh what are the checks on that How do you how are they held to account? Who is it that holds into account? If somebody's a member of that church and they're like, holy cow, my pastor has lost his freaking mind. What do they do about it? Who do they appeal to to maybe begin for Matthew eighteen or something? Um and so um Yeah, you know, it it it's interesting, just just sort of a thought, you know, and uh w with uh with house churches the um you know if there is some sort of poison there, the ability of that poison to spread uh among a lot of people is really limited. So, you know, this is this is an an advantage in a sense, right? Um and and also The the what you just brought up, Troy, I I think that could just as easily apply to a larger congregation as well. Oh sure, yeah, no. Yeah, having lack of accountability issue across the support. churches do you know that actually practice church discipline actually actively excommunicate people the way Paul talks about, it's just not done. Sure there there are There are instances, but it by and large in the American church, I'm using air quotes for those of you listening on the radio, in in the American church there really isn't a lot of church discipline. And and part of that is actually uh the idea that uh w how do you enforce it and what kind of consequence it is is it to say, hey, we just won't accept you in fellowship. Okay, I'll just go down the street. There's three more churches down the street And none of them are gonna have a problem with me. So you have that issue. The the whole thing about ex communication being a ex communication being a a um a bad thing as in something that nobody would want to have done to them is you're gonna lose relationships. You're gonna lose that sense of community and and really tight knit fellowship which you are going to more likely have in a home church than you are in a in a bigger congregation. Yeah, I think that um I don't I and I'm not accusing anybody of this, but uh of I I'm putting myself in the seat of the listener right now who might not agree with where we're coming at things and they would push back. And I think one of the things that they could potentially push back is like, okay, here we go, it's whataboutism. So you're saying, Oh you guys don't you know house churches don't have accountability, well what about these other churches don't have accountability either. Like okay no, we would have to acknowledge that and that's one of the reasons not a huge fan of what has become very mainstream in the American church, particularly this uh CEO model, cult of personality, popularity gospel. You've probably heard about prosperity gospel, but this popularity gospel where it's all about my pastor's really popular. He's got a number of bestseller books and our church is growing by leaps and bounds. We've we've got ten thousand people in our church now. We're so popular. And and that sort of thing. And we've seen it. If you if you uh listening are a big fan of the bigger names in uh American evangelicalism. Mark Driscoll will mean something to you. Right. You know, well Mark Driscoll was a superstar, a rise uh he was an emerging superstar in evangelical circles fifteen years ago, and then his whole church fell apart. Why? Lack of accountability. Right? He he felt like he was above any accountability, is doing his own thing and it it just completely f Right here in our own uh backyards, um the CJ Mahaney's church, a big giant church in the area, uh very popular and he was, you know, uh very good in a lot of ways, very gifted and talented in many ways, and yet accountability issues. So it's not about it's not the size. But my point in bringing that up though was with the house church model, it's like a built-in weakness that I think house church leaders should account for. So account for accountability like this is a killy seal if we're not careful. Maybe maybe accountability is not uh the the problem that that's potential there that that would be you know exclusive or even more more of a problem with a house church than with any other church. Maybe maybe the idea of Like isolation. You know, there's there there's a danger of becoming isolated, maybe. In a house church from the the broader churches of the denominational the what we tend to think of is the big denominational brands. You know, the Lutheranism, uh Yeah, Methodism, Presbyterianism. Presbyterianism, Baptism you know not Baptist Baptist. Uh you know, those sorts of of uh structures have some sort of accountability built into their model. Right. In the in a congregational Baptist setting, the the congregation is the accountability structure. Now whether that's biblical or not is is going to be a d a debate that theologians can have. but at least it's built into the model. For the Presbyterian model, by definition, has presbyters that are providing and so there's no built into the model with the house church. It's one of the reasons why we're doing what we're doing here on this faith debate show. This is actually an expression of me recognize so I should back up a little bit. Ten years ago-ish, maybe a little bit more than that, I had the idea of doing a house church thing, but not just doing a standalone house church thing, but d being involved in helping to establish uh a rapidly, as rapidly as the Holy Spirit would will would lead. a rapidly growing network of house churches so that I wouldn't just be responsible for helping to lead one small body, but I would also be helpful and responsible to expanding the number of house churches. uh throughout the the the the the city, the county, the region over time. And as it hit me, I was like, man, that's so leadership intensive. We don't have enough leaders, and we'll talk about that uh in a second, maybe next maybe next episode. But finishing the thought, the next thing that hit me was what are the l the the mechanistic levers of accountability? And again to put feet on it, um to put feet in the shoes on this one. I don't know if there's a metaphor, I just made that up. Um if I say something heretical And somebody in my congregation challenged you're like, Troy, that's like that's not difficult at all. I'm like, screw you, I'm right, I'm the pastor They could just say, well then screw you, I'm not gonna be a part of this church anymore. Right. Right But that's not the best first place to start. You want to try to correct the problem. What would be their mechanism if I'm just not hearing them? And I had this conversation with uh with you guys. I said, you know, I have this problem You guys have this problem. You've probably either already acknowledged it or hearing me say it makes you feel like, yeah, actually that's that's a potential problem How about if we work together, and so we've got uh I mean uh Raz isn't here now, but the four of us that are typically going to be here, we're involved with three house churches that can provide some of that. And so for example, you guys know this, um, the people who are um members of the house uh of the church that I lead, the house church that I'm am pastoring and r uh primarily responsible for, if they have any issue that for some reason they can't come to me with, they have your cell phone numbers. They can text you, call you, reach out to you and say, Hey I know we don't know each other that well, but I know that you're like my escape valve when Troy's lost his ever loving mind. I need help. Can you give me some counsel here? Can you maybe facilitate a conversation or something like that. So that's why the network idea was important to me. Right. Is so that all those who are primarily the under shepherd. I understand your point earlier, Daniel, about all of the men and stuff are are involved, but there is somebody that's designated as the Under Shepherd for that group. It has given some sort of uh special kind of responsibility, you know, ordained by God to look over that particular block. And so is there Well okay, you're so you're gonna push back on that okay. Well, yeah, I'm I'm not I'm not sure that there is necessarily, but we can we c that's probably too long of a discussion for this episode. Okay. Well we've got uh yeah we've only got we can maybe we'll we'll pick that up either next episode or the episode after that because I th I uh I'd be curious to see what you what the basis of your pushback would be because to me it's To me it's clear, so I'd be curious to see uh w what what your uh thoughts on that would be. For example, I I w attended a house church years ago and it was the Presbyterian uh minister, they were ordained Presbyterian minister and he was part of the larger one of the larger Presbyterian organizations and he just happened to pastor a church that met in his house and it rotated among three or four families' houses So there were only three or four families, but it was for all intents and purposes a Presbyterian church and he had the leadership of the Presbytery and all the appeals process that they have, you know, structured to go through with that So th I think there are house churches that do follow a a connected structure like you're talking about, Troy. Um and then there are also house churches that I've either m uh attended or visited that have a structure built in where they they do have. Like you you mentioned, you know, an escape valve or just an a p a process for how to uh practice church discipline and and how to practice accountability. But I th I think you're correct that many churches just haven't really thought that far ahead and they're assuming that everything's always gonna be hunky-dory and they don't have to worry about that. And to your point before, this might be like the last thought we have a chance to share, but it's um it's trying to putting a bow on something that you mentioned, Daniel, about uh you know, all Th these house churches have an opportunity for all the men to be involved, uh, and all the people who are members of the church to be involved, as opposed to what happens in these big churches where the pastor gets up there, says what he thinks And nobody else is even involved. They're very passive and they're just receiving, you know, open up my brain, pour into me what you think I should know and then sew it back up and I'll I'll leave and pretend I wasn't here until I come back next week. And that's a real challenge, but because of that, what uh what are we left with? We're left with a American church, I would even argue at least a Western church. um that doesn't have enough people that have the chops to teach and lead and sh and be under shepherds for God's people And so that was one of the challenges with my idea from ten years ago, like, hey, we should do this house church thing, but man, it's so leadership intensive. But then the thing that really gave me the motivation was like, exactly How are we ever going to have these kinds of leaders that are out there doing the kinds of things that Christians should be doing if we don't create a f uh some sort of a format to to build that kind of a foundation into people's lives? We don't have leaders. You have a church of 10,000 with one pastor and then a couple of, you know, a whole a whole staff of associate pastors. But out of those 10,000, how many of those 10,000 congregants are leadership material right now? None, or they'd be in leadership. So but in a house church network that has 10,000 people in it, how many of them are going to be leadership material. Hundreds. Well out of necessity, yeah. Thousands maybe. I don't know, right? Depends how big the it could be it could be five hundred to a thousand depending on the size of the house church. So anyway. Uh we yeah, we got sixty seconds left. So I got this wrong last time, but I do want to have a chance to share the ConcordbyLove. net. Is that what you can do? Conquered by Love. org. org. Concordbylove. com. Concordbylove. org. Uh my church's website and it can connect to all the social media and things related to this show even by going to household of faith in Christ dot com. Household of Faith in Christ. Let me end by saying this. You have a problem whether you acknowledge it or not, and that problem is that you have done at least one wrong thing in your life. And there's a solution to that problem. And that solution is Jesus Christ. And if you're a Christian, what I'm saying to you isn't earth shattering. If you're not a Christian, it might not even be earth shattering. Yeah, I've heard this before too. But if you don't really understand the profound truth of that, the profound necessity for having a solution to that profound problem, I would encourage you to reach out to any one of us who are on this panel. Love to talk with you about it more. You have a problem. It's an eternal problem. It is a major problem, but there is an eternal solution. His name is Jesus Christ. I would invite you to inquire more and to turn your life over by repentance and submission to him as your Lord and Savior and King. Till next week, God bless.