This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master at the master ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. The leaders wrestle over the truth. In less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to run ball! Let's get ready to rumble. Out. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Fate Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron, yes. And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. Ooh, mama, the notorious big bridge builder, John Sweiser. No, I'm just getting warmed up. This is the fourth. Fourth and I believe final show with our current esteemed panel together. Today we're gonna work to cover ground we've missed over the first three weeks. We'll seek to take a deeper dive on particular questions, providing an opportunity for tying up loose ends. We've been using as a guide And outline for our discussions the flow of a book which was edited by Michael J. Gorman. It's called Scripture and Its Interpretation. Fair Warning, it's a good book But it's a little heady, so if you're uh you know if you're a student of the Bible and things theological, then you'll probably enjoy it. If you're a little more rudimentary in your in your approach at these at this point, then you might want to save it for reading somewhere down the line. Uh here continuing to com the Conversation this week. Jonathan Sweitzer, he's the big bridge builder. He's back in the saddle. He's the founder of Bridges, a new not for profit organization in Frederick County. And Michelle Rader, she is the uh lead elder at Damascus Road Community Church and is in pursuit of a Masters of Arts and Theology degree from St. Mary's College. So We were talking about postmodernism and uh its effect on the church and stuff, and maybe we can um use that Finish up some thoughts on that and use that as a chance to talk about how maybe it's affecting or not affecting some of the different faith traditions uh within what's recognized as you know Christian uh Christian theological circles. Um You got your uh Roman Catholics, you got your Orthodox, uh you know, there's even within those groups you got Pentecostals and uh uh what's called spirit her mini hermeneutions Jesuits and Franciscans and and and you know the uh and and African American and African American and Latino and Latino and Asian and Asian American and and there's so um uh what's the um the the social justice, the social gospel, all that sort of stuff. There's all these different things. So how are they influencing each other? How are they being influenced by this this postmodern move? How might we, through our discussion of this, influence them, hopefully to the positive? All of those people listen to this show. That's all five of uh those that listen to this show from those backgrounds. So we're talking about there's some dangers of postmodernism, but there are some things that you know that we can learn from the postmodern movement and apply them helpfully to our understanding of the Bible and and Christian faith and that sort of thing. That's kind of where we were left off last week. Was there more that you guys wanted to say on that point, or should we dive into some denominational differences? What do you think? Well so the question you're asking that we were dealing with last week was what are the benefits of postmodern approaches, theological approaches to the body of Christ. You know, is th is there benefit or is or are they just leading us astray and w away from the truth? And so Yeah, and probably one of the benefits that I think, you know, is outlined in the book is that um you know what the inside of postmodernism that people from different perspectives and different life experiences can see things differently. They c they bring those experiences to scripture, they read scripture and then they'll see things that people from a different experience won't see. And um that's how we we get for instance, you know, African American interpretive um approaches to the Bible are very much focused on justice and liberation and the Exodus story is a huge interpretive lens for them because that is something that was so um so formative and sustaining for them when there was slavery. And I think it's helpful to have those things in view and you know I think to have your your understanding each of us to have our understanding challenged. uh and to see how our current understanding measures up against the challenge and to refine our thinking. You know, that's John and I have been doing this show for years and years and years now and I've had you know I've had some significant moves in my thought on some things. I'm not sure if he has as a result. But I've certainly had a number of nuanced I'm a rock change to to my thinking. Oh, okay I'm gonna incorporate You've never found a mistake. I don't incorporate some of that into my thinking because there's some however, i there's a Uh I don't want to be the negative, you know, naysayer here, but th there's a huge potential risk. I just I want to wave the flag of risk here and say it it's like i Inductive Bible studies can be helpful, but they come with a great risk. So if you're leading an inductive Bible study, and that basic basically that's a Bible study where people are reading through the Bible and you read a passage, and then the leader will ask everybody in the room. So what does that passage mean to you? And you got 12 people in the room, you might get 12 different takes on that passage. Many of them might be valid. Some of them could be clearly anti-Christian, unbiblical, and wrong. So, like liberation theology as an example It's a helpful perspective to keep that in mind. I know there are people that are struggling against just injustices and and that sort of thing and war torn parts of the world and all that sort of stuff. I get that But liberation theology is bad theology, I would argue. I I think that they missed the point of what the Bible they they they they they changed the focus of the Bible from Jesus Christ and his kingdom to something different. Okay. And they politicized it. And so I I don't want to just say, I think we should ask those questions and how is it relevant to inject Christianity into the political cycle? So they might help us ask those questions. But I would be on guard against embracing everything they end up concluding and saying, Oh well it's a helpful insight. No, it's a wrong insight. But isn't that I mean that's part of you know theological discussion across traditions. And it's not to say that all interpretations are equally valid or that all are right. There's better, there's worse, there's some that are clearly right, some that are clearly wrong. Um, I think part of what postmodernism says though is we can all be sure none of us are one hundred percent right 'cause we're all sinful human beings with a limited perspective. And how do you figure out when you're wrong? How do you know when you're wrong? Sometimes, you know, someone else's interpretation that is right feels wrong at first. That's why We have so many denominations because someone comes up with a new insight and other people say, No way So there is, you know It again, it's not to say everything counts, but we don't learn or grow unless we can listen to other perspectives. And a lot of times those perspectives come from people who've had very different experiences and so they've been forced to to work through things. Sure. And we should be generous listeners, generous readers, and we should try to give every benefit of doubt to somebody that's writing something, particularly something that we're disagreeing with, or if we're listening to somebody speak and we disagree with them. We should be generous and give them every benefit of doubt and say, well, they could be meaning this or could be helpful in that way and dip but at some point Yeah, I think you gotta stand John will like this part of it. At some point you gotta say, no, right is right, wrong is wrong, this is right, that's wrong, and you gotta separate the wheat from the tares. Yeah And ultimately this is why the example I think of Christ is so important, because Christ was the way, the truth, the life, right? He he was all of that. And when um when he says that to Pilate uh you know that that you know uh all those that are on the side of truth. Pilate says, well what is truth? Well that's the point is that is that the world is struggling Sincerely, some, maybe others, uh less so, you know, like like it's certainly the case that uh that We all think our motives are really a lot better than than they are, you know. If I'm honest about myself, uh even in a discussion like this, you know, too many times I'm I'm wanting to be the one with with the good answer, you know, that kind of wows everybody, you know, like like those kinds of motivations are are precisely the reason why we need to press into the truth, that we're seeking for the truth, that we're seeking for what is absolutely right. But Christ, and this is where I was going with this, when he did that, it ultimately meant that Somebody had to die, right? It ul ultimately like comes to this place of of are we going to force our truth on somebody else or are we going to live it in such a way that we're willing to let others uh hurt and wound us uh in you know and and So Christ is the one that that turned that from being a doormat into, you know, being victory. And and so my point is just that how we go about pursuing the truth is just as important as arriving at the truth. Uh and so that being said, like I think about I think about a Marxist perspective in general. I think about Venezuela right now and how uh Hugo Chavez uh led his nation With what appears to me a lot of sincerity and passion enough that the whole nation followed him right off the cliff And uh and so, you know, there's a young lady uh in high school that is in a um uh a youth group here locally that I was working with whose family came from Venezuela and her tears on a regular basis from her family that is in Venezuela that is starving to death, that that can't get food on the table, right? And so so when I think about liberation theology in particular or even some aspects of of feminist theology, some aspects of um uh point of clarification. You're connecting Marxist uh uh pol politics and liberation theology because they go together. Uh so I'm yeah. Yeah, I'm saying that the Marxist philosophy the political aspect to it, but also the theological aspect that that that feels to me like there's a lot of danger in it, uh, and a lot of red flags that that drives a a um Uh well, what I've always said is that that both Christians and Marx hate greed. It's just that when when we look at greed, when we come to greed and we see it, we say, Oh man, we gotta get rid of greed and go back to God. Mark says we gotta look at greed, uh we gotta get rid of greed, and we gotta get away from God. And and my point is just that there's aspects of liberation theology and some of these others. that that I have significant concerns about precisely because I've seen how m a Marxist political ideology you know has has just been so destructive. And I'm not saying that that has to be the case in other places. I'm just saying that that if we care, uh I can't just turn a blind eye to that. I gotta pay close attention to those things. And I'm not sure maybe this is what you were meaning before. I I think Uh liberation theology, uh open theology, some of these other things that I think have uh really troubling conclusions They're helpful in that they they help us to ask the right questions. Because they're asking questions that sometimes we're blind to even thinking to ask. And so they raise our our the horizon of our view and say, okay, wait a minute There is all this suffering and all this injustice and all this evil that's not being dealt with uh by the church. What should the church's response be? And those are questions that need to be asked more frequently than they are It's just that the the conclusion that they the solution they have to the problem I think ends up being uh uh in in uh in uh conflict with the message that that Christ left. theologies there's you know there's a range. There's you know people who are on you know different ends of the spectrum, there's a mid-range, um you know, and and oftentimes they're critiquing a dominant theology that's certainly has had its ex excesses as well. Um so, you know, it it can be helpful for instance. You know, certainly a feminist theology that has pointed out that for, you know, most of the church It's been a male perspective and half the church is female and so maybe there's some things that have been missed. It's hard to argue with that Right. And when ra raising those kinds of questions, we can point to the teaching of Jesus and how he included women and elo particularly in the culture of that day, how he elevated women. And the first witnesses that we have of of of his resurrection are women, and I don't think that's by accident. So all of those are are absolutely helpful and those questions might not be asked if it were for some sort of feminist Uh and I don't mean that in the the parody of what people sometimes think is meant by feminist. Uh I think there are feminists who sometimes are resistant to calling themselves feminists because of what it's Come to me and just like I've sometimes resistant to somebody uh pointing a finger and say, Hey you're you're an evangelical, aren't you? Before he answered that I was like Define evangelical. Do you mean it politically or theologically? What does that mean? Because I'm not sure I want to own that label. I think a lot of feminists are that way now too. What do you mean by a feminist before I answer that question? Yeah, in So I I I think that's the point that I was getting at earlier is that um uh that I perceive, I'll just own it. I perceive in in some of these postmodern uh approaches uh things that that I think are are very dangerous and that that have been uh harmful to you know, family structure to you know, to our kids, you know, being being raised in i you know, with strength, you know, to um uh to the ability to communicate that have that have increased tension, you know, between male and female instead of, you know, uh bringing us, you know in into better understanding of one another. Uh and so maybe labels as part of the difficulty is that, you know, how do we how do we provide the space to ask the question whether or not we're really doing right by the women in our midst and whether or not there are perspectives that we're missing. How do we How do we ask those questions without getting lumped into uh labels that carry enough baggage for certain people that, you know, we have to find new labels? But not find new labels just so that we can, you know, uh be shrewd, you know, uh sneaky in and get our bad theology past people, but to you know provide the space to ask the other thing. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. And you're talking about doing right and because of the context of our conversation, you're talking specifically about doing right by by the women. But let's just talk about, you know Let's take all the stuff we've been talking about for three and a half shows now and you know and put the rubber on the road. Okay. Uh what does this mean in the real world? How then shall we live? You know, so what should Christians be doing about the poverty and the injustice and uh and uh you know uh the the the longstanding history of of women being held back or or even Heck, lightning rod issues. You know, how should Christians respond with the uh the LBGTQ uh questions that are out there Um, you know, what should the message be? 'Cause too often you know I cringe at the kind of message that is uh purportedly coming from a Christian perspective. You see it on Facebook or on conversation or on T V talk shows or even radio talk shows. It's like, holy cow And people are thinking that that's what the Bible teaches about how we should approach those things. So how then shall we live on some of these things? Well I think a big part of it is to remember is to go back to that walk on the road to Emmaus where Christ unpacks the Old Testament in a new light through the new interpretive lens of his life, death, and resurrection for his disciples. And then really The whole rest of the New Testament is looking at is different writers giving an example of how to keep doing that, how to look at the implications of the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ and what does that mean now for how we read the Bible, how we understand who God is, how we you know, live together as Christians, how we reach out to the world. And if that is your interpretive lens for scripture, the life, death, and resurrection of Christ, then And you keep going back to that every time you have a question of how to apply scripture, that's going to keep you on track rather than if you go to scripture as, well, where's the rule book? Where can I find the proof text for this particular question? I just had this picture as you're talking of um uh again this this clash of ideas that I think Thomas Jefferson has said back in the day. uh but was probably Lady Bird Johnson. Um that um you're gonna Google that lady aren't you? Yeah, I am and I'm not gonna accept what I find, I'm sure Oh hopefully you trust me more than Google. It all of a sudden I had this picture of Christ in the middle and two people, you know, on uh uh not walking in the full truth, moving towards Christ. And the reality is that uh as person A moves towards Christ, he's actually moving towards person B, but but he's he's not moving past Christ towards person B. He's moving towards Christ. You know, and and so person B might be correct that you need to come my my direction more, but not because person B's in the right place, but because it just happens that you know, Christ is in the middle of 'em. Right? Does this uh metaphor uh translate to radio? I'm not sure if it does 'cause 'cause I'm holding my hands, but my point is just that that Some of these discussions we're never gonna agree with one another outside of being fully like Christ. you know, uh outside of, you know, fully conforming to Christ and and even other aspects of it, y i we just don't We can't expect ourselves to you know to know uh to arrive at answers of to any of these things outside of Christ and that just changes And I've used that exact same kind of idea. Oh yeah. And I've had a couple opportunities to try to do some marriage counseling kind of things and you know, I'll I'll I'll talk about you know, you want to connect with each other. You know, we're made for a relationship, we should be in relationship, husband and wife should be in relationship. But if we're trying to be in direct relationship with each other We're gonna do kind of what you were talking about, the uh you know, our listener couldn't see you doing it. He's moving his hands around and stuff and he's talking about if you move too far you shoot past the other person. Yeah. And that happens in our marriages too. We're trying so hard to connect directly with them that we overshoot or we undershoot in the myths. But if we're if the wife and the husband are both aiming at serving God, at being Christlike then as they're getting closer to Christ and God, they're gonna be getting closer to each other and they won't overshoot because when they when they both arrive at the place of of being holy you know, perfectly holy, you're perfectly holy. And you're both in that place. And you will find each other. So the goal in having a healthy marriage isn't to try to connect with each other. with uh and forgetting that God's in the equation is to try to connect with God together and you'll meet there in that same place. And so I think it's the kind of the same thing you were saying. I would agree with that Um and yeah, the life, death, resurrection, all that of Jesus absolutely is part of it and and his and the message of his life and and stuff that that he was conveying. And I think that's what you're meaning too, right? Yes. And I think also you bring up a good point, you know, about the relational side that i it's really important to read and interpret the Bible in community with other Christians and not as solely as an individual and um the church that's part of the interpretive history of the church. The church has been strongest when it the Bible is being read and interpreted and decided discussed within a whole group of people who are open to and humble and listening to each other and trying to hear God's spirit speak to them all together through that through the words. Yeah. That sounds very Eastern Orthodox. you know, the whole sense of the councils uh that they've had through the years that the Roman Catholic Church moved towards, you know, the the Pope as the you know, ex cathedra, but but the y you know, not that there's not aspects of that in the Catholic Church, just just thinking back to the beauty of of the council, you know, of of the people sitting together that the spirit's able to do more between us uh when we're together than we could ever do alone, which is I think very significant. So do not forsake the gathering together. Yeah. Right? Yeah Which is unfortunately that's a movement uh in the American church anyway right now. Or uh uh people who are choosing to forsake going to church, being part of a body, they're they're worshiping at home just in in family study, which is good but not at the exclusion of the corporate uh experience. And if you're one of those people, here's my here's my word for you. If you say, oh, I don't get anything out of church, I don't need to go, you know, what's the big deal? I get a all I need from my televangelist This radio show called The Faith Debate and my Bible study with my family, and that's it. I'm good to go. As long as you start tithing Detroit, that's a totally fine way to go. That's true. Okay, I'll I'll grant for the sake of argument that you're right, that that's true. That that's that's all you need. How selfish are you? That you're gonna rob some local congregation of your presence. And maybe your tithes, but just your presence, uh being a shoulder to cry on, to be a a voice to add to the chorus, you know, to to be To ask a question that's going to penetrate and get them to think about things they haven't thought about before. And if you say, Oh yeah, I've been to church and they got it all wrong, well how are they ever going to change and be the kind of church they're supposed to be if there aren't change agents there? So When the show is over here in a couple of seconds, you need to get your butt dressed, go off to church, and and and be the church, among the church. Anyway, John Tweitzer, thank you again, my friend. I'm Troy Skinner. Thank you for listening to the Face Debate on 930 WFMD online at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. We'll be back again next week I think it's uh about 167 and a half hours from now, if I'm not mistaken. Till then, God bless.