Want to know where we're broadcasting from today? We're broadcasting from the heart of the police state that is Frederick City in the County of Gridlock, known as Frederick County, in the socialist state of Maryland, just outside the capital of the former Republic of the United States of America. That's where we're broadcasting from. Jonathan loves when I do that. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick News Radio 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putman Flooding and Heating. How can we make you smile? It occurs to me last week I didn't tell you what I've been reading, and I know you keep trying to keep up with me, so uh Just finished reading recently, Edmund P. Clowney's Preaching Christ in all of Scriptures. And I'm telling you, if you're a p pastor who preaches and you haven't read some of these things I've been reading lately Man, you gotta read these things. That's t that's good stuff. It'll it'll change your pulpit. I'm telling ya, it will. Email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel dot com. Why would you want to do that Become part of the Faith Debate blog. You go to WFMD. com keywordface, that takes you to the Faith Debate blog. And you'll notice on the right hand side of the Faith Debate page is Uh Monday through Friday, nine fresh blog postings every day. How do I have time to write nine blog postings every day? You don't have time, but you do. So you email me and I copy and paste right out of the If you if you have a really uh embarrassing spelling mistake, I'll correct it for you. If you have some foul language that I just don't think I mean I'm pretty lenient, but there's some places I just gotta draw the line. I'll clean that up for ya Uh other than that, pretty much what you sent me I put up there. And you can follow me on Twitter. That's JonathanSweitzers. Go go to at SweitzerJonathan. On Twitter and you can find me and you can follow me as well. Okay. By the way, I'll so I don't forget, I'll give you t two first. Since I didn't do one last week. Yeah. I also finished reading recently and you would love this one, Tom. Why Johnny Can't Preach I read that one. By T. David Gordon. You did read that one? Yeah, uh one of the pastors in town here uh reviewed that book for the other pastors at a EMF meeting. And how how kinda what kind of review did it get? Uh he loved it. The the guy that brought it uh brought it because he f it feels like uh most pastors don't preach the word of God well because they don't write well because they don't study well. Well I thought Tom would like it because Tom's a bold personality, uh paints in broad brush strokes with bold colors. He's not a pastel kind of guy. He's a he's a bold color kind of guy. Primary color kind of guy. And uh and uh Such a colorful illusion. T David Gordon I I mean uh now everybody's gonna read this book. Why Johnny can't breach what it's called. He thought he was dying of cancer. Yeah. And when he wrote this book. So he figured, you know what? So what if they hate me? I'll be dead. So he doesn't pull any punches and he really takes pastors to task, preachers to task, and says, You guys stink at what you're doing. Clean up your act souls are being lost here. I mean he take he takes a really hard stand, but it's a I a very good, righteous stand, and I like the fact that he's not tap dancing and being all polyannon and milk toast. He he takes it to 'em That's good. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I know that's not the topic of our show. Not the topic of the show. But the reality is that there's another side preaching under the influence of the Holy Spirit, coupled with good study, uh uh is is a very important dynamic and uh it's possible that that particular book goes too far in the direction of of getting it all figured out ahead of time and planning it all out that you can miss uh the leading of the Holy Spirit in the midst of uh uh uh a sermon And uh I I don't know that the two have to be mutually exclusive. Nevertheless, uh that is a criticism of that book that I think is uh it can be a valid one. Well his the main point though, the thesis of his book is that pastors aren't preaching the gospel. Most of the time. And I've visited a number of churches here in Frederick County and if you're a pastor listening, I might have visited your church and if I'm offending you right now, so be it. I've visited a number of churches in Frederick County and I gotta tell you that Less than twenty percent of the time do I hear the gospel? Well, you need you haven't been New Brunswick First Church of God, and you really need to pay me a visit. I do. Because if you forgot all about what the gospel is You're going to hear it. And by when I say twenty I'm saying less than twenty percent of the churches I visited, did I hear the gospel? I mean when I go to a good church, hopefully I'm hearing it every week, but uh those churches are feeling far between. So and something like Chase Broadhurst who's been on the show a number of times would would argue with you that the leading of the Holy Spirit can take place even during the study of time. Well yeah, I totally agree. But if you don't invite him in fact I i if you're if you're preparing a message at all and that's not the case, then uh then you need to change the way that you're doing your study uh for the message. Nevertheless, the Holy Spirit can move then, but that doesn't necessarily mean that that uh that the Holy Spirit's gonna lead in the same way in the context of the preaching. And I think it's super important for a a minister, for a preacher the gospel to uh to on a Sunday morning be be sensitive to what's going on, you know, in the immediate You know, and th there's there's a a balance on both sides, you know, in terms of forward momentum, but then also being sensitive to what's happening in the immediate, you know, in the service and and that's something that is a lot more dynamic and means that our preparation uh might not take into account issues and things that that people are facing right in the moment. We need to make sure that that there's life and that there's responsiveness on the Sunday morning uh in addition to the clear teaching of the Word of God. And I don't know if uh it was Gordon's book, might not have been, uh 'cause I've I've read a number of books recently. I've been in this this uh theme of reading a lot of preaching books uh lately. Uh but somebody talked about the importance of the preparation and the study and kinda ha and and was kind of an advocate of having s sermon notes that were so strong that they would almost border on being a script. And yet at the same time that author was making the point that any good preacher is going to be able to if they should lose their notes, the dogs should eat their homework. they should be able to get there and deliver their message anyway. So they should have the prep and the notes or the whatever, but they shouldn't be so dependent on them that they're not open to the leading of the Holy Spirit or circumstances changing and or what have you. So you know the there's definitely a a blend and a balance My my concern and we'll shift back into the topic we're talking about. No way we're going back to the U. No, but you're leaving out one thing. The first thing is prayer. If you're not in prayer seeking out God's word, because it's his word you're preaching. You need to pray about it and invite the Holy Spirit in so that He's part of it. If you don't invite the Holy Spirit in, if you're not wanting God in the sermon, you're just gonna write your own message. You're in the wrong place. I mean you're really in the wrong place. You need to have God in there and with notes, without notes, memorizing, not memorizing, when the Holy Spirit brings you something different in the middle of your message, it's you're fine. You're fine because the Holy Spirit's going to speak through you and y they're gonna get the message. They're gonna get it. The Holy Spirit works in some phenomenal ways to to lead you and guide you that uh you just need to let yourself go with the flow. It works. Yeah, there's I think the concern i can be that's what I was going to say a second ago is I I I believe in that. I think that you know y you need to be so prepared that you can then be spontaneous. You have the freedom to be spontaneous because you you are prepared. You know, but too many people just say, Hey, you know, did you st you know how much how much time did you put in? How much prep time did you put in for this week's sermon? I don't prep Preface for losers. I'm gonna go with the flow. I'm gonna let the Holy Spirit speak through me. I'm not saying that they would be that crashed but sometimes that can become almost uh a default attitude and that's not healthy because then you have uneducated pastors who really aren't grappling with the deep issues of what the passage is saying and they give a surface reading or they go with the easy reading which might be fine, but it's not the fullness of the meaning. It's not drawing the connections with other parts of scripture and seeing the whole big narrative that's there and and maybe and because I believe, and I think Jonathan agrees, and I'm sure Tom P probably I think we all agree, all the Bible is about Jesus. But sometimes it's hard to figure out how certain parts of it are about Jesus. Right, you're reading this this you know, so-and-so begat so-and-so begat so-and-so, and you're scratching your head, okay, now how's this about Jesus exactly? Like it takes a little thought in certain parts of the Bible to figure out how is this connected to Jesus? And if you haven't done any homework on how to make those connections, you're not going to spontaneously all of a sudden have it hit you unless God's going to reward your laziness through the power of his Holy Spirit. You know, uh the centrality of Christ and the the glory of Christ uh I don't I don't think could ever be overstated. But uh I've been I've been thinking about, you know How often does the message come back to Christ? And why is Christ so important? Christ is important not just because he's important, but because he's bringing us to the Father. And so the point of the gospel and the point of Christ is that we are reunited with the Father. You know, the what's at the core of the gospel is what is necessary to be reunited in close fellowship with the Father. So in that day we will no longer ask Jesus to ask the Father something for us. But we will ask the Father directly in Jesus' name. And so I agree that that that Jesus is super you know, you know, can you you just can't overstate how important he is and how important uh the revelation of what he has accomplished on our behalf. But what he accomplished on our behalf is reconciling us to the Father. You know, and uh w without without over separating the Trinity, you know, he is the Father. Uh but Um in terms of the the overall story of Scripture, the overall story of Scripture is that we were in fellowship with God We lost the fellowship with God and we were restored to fellowship with God. That's the big theme. And the question is, what is it that that broke that fellowship? And how's that fellowship restored? And that's where faith and cr and in Christ's atoning work on the cross, you know, in the ministry of the Holy Spirit, that's where all those things, you know, end up end up coming into play so significantly. But You know, I I uh y you've been stressing it for so long, but I'm starting to really uh to really kind of work through some of the implications. Like when I read the Old Testament Um, you know, am I coming back to Christ often enough? Am I coming back to to the essence of the gospel often enough? And um I I I I feel like I I'm I'm starting to feel a little bit of pushback in my soul about not that we would minimize Christ, not that we wouldn't keep preaching the gospel but that that the h the heart and soul of the message of the Bible is is eternal life With God. Right, which can only happen through Christ. Which can only happen through Christ. Everything is happening through Christ. That's why he becomes the linchpin It is about a broken relationship with the Father, with our Creator, right? We the cre God creates us in his image, all is good. We screw that up. Uh oh, now what do we do? We're totally screwed for the rest of eternity. Oh, but wait a minute, Jesus. So I mean, so you're right in this sensibility in the sense that we want to have this connection to the Father and we can address the Father directly in in Christ's name. So again Christ is there. You want to get to the Father, but you can only get to the Father through the Son, Jesus tells us. Right? When you were looking at the Old Testament's scriptures which seem to be talking about the Old Testament God, the Father, and don't seem to have a whole lot to do with Jesus because, you know, Jesus isn't born yet, kind of thing. And yet that same Jesus says in John chapter five that the gospel or the uh the the Old Testament is basically the gospel. It's all talking about him. And then in Luke chapter 24, same thing. The book that I'm reading right now is a survey of the Old Testament. And um I couldn't even tell you who wrote it. But I can tell you that the guy that wrote it is is very committed to doing what you keep describing. uh that that we need to everywhere in the Old Testament we need to see Christ. We need to see man trying to get to God and failing and and uh therefore needing Christ. And I feel like he does significant damage to to to broad swaths of the Old Testament as I'm going through it that because he's so intent on on that message, he ends up he ends up missing the nuances that are so important even to understanding Christ. Because he's so i uh it i it because i and and I gotta be careful about this because in no way would we ever want to minimize this the how how important Christ is. But I'm saying that I've seen situations where people are so intent on the gospel that it it hinders their ability to understand the fullness of what God's purposes in Christ were even all about. Because they're so intent on on reading Christ in the in the parts of the Old Testament, they don't take the time to appreciate the richness of of How people fell away from Chr from from God, you know, how sin corrupted them, uh what was the what was the nature of God's uh uh compassion and grace towards them? Uh what what what were the implications in their immediate situation? And and it ends up, I feel like, turning the Old Testament into a little bit of a comic book for Christ. And and uh a uh uh that's that's a phrase I've never used before, so you know, uh you can use it against me and I'll see if I still still agree with it, you know, ten minutes from now. But but but I'm just saying that that um that I know you and I know how it plays out for you, but some other people that use that same language uh are are leaving me feeling like, man, they're they're They're not appreciating the richness of the scriptures. By the way, this is the Frederick Faith debate. The voice you haven't heard in a little while is uh that of Tom Weil. We'll have him jump in here into the fray in a second. the pastor at uh Brunswick First Church of God. Jonathan Sweisser is the one who uh talked about Jesus in a as a comic book hero or something. I don't know what that was exactly. No, I'm just kidding. Jonathan Sweiser's team here, Pastor of Crossers Valley Chapel, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Yeah, I don't know. Uh to to try to respond in a generic sense, I'm not sure that that I can. I wouldn't even know specific author and see the talk what are the examples. Because all the things you're talking about, you know, you If the person is saying, no no, you don't need to see what the what the proximate situation is, you don't need to understand what was going on at that moment in that you know, uh epoch of time, what was going on for the Israelites, what was going on in the life of Abraham, what was going on for Adam and Eve or whatever. Like we totally ignore that. Let's just jump straight to Christ. Christ is throughout the Old Testament. Yeah, he says so himself. I mean that's why so adamant about it. David wrote in Psalms uh a lot about Jesus and what he was going to go through. Uh his crucifixion. Um the way he was nailed uh uh all the abuse that he had to take. David wrote about this. It's in Psalms. I mean, we know all about Isaiah and how he foretold, but I think people forget they need to read a little bit more than just Isaiah. They should embrace the Old Testament and see what is being said. Moses talked about Jesus. And It's it's just the Christology in the Old Testament is just everywhere. It's everywhere. I feel like I try to read the Old Testament without thinking about Christ. so that uh so that I can appreciate um the the the struggles in the in the distance and then all of a sudden it'll be like oh That's where we're we're where the the work of God through the ages where he was In that epoch of time, Moses' time or David's time, he was revealing a new part of what Christ was all about, uh redemption redemptive history, and there's this this growth of an understanding of what Christ is all about in the Old Testament that that if you sp i i i if you're not careful, you'll take a a s a smaller view of your understanding of Christ and try to apply it to the Old Testament. And this is where I I would agree with Jace. Almost like the Old Testament forces our perception of Christ to grow so he's not just, you know, uh, you know, the the the four spiritual laws. You know, man uh God wanted a relationship with man, man fell away from God. God made a way for man to return to him. You can, you know, participate in that by choosing Christ. But that Christ means so much more than that. And and that if you read the Old Testament accurately, it it it enlarges your understanding of Christ in such a way that it's not just this this simple little application, but it's this rich, you know, uh uh much more uh uh fabulous and mind blowing that's telling you that it should be approached differently. That's exactly how it should be approached. If you become passionate I know, so I'll have to figure out what the book is and tell you. If you become passionate about the Old Testament to to understand it, to feel it, to to take ownership of it Then your relationship with God is going to blossom, and your understanding of Christ is going to become personal. You're gonna you're gonna know him like a brother and this is what fellowshipping and relationship is is all about Yeah, and I think that the the point that's usually being made is, you know, somebody's talking about uh what's it the Genesis ends with the Joseph story. Right. Everybody's Pretty much familiar with the Joseph story. Joseph is uh thrown into a pit by his brothers, uh taken off into uh you know bondage to Egypt. Uh the the the leaders uh wife tries to seduce him, he he re he rebuffs the reviews uh the the advances and ends up getting thrown in jail for it. I mean at every turn, just this horrible life is bad for Joseph. And a lot of times you'll have pastors that'll turn that story into a sermon where it'll be something like, you know, uh Joseph got thrown into a pit by his brothers. What are the pits of your life? Life is the pits, isn't it? Let's talk about how life isn't always fair. And I make this practical but Joseph rose above that. He and he uh maintained his faith And he still he did the right thing when he was when he was tr when the woman tried to seduce him and he didn't lose his faith when he got thrown into jail. It becomes this whole thing about Joseph is a hero and he maintained his faith and we should be like him. That's fine and well and good as far as it goes, but I haven't said anything about the gospel. And yet Jesus says in John chapter 5 and Luke 24 that that story about Joseph is about him. So if I haven't taken the time to figure out how does that help me to understand the gospel, help me to see Jesus in the story, then I haven't done my job as a pastor. when I'm preaching. That would be my point. Not that you don't have the moral application, not that you don't have the what was really going on for Joseph and what was really going on the political climate with Egypt or what not that you don't want to understand all of that. What was and what was Moses meaning to convey uh w when it was written? Yeah. You know, what did it mean to the Israelites uh 3,000 years ago. Yeah. What did it mean to Israel 2,000 years ago in the time of Christ? And what does it mean for the church today? All of those things are part of it, but If you only get one thing right, and that is how it points you to Jesus and and the gospel story, if you you get everything else wrong and get that right, I can live with that. But if you get everything else right and you get that one thing wrong, then you haven't preached Well, it's interesting because I'm because I'm trying to put together this this understanding of like how can you talk about Joseph's faith in God without it having the meaning that God is faithful to his promises that God will uh that that God is worth putting our faith in. Uh you know, in that he is going to uh be a rewarder of those that diligently seek him. That as as we stay in in that place before God of saying, God, you know, without faith it's impossible to please God How is that somehow contrary to Christ? No, it's not contrary to Christian. That that's not a sufficient sufficient message. It's not a contrary message, but it's not a sufficient message. A Muslim would preach that message. An Orthodox Jew would preach that message. Let me tell you why a Muslim would never preach that message. A Muslim would never preach that message because a Muslim does not believe that we have any relationship with God. They don't believe that it's about faith. They believe that it's all about obedience. Okay, an Orthodox few would preach that message. Apart apart from Christ. Sure, I d I don't know I guess exactly what a orthodox Jew would preach about. But what is the promise? The promise is he saves us from our sin, our condemnation of sin, the organs and our Jews, and the means of his faithfulness is Jesus Christ. If you don't say that, you haven't preached. Yeah, but you're not going to hear that message from uh an Orthodox Jewish Exactly, that's the point. Right. Orthodox Jew, according to Christ You know, that the religious leaders of the day, which we understand that the Orthodox Jews today that reject Christ are of that lineage. We we tie them together, you know, with the with the religious leaders of the day. They're we're we're told about them in John that Jesus said, If you because you don't believe in Moses, you don't believe in me. If you believed in Moses, if you believed what Moses wrote, then you would believe in me. R Because he was trying about Jesus Right, because he's writing about I mean faith is the essence. The the message of the Orthodox Jews is not that That we just need to believe and trust in God. The message of the Orthodox Jews is that that we need to work harder To be righteous. It's a self-righteousness, not a righteousness that is based on faith, but a righteousness that is based on works. And so so the righteousness that that says that Joseph uh walked in the blessing of God because he believed God. Just like with Abraham. Abraham believed God and it was credited to him as righteousness. That's the essence of the gospel. That's the essence of uh we we believe God, we believe what he said to us, that he's going to bless us, despite the fact that our sin has separated us from him. that he's going to make a way for us to be reunited with him. And so that to the extent that Joseph walked in that faith Then that is precisely the reason why God continued to bless him. And it's God blessed him based on his faith. And it's a great example of a sanctification process. Yeah. And so it's true that uh a preacher needs to come around and say, and this is why Christ is so important at the end of his message. But I'm saying that that that that the message that you just shared with me is in no way contrary and I don't I don't feel like three times it's not contrary, but it's not sufficient. They'll give that moralistic lesson and say, there's my message. Let's pray. Amen. You're all dismissed. Go live good moral legalistic lives now. That's the problem. They don't add the, and this is pointing us to Christ. They had Joseph had faith. He had faith in God and God and his provision. Well, you know how God provides? Through Jesus Christ. They don't say that part of it. Eighty percent of the time. Well you're right. You know, in the back of a church they shouldn't have a clock that the pastor is looking at to s to time himself. There should be a sign there that says Show 'em Jesus. You know? There really is. In in our church we don't have a clock. We don't well, we do have a clock, but We don't follow it. If if the Lord is speaking and it's it's gonna go past the our limit Who cares? When Pentecostal, that's what you believe. Oh, all right. Yeah. You know, it it it's all about him and It's a worship time. We'll pick it up next week. We'll start next week's show with this, all right? Great fun. Jonathan Sweites, our senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. We were gonna talk what we were gonna talk about today. We were gonna talk about uh We're gonna talk about hypocrisy? We were gonna talk about hypocrisy. That didn't even come up one time. We were clearly not there. Well we we prophesy ourselves we talk about hypocrisy. We didn't. Does that make a hypocrites? I know. Anyway, uh Jonathan Swiss, a senior pastor of Cross of Joy Chapel. Uh Tom Weill is the pastor at Brunswick First Church of God. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putman Clumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Until next week, 167. 5 hours from now. God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, and Honest answers an amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Put in plumbing, how can we make you smile?