Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the hearts of Fredlock County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hopes. And unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate is online. WFMD. com keyword faith takes you right to our page There you'll find podcasts of this show, news items, links to all sorts of religious traditions, and the faith of a blog. Our blog is your blog, so email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. I post what you send me Eighteen times a day, Monday through Friday. That's ninety per week, the co-op. I encourage you to pop in and see what the folks are sending me to put up there on the Faith Debate page. On the Faith Debate show today we have Jonathan Sweitzer, the senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Church, back for Some more bludgeoning of our hapless uh guest. He's he's can defend himself, but he's hapless in the sense he's gonna be totally unprepared for the bludgeoning until he counter punches and puts John in this place, making him say how do you say sorry in uh in Arabic, John? Uh Asve. Asveh, over and over and over again. Yes, John has been learning uh Arabic. He knows like twelve words now. Yes. And we're joined this week by Khalil El Shazley and a longtime old friend of the show. It's been He his memory's better than mine. He says it's been seven or eight years, which seems almost impossible that it's true, but it it probably is. I mean I d I have no reason to doubt you. All of our kids have grown up in the meantime. Exactly. Yeah, it's unbelievable. Not us though. We stayed the same. Here we are. Just as young and foolish as ever. We look exactly the same. We do. Khalil Shazley is a member of the Board of Trustees. for the Islamic Society of Frederick and like eight years ago was president of uh the um Islamic Society of Frederick. So but you only do that for a limited period of time. Two years, something like that? Renewable for one term and then Until they wear you out, squeeze every little bit of energy out of you and then they get torn out very quickly. Bring in the new guy. So very quickly. So he still knows the secret handshake until they change the secret handshake on him and don't tell him what it is. Alright. So Uh by the way it occurs to me that last week we ran out of time before I could tell you what I've been reading. So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna tell you at the end of today's show what I've been reading lately, but I am gonna mention a book that uh I haven't read lately, but I have read That'll make up for me missing last week. Okay. Alright, so the Da Vinci Co by Dan Brown, I read that. That's the book I read. They said it. Yeah, they did it. Publicly. I watched the movie. All the Catholics are gonna, you know, speak up now. By the way, I will say this for the since you mentioned the movie, Khalil. Um The movie's horrible. Absolutely horrible. It's one of the worst major motion pictures ever made. Uh the book actually was pretty entertaining. You know, it's a it's a page turner. Yeah, I wanted the movie to g you know, to to keep all the exciting, cool twists and turns, you know, out of history, you know, going and everything. Dan Brown is a gifted author, I think, as far as pop culture authors go. Uh obviously his view on Christian church history is completely out the window. But uh that's that's A case for another show. Yes. Um if we could get him on here, we could maybe get Dan uh Brown to say how do you say that again, sorry Uh Asfeh. Asphai is when a woman says it says asfe. Oh. When a man says it says as if See I was uh you know, when you learn in a different language, it's difficult to keep up with you know, when a woman's speaking she says a certain thing, but when you're speaking to a woman you say a certain other thing, it's a very Gender language. Yeah, v feminine masculine beast language. Very specific. And you're already taking on another Another language. Got me an educ education. That's very impressive. Alright, so we have Khalil on, so a perfect opportunity for me to ask this question. Uh it it's been true my whole life, but it seems like in recent months it's been more true than usual. The Middle East is like on fire. What is going on? Yeah. It's always been on fire. But it seems like it's is it just The American media pays more attention in different scenes. We're talking about the Sahara Desert. Do you want it to be cold? So But okay, I mean I guess we'll end up talking about why it's been on fire for all these years. But is is this is a question I have for you in the immediate, and then we'll get into the finer points of what's going on over there. Is it true that it's always kind of the same and we as Americans just kind of take a renewed active interest in it from time to time, making it seem like it's getting worse or better? Or does it actually have ebbs and flows where man Somebody who lives there says, okay, I don't know if we can take another day of this, or yeah, that's just another day at the office. This is what they this is how we live over in the in this uh co constant conflict. There's no constant uh or standard answer for that. Uh it all depends. Unfortunately now uh the world's controlled by big interest groups and big companies and big lobbyists and all depends. Uh you're interested in uh Middle East now? you're not interested in Central Africa. Uh there are massacres in there, people are massacred right and left. Nobody cares because there's no oil, there's no diamond, there's no uh uh uranium, uh nothing that's scarce that everybody wants at the same time. Uh but for the Middle East it's because of rich uh natural resources. Uh you have oil. uh which is hot commodity. And then also you have uh political religious interests uh by certain groups. So when you have that mix and also people fight over uh real estate, uh put all of this together you end up with a lot of trouble. So it sounds like you're saying it's not necessarily any worse now than it was a year ago or ten years ago. It's it's just an ongoing. It's just uh the sad thing about it is that uh there are a lot of innocent people who get killed. every day. Uh and depends on the topic of the day or the interest of the day, whether you shed some lights on it or not. Yeah. You were gonna say something and I kinda cut you off here, Justin. Well you know, last time that we had Khalil on the show uh we were coming out of nine eleven, right? I mean that was the reason we had him on the show. Not the last time we had him the show, the first time we had him on the show. And then for the the couple years afterwards, a year, two years afterwards There was a major rush, as it were, in the United States to try to understand Islam. Right? And the big question was always whether or not uh any of the Muslim anybody from the Muslim community, uh Islamic community would be willing to admit some of the uh some of the faults that uh that the terrorists were um committing, you know, some of some of the f uh uh problems that the the uh terrorism that they were committing. We're a long way from all that terrorism and I even feel like even as we're talking with you that we're that like the tone of our discussion is different from what it was back then. Not that there couldn't be terrorism, not that there aren't still Taliban and Al Qaeda and now there's IS, you know ISIS. ISIS, is that what you call it? Yeah, is that is And I'm gonna need, by the way, I think Jonathan's not alone and uh because that's a newer It's a newer name for us in America. I don't know if it's been around I don't know a lot about it. Maybe you know a little bit more about it. Since we've had you on the show, we've had a number of different times, some of these Ahmadiyya Muslims on. And uh th those guys are kind of what I call Jeffersonian Muslims. I don't think we've had you on since we had some of those guys on And uh and they're very quick to to admit some of the different faults and even to speak public and s publicly and say Muslims need to stop being so violent, you know, and and their theology is slightly different from uh I think what we might call orthodox Islam. But I'm just saying that I'm trying to get my head around that that for the first time in seven years we're talking to to a a Muslim that is a little bit more orthodox and we haven't had that. I think Khalil would say he's a lot more orthodox. I'm not We tend in this country to label people, so you have to label someone. I'm not orthodox by no means. Uh first of all, Islam. Would you say that you follow the Quran? Islam and the teaching of the Prophet is middle of the way. You're not to the far right, you're not to the far left, you are in the middle of the road. and you are discouraged in Quran and the Sunnah of the Prophet from being on either the far right or the far left. Seek somewhere in between. There's no extremism in Islam. There's no far liberalism in Islam. There's no such thing. And I think we have to label people something. Yeah, but I hear your heart on that. We but hopefully you can hear kind of my perspective on it is If what you're saying is true for Islam and all Muslims would agree that why is the Middle East? First of all, we have to separate the religion of Islam from what Muslims or so called Muslims do. Uh I think the first one the first time we talked, we talked about okay, when you say terrorism you you you hinting or just like most of the media outlets they associate Islam with terrorism. I mean the gentleman who killed seventy five Muslims in Norway, he was he killed them in name of Christianity. and somebody called him a Christian terrorist, Bill O'Reilly were nuts on the air because somebody called him Christian terrorists. Like the terrorist is reserved only for a Muslim when he commits a crime. So associating the word terrorist with Islam is absolutely wrong. It's wrong all the way around. Unless you start calling uh Jewish terror Jewish when they commit a crime Jewish terrorist, Christian when they commit a crime, Christian terrorist, atheist when they commit a crime, atheist terrorist I'll give you an example. Uh Virginia Tech. Uh the the the student who killed all the thirty some students. Uh in the beginning, from his looks, everybody thought he was a Muslim. Nobody ever called him a terrorist. Not to date anyone called him a terrorist. The gentleman generally is not somebody from your own nation, but it's somebody from another nation that is trying to use violence to terrorize. He was foreigner. He was not American But he was a student. He was from the Far East. It was a student from the Far East. And they didn't call him a terrorist. Nobody called him a terrorist. The guy down at Virginia Tech. Nobody to date ever called him a terror. And I think it makes a fair point. Because it's not a Muslim. How does that up to the U. No, no, no. The gentleman who flew up plane is unwilling to call anybody a terrorist. The media has outlawed all language of terrorists. No they all do. But the other media outlets have like stayed away from anything that's gonna make us all look all do. No. Well you have to I systematically. I will say that there was a time when that was ov overwhelmingly true, but I think that there has to Jonathan's point there's been a a strong shift over the last five years or so for the mainstream media to start to be able to do that. Everybody was quiet in the beginning until they found out that oh they're from Treasure. Oh they're Treasure Muslim uh they're Muslim terrorists, all of a sudden Muslim terrorists slam, slam, slam, slam, slam, slam. But it was true about them that they that their their uh environment that was that they were Muslim and that they were agitating as a part of some more extreme Muslim groups against the United States. I mean the facts of that case came out very clear that those guys were acting According to their understanding. I'm not talking about your understanding, according to their understanding that they were acting as Muslims. Homegrown terrorists Who are non-Muslims in this country, but no one will dare to call them terrorists. In fact, uh Eric Holder is talking all the time that he's worried about extremist uh terrorism on the right that there's gonna be exactly coming out of the conservative does anyone call them Christian Yeah, he does all the time. Does it call him Christian terrorists? Yeah, well they they call it far right and they say that they have a lot of but they don't call it by their religion Yes, they do. Listen, you're speaking to somebody who spends a lot of time watching how it is that that the spirit of the age in the United States is is moving against Christianity. And I'm telling you that that they are openly claiming that anybody that follows the Bible to be the Word of God You know, that they use all the language that identifies very clearly that it's Christian white European club then are bad. So you shouldn't be using the same thing to be doing against Muslims. So let's let's call it the terrorist the terrorist. Let's call the criminal criminal, but let's not associate the religion with Okay, what's the definition of a terrorist? A terrorist, anyone who harms civilian or property that's not his own. Harms. Meaning they use violence to try to breed terror. Okay, what's the difference between a terrorist and a criminal? All condemned by Islam. Sure. What's the difference between terrorist and a criminal? Terrorist and a criminal. Yeah, what's the difference? Criminal Uh you have some money. Yeah. I'm I'm poor. I steal it from you. So criminal is like smaller crime, terrorism is bigger. Criminal A guy who kills someone's wife or someone's husband for money or lust or for whatever. That's criminal. Sure. But let me I'm gonna ask you the same question in a second of your definition of terrorism and criminal. I'm just trying to get a working definition. Right. Well I want to see what your working definition is and see if we can do that. That's why I'm asking the question. That's why I'm having the discussion. I'm trying to figure out what do we mean by that. That's the voice of Jonathan Sweitzer, he's senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. Skinner, we're joined this week by a member of the Board of Trustees for the Islamic Society of Frederick, Khalil El-Shazli. You're listening to us on 930 WFMD. So if I ask you, John. Terrorist, what is that and how is it different from a criminal? Right. So um I think that I would say that it's a guy that is going to use violence or terrorism to breed fear in people. So so he's somebody who is who is not able to wage war on a on a large level and so he uses um acts of violence to breed terror in the group of people uh with whom he disagrees in order to advance his purposes and get on the public stage so that everybody around the world in the news can can hear and see what he's doing. Then would you call The militia that liberated the US from the British terrorist. Because the British called them terrorists. So they're not a military, they're not a group, they're just militias. Trying to fight the British army in this country, trying to liberate this country, the British called them terrorists. Yeah, uh Does that fall in the table? I have to agree that th that we have to look at each situation very carefully. In fact, uh since the time that I have uh known you, and that's seven years, I had the chance to sit in on a class in um in Israel up in uh Ako that was being taught by uh Colin Chapman who uh has lived in Egypt and uh ministered in the area for a long time uh and he was talking about Uh Islam. The ones that are maybe a little bit more animistic. Is he a Muslim? He's a Christian that's trying to grapple with the issue in the Middle East. I'm always I'm always but please listen because I think you would of enough less reserves. Go ahead. that the West and most Christians don't pay close enough attention to the differences in the groups of people that are that are Islam Islamic, that are Muslim. And he argues that it's it's really a small minority that uh that use violence uh in a political way to push their uh purposes. And as I listen, I listen closely, ask them hard questions. And uh he's he's arguing that that if the rhetoric was toned down that we could uh have better discussions with those that are in the Muslim world. Um and so anyways, all I'm saying is that is that he convinced me that that some of that was the case. Mm-hmm. But he recognized that it does seem to be the case that if you're say in the West Bank, for example, and you have those different groups, some that are just, you know, living by the by the Quran, you know, Sharia Law, they're not trying to, you know, uh attack anybody. Uh and then there's some that might be a little bit more animistic, you know, maybe like the um uh the guys that um are uh gypsies, wha what do you call 'em? They're not gypsies but they're Arabs and they they they're they're they more travel from place to place still. Uh there's a word that they use for him over there. I don't remember it's kind of a black term. It's a dark, you know they're kind of a dark. Anyways, there's those guys in but his point is that that the the violent uh extremists uh have a very good ability to control the whole society in those nations where they're active. And so like for example in In Egypt, right? All right, so I'm gonna give a perspective and I understand that you're probably gonna disagree with it. Of of course. that the Muslim Brotherhood, uh I I have stories of people that I know personally that have family in Egypt, that were Coptic Christians, that were forced to pay $30 day jizya taxes uh to extremists that were forcing them while the Muslim Brotherhood was was uh was in control. and and that uh that thousands of Coptic Christians were fleeing for their lives in that context. And so it looks like to me that even though there's many Muslims that are not violent, that the violent ones and the politically oriented wield a lot of influence. Okay, those groups who were forcing them to pay money were they uh government entity or just common criminals? Well this is what it was hard to tell because Exactly because that's that's exactly going to be my point when you talk about the head of the Muslim Brotherhood, what was his name? Morsi. Morsi was pushing things through. No, not really that from from from the West it looked like he was trying to Islamicize all of Egypt. The deep government which ousted Mercy Uh he didn't enjoy much power really. They they dissolved his parliament uh because uh the high courts, the old Mabarak's regime. It's the deep government. And now they're surfaced again. Yeah. So they they put you know whenever you have whenever you have a revolution I don't discounter revolution but my power that Mercy was doing a lot of the kind of things Not truly, not true. He was acting outside of the Constitution, not acting in a unilateral way that looked like He was not correct. This was all the counter-revolution. And that doesn't mean I'm saying that Obama is China Islamic here. I'm just saying that it was similar tactics. No, no, no, no. It's it's uh it's totally it's totally different. Uh What was happening is he was trying uh to improve the country economically. He was trying to get all the uh all the corrupt to pay the price, the people who uh tax evaded to start to collect taxes and in and in a very short period of time it really improved the economy. Now took a d uh a a turn to the worse because the counter revolution came uh came back and and they they they swallowed the country right now and now the country's going down. Because my sense is that the economy was falling apart. No not really. No no no And he was being told. All of the Christians that I know, all the Coptic Christians and others that were in Egypt lived in fear of their lives increasingly and they started fleeing the country while Morse was in charge. That was uh fused primarily by Listen to this. I'm listening. The Christian Baba. Because they wanted to ask So you're saying the Christians were fleeing for their lives because they were not a very good thing. No no no no no no. Baba mean church? The the Baba no the Pope. In Egypt. The Christian Pope in Egypt we call him Baba. Oh. The father. The father. Exactly. a regime behind the scenes to in to instill fear in some Christians and actually all the bombing that happened will happen by the Mubarak regime and the Ministry of Interior, which was against Morsi. So actually during the revolution The ones who were uh protecting the churches were the Muslim Brotherhoods and Tahrir Square, when the Muslims were praying, the Christians will f will form a circle to protect them, and on Sunday when the Christian prayed, the Muslim Brotherhood was surrounding them to protect them. That's what was happening in Tahir Square. Okay, but it the the impression that I grew up I grew up John I grew up is that these extremists were getting away with the notes they were not extremely that Christians were fleeing for their lives. Muslim Brotherhood do not. So who was it that was attacking the Christians there? They were the thugs of Mubarak regime. The same thugs still exist. So you're saying that they were not even Muslim? No, no, they're thugs. Okay. Fucks don't have religion, my friend. Okay, so you're saying that not even they they weren't even doing it in the name of the thugs. No, they were Fugs doing it on the behalf of the regime. Absolutely. I tell you something you probably never knew about me. Uh I grew up in a in an area which was predominantly Christian. Sure. It was named after a church. In Egypt. Yes. It's called Dirul Malek. Dir-Malek. Which is a church of an angel. Dirl is church? Dir is a church. Yeah. Or Dir is a daughter or a house or a house of worship. Okay. Malek. Melek. Uh I grew up with Christians. I lived with them, I ate with them, I went to school with them, we played soccer together, we went out together. Religion was never an issue. My oldest my eldest brother. But I hear a lot of this when I've been in the in these countries, even before you know, when I read about what uh uh before nineteen forty eight in, you know, Palestine that they that there was a uh uh a working together, living together that they had done for centuries that wasn't driven by political ambitions and that things definitely got confused political ambitions game. Well my eldest brother was born in a a predominantly Jewish neighborhood. Even the street was called the Jewish street, which predominantly Jewish. Uh the one who babysat my eldest brother was Jewish. She didn't have any babies, so she asked my mom, okay, I'll take him and babysit him while you go out shopping for groceries. So Growing up there, religion is never an issue. It became an issue when the first time uh ever when the British were occupying Egypt and people were demonstrating against the British So the first thing they started doing is trying to pin the Christians against the Muslims. Of course the leaders of the time, because they were not appointed, they were elected within uh their uh denominations they recognize that so they demonstrate hand by hand the the head of al Azhar and uh the Baba of the church. They demonstrated together, hand by hand, against the British. Now I remember second time that happened I remember seeing and hearing about those kind of things. Second time it happened during my lifetime uh when sadat was in deep trouble politically. So he instigated some uh friction between Christians and Muslims. And there were some fightings and killings on both sides and uh Police went in, cordoned the whole area and said that because of that he arrested all the leaders. Let me see if I thi if if I understand what you're saying. You're saying that that for all these years Christians and Muslims lived with one another, they lived in relative peace, but that in the context of some of the uh nineteen hundreds and beyond uh there's political uh players that have come in on both sides. Absolutely. Some claiming to be Muslim, some claiming to be Christian. And that those political political players have fomented problems where there doesn't need to be absolutely and that it should just be that they can all get along together with one another. I'm not gonna say his name, I'm not gonna advertise for his book, but he claimed that, you know, in in predominantly a large Muslim population you either convert to Islam or you're killed. Because that's this sort of the teaching of the Sharia And I debated with him and I was like and he mentioned Egypt. I said, Wait a minute. I was born in Egypt. I grew up there and I told him where I grew up and everything else. And I said, Well if what you're saying is true Islam has been in Egypt for over fourteen hundred years. If that is the truth, if that is the truth, well what he says, according to Sharia, if you according to his uh distraction of Sharia. If you're if you're non-Muslim, you live under Muslim population, you either convert or you get killed, then there wouldn't have been a Christian or a Jew in Egypt today. Okay, so let me tell you the places where that's happening. Uh well we're gonna have to do that in next week's show or something like that. This is the Frederick Fate debate. We're out of time. Jonathan Sweitzer, Khalil Al-Shausli, thank you for being on the show. Thanks to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Jonathan's reading The Church and the Jews, The Biblical Relationship by Dan Gruber. So I can't tell you what I'm reading, but I'm telling you what he's reading. Until next week, I want to thank you so much for listening. One hundred and sixty-seven half hours from now, we will continue this spirited debate. And I'm going to swing back around next week and talk a little bit about our definitions and language usage and and John can uh can uh hold his thought that he was wanted to share s uh just a second ago and we can get that into next week's show as well. Again, thanks for listening. God bless.