Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the hearts of Gridlock County. Where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Protestant Debate brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? We're online at WFMD. com keyword faith. There you'll find links to all sorts of interesting world religions and uh some news items and the face debate vlog vlog with a V because we're taking video now. This was whoever invented this video idea. Should be taken out back and things should be done to them. Anyway, I'm gonna try to keep it clean. It's a Sunday morning I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. That's Jonathan Sweitzer. If you're looking on the video and if you're uh at home in your car or uh or in your car, I apologize. Well actually I don't apologize. If you're looking at the video, I apologize. Jonathan is a senior pastor of Cross O'Source Church, and our guest this week is the author of The Apostle Jesus, The Kingdom Among You, Barry Robert Starlever And this is round three and I gotta say if you missed last week's show, listen to the podcast. Go online, listen to the podcast. I'm gonna have to do that because I'm not sure what the heck happened, but I think we I'm not positive But I think we crammed ninety seven minutes of content into just like twenty seven minutes. And and what got it so exciting was was that we We grappled with the question of what exactly is the canon of scripture supposed to represent. And it was I think so far from what I expected that I ca I I like triggered, you know, like and it took me a couple minutes for, you know, all the chemicals to wash out of my system you know, that uh that we were in a pretty significant place on that. Uh in fact, we were trying the first week to define what apostle or apostolic meant. No wonder we had a hard time because there is quite a few terms I think uh that Barry defines differently from how I do. And I was fascinated towards the end of the show. If I had more time I would have actually said this in last week's show. I was fascinated. For like fifteen minutes there was a nice back and forth arguing Scripture. Yeah. When we had already established that, you know, from Barry's point of view, scripture really isn't all that. So it's fascinating. Why are we arguing from scripture? with somebody who doesn't really see the ground of it. Is that a very excellent point and I'll tell you why. The term scripture means breathed of God. Breath of God. Yeah. Now he wants to play he wants to play a syntax kind of sorry. Okay. Welcome to my world there. Welcome to my world. I mean if if it is the breath of God, don't you think it's breathed of God? Anyway. Did you put a D on the end of that? I didn't hear the D. That's what messed me up. So anyway, here's here's my my point about that. If you're going to say that all sixty-six books of the canon that we call the Bible is scripture, is all breathed of God. Yeah. I have concerns about a lot of it, including a spot where Paul says, Look, what I'm gonna say right now I did not receive from the Lord. But I just think it's a good opinion. Is that breathed of God? I don't think so. And James was so far off base that I don't even want to deal with that again So uh I never and by the way. So can I ask how many books and scriptures I'm a guest here did I even allow you to quote James last week or whatever. Because I normally don't leave people in my presence quote James because I just I just don't buy that uh sixty five of those I want to throw out of the Bible? Is that some you would throw in? Legitimate Would you say that every book has some part of it that you would reject? How did we end up with it? Yeah. There was a process of There was a process always. And brought them together, uh uh at times adding some summary All these books, which they argued over for hundreds of years. Hundreds of years. I mean, first of all, the the canon um was put together roughly, they finally kind of got it together around 367 A. D. But it wasn't finalized. Hold on a minute, since I put it in my book. By the way, a chapter anyone that's been listening to these arguments we've been making, I would really recommend you get my book and read my chapter four entitled Hay in the Needle Stack. Because in there I talk about how in the world did we get From where Jesus was preaching to where we are now. But anyway, before I forget this, just like yeah, because I I I was right on the 367. The New Testament was closed in A. D. 367, although it was not gathered into its final agreed-on form until 692 A. D. That's after a whole lot of political argument about all of these books. So you don't think there was any spiritual argument going on in there at all? There was some. But I'm not sure I'm really not sure which voice political prevailed. Because there's also some of the Other books that were eliminated, I'm not so sure. So when Paul says then acceptable. When Paul says Sorry, I'm going to quote from scripture and I'm not I'm starting to think that maybe you don't like that, but I'm going to do it anyway. No, no, no, no. It says all scripture is God breathed. And is profitable for teaching, rebuke, and correcting, and training in righteousness so that the man of God may be thoroughly equipped for the good work. And what's he referring to? Well, I'm gonna tell you Because that's the perspective of this. The only scripture available that he was talking about was the Old Testament None of the new t he was living in the middle of the writing of those letters that eventually became considered by some. Right. So I'm with you. So you're saying the Old Testament books are legitimate and inspired? Uh some of them are, yes. So what was Paul referring to when he says all? He was talking about all the ones that were breathed of God. Right. Because I can't I after the fact read Paul's mind. So let me ask this, can we go through that in the New Testament, Jesus and Paul, Peter, and the places where they quote guys from the Old Testament and say the ones that they quote we can assume they're considering those guys to be God brother. Yeah, I think that's a fair assumption. Yes. Okay. So so at least uh at least there's some way of getting a a broad outline of which books from the Old Testament Paul and the apostles are referring to. Now here's the next question. When when God chose The apostles, the twelve, and then Paul, and then the one that replaced um Judas. Was Christ's choosing of those guys at all for the purpose of of um authoritatively establishing what the gospel represents in uh uh uh Uh establishing how we should continue to walk in the gospel after Christ has risen from the dead and gone to heaven? The question Was there a role there to them of doing this? What gospel? The word the term gospel, which you know, so I'm not going to patronize you with this, but just to get it on the table. Good news. What good news? What what was the good news For example, they were to put out Claire and J James and the other guys, were they uh partly responsible to to take Luke's gospel and Mark's gospel, Matthew's and say, you know what? These are legitimate was part of their role clarifying. Choosing two different things. Accurate, authentic descriptions of the gospel. And was their uh what was part of their role, like Paul and Peter interacting with one another to be uh a you know Paul confronted Peter and Peter accepted Paul's confrontation. Let's let's and so there's a sense that they are authenticating one another. Let's think through what you just said for a moment. Yeah, let's try to. Because I I gotta I gotta find a way to keep you from just rambling on. So let me see if you find the trick to that, you let me know. Let me see if I can I I can bring some perspective to this. First of all, let's look at what is referred to as the four gospels. Yeah Which by the way, the church likes to say, and when I'm speaking of church there, really I'm talking about the great church that became the Catholic Church, sure. Which the Protestants claimed they broke away from, but the acorn didn't fall very far from the tree. Sure. So we accept the fact that those writers of those gospels were apostles They're referred to that way. Only one of 'em is. Um John. That depends on how you look at that. But anyway, here's himself. So anyhow, so here's my point in the gospel. This is my point about this argument about the scriptures or the Bible or whatever word you want to use for that. Okay. Here's what breathed. I want to use that word. Yeah. Yeah, that breathed. Those are scriptures. Okay. Let's look at those four gospels. Yeah. The first gospel written was written by Martin. Yeah. Well, most would argue. We don't really know for sure, but most would. Well Okay. Most scholars would agree. It's kind of like the alien theorists say. Um so anyway. Uh no no, I mean that's a that's a important metaphor that you use because it it shows what level of um authority you feel like they are speaking from. You think it's the same as uh alien theorists? No, my my point was the way he worded that just reminded me of that. Alien theories say so um All I'm saying is Mark wrote the first one. Matthew came next and simply was an expansion upon what Mark wrote. Luke. Luke was written by the degree of Paul physician Luke. Yeah. Um who simply he was he was the only one, by the way, in with in the Synoptic Gospels that actually did kind of what I did as an author. He went around, talked to people, and after a conversation with them, he wrote the story because he was writing the story for his friend that he was gonna Send it to including the book of Acts, which again you you know and you got you got that. The the most authoritative uh one was written by John Which is why, by the way, that you don't believe it was r that John was an apostle? Oh yeah, I do. Okay. Matter of fact, I really would say that he might be the only one that I would place title to. Now just real quickly for the record you're saying synoptic gospels in your mindset are less authoritative than John's gospel. See I I don't I don't wanna grapple with the term authoritative. I mean I feel like I'm talking to a Mormon. Um I mean that's just I'm good for nothing. So I actually found some golden tablets just last week. Well in once I get done interpreting that there could be somebody from the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ of Latter. Saying listening. I that's I don't mean that as an insult to them because as you all meant that as an insult to you. That's right. Okay Be because you all know based on two weeks of doing this with me, I'm not really in favor of any religion. So, you know, uh we're talking He's an equal opportunity offender. Uh the the the point is when you use the word authority, the only reason I thought about them is because, you know, that's their whole contention. It's a matter of who has the authority uh to baptize and lay hands on and that's what their whole Religion is a very important thing. No, I didn't say that. He tried to make me how did you put it He but I consider about John. You consider him. He was sent. Uh he was sent. And so what distinction are you making between John's gospel and the synoptic? I was getting ready to say that when you interrupted me. So let me see if I can get this out. I'll try to interrupt you again. John's gospel stands out, which is why everybody divides them. Most scholars divide the synoptic gospels from John's gospel. First of all, it was written not too far before John eventually went on to be with the Lord. Because the church at Ephesus, and again, again, part of this could be argued too, but most scholars agree, he was at the church of Ephesus, and the people from Ephesus came to John and said, listen. You're the last living disciple that actually saw him, touched him, was with him, talked with him And you've never written a gospel. You've never you've never put it in writing. We want your opinion about who this man was. The thing that's different about John's gospel is It wasn't stories about what Jesus did. It was about who he was. Sure. Which is why John's God has begins. No. There are no past stories in John. He he just past stories? No past stories. No stories of the past. There were really no stories in his gospel. His gospel was a How do you define story? Well I'm trying to keep up with you here. Okay, well um If you look at Luke there, it's full of stories of things that do. The story of Nicodemus interacting with Jesus. No, it's not. This is the other story. This is the other mistake. It's not a story. The whole dialogue is to prove one point So you don't think Jesus sharing a historical event with Jesus talking to Nicodemus? was not the story of one uh of of the uh rabbis from the Sanhedrin coming at night to talk to Jesus. This what he's trying to communicate is not the story of that. He's trying to communicate who Jesus was. I agree. Where he came from. I agree that that's distinct the distinction. I'm just saying that he used stories before you can't separate chapter three From John, from chapters one and two, because all of one, two, and three is the same subject Sure. It begins in John 1. Sure. John says, let me tell you what my memories are of him. In the beginning was the word. Yeah. Again, Jesus is the word. Not the Bible. Jesus is the word. He is the logos. He is the representation of God the Father. Yeah. has been, always will be. So when Paul refers to all scriptures God breathed, what he's referring to now you're back on another subject. Right, but but it's a subject that's profoundly tied together. In my mind, that God breathed scripture. You got an interesting mind. Yes. A beautiful mind. So that guy just passed away recently, earlier this year. Yes. So anyways, um the the scripture that is God breathed that that is the word of God. Right? And so so Paul's talking about a body of scriptures that were God breathed. See, again that when Christmas manifestation, the word became flesh. I think that we're we're recycling with using different words, making the same arguments, and I don't know that we're going to persuade each other in this contest. Jonathan Sweitzer is the senior pastor of Crossesway Church. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. And our esteemed guest is Barry Robert Starlipper, the author of The Apostle Jesus, The Kingdom Among You. I want to pick up with what we're talking about, but I want to then jump to the some of the implications of it. For example, if Jonathan sa Jonathan and I are very different, you've listened to this show for eleven years now about Uh Jonathan and I come down on very different places on a on on some interesting uh uh points of view on when it comes to religion and Christianity. And yet, because we're both trying to argue from the same sort of ground for our faith and our authority, when Jonathan says something I disagree with, I'm going to say, but wait a minute Paul says this here, and he's going to say, yeah, but Isaiah says this here. Yeah, okay, but you have to understand Isaiah in the context of what Moses says over here. And that becomes the the the ballpark within a free player game. And that is my convention. Which that is the problem with trying to look at it that way. So we should have no grounds. So go in that church. So go that's what he's saying. No, I didn't say it. So what is the ground for us to have a discussion? Well if I want to say what he said wrong, how do I prove it? Prove me wrong about what I'm saying. Like if Jonathan says something, I say, you know what, Jonathan, I think you're absolutely right because I could point to this place, this place, and this place that we've all understand is our canon. So if we throw the canon, I'm just concerned what ground do any of us have for for believing that our claims are true? That's one of the best grounds. What, to prove that the that all of the canon as it was selected is true? Well you're saying Jesus is the apostle. I I say he's not he was that off of Hebrews. If I say he's in part meaning that your authority for that is Hebrews. We need to we need to get comeback to where if I say Jesus is is no apostle is was an apostle because he didn't even exist. As a figment of our imagination, he's a he's a fiction he's a fictitious character And you would prove me wrong and or try to correct me wrong, I sound so negative. You would try to correct my thinking on that by appealing to what? That's my concern. What we have to define. is back to what he started on. He quoted part of um John about the word becoming flesh. Again, the foundation you have to get back to. To even answer the question you're now asking, is understanding the difference between what we've all been told all these years that that 66 book collection that we call the Bible is the Word of God. It is not Jesus is the Word of God. And Jesus, the Word, did become flesh and lived out Lived out the Word of God. Live it out. How do we know what this look like? And and these these quotes, whether we want to call 'em scriptures, whether we want to call 'em verses or So should we have no doctrine? I mean is that is that the position you're kind of advocating is we really shouldn't have Like doctrine shouldn't be an important part of the I don't think, in my view, that it is important. That's my whole point. It becomes clear about how we know is about an that Jesus came preaching the kingdom. Right, but how do you know that? And what is the kingdom? How do you know that he came preaching the kingdom? Well If you read my book, you can find that out. Uh right, but you're here, so I'm hoping that I don't have to read. Because there's not many pictures in there. There's no pic There's only one picture. It's on the cover. So you hear what I'm saying? And actually, how do you know that Jesus was That Jesus came preaching. Isn't that a handsome guy? Someone's told me they looked at my picture on the back and said it looked like I was asleep. And the most people probably think that that's true. So all right, so we're still dealing with the question. How do you know? How why are you so confident that Jesus came preaching the kingdom? Where do you get that from that you can say, I know that, I know that, I know, nobody could ever prove me wrong. Jesus came preaching the kingdom. How do you know that? Uh because that's what he did. Right, but how did you know that said he you were there do were you there? Did you hear him? No So so I'm trying to drive at something here. You sound like a junior high schooler there for half a second. I'm getting like six, seven years of age. I'm trying to drive at something here. I'm I'm trying to get the mouse into the trap here. I'm gonna let him I'm gonna let him follow through. Give me some good stinky cheese and I'll follow you in there. What is the basis of your knowing that Jesus came preaching the kingdom? Because the basis for me knowing that is the scripture, but it sounds to me like you don't think that's sufficient. See, the what we have to do is quit throwing this word around that way. Some of the scripture Some of that that is breathed of God and curl up on my bed and be like does address that, yes. Some of the word of God does. But how do you know which Jesus? Okay. The scripture about about Jesus. The Word of God. So how do we know that we can trust what the Scripture says about Jesus? Can we trust what the Scripture says about Jesus? Yes. All of it? All the sh all the scripture? Yes. How do we know which part of it is the scripture and which part is not? That requires two things. The most important one is faith, because it is a matter of what we believe So so it has to do with my personal experience with the living Jesus. Yes. Now you're going down the right trail This man could get saved during this broadcast. Which actually is is exactly what 'cause we're running we're running short on time and this is gonna be you per you did you read my mind again? Are you in my head again? I am Oh. Because yeah, obviously experience is a huge part of Barry's argument and and I want to make sure that we spent at least one episode of the shows uh talking about that. So we'll do that next week, for sure. And you were going to say something real quick? Just real real quick, because he really hit on something. This is the difference between theology is Jesus explained. But Jesus experienced. That's what I'm telling you. The man's now close to the kingdom. All right. Well, I I knew it was going to happen for you eventually, Jonathan. I'm very happy for you. Real quickly I want to uh uh there's a joyful. Did you get a shot of the cover of the book by the way? Uh I it might not show up that well in the Uh on the video. I don't know. But Jonathan's taking a video right now. I don't know how well that's going to show up. But there's a story behind uh at first glance it looks like it's just uh a beigeish brownish mixture of random color, but there's actually a story behind what's on the covers. Do you want to take you know forty five seconds and share that story? Yeah, I mean uh my my purpose of how that cover was done, the publisher really struggled to get this cover the way I wanted it. Because I wanted to make sure that Jesus face was embedded in that. N a lot of people don't even see it at first. Sometimes Oh once they got the Shroud of Tarinth? Oh oh my god, the face of Jesus. I didn't see it until until you told me it was there. In in the book you mentioned. We get too hung up on the physical appearance of who he was. We are all a product made in the image of God. And we have so much to talk about. And there is we are spirit beings, and all of this fits together because let us make man in our image. And in the spirit being the same with Jesus being the reflect reflection, the logos, the representation. the visible representation of the invisible God. So I I wanted to make sure the face was not pronounced straight up there. Because there's part of me would have liked to do that just because I'm proud of the fact that th this uh picture of Jesus was actually drawn by my twelve year old granddaughter. And uh she did an excellent. She do she like she saw Jesus? Like now I'm caught up on this whole experience. How do we know what Jesus really looked like? In today's day and age, I don't know if it makes if it's a good idea to try not to uh if it makes sense to you to do so. What's uh what's her first name? Oh, Morgan. Morgan. Good job. Good job, Morgan. Shout out to Morgan. Yes. All right. That's going to put a wrap on this week's edition of the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. We've been talking with uh Morgan's granddad. Is that what she what does she call you? Poppy Poppy. Yeah? I nailed it on the first try. Yeah. He's so intuitive. Anyway. Barry Robert Starlipper, the author of The Apostle Jesus, The Kingdom Among You. Jonathan Sweitzer's been put in his place three or four times, but he keeps getting up out of it. He's a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church Uh I'm Troy Skinner, our sponsor Footman Plumbing and Heating. Half We Make You Smile. What have I been reading lately other than the Apostle Jesus? Well, I've been reading uh The Cry of the Soul by Dan Allender and Dr. Trimper Longman Anything by Alan Burr and Longman's good as far as I'm concerned, so you can't go wrong. So I'll give that two thumbs up. If if you have the video going right now, I'd give it a two thumbs up on the video, but only Jonathan and Barry got the benefit of that. Anyway, till next week. Thanks for listening. God bless.