As promised last week, today on the Faith Debate program, we're gonna get some resolution on whether or not it's pronounced leisure. For leisure. Does that depend on what part of the country you're from? Yeah, I think it depends on how snooty you are. I don't know. Anyway. That's the voice of David Forcey. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD online at WFMD dot com and I'm the pastor of a church that's called Household of Faith in Christ. You can find us online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. It is a one stop shop for everything that's related to our church and this radio show and actually it's the way that you can try to connect with David Forcey as well. And you'll see his his uh beautiful face on that website is uh uh it's like he's he looks like a guy that would say leisure actually in the photo we have on House of the Faith on Christ dot com. He's wearing like a bow tie, I think and I'm gonna upper crust. I'm I'm gonna Lasure actually. Lasure. That's real hipster. I look kinda hipster in that picture, unfortunately. That kind of fits because if you're if you're two inches of leisure, that means you're being lazy and it's leisure, right? So I I can go there Anyway, why are we talking such nonsense? Well we're working our way through the Chicago Statement on Biblical Application. We're on Article 14 today, and its uh subheading is Work and So the first uh affirm a couple of affirmations are we affirm that God created humankind in in his image and graciously fitted them both for work and leisure. We affirm that in all honorable work, however menial, God works with and through the worker. So all of humankind um should be working Right. Six days. All those are in his image? Leisure one day. Yeah Yeah, it doesn't it doesn't say, but I I I yeah, I guess we could uh We could we could we could insert an assumption there, I think I'd be a thing. Is leisure the same as rest? Leisure is leisure a uh See now you're gonna find out what I how I actually pronounce the word and when I keep saying it over and over. Uh i is it uh yeah, it it's not a is it a biblical term? I don't know the well, I guess it depends on the translation. Okay. I I I I'm I'm kinda wondering there's gotta be at least one translation out there that uses the word leisure. Right Uh probably, yeah. That's how a good Southern Baptist preacher would say it by the way. Is this is this like working funsies? Yeah, right. Is that what we're talking about? Well, can you imagine right? Good good something about this pastor. We affirm that God created humankind in his image for both work and leisure. See It's the southern pronunciation that I have. Okay. Um Yeah, I I I think we're okay with that. Again, it's broadly generic and I don't know I I uh there's not enough there to argue against, so sure, I think I'm fine with that. The next one is is is fine too, except um all it says all work is honorable, right? No matter what you're doing. If you're milking cows, you're mopping floors. Okay, all honorable work, however menial. So menial work it's it it it can't it's it's still honorable God works in and through the worker. And that's true. Uh I don't know if they're gonna get into this more, but uh I hope what they're not saying is that there aren't Um people shouldn't have aspirations to hire callings. Okay. Right? It's like i somebody who's got gifts from God that they could put to good use to make a profound impact on the neighbors around them and they choose to, you know, get out the tweezers and pluck the grades of b blades of grass because well that's honorable work. I'm gonna pluck the blades of grass. But yeah, that you could transform your Your entire town because you've got these gifts. Right. So I I'm not sure if they're gonna get into that or not. Exactly. Yeah. We affirm that work is the divinely ordained means whereby we glorify God and supply both our own needs and the needs of others. We affirm that Christians should work to the best of their abilities so as to please God. So that might get to what I was talking about, perhaps. Um, I don't think I'm pushing back on any of that, really. Yeah, not so far. Okay. Alright, the next one. I got them I I I outlined these earlier for some reason. I've got three in a row. I don't know if they're on the same theme, but I'm gonna read all three because that's how I have it outlined on my notes. We affirm that people should by the way Yes, I have notes, but I haven't reviewed this and looked at these notes. It's it's been a couple of months so probably, so have have have pity on me. We affirm that people should both humbly submit to and righteously exercise Whatever authority operates in their sphere of work. We affirm that in their work people should seek first God's kingdom and righteousness depending on him to supply their material needs. We affirm that compensation should be a fair reason. return for the work done without discrimination. I don't see how those are thematics. I don't know how I clustered them together. So the first one, uh we should uh humbly submit to the authorities that we work under, right? Okay. Yes. You should you know, as long as we're not asking you to do something i illegal, immoral, ungodly, whatever. If your boss asks you to do something, you he should be doing it. If they're if they're operating within their sphere and they're not uh stepping outside of those bounds. Yeah. In our work seek first God's kingdom and righteousness. Okay, yeah, absolutely. Depending on him. So yeah, so we work hard to pay the bills to put food on the table, but ultimately it's God who puts food on the table and we're trusting in him to meet our needs. Right. But he does he is a God who works through means. And he expects us to uh to to live up to our potential to use the word that you uh assigned to me earlier that I liked. So I I think we're good on that. So this is much better than last week when we're going through the economics. We had already pushed back on like every single statement. So far we're most agreeing. Maybe we're just getting old and tired. We affirm the compensation should be fair. I think you're gonna have a problem with this one, Troy. It should be fair? Yeah. It should be a fair return for the work done without discrimination. Do you have a problem with that one? Who's defining fair? So was this a uh you know, uh the w would they I mean, of course they would agree with uh with Jesus when he tells the parable and he says, you know, the landowner hires people at the beginning of the day and the early part of the day and the middle part of the day and the end part of the day, the very last hour and pays them all the same thing and the master says, you know, you can't complain This is my money. This is what I said I would give everybody. So is fair according to what is agreed upon. Is fair according to Yeah. So that that that strikes me as And I and I would suggest yeah, I would I would suggest that that's not usually what the word fair means, right? If we strike a contract, I'm gonna sell you my my boat. I don't have a boat, but I'm gonna sell you my boat, ten thousand dollars. And we sign off on it, whatever, or sign over the title or whatever the deed or whatever it is for a boat. I don't know, it's the same as a car, I have no idea. Never owned a boat And uh hand over the keys of my boat to you and you give me the cheque for ten thousand dollars and I'm gonna say, Well m appreciate you give me that check for ten thousand dollars. It's only fair That's not how we would use that that phrase, right? Well, we I guess it's not only fair. It's if you didn't give me the check, you stole my vote. That's true. Right? So I don't think that's how so if we have an agreement and everybody fulfills that's not being fair. That's being That has that's like that's more of a justice question. It's more of a well, yeah, so I I mean So how are they defining fair? I mean that's that's that's good. Because because fair wages Right, is uh that's a a tripping point these days. Yeah. Right, because I well, uh today w we often use the fair to mean e equitable. We we use fair to mean the same. Right? And that's that's when people complain. That's when my kids complain, right? When things aren't they say that's not fair. And well I I say, well it is it is fair. It's just not the same. Yeah. So good catch, because I didn't catch that one. So you got me back on my game now. Alright. I promise you I'm gonna find the wrong with this next one. Alright. Okay. Let's see the rocks, Joy. We affirm that Leisure, leisure l uh uh leisure in proper balance with work is ordained by God and should be enjoyed to his glory. We affirm the Time off, relaxation is ordained by God. Well yeah, day of rest. What else? What else is there other than a day of rest? What's what's being talked about? The the activities that are not required by you to provide for your family and your needs. And you almost have to define what they're meaning by leisure or leisure or whatever how we're pronouncing that word now. See? There's only one way to pronounce rest, Troy. Because i if what they mean by that is everything that's not working your fingers to the bone. It's a great song by the way. Remember that song from the seventies? No. Really? Work your fingers to the bone. What do you get Bhony fingers. Ah. Bhony fingers. Yeah, that was a big hit back in the seventies. Seriously. It was not worth working your fingers through the bone? Yeah, I think so. Okay. Don't kill yourself and your child because all you end up with is bony fingers, I think, is the idea. But I if if it's if all they're saying is when you're not working your fingers to the bone, does that include time when you're reading and studying scripture? Is that leisure? That's a good question, Troy. Prayer? Maybe. Spending time uh adoring your wife, playing with your kids? Is that leisure Pleasure? I I think I think it I think they must be saying everything that isn't work. Huh. Work everything that isn't work in terms of what we're doing right now, is this work? Doing the Faith Debate show? I mean, I'm not getting paid. Is that what they is that what they mean? Yeah, so is it only work if you get paid? Hmm. Like if I'm out in the yard, you know, mowing grass and pulling weeds and pruning, you know, pear trees and you know, working my fingers to the bone but I don't get paid. Right. Am I working? I think yes. Yes You are. So they can't mean that. No, I I think the I think that's why they're using the word the word leisure and not rest, right? 'Cause work and rest is is is Is different. So they mean from working they mean holiday at the sea? What do they mean? It's a good question. It's hard. It's hard when you bring in non-biblical terms to uh to define things. Yeah, I Well, I think it's I think it's fine to use English words that might not be in every translation of the Bible, but when you're gonna do that, you should You should be using words that everybody has a clear understanding of what they mean, and you can apply them to the Bible, or you go out of your way to define what you mean in biblical context. Right, that's like we use the word Trinity all the time. That's not in the Bible, but we now have defined that. We all know what we mean by that, and we could right I can I can use that as shorthand for what because it's a lot to unpack for Trinity. You know, you can say it in one word as opposed to a paragraph. I'm I'm gonna say that in this context with the article before being economics And the next article being wealth and poverty that they're saying using work as what I do to make money. Okay. And and le leisure is everything else. Well then yeah, of course it's ordained by God. Okay. No duh. Duh. Alright. Alright. Do you even use the next one? Yes. We affirm that work and it's Product have not only temporal but also eternal value when done and used for God's glory. Okay? Yeah. Absolutely. No no no qualms. No qualms here. And I think that's good for us to to uh keep in mind, you know, particularly when you get an eschatolo uh eschatological uh considerations and debates. There's there's a certain segment of people that feel like, well, you know, the world's going to hell in a handbasket anyway, so why bother? Right. Let's let's not try to make the world a better place 'cause it's all gonna, you know, burn up Do you do we do we call them Thessalonians? I'm just saying. Maybe. Maybe. I don't usually call them that, but maybe you do. Well, uh yeah, I I don't know. There might be something there to to talk about at some point, you know, is uh Um, you know, if you're just just working to get by until Jesus returns, are you are you working for the the goals of his kingdom? You know? And then on the other extreme people that are working really, really really really really really hard to try to bring the kingdom now. Like it's up to us. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah, no, I don't think so. So it c you can have In fairness, it the we have people on on both poles. And there might be other extremes too that I'm not thinking of at the moment. Should I move on to the next one? Sure. Oh w oh these are the denials now, so we finished the affirmations. All right. We deny that persons should pursue their work to fulfill and gratify themselves Rather than to serve and please God. Okay. I take issue. False dichotomy. Right. Uh, both and, right? Absolutely. Because uh pleasing God sh well, this goes back to what I was saying last week. So so in this context, right, pleasing God should be that is self gratifying. If we if we are thinking about it the right way Absolutely. Yeah. And your hearts, you know, screw on straight. It's a very mechanical thinking, Joy. So Yeah, that's a false dichotomy. That's that's that's not great. On the whole I would say that the uh biblical application stuff's not as strong as the inerrancy and hermeneutics stuff. That stuff was better. Yeah, and it can get it can get harder It can get a little a little stickier maybe when we, you know, try and bring it all down and put it on the ground. How do you live it? Right. Yeah. Is is a little bit messier? And I think it's made increasing m increasingly messy when it seems clear to me now that we've been doing this a couple of shows now uh where we've been pushing back on some of the they're trying to avoid fights And when we're trying to figure out how to live life and how to honor God and how to love our neighbor and all that sort of stuff, we need clarity. Tell me what to do and I'll do it. Right? That's what a lot of people are thinking. Uh if only I knew what to do, I would do it. Tell me. They got a bunch of really high powered smart Christian leaders get together to try to tell us what we're supposed to do, how to apply the Bible and they're and they're not doing it. of the Yeah, I don't know. Obscurity. So far I'm disappointed. Okay. We deny That the rich have more right to leisure, leisure, than the poor. More right to. Well, okay. Does that mean that What does that mean? It means that everyone should be working to the glory of God and enjoying to the glory of God and But in the practical what does it mean? In the real world, somebody reads this and what are they supposed to do with this? Does that mean that the the guy who's got a high powered, high stress job that makes a lot of money because it's a high power, high high stress job. Right. So he's making five hundred thousand dollars a year, but you know, because of the stress of his job he's gonna take a half a dozen weeks of vacation a year. And somebody else who's got a a a more menial job doesn't have the same kind of stress in the job Okay. And they're only gonna take two weeks of vacation a year. And they're saying that the guy is making five hundred he doesn't have a right to those extra four weeks of vacation? Is that what that means? It could mean that, couldn't it? And if so, I'd I would disagree with this denial. Maybe. Uh yeah, I mean I well, so I I think, you know, greater Greater greater reward isn't necessarily based on greater greater stress or greater risk, right? There's some menial jobs that are extremely stressful and you know, have a lot of personal risk, but you know, maybe uh You know, I I mean I I can I can get behind the argument, you know, the that uh if you are responsible for more people for the for the the livelihood, for the good, for the safety of more people, then you know, there is sh maybe should be greater compensation there because of the weight of responsibility. So are are you equating the the weight of responsibility, greater responsibility with stress? Correct. In that way? Okay. All right. Yeah. I think because they haven't defined for us what they mean by leisure. It makes it difficult. It makes it really hard. Because you're talking about rights now. A right to leisure? What I have a right to time off? I don't know if I have a right to that. I mean, I have an obligation to God to honor him with a day of rest. And I suppose then my boss should allow me to fulfill that responsibility to God by giving the day. So I guess I have a I I have the right to a day off. I could I I think I could make a biblical argument for that And and for uh like feast weeks. Right. So you look at the Old Testament, right? Rich or poor, everybody no you know, nobody works on the seventh day. And everybody takes the same Right same weeks. If that's what they're saying, they could have said it better and I'd agree with them. But I'm not sure that's what they're saying. I feel like almost the right, doesn't it feel icky? Like they're they're they're purposely skirting issues and leaving things wide open Doesn't it feel that way? Well it it seems like it's uh right right all these things should be very specifically pi applicable to to Christians Right. So if you're if you're being obedient to God, right, then all these things should be particular y you should be able to understand these all in scriptural terms. And a lot you know, using work and leisure seems to to me that they're trying to make this understandable to like even non Christians. Feels like though, because of the way they've written it, maybe I'm reading into it because I'm more jaded because of what's happened since this was written back in the early eighties. Uh it it feels like it could be a slap at like the business owner. Right. who takes lavish vacations and and and and lives the high life on out on his boat on the lake more frequently than his workers are allowed to. Because his workers aren't rich. They're the working poor, let's say. Right. And that's not fair. That's not right. The owner doesn't have a right to do that. If that's what they're saying, it goes back to what I said before. It's it's not taking the full picture in Yeah. In in in the play. So anyway. I got we have two more. We deny that certain types of work give persons greater value in God's eyes than other persons have, greater value. Yeah, I agree with that. Okay Right? We all have equal value, we're all image bearers. Some of us have more prominent, more important roles to play sometimes. Value val in intrinsic value doesn't has nothing to do with type of work, with occupation, right? Yeah, a person's greater value in God's eyes. But there are certain types of work where the work has more value. I would say that. In God's eyes. Don't you think? Give me an example. Uh Moses compared to any of the other Israelites Well, I mean, yes, but Moses is a Christ type. So if you're gonna say that Jesus the work of Jesus has more value than anyone else's, yes, I agree. And there there are scriptural figures who bear the image of Jesus in that sense in order to point to him. Are you Jesus juking me right now? Yes. But I uh I mean um I I I I do think that's a like in a in a sense I don't think Moses is Moses' value wasn't any his work was a particular work in a particular role. But don't you think the role of, you know, leader of the free world? Okay. You know, President of the United States gives is assigned that title, right? That that is More important work than um I don't know, somebody I'm about to mom juke you. Yeah, than somebody who Because it's having an impact on a greater magnitude, on more lives Uh? Yeah, but I don't I don't think that means that the that the the maybe the work has more impact, but that work doesn't have more v value It's either it the work is either done well or it's not. Does that make sense? I guess I uh we're gonna run out of time here in a second. I s I think we have one more to do too. I think that the um uh I I'm thinking in terms of, you know, we talked about this last week, to whom more is given, more is expected. So there's certain roles. Like think about somebody who's a pastor. Right. Yeah. Not everybody should desire to be a pastor and teach God's word because there's a greater accountability for that. So there's value in that. If you screw that up, man, you're you're paying a bigger price than if you screw something else up Yeah. Well I don't I don't know that that makes that work a more valuable work though. Hm. Yeah. I don't know that I can have anything to say about this or not, because we're running out of time, I'm just gonna read it at least. We deny that the Christian should either depreciate Is that the word? Depreciate leisure or make a goal of it. Right. So so we shouldn't pursue leisure for leisure's sake. And uh we shouldn't say that it's bad innately. Is that what they're saying? Is depreciate the right word there? It feels like a weird word to use there. Depreciate's like something loses value. Right, yeah. Like deprecate would have made more sense to me than but I don't know. All right, well this w you know, I I'm glad we worked through that that part of it and you know we'll do wealth and poverty next time and I'm sure it'll be more exciting. This this one wasn't all that exciting to me. You you like to you like to be critical. I want to throw rocks. That's it, yeah. Some drama. Alright, next week drama. Whether it's deserved or not, we're throwing rocks, baby. That's what we're all about here at the fate debate. I'm Troy Skinner, pastor of Household Defense. Faith in Christ dot com. If you're gonna throw rocks through them at David Forcey, he's the pastor of that multi location Potomac area uh house church thing that we've ill defined. Talk about ill defined things, huh? No, no. Anyway, find uh find me online at householdfaith in Christ dot com or W Till next week, one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours from right now.