This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. Ah, the faith debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in mid corner, weighing in with a Master of Divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Oh Troy Skinner. That's me. If you're tuning in for the first time in Many weeks, my apologies. You're gonna have to do some catching up. Go online and listen to some podcasts. We'll we'll try to steer you and bring you along. We'll try to unpeel the onion as I mentioned at the end of last week's show. That's a process. You take a peeled onion and you put it back together again. Like Humpty Dumpty. Right? That was the inspiration for Humpty Dumpty. It was an onion story and they changed it to an egg at some point. Anyway Can't poke fun of yourself, who can you poke funny at? Um anyway, we've this is now the fifth show on a particular topic, third show with this panel together. So go back about a month and uh you're gonna hear the the beginning of an email exchange that uh I had the privilege of having with a listener uh then finished up the reading uh and sharing of that email exchange in the following show. And now this is panel discussion three on said email exchange. It was a lengthy one. I mean she had some real heartfelt questions. It took her a while to express. She wrote me, you know, three, four, five paragraphs at a time sometimes, and then they were weighty issues, and so I took the time to write her Let's see. For every one paragraph she wrote me, I wrote her two or three probably. Because I'm verbose. Uh anyway, I'm not gonna read all of it again, but kinda get you back in the swing of things if you're rejoining and if this is your first time it gets you into the swing. Here's a gist of what she wrote in part of her email. How do I make my heart trust when God seems abstract? Intellectually I know he's real, but not so to my heart and experience. Since Jesus is peace personified, I can't know him without having inner peace despite circumstances. And since I haven't peace, I must not have him. Isn't this true? I'm at my wits end and don't know what to do. I can't imagine I'm the only person who is tortured like this. I ask God every day to give me the new birth, the Holy Spirit, faith and to Help me trust and rest in Him. I read the Bible, but honestly, it's just words on a page. I can't connect with God, and I'm afraid that my heart is hardened beyond repair. I'm terrified that I'll die. and go to hell. I'm sorry to speak uh be so bleak, but that's where I am. I've talked to pastors and counselors and they don't understand. They seem to presume I'm safe simply because I'm concerned about it But so were King Saul, Cain, and Judas. I'm afraid I'm like them. So we spent the last couple of shows Talking about if you share those kinds of concerns, reasons you should have hope that you truly are saved, pointing you to have faith in God and His Word. uh giving a little bit of pr not a lot, but a little bit of practical advice on, you know, um what to look for in a relationship with God and re recognize that God is meeting our emotional needs and to to to press in and lean in on that and trust that God is the perfect parent and all those sorts of ideas. But I do want to take a pause this week and the words I chose to read from email exchange this time to help us to do that. Uh she's saying that she reads the Bible in just words on a page. Gives me a little bit of pause because the the Christians should have kind of the illumination of the Holy Spirit helping them to feel like those words are more than just words on a page. But I can understand that's probably in my sense of her email exchange, that's probably just frustration uh bleeding out. But it does raise the question, could somebody say, Yeah, I'm a Christian. I mean I don't have any fruit You know? Everybody tells me I'm a jerk. I have no no peace, no joy, no patience. I'm not a very gentle person. Self-control. What's that? You know, but hey, I I once said the believers prayer at some uh you know, Billy Graham crusade and it's all good. And, you know, there's a phrase for that kind of thing. It's called easy believism, where just say these simple words, repeat after me, and now you're good to go for the whole rest of your eternal existence. And that's not a biblical concept either. And maybe she's wrestling with that. Maybe she feels like she's deluded herself, persuaded herself that she believes when she doesn't. So are there things that you in your ministry experience oh did I mention the guests yet? No, I don't think I have. Uh Emirat, did I? I don't think I did. Imran Razvi. All the shows blend together after a while, I apologize. Uh Imran Razvi, known as Raz to his friends. That's why I call him Imran a Raz. He and his wife, uh Tammy, are on the show. They uh are involved lead a um uh a uh ministry called Conquered by Love online at conquered by love dot org. uh also lead a uh a church uh uh that uh meets in their home. They have uh a big family uh and they minister to them and so they understand this idea of underst you know looking at God as a parent and us looking to God as his children. They understand that dynamic in a kind of a unique way among the guests we've had on this show. And uh a product of that kind of upbringing and training is their son Daniel, who's been on this show as well in the past. He's um he he's gonna be on the Supreme Court bench in about 25 years. We're looking forward to that day. So um Have you in your travels, your ministry travels, have you seen some people that you're like, you know what, I don't think you have what you think you have. I'm concerned for you. You're Uh w what does that look like? Like from the Princess Bride. That word you keep using. I'm a Christian. I do not think it means what you think it means. Um well One of the questions I had and uh that came up when you were reading some of her emails is why are you reading the Bible? Because if you are not saved and you have no desire and you it's just words, then why are you reading it? So easy easy believism, as you mentioned, would be somebody that does not try at all to do anything because they're saved and they don't have to. Uh shall I sin more that the grace may abound? Uh God forbid. That is not what it was the case. So with your listener here. She's reading the Bible. She's pursuing after godly things. She's not feeling piques about it, but she's doing those things. So it's not easy believism in my opinion. It's more of a search that she doesn't feel like she's found the answer. So what is the answer? Um, is the answer that ultimate peace on earth? Is it is it ever gonna happen? I don't think it's gonna happen until Jesus is here. I think we're always pursuing that peace on earth. But that peace that uh someone is looking for It's always a pursuit. While we're yet sinners here in the flesh, it will always be a pursuit. And if you are pursuing that, I believe you have uh been saved because you're doing that. Now there's a lot more that goes into it. Now just because you're you're searching, I think uh Muhammad was searching as well and he started another religion. So that's a different thing Um but at any rate I I believe that if she's reading the Bible and if she's concerned and she's asking the right questions, uh From all all out from all outward appearances, she's saved, but does she feel saved? And as you mentioned earlier on the last year, I believe, is that when we change so incrementally, you know, I may not see my children grow taller, but when we haven't seen somebody for two years, they're saying, Oh wow, you've gotten so much bigger. Yeah, you're right, they have U i it's the same thing as, oh wow, you got so much deeper in the face. You're you uh you exhibit so much more, but you may not have noticed that. Yeah, no that's a great analogy. I was I was I struggled to find as good of an analogy when I mentioned on that idea last week, but yeah, the the the kids growing. You watch your kids, you know, you see them every day, you don't notice until you have you have to tell them their their pants look like floods and you have to get a new pants. But you don't really notice they're growing, but you see family. I just had this experience uh over this past summer Uh we had a big family celebration event uh at at the beginning of the summer. Um and three months later we had another big family uh celebration event and I was blown away one of the kids, the teenagers, had grown like five inches. in like four months. I'm like, holy cow, you got huge and and the pairs are like, Oh, yeah, uh uh yeah, I guess they're bigger Like they didn't realize. By the way, that only works with children. You shouldn't say that to adults. Uh oh that's my problem. I was wondering why I was having a hard time with friendships. So let's say Daniel, you might ha it looks like you're uh gonna quote scripture at me. Well I'll just uh being reminded of James. Um you know, you you have Romans and James are really good compliments to each other. In Romans you have uh Paul saying, look You don't need any works at all to be saved. And then uh a lot of people feel like James is the contradiction. I think even uh uh Martin Luther had his doubts about uh at one point about whether uh whether James was even part of scripture. But James James is obviously also the word of God and James's point is not that you must have works to be saved, but that if you are saved you will have some kind of works to show for it That doesn't mean you're always going to be perfect. But James says, you you know, you you show me your faith without your works, and I'll show you my faith by my works. And faith without works is dead. So if you don't see any fruit in your life, there is a potential if there actually is no fruit in your life, uh there is a potential that you aren't saved. Um you made the point that someone else might see fruit where you don't see fruit in your own life, and that that is that's true Um I was also thinking about the passage in um when Jesus was w was walking on the water and Peter went out to him on the water, he was walking on the water too. And then all of a sudden he got afraid, he had the doubts, and Peter began to think. And Jesus didn't say, Oh well you must not be saved You know, Jesus just caught him regardless. Um, everyone has doubts she said that your listener was saying she was afraid she was like Judas or Cain or Saul, but Peter also had doubts, Peter also had this challenges, and no one is doubting reading scripture, no one is doubting that that Peter was saved. Um so Just because you have doubts doesn't mean you're not saved, but at the same time you want to see some kind of fruit in your life, and at least you want others to see that. Uh it shouldn't be false, it should be genuine, but it will come from saving faith in Jesus Christ that you just wish to follow him and wish to obey his commands. I know based on the comments I hear from people that the circles I travel that we have some pastors and leaders in churches that listen to this show with some at least on occasion, if not with regularity. And so I'm gonna kinda give you a charge, uh, in this portion of the show to really, really make sure, and I'm not saying suge meaning to suggest that you're not already, but just an encouragement, uh charge you with really taking serious the the uh the institutional elements of the church And so don't be quick and easy to baptize someone. Because part of what can help to give somebody their assurance is to be able to lean upon the judgment of the elders, the leaders in the church who made a determination that yes We believe based on what we know of you that your profession of faith is credible and therefore we're going to have you be baptized. And so I f I f I Okay, I wasn't gonna be quite so mean-spirited, but I'm gonna put it out there. I've had people on this show that I don't think are very good pastors. I'm not gonna name names, but there we've had a few over the years. And I think some of them are guilty of you know, s they d they want to have their baptism numbers look good on the on the rolls, on the books and they want to oh We baptized seventy-three people this year. So what if only like one was authentic? Like it doesn't mean anything. You're not doing anybody any favors if you let somebody buy into the idea that they have something that they don't Um something so serious to say. Yeah. And oh yeah, so you baptize them by the dozens, whether they whether they should be baptized or not. And then what you do is you rob the those who might be truly saved who are having a crisis of assurance and they can't very maybe easily 'cause they might be in this writer of these emails seems like she's a pretty sharp cookie. So she's paying attention to what's going on around her and she's gonna see Yeah, the church the pastor say, Well look, we wouldn't have baptized you if we didn't think you were a believer. And she'd be like, I know that's not true. I see all these knuckleheads you baptize, and they're not believers. I might be one of the knuckleheads Uh so you got but that but if you do a good job of fencing that, uh fencing the table uh i in addition and and having good discipline in your church. I mean if she was on the outs and and having a a bad relationship with the church and with with God the church should be pressing in and making her a better disciple. Should be f uh fencing the table perhaps if she's backslidden so far. And they can say, Look We let you have communion every week or every month or every quarter or once a year or however often their church does it. Uh you know, we wouldn't let you do that if you weren't a believer. At some point it's God's word plus the work of his church. Now men are fallible. Absolutely. But in concert, all that coming together can really help. Uh but it can also have kind of on the theme we've started the show on, it can also have a uh a detrimental effect of giving somebody a false confidence if everybody who shows up participates of the Lord's Supper and anybody who wants to can be baptized, then it doesn't mean anything anymore. Um and then you have easy believism, and then it's hard to tell the the wheat from the chaff you know, who are the real ones. I have an opportunity to guest preach in a variety of of uh venues uh over the years uh throughout you know Frederick County and and nearby regions and um I don't know most of the congregations very well because I'm a guest preacher. So when I show up, I assume that nobody listening is saved. You know, they need to hear the gospel for the first time, I'm assuming. You know, but we all need to but that's fine because even the believers need Reminded constantly of the gospel because we forget. That's a big part of the theme of what uh John writes in his letters in the New Testament. You know, he keeps He's so repetitive, particularly in 1 John, he repeats himself repeats and repeats. It's like John you've said that like five times already. But why? Because we're dense, we forget, we need to hear over and over again the truth of the gospel And so maybe this listener who has these doubts isn't hearing the gospel recurringly, isn't having it reaffirmed, like, oh yeah, I do believe in that. Yeah, okay, it does apply to me. Uh and then if that's true, if she's in that kind of a church situation, then she's surrounded by other people who don't even know what the gospel is. And they think they're believers, but they only belong to a Sunday morning social club. Might as well below rotary. Right. Well and that's where the discipleship comes in if if your uh if if your church has the ability to disciple. Which is what we're called to do. So if she's got other women in her life who can disciple her, that that that would be a goal to go out and look for some, say, Walk with me here Where where are my struggles? And uh um it's important for us to do that for each other because we can't uh Um, either wherever we are in our life look for someone. I who can who can I disciple if I'm at this point someone's behind me and someone's ahead of me and who can I be discipled by. Um and and that's the encouragement of finding finding another believer um will give you some of those uh regular uh hearing of the the ways of God that that you were just talking about. That's Tammy Razvi. I'm Troy Skinner. We're joined this week by Tammy's husband Imran Raz Razvi and their son Daniel Razvi. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. We don't know this particular listener's story. In fact, anybody listening right now, we don't know your story. So we don't know where you are on the spectrum of of of belief or or sanctification or whatever. We don't know how solid your faith is if you have a real faith. We can't know. God knows. And so that's a point I w I I think I want to make. The culture around us lies to us all the time. All the time. Yes it does. Always. Like there's never a time when it's not lying to us. Like, well what about that? Yeah, that time too. You know, always lying to us. And so we we we've and if we're not careful, we buy into these these lies. And right now what's really big, uh what I understand is your generation, Daniel, is really prone to this idea of it's all about the experience. you know, younger adults they you know, they'd rather take a big expensive vacation than own a house or um raise a family. Well basically could be an experience I guess, but they They're they're less about things. They're they're more about doing things or whatever. And and so if I'm not having that experience, well my life means nothing. You know, i if it's not on Facebook it didn't happen. You know, if I can't share the experience then it wasn't meaningful. There's the there's just no meaning to that. And the culture's lying to us. And I wonder Uh if if this particular listener throughout her her life is bought into that lie, maybe and maybe she didn't have good parents who affirmed her. So she doesn't isn't able to identify when God is affirming and meeting her emotional needs. Right, she doesn't know what that looks like. Right. Right. So maybe a maybe a good Christian counselor more than a pastor is what someone like this would benefit from. I don't know what you think about that. So it it does sound it does sound like that she's missing missing the understanding of God's care and that that may be uh part of her part of her walk in in her needs to just go after honoring God, go after um just listening Uh but uh it may be that she's um and that she really is is not understanding his care because she thinks that it should be exhibited in a certain way. which it's not, or she's not able to receive it because of, as you suggested, some hurts in her past. And I think kind of at the core of what she's asking, in the center of that the now unpeeled onion Is that I don't think that she is um is willing or able to admit to herself that she loves God back. You know, the Bible tells me God loves me, but I don't feel it. And sometimes, you know, my wife when she loves me, I might not feel it so readily, but you know when I feel her love for me is when I'm loving her back Right. You know, that reciprocal 'cause love's a two way street and love is a verb. You know, we think of love as an emotion almost exclusively in in our contemporary culture. And there is an emotional aspect. good feelings that come with love. But it's about doing. And as my wife does things for me, I feel that she appreciates me and that sort of thing. But when I'm doing for her and seeing her respond to that, that's when it like clicks into place. Does that make sense? Yes it does. And then I'm like Yeah. Now not only do I know that she loves me, but I know that I love her because there's this two-way thing going on. And maybe that's missing. That's why in part of my email exchange I encouraged her to try to do more loving things for and you know with regards to God. And God tells us what those things are. And we touched on them in a I think a first panel discussion, Sean, I think Raz brought it up about the importance of uh prayer and maybe I think you might have mentioned singing. uh you know anything that's worshipful, uh be involved with going to church, small groups, reading your Bible, those sorts of things. I think one of the things is she is pursuing God. I mean she's reading the Word And she is uh communicating with you. She's listening to the this uh podcast or this radio show and trying to pursue God. If you're trying to pursue God, you don't have that fake faith. Um, you may not feel like you're getting what you want out of it. But in this world we seldom get what we want out of it. God doesn't promise that we're gonna be this. He doesn't promise that to us. He promises that he saved us. He promises that he loves us. And if she is pursuing him, then I believe that she has the heart to be saved. And again, the two greatest commandments are love the Lord your God with all your heart and love your neighbor as yourself. Those are both about relationships. So if she's pursuing the relationship with God, then she is in the right track and she's going in that direction. It doesn't matter whether whether you're, you know, sixteen or sixty-six, you're going moving in the right direction. But I w I wanted to touch on The fact that she is uh this this listener is sixty-six years old. She uh if she is saved, um as as you're surmising, then she's likely been saved for quite a long time. Um, I know for myself I'm I'm only twenty four years old. I got saved when I was four years old. Um, I don't really remember very much before I was saved. So it's kind of hard to remember what it's like not to be saved. And you have the Holy Spirit with you. Uh God says that we will have the Holy Spirit with us always. You know, we we can sometimes block him out if we want to do some sin, but he's still there. uh you know uh reminding us that we need to turn back to God. But uh the analogy I I'd I'd use um is if you remember It's sometime in your home when maybe the bathroom fan or the the uh stove and oven fan was on And maybe it's not been on for a couple hours you left a daw and went from what you were cooking or whatever. And then you don't hear it anymore Then all of a sudden somebody goes and turns the fan off and you're like, Whew, wow, it's it's really quiet now. And it felt quiet before, but you didn't realize the fan was on and and you can tell what a huge presence that fan was there. Now that's kind of the reverse feeling that you want because the fan sometimes can get a little bit annoying. But the point I'm saying is if something's been with you for so long, you're kinda used to it, you don't even notice it anymore And it's kind of background noise. And if you're not constantly being uh uh you know, digging deeper into scriptures and getting closer to God, sometimes you you may forget that he's there, but he never left. He's still there And uh uh i you would know if he was gone. Uh it'd be pretty obvious. Just like you know when that fan is turned off, it's it's pretty obvious to everyone in the room that something has changed. Well, we didn't give your dad the last word on this show. Daniel Razve gets the last word for a first time in three shows. Other uh his father maybe we'll give you the last word some other time. Uh Imran Raz Razvi, Tammy Razvi, uh Daniel Razvi. They have a ministry called Conquered by Love online at ConqueredBylove. org. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for listening. We'll be back again one week from now. And if you want to be a little more specific, it's one hundred sixty seven and a half hours from now, set your watch. Till then, God bless