The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD Welcome to the Faith Debates. We go for another round, another week. They they keep having us back. One of these days they'll come to their senses and Tell us not to come back anymore. Hopefully that won't be for a lot of years. We uh are on the cusp of entering our nineteenth year. Sunday in November of 2004, I believe. So this is the last Sunday in October of 2022. Boo. Happy Halloween and all that. Happy Reformation Day. October thirty first. Yeah. So anyway, lest we should forget, we just had the five hundredth anniversary of that not too many years ago. Um anyway, we're talking the last few weeks about what to look for in a church, what to not look for in a church, uh when it's time to leave a church. And one of the issues that drives those kind of decisions for a lot of people is music. And so we're gonna talk and we're not it's this isn't necessarily meant to be so when sho should you leave or how should you choose a ch choose a church based on music, although that might be part of what we talk about. But what other things that should be thought about when uh w when we think about conducting music in a worship service and um Some people think it should be psalms only, it should be a cappella only, um you know, or it can be psalms but also hymns are okay or hymns only. Some are all about the praise and worship, contemporary songs, you know, and Yeah, so what's the what's the right mix? Is there a right mix? Is it is it you know, is there the right way to do this? And I'm gonna start with a story and let you guys run off the races. There's somebody that I know personally. who's I have every reason to believe is is an actual believing Christian, lives a good Christian life, so all the evidence of the fruit is there. And yet, despite this Uh he and his family chose a church when they were when they were looking for a church. Uh they visited a few and the first church, this is this is his own testimony. The first church they visited that had a drum kit is where they stayed. That was the litmus test. It wasn't a theological question, it wasn't about how biblical, how good the sermons were, wasn't wasn't anything. It was did they have drums? And if they had drums, it was like, okay, this is gonna be a cool church, because I guess they're gonna entertain me, they're gonna have good music. That was probably the idea there And so and I will say, in fairness to him, he s he seemed to make an okay choice for him and his family. They stuck there for a long time. They're not there anymore. They've moved out of the area. But that was his thing. I know people who've left churches because they didn't have drums. So personally I think that's kinda ridiculous either way, but I think Daniel actually has some uh different uh Maybe hardcore well formulated views on some of these questions because he is a musician. Yes. So we can start with you and pivot off of that. So what are we looking for with our music in the show? Yeah. Oh, okay. Maybe maybe you start with something else. But what I what I would say before we get into the substance of it is I think it's very important for there to be clear written guidelines about what types of music you allow in the church and why And so we have that for hours. It's a very it's only a one page document, but it's very clear. Here's the things and here's why and here's the biblical verses to back up each of the points on the list. Uh, because I think a lot of times pastors, especially churches with an older pastor that may be retiring soon, they had very strong opinions on music and they knew what was good and not too good to have in the church. And as they start to shift their leadership and responsibilities away to the younger generation, the younger generation just does what's cool and what's fun and hip and they really undermine a lot of the music. I've seen a lot of churches backslide when the music changes. It's usually the first thing I would argue even the f before uh some of the woke stuff, the first thing that changes is the music and after that changes a lot of other things. when it's non traditional music. So anyway, that's what I'll say. Do you think the music is the is the catalyst or the like the harbinger of the I'd say both. A little bit of both, depending on the context. I've seen some very dramatic changes in churches where the first thing that changed was the music and almost immediately after that a whole bunch of other things started changing. Almost like it uh like it it opened the door for for other changes. Almost like that, yeah. Um yeah. I think it's a leading indicator of if they're not gonna have really savvy you know uh uh there's l if there's not a lot of wisdom in their decisions on their music it's probably didn't care they might not have a lot of wisdom in some other areas. Right. That's that's how I would think about it. But yeah I I think uh I I think music is very uh uh you know, usually a very good gauge for, you know, what a church is about. You know, are they um are they looking to be very similar to or very tasteful, you know, for those who are used to being of the world and in the world. Um You know, and uh uh and then also it you know, and that's that's music style probably, you know, that would would tell you that Do you have written documentation of the kind of music you would do in your church? No, I have nothing in writing, Troy. I don't even have a website, remember? Well, I didn't know if you Yeah, no, I don't have anything I mean we have a website, so a lot of Basically everything that we have in writing you see on our website. I don't have I don't think we have anything in writing that's not on our website. So if you want to know what we have in writing, what we believe and the things we thought were important enough to write down, go to house of the faith in Christ dot com and it's all there for the world to see. I'm not so sure that you you mean like th there's probably some wisdom in in having it written down, but you're not saying that like it should be a requirement that churches would have that written down. 'Cause I I I'm you know I feel like if you've got good men in leadership, when that retiring pastor goes away, if he's got good elders in place and and they do a good job hiring a biblical pastor to replace the outgoing pastor, they're going to continue to make good biblical decisions that would include the music. So I'm not so sure that I feel the weight of importance of having it written down. But there might be some wisdom in it that I'm just blind to. I see some major um effects that music has on the church, on the psychology of people, the behavior of people, the the the soul of the church Um there's a lot more that music has involvement. I think it's often put on the back burner. The pastors either don't care so much or and they let somebody else who knows about these things pick the music. Um, but i I think there is some deep theological importance to choosing music and why you choose certain music. Um so there's a couple points that a lot of pastors will say if they care about these things they'll they'll look at these first. One is the lyrics. You know, if you look at all about music usually you'll say, okay, is the lyrics are the lyrics biblical, first of all. And then, you know, uh I I think a really good easy test is if you can't tell whether you're singing to God or to your girlfriend, then it's probably not good lyrics in the in the song, right? Um you need to have it clear that you're singing to God. the God of the Bible specifically. So there needs to be good theology in the lyrics. Uh there's there's a lot of resources about that and and you can kind of read a song and and kind of figure that out whether it's biblical. Um there's a lot of difference in doctrine b based on those. The other the the major area which has a lot of stuff has been said on it and you if you Google this you can probably find it is rock music is of the devil and you can't have that in the church. You may you've probably heard a statement to that effect before. Um I'm a child of the sixties, seventies, and eighties. I heard that a lot. Yeah. So they were playing Beatles records backwards and all that sort of stuff. And it was just I was just on the heels. I was born on the heels of the whole Elvis is Devil music So I grew up in that environment big time. So I mean there is i af I I've done a lot of research on it. There is something to be said for Certain types of music and I won't use the word rock music in this sentence, but certain types of music are evil and demonic. It is possible to be uh spiritually oppressed with the music. Now you probably have something to that effect in your written document. And you said that you have like scriptural support text and stuff for all these positions. So what would be scriptural support texts for that? So There is there's a few di a few different things. Um one is certain types of music um are illicit the wrong emotions and sinful emotions. Um Joshua on the top of the mountain, when he heard uh you know, the people with the golden calf, he said to Moses, There's a there's a w voise of war in the camp. But they weren't fighting, they were singing. And he said, It's it's singing. But they're w they're at war. Right? He could tell there was evil music going on in the camp that was sounding like a war happening And there's a lot of scripture that talks about um being uh at peace and in one accord and things like that. There's there's many things uh from a music theory perspective, um, technical and we can get really technical. We won't have time to do that today, but there's a lot of things from a technical perspective about syncopation and heavy backbeat that is against nature. It's against it's uh backwards from the heartbeats that God created in nature and a lot of natural rhythms that are throughout nature. Um that is just Against the natural order of things. Are you talking about like heavy metal kind of stuff? I'm talking about if you have four beats in the measure, then stronger on two and four would be a backbeat. One, two, three, four. one, two, three, four. So that's the the classic rock beat where you have stronger beats on two and four. That's in unhealthy rhythm as a and I'm not going to call it evil necessarily today. There are evil music. I I'm I And there's there's gray areas too, I would say, but that's the opposite. The the more natural rhythm is one, two, three, four, where you have stronger beats on the first and third beat and measure. So there's something with the beats. Um that's that's the ones and the threes, if you go to a black church, that's where they clap, right? U usually And if you go to a white church they typically clap on the twos and fours, right? Right. And the reason for that I would say is there's a lot of um cultural things that that that that certain churches understand and in Africa for example there's a lot of a lot of the wish doctors use some of those rock beats And if you go to church in Africa, um most of them are going to be very what I would call healthy music. They're maybe very opposite of that because they understand that certain music does invite demonic activity. And so they would actually be opposite of that and they would have what I would c term healthy beats, crapping on one and three t for example. Um so I think that that is one part of it. There's music has several parts though. They got the beat, we got the lyrics, but then we have melody And we have harmony and there's melody. So there's a lot of different things that go along with all of that. But even backing up from the type of music, how do you perform it? How do you play it? And I just use the word perform. It shouldn't be a performance. If it's anything, it's a performance to God. But if you're clapping at the end of a song, that's probably a red flag. If the church is clapping, because you shouldn't be clapping, you shouldn't be cheering the people who are performing, you're cheering God And usually when you're clapping you're clapping 'cause oh that was cool music. I love that music. So those are some of the things that we've written down. So it's not just about the types of music, it's about how you play it. Yeah. I think that is like For me the clapping of like if I'm the We have a small church and there's no clapping. I don't mind clapping during the song, that's what I put up. No, yeah, I know what you're saying. But but there's no opportunity. But I've been to churches where they do it. I will s I I don't find red flags strong. I think I will say I've I I think I've thrown out some yellow flags, depending on how that's handled. I think that it's a natural instinct in our society when somebody sings a song. Uh, and they do a good job, like to show appreciation by clapping. I think it's just like an instinct, it's inbred and it's it feels so for awkward to tell somebody don't clap But I've heard churches handle that re reasonably well by saying, let's all give praise to the Lord, let's clap for the Lord, and He's blessed us with this music. I've heard them pivot and make it God directed. And I feel like that's that's an attempt to try to do that. I I would say yeah, but our natural urges is also to sin and we should suppress those. So just because you naturally want to clap when somebody plays a song doesn't mean it's a good thing to do in the church service. So Yeah, but see that's where I'm I'm I'm there's there could be some wisdom here, but you know uh that's what I'm I'm trying to I haven't thought through all of these things as much as you have, but I I'm have I'm having a hard time thinking like off the top of my head. Like even the the passage with Joshua saying, I hear in the I'm s hearing the sounds of war. Maybe there was singing mixed in, but I'm thinking there's also some hootin' hollering and some some aggressive noises coming and it's not just Well he said specifically that it was singing that he heard. It's not the sound of men that cry for uh for help or for or or or yelling and hooting and hollering. It shouldn't say hooting and hollering, but if the noise of singing that he hears. So it was he was pretty specific on that. Now, obviously we don't have a um uh sheet music from what they were singing. Right. And that's what I mean. I'm thinking like it's a particular kind of a th he would he would recognize as a general himself, he would recognize or a military man himself, like this is the kind of thing that gets people amped up to go to war. Right. And that's what they're singing now, or you know Um I don't know. I I feel like I w I'm thinking it's her I'm I'm taking this in to think how do or In my guidelines there's a mix of there's biblical verses principles that we follow. But we're also there's a lot of scientific research that goes into this. I and I've spent a lot of time uh on this uh you know, looking at the human body and behavioral, especially for children and when we do the child training and things like that, music has a huh plays a huge role in children's behavior. Um and so then we look okay, would this type of music has certain effect and why is that? And so we we dig more deep. We And you we find a lot more information. And then we there's a lot of verses that do speak to that, but there's there's no sheet music in the Bible, so it's it's it's hard to show, okay, well see, this is where you're clapping on this speaking that's not there obviously. But music around the world in most cultures is what I would term healthy music. There's only a couple cultures, um, namely in Africa and in South America, that the traditional music from that culture is what I would term unhealthy music. Well and a lot of the music that we have, we don't have the street music, we have the lyrics. Um but it's not really metered the way we think about it. I mean they almost nothing rhymes. Uh there's not a necessarily a psalms. Yeah, there's not a necessarily Exactly. you know, measure the beats or something. So I I don't know what it might have sounded like, but it probably sounded nothing like what we think of as Western music today. I feel like a lot of people, you know, probably several minutes ago were like, well th this is just overthinking it, Daniel. Like, you know, there's Like just, you know let it let it let it go. Is it is it really that big a deal. But I I think this is a a good conversation to have. I think it is you know, this is a good demonstration of really uh trying to um trying to trying to carefully uh you know uh in every area of life You know, say, okay, what what is the the Godward way to do this? You know, not because the the Bible doesn't speak uh you know, like you said, like it doesn't give us Sheet music or examples of melodies or things like that. And but but we should say, okay, but what are what are the biblical principles for for life and how do they apply to this particular area? And and just because the Bible doesn't explicitly talk about a thing doesn't mean that there are biblical principles that guide that, right? The Bible doesn't mention television. But we all have some pretty strong opinions on what kind of shows you should be watching or not watching, right? So music is the same way. The Bible does actually talk a lot about music. It does talk about you know, in the Psalms it says there's a verse that says, Play skillfully with a loud noise. So it's actually important to be well trained in a musician. And if your church doesn't large enough that has that, uh that's not like you're a bad church. And to play loud music. And to play loud yeah. Loud noise. I'm all for loud noise, heavy beats, plenty of instruments, okay. But our guidelines do have a few things. Our s our guidelines say no drums in our services. Not because I'm against drums. I actually think drums can be do done really well. And I think if I had drums and played them in the short war serv orchard service it would still be healthy music. But I have a fear that it's very easy in American culture to play drums and also guitar, those two specific instruments. grum drums and guitar to play them in a more um pop type of way that is not traditional either traditional western or eastern uh method. It's it's the the guitar music and drum music we have is more African in in most of its influence in Western culture now. And so I say, look, it's better to do without. There's no requirement that it has to be you have to have guitar and drums during the service in the biblical uh you know mandate, so we're just gonna leave 'em out. Um but I have no problem on a on the face of having that instrument. There's no I mean Baba talks about drums and I would be happy to go to a Jewish congregation, for example, Mes messianic Jewish congreg congregation and listen to their drum beats all day long 'cause they have very healthy beats generally. Thankfully you've chose the piano which has both strings and percussion all in one. Exactly. Uh you play the guitar. I do. So you have guitar music at your church. I'm not offended, Daniel. Right? Does anybody else in your church uh play an instrument? Uh your kids do I guess. Yeah. No, uh we don't have anyone else who uh who is is comfortable. Uh skill wise. And we don't even have that at our church. So we're singing to you know recorded music because we we don't and there's a c I have we have some old hymnals and stuff and we might sing the ones that we know well enough, we just sing those a cappella out of the hymnals. Um but we don't have any musicians. Uh my I think my wife's a pretty good singer. Uh for the most part I can hold the tune, but I don't I'm certainly not like a trained great singer or anything. But it's about as good as we get. I mean if if possible you want to be educated about the things that you're that you're doing. That's all. Um, but there is one thing I want to get to which is uh not to do with the music at all, uh the type of music, and this is something that I don't hear enough pastors talking about. I think it's really important. Most churches when you go to if it's a if it's got any sort of organization to it, during the church service, near the time uh they either they have an altar call if they're that type of church or they have a closing prayer or whatever they have. the pianists or the musicians will start to play music during the year. I am so strongly against that. It's really, really bad. The Primary reason is music is a language. You are saying something with the music. So when you play music, you're actually saying something different than what is being prayed. Unless you're the one praying. So it's one thing if you're praying and you're the pianist and you're also playing music to go along with your prayer. That that's I I could almost be condone that. But if the person speaking is a different person than the person playing music and they're praying to God, now you have an issue like in um First Corinthians where Paul says you can't both be speaking at once because uh you you can't hear each other over and when I because I'm so steeped in music, like I don't hear la la la, I hear A G flat, you know C sharp, like I hear those notes. So it's uh I'm weird that way. When I so to me when I sit in the church, you're weird any other ways? Lots of other ways. When I sit in church and I and I'm praying and I'm praying with the guy who's praying and then I hear this music That takes me completely out of the zone and now I'm thinking about the mood that the music is in, which is totally different mood often than what's being taught. So I can't stress that enough. Please don't play music. Yeah, I find it distracting. Uh I find it manipulative. And if I feel like somebody's trying to manipulate me, boy, that's a huge turnoff. Like do not try to manipulate me. So that's uh that's a problem. And the other thing is it it almost forces the the way the prayer's gonna be delivered. 'Cause usually it's this light little twinkly stuff, you know, elevator music kind of a thing. Good luck pre uh praying and a precatory prayer with that going on. Like you know, it it it dictates the mood and tone of the prayer. And that's it so that's three strikes in the right. I got three reasons. I am not a fan of that. I I I'm totally off foot by that. I think one of the things, just to sort of look big picture, okay, why why music at all? Uh is the You know, w when when music is being played, when people are singing, the the voices of the church uh are being joined together, right, in in unity to to praise God by speaking truth, by you know, calling on his name And uh and so yeah, and and music has the power to do that, to to unify and to help, you know you know, even just tonally, right, to get everyone on the same page. And uh and and that's why I think that's why music is a big deal and uh why people Why people feel strongly. And and it's interesting that that ends up being one of the most divisive things in churches a lot of times. The thing that is supposed to be the most unifying Just very practical. Music can be very addicting. It can be like a drug. You know, rock music especially can be very uh very addictive. And I think that's why people get so offended very easily about when you talk about their music. Oh no, this is my music, this is my personal preference. Okay, well So do you do you feel like the the music in in the church should be especially set apart, different, you know, a a almost you know, a a kind of music that is only done When believers gather together? What do you think about that sort of idea? No, I I think there's it there's sh there should be a distinction between secular music and religious music. Um I mean it should be clear that you're singing a religious song, um, but I don't think that you can not sing that song other times, right? I Yeah, I guess that's not a I wouldn't play Beethoven's symphony during church service. Anymore than I'd play a Beatles song during search service because neither of those is religious music. I'd say the Beethoven Symphony is a lot healthier music than the Beatles song is for a number of reasons. but you still don't play it during church service, right, just because it's not church related. Yeah. Um I mean you can uh uh you you can have a a a a church bakesale fundraiser but you don't do that during the service either. You do it afterward, right? Um there's things Like that. Yeah. I well and and I I think I think, you know, it's instructive to us that throughout history like certain music styles have become certain music styles because they've started in the church. True. Like gospel music, you know, for instance. Um I I I I really have to say most cultures and I've studied music from a lot of different cultures, and you're right. Western and e culture uh uh Western music is very different than Middle Eastern music, very different than Chinese music and and uh you know South American music. But in the majority of the cultures They're ax the the roots are very healthy, what I would term healthy. It's just from a couple cultures in very Uh interestingly, very heavily uh areas of very heavy demonic activity, such as some places in Africa and some places in South America that are known for having a lot of wish doctors and things like that. That's where a lot of the unhealthy music really has its roots and it's influenced Western culture. I think it's really important to push back on that. Well, we're gonna uh begin to wrap this up with about a minute or so left in the show, so I don't want to skip caught short. Uh I'm not sure uh you probably have a heck of a lot more you could say about music. I'm not sure if we want to next week you know s at least start with some other thoughts about music or not. Um I mean I I haven't given this a lot of thought. I have some opinions, but they're not all that well formulated, so I don't have a whole lot I necessarily feel the need to to put out there. But anyway, we can figure that out between this week and next week's show. Uh David Forcey Uh he he did a lot of talking this week and and uh Daniel Razi did a lot of talking this week. I think we heard Imron early in the show and then I think he went and took a nap or something. I'm not sure what happened. We l we lost Imron somewhere along the way We'll pull him into the conversation. Next week, I'm Froy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. You can find us online, of course, at WFMD. com. You can hear us every week at uh on the FM at uh 99. 9 HD2 or and you can listen live on WFMB. com, the listen live option. And you can connect with us through my church's website because I'm kind of the the hub and the the uh one-stop shop for connecting with all of us here on the show. And that website is Household of Faith in Christ dot com, Household of Faith in Christ dot com. The Razzies they have a website too that's called Conquered by Love Dot org, conquerbudluff. org so you can visit that as well. Until next week, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from now. God bless