All right, just because we're going to be able to do that. Jonathan's here, I'm gonna say this with a frown. I'm not gonna enjoy it when I say it. Broadcasting from Big Brother City Right in the middle of Gridlockyani within the Socialist State of Maryland, just outside the nation's capital of the former Republic of the United States of America, this is The Frederick Faith debate. The attitude by which you say it doesn't change the fact that you're upset about cameras on the streets that force you to go the speed limit. All of those moms that live in those neighborhoods that are sick and tired of people endangering the lives of her children by flying down the street. are singing the praises of those cameras. Alright, here. At long last you are forced. You build a road that's got four lanes across. Four. Right. Big broad shoulders, a big grassy median. I don't know what you're talking about. The buildings are well set off This thing was designed to go 45 miles an hour. But somebody decided they wanted to put up a little black and white sign that said 25 miles an hour. Because they put a camera there because they want you to pay more taxes. Yeah, see that is your Total misunderstanding of the situation and it leaves you and your wife arguing with one another over the dinner table every night because you just won't come to terms with the pastoral book because you've got an imagination. Jonathan Sweites, the senior pastor of Crossroads Holly Chapel, by the way the Oh, by the way. Yeah. For me. That's right. Putman Plumbing, help we make you smile. And on the panel again this week, I know. You're you're really regretting being on the show after these last uh two or three minutes Uh author of Destiny Deferred, a Love Story. Donnell Watts and his Beautiful Wife Celeste. And and uh let's hear the Celeste. Hello. Hello pages, honey. More pages, honey. You got a baby. More pages. And we've been talking about that for three weeks we've been talking. This is week four. Um and I was uh mentioning right before we came on the air, one of my favorite parts of of the book, there's this one line. Yeah. It's in the context of backsliding. The main character in the book is named David, and he's he comes through a lot and he's living a Christian life Sort of. He won't really let go of the past, you know, he's sort of. But that not refusing to let go starts to get the better of me, really starts to backslide. Right. Um and there's a line in the book that says, along with the drugs Came my insecurities and low self-esteem. This was a package deal. And I love that because we think, we buy the fantasy that if I could just Do that forbidden thing. It oftentimes does for a little while, right? It feels great. You do these bad things because they feel good for a season. For yeah, sometimes a blink of an eye, sometimes a stretch. But eventually reality hits and you gotta deal with self-esteem issues because you know it was wrong. And then you have insecurity because your esteem self-esteem is low. And it's a package deal. And I just you captured that in one sentence and I thought it was a it was a great line. Yeah. I I um you know With that particular line. I you know, I just think that um a lot of time uh you know, sin or you know, when we do something that's a that we really um know that, you know, uh our conscience is prepared to tell us that, you know, that's the that's the wrong thing. And I think when we do that thing Um yeah, uh a conscious kicks in, you know. But uh but uh I know we can go go to a point where we can like sear our conscience where it won't even kick in at all, but I thought I think that's a dangerous spot But at this particular uh point in the in the story the the the character conscious was was fresh and he knew that he what he was doing was wrong. You know, and that there's a whole story there about How even when we walk away from the Lord, where sin abounds, grace much more abounds, right? And so we still reap what we sow as long as we're walking away from the Lord. In fact, I found this Idea in the in the in Hosea recently that you know how we're told that that when we confess our sin You know, when David says he casts it as far as the Easter's from the west, that he won't remember our sins anymore. He says again and again to those people that don't repent, then I'm going to remember your sins. And they're all gonna come up before me. And and and the character keeps having his sins remembered as it were and things get worse and worse until But God's grace is always there, not just punishing him, but but wooing him, drawing him back, so that even though a sin abounded, grace much more abounded in the end. It's really amazing. Testimony about how that's the case. Yeah. By the way, uh I thought by the time we had done three shows, some of these questions would have come up in the heaven, so I'm gonna kinda force them in because I'm curious, all right? Uh there's a scene in the book Where um there's a wedding reception. Yes. And the church policy forbids dancing. Now is that based on an experience or is that based on your personal theology on dancing? No, because actually they go to a dance later on in the party. Remember they go to a they go to a uh an adult uh a reception or something, a birthday party and they have dancing in the basement. Right, but I didn't I didn't know if that was you know No I I think, you know, when you when you look at areas like that You know, especially if you're basing them on scriptures. You know, we have what we call uh in scriptures foundational truths. You know, like Jesus is the Christ, Jesus is uh sinless. um born of a virgin. But then you have those gray areas, you know, do you dance in church or you know I'm just saying the way that Troy dances when he dances it is a sin. I'm just saying. There's there's nothing right about it. Well that was one of those great areas where you could kind of like um you know it was just um you know just something in the something in the box. I can't help it. I'm the only one in the whole world who dances right. I can't help it. I'm the only one that dances the right way. Nobody else dances like that. Think now a lot of this but not all of it, we talked in the previous weeks, uh not all of the story is your personal story. I mean it's it's uh stories that uh that are based in reality from people you know. But a lot of the story is yours. Yes it is. And and Celeste's too, right? So and and Celeste uh mentioned the very fur a couple weeks back that she had Some say in some parts of the book, like from a female's perspective, these are some things you might want to think about from the So as you're going through that, you're you're dredging up some old stuff. I mean you're not that old. You're probably like what eighteen Celeste is and uh Donnell is you know a little older than eighteen. But uh it's it's it's it' it it it's uh it it's still a few years ago anyway A lot of that stuff like Dead and Buried and Gone, was it difficult to dredge up these old stories to have to put them in writing? Yeah, I tell you when you uh read this book, I mean it was um a absolute joy to write the book, you know, and it was hard work also. But you will find, metaphorically speaking, some uh tear stained pages there. You know, there were some uh times that it was very difficult to write some of those things that were written. But you you s you see, uh I really believe that um there were some very um tough times in in our marriage, but I believe that God doesn't waste pain. I believe that um when you go through things and especially the difficult things of life Um I believe that if you're willing, God can turn these things into some um some great testimonies. Another example of how God works for people. But did you find in those moments that maybe you were kind of picking at a scab, you know, something had been healed and you were opening up a wound or you didn't have to deal with it again. Well don't forget, you know, Troy, that we're we're writing this book, um, you know, uh written this book for others also. Because, you know, people are um there's a lot of hurting people out there. There's a lot of hurting marriages out there. And I just want uh people to know that um There are experiences that um perhaps you're not the only one that's going through this experience or uh you know your husband or your wife isn't the only one that struggles with these particular issues. So I wanted to write it to people too because You know, I wanted this book to go out to um uh to minister to um herding marriages. You know, I hear a deeper question in that, Troy, that that I'm gonna ask it one more time. Uh to you In your deep voice please. I don't have a deep voice. I'm just not as cool as you are. But I can look as bad as you do when you make a deep voice. But so my question is um Like I know for me, and the things that I've gone through in my life, I'm still healing from sin. that that perpetrated against me, that I perpetrated against others. And uh and so the deeper question that I hear is is do you do you guys feel like there's you know that you that you're still Healing, you know, that that there's still a process being worked through that God is continuing to to work out that healing? Or would you say you're like 90% healed, 100% healed? I think it's all a work in progress. Yeah. You know, and it's not like um You know, I think they heal, but there's the scar that remains. Mm-hmm. And I think that um you know, and I think it's not altogether a bad thing because I think when you look at the scar you say, Well, you know what That's how I got that. And then it brings about uh uh you know something that you can reflect upon and w you know uh where God has brought you and and where you're at now and what you have been through. I I think it's important. Um to you know, not to dwell in the past and to live in the past, but to um to remember the past. Now that's you writing it, I'm wondering, Celeste, what about you reading it? Yeah. I also want to say that I know for me it was it's God's grace. And because I saw that it was a time when Donnell and I we did separate and when I saw that he was really trying to get help and he did surrender his life back to God, that helped me to forgive him. Yeah. And we went through the process of getting seeking help individually that we can be healthy for one another. Right. And um And by us both getting healthy individually, and then um God shedding his grace upon our relationship and giving us the strength to forgive each other I mean our relationship was really a miracle. Yeah. I mean, it's better than I would thought it could be. And um and I just think it's a miracle from God. Yeah. Now you have you have a uh one child, a daughter, correct. Yes, I have a daughter who's thirty one. Right, and there's a there's a daughter in the story, uh and there and you have so there's some correlation there. So there's a there's a lot in this story that would resonate with her. Has your daughter uh her name's Joy, I think, refer to it. Has your daughter read the book? She's in a process. I I think um Or she's just a teenager. No, how old is she thirty one? She's she's very sweet. I think she's like a lot of uh children perhaps. I'm not gonna call her children, she's a grown woman. But I think um you know so we're very close. We have a very close children. But I think she's like um You know, dad, mom, I don't really want to hear that kind of stuff. Or, you know, she just kinda I don't know. I don't know if it's it maybe it's painful for her, but I think she holds us up at a such a place that She don't like to hear bad things about her dad or mom. I don't think that she's um afraid of reading. She's not really a reader. She don't read a lot of novels. Yeah. So It's taken her a while to just say, let me just sit down and read this book. Yeah. Right now she's on Mr. Mrs. , so she's getting there, but it's a slow process for her. Alright, hold on a second. I'm gonna flip ahead here. Mr. and Mrs. That's like three or three. That's right. Tamara is just looking for a boy for the summer That's right. And here we are 33 years later. Yeah. Uh then chapter two is his issues, her issues, and then chapter three is dating Tamara, and then soul salvation. Yeah. And then the engagement. Then chapter six, Sin knocks at the door. Then chapter seven, Mr and Mrs in Holy Matrimony, Chapter seven, the holy number with holy matrimony Uh number chapter eight, the wilderness. Chapter nine is home, chapter ten is destiny, and then there's an epilogue. So she's gotten about two-thirds of the way through the book. But she hadn't gotten to the wilderness yet. No, she hasn't. That's gonna be hard for her, right? That's about these other people I know. Yeah, but even before then I can imagine that it's hard because even before then there there's the revelation of the you know, the lack of follow through on you know, commitments and that sort of thing, the what's playing playing behind the scenes. I mean I feel like that's one of the most important things for for young people to to get through to as they're growing up in a Christian home, is the revelation, wow, my parents are not perfect. And so even though there's things like that I want to be like my parents, there's areas where I don't want to be like my parents. And what do I do with that? Oh, God God still loves them for who they are, so maybe God'll accept me with my weaknesses too. You know, that whole process of transformation I feel like is so key and Yeah that's why the book is important. Well I tell you when you the book will take you on a roller coaster ride. You know, you you will um Uh their book has so many um turns and twists to it, but it it has the same turns and twists that real life has You know, um, real life, um, people are going through things, you know, people are tired and people are struggling with issues, but yet, um You know, y you you continue to go through it. You know what I mean? You continue to go through it. And as you get through this this book, um, there is um there's destiny. And like you mentioned in the last chapter is destiny. There's destiny that That's Donnell Watts joined with us this week also with Celeste, his wife. Um Donnell's author of Destiny Deferred, a Love Story. Jonathan Sweitzer, a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. You know, I've introduced you several times, uh which is true, as the author of this book. I've also mentioned a couple of times that you are the outreach director for Mosaic Church here in Frederick. We haven't talked really at all yet, I don't think, about your involvement as a facilitator for Celebrate Recovery uh support group. Yes. And I imagine that some of those sorts of Scenarios and stories of people that you know are part of what helps you to weave together a fuller story that's not just your personal biography. That's correct. Um and this is a book about forgiveness. And I imagine that when you're dealing with these people in recovery that that they need to come to a place where they can accept God's forgiveness, forgive themselves, forgive others who've hurt them, baggage from their childhood or whatever. So we've got about, you know, I don't know, ten minutes. or so. Whether or not God works or not let's say that he does. I just don't like the language that you know that we put to that. But really uh For the sake of this discussion, we'll use we'll tie the the the four shows now we've done together uh together. We'll use that language. God works because he's a God of forgiveness. Amen. Right? It doesn't work without God forgiving. That's right. So Can you talk to I don't know I don't know if you're being any uh betraying any sort of confidence or whatever, but can you talk to some uh a favorite story or two about a redeemed, transformed life life when somebody captured that, when they understood God forgives me and my life is changed. Because you've seen some pla some people in some really, really dark places. You know, um you know it says um let the redeem the Lord say so. And um if I was to talk about anyone, uh a story that I know know too well is myself. Um you know, uh growing up um in the inner city of Washington D C Um, I grew up um you know, I had great parents, but I also um uh was in the streets and um And you know, just uh doing a lot of teenage things that um that wasn't favorable to society. But um Uh God uh moved in my life, you know, and and God had um brought me to a place where I could understand um where I could see his love for me. And um I didn't, you know, I grew up as a child. I was pretty much insecure. And um I just didn't understand uh uh God's love. But um I think as I grew older and as I grew older and uh and as I um when God saved me, I I think that what I understood um most about God was that um He teaches his greatest lessons through um affliction and um so it seems um in in the heat of the fire, so to speak, he teaches his greatest lessons. Uh that's where he uh purifies us and that's where he builds character. And before I knew God I thought pain was just um something that would uh, you know, it was just bring just discomfort in and of itself and something that um you know I w I would I would, you know, run from. But as I understand it now with God, uh sometimes um uh I think I can say as David says, I guess to sum this up, I can say as David says, it was good that I was afflicted. Because I think that um during um some of my the darker days in my life, God um taught me really about his love, how much he really does love me, even through um the pain of our afflictions. Yeah. Wha by the way, y you're referencing uh, you know, David and it just struck me. I don't know why it didn't really struck me struck me before. Why did you pick the names uh Tamara and David for the main characters? Well David is m actually my one of my uh he's my biblical hero. in a sense that um david was uh a man after god's own heart and um as we read this story and um as the reader read this story uh the character david He's he's not a bad guy. He just does bad things. Um and a and the character in David in the Bible, you know, um he was a man I think God was my heart and you would say Well, this guy was a you know, he he murdered a man and, you know, he uh didn't take care of his own household 'cause uh David was a you know, he was just not a good father. And, you know But even in the character David and in and this uh in the story, you just see uh he has a heart to want to do what's right. But he's just um his methods are just um they're just um not good. And how about the name Tamara? Tamara? How do we come up with Tamara, honey? My uh nickname is Teeny and we wanted to Because it was inspired by true events. We say w we couldn't just say teeny. So we just say we've um begin the name with fatigue and we came up with tomorrow. Okay. All right. By the way, give In in a lot of ways, Donnell is David. Right? In a lot of ways. Yeah, yeah. Um well the David of the Bible, he has a best friend. Jonathan. Oh and we have a Jonathan on the show. Look at that. I could come to love Jonathan. I'll give you the shirt off my back. Now I just got if Jonathan starts shooting some arrows far into the field, you just roll. Alright, we got uh Jonathan's been quiet for a minute. We've got to wrap up here in a second, but I wanted to give Jonathan uh chance for a final thought before we put a bow tie on this. No, I you know I've uh I got caught on the whole idea of uh therapy and and its role in the body of Christ and and uh I think what was what what was demonstrated in the book with the characters over and over again is that if whether it's through th therapy with pastors, whoever, if if the light of the gospel isn't uh given the chance to shine on those areas of our lives where we're not willing to go and somebody doesn't help us to go there, then we're gonna end up getting stuck and and thank God that he had the The love the Lord disciplines the Son in whom he delights to to surround you with the people and to help you to get the you know to to work in your heart that that you could receive that kind of help and go to the hard places. Amen. All right, the book again is called Destiny Deferred A Love Story. And I didn't realize I didn't make the connection. Crossbooks is the same publisher for some heavyweights that we know about in the Christian publishing world, right? You mentioned Charles Stanley, John MacArthur. Uh who else did you say? I mean there's a whole bunch of Like big Max Locato? Max Locato, yeah. Yeah, wow. Yeah. I'm impressed. Lifeway ministry. Yeah, lifeway ministry, yeah. The print company of Cross Book which is Lifeway Ministry published Um and Beth Moore. Oh gotcha. Gotcha. Okay. Very cool. Very cool. Um Oh, I know what it was now. So I've been reading that. I finished that. But what else have I been reading? This is your goal in life to keep up with my reading. Uh from Eden to the New Jerusalem by Desmond T. Alexander. You ever hear that? Eden to the New Jerusalem. That's a great idea. So how was the book? Actually it was pretty good. It's short. You could read it like that. But it is still a restoration back to something really beautiful. Well f finally a book I've read that he liked. That's the first time in weeks that that's happened. I want to thank again our relatively new sponsor, BMC Insurance, Brett Hess. Say hello to Brett. Say hello to Brett and say hello to Patrick and Marlena Putman. Putman Plumbing and Heating, how can We make you smile. Uh visit us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. If you do that, what you'll find is a rundown of what shows are coming up. You'll find links to the podcast. There's a couple of different ways to get the podcast. The shows that we did years ago you access through the old audio vault. And the shows we've done more recently, you access through iTunes. That's the easiest way to do it. There are other ways to do it, but trust me, I've tried the other ways. Not easy. So take my word for it. If you want to listen to this show back Wait about, I don't know, twenty-four, forty-eight hours and our our web guy will finally get it posted up there. Uh and then make sure that you, you know, send links to your friends and and you buy the book Destiny Deferred a Love Story. Um And email me Troiskinner at Clearchannel. com. That's Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. Whatever you send to me, doesn't have to be about faith matters, although a lot of things are religion. I get a lot of politics stuff Uh I've gotten some recipes, I get some jokes. Uh I get lots of uh just goofy, crazy stuff, and I put it up there because my blog is your blog. Uh thanks again. It's it's been a pleasure and a delight to to have you guys uh on the show these past few weeks. Thanks for having us In addition to being the author of Destiny Deferred, a Love Story, Donnell Watts is also the uh outreach director for Mosaic Church in Frederick. Give my best to Pastor Jim Meaton when you see him. Sure will. Um gotta get him back on the show. It's been too many years And Jonathan Schweitzer still trying to figure out how God's gonna work in his life. He's a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Uh again, I'm Frey Skinner. Thank you so much for listening. Until next week, one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours from now. God bless