Welcome to the face of data, News Radio Nine Street Government. I'm your host and typically moderator for the Faith Debate. I'm at WWF. You can find the show and me also at household of faith in Christ dot com and Household of Faith in Christ Johnson. com. And you know, we're uh if you've been listening to the show for a while now, uh particularly the last few weeks, you know we're we're we're kind of in experimental mode, trying to figure out how to do things hopefully better and better with each passing week. We started the show back in 2004 doing the show in the studios of WFMD. And now while the show is still heard on WFMD, it's no longer using the studios of the radio station. So we've had to come up with our own studio setup and uh there's been some experimenting and some changes along the way these past few weeks as we try to get better and better at how we do things here. And so uh my apologies, there's been a little bit of uh quality control. the last uh handful of weeks. But I think we're we're getting closer to having this all figured out. I think some of the technical challenges, uh you know I'm learning as I go. Also the um uh the equipment that I'm using. I've made some tweaks and modifications there. So I think we're gonna be in much better shape uh as we move forward. And as we move forward now into part four and part final of our conversation with Ray Fava of Evangelical Dark Web. And now we're going to wrap up with uh this conversation. I have no idea. I can't remember so long ago. I I cannot remember what we talked about over the last section of our time together. So you and I will learn together So anyway, here now continue my conversation with Ray on his show, Evangelical Dark Weather. And I will say this, this time last year, or it was around this time last year uh when he was either just coming out of or was still wrong. Uh I think that's a good idea. Uh still wrong. It didn't happen until later in the month of July, but I know what you're talking about. So This time last year he was making the argument in Romans thirteen. Yes tells us to close that we should be closed. He was making that argument and then he realized, ooh, yep, wrong argument. Let me shift gears. Yeah. For like a three to four, five months period of time. He was wrong You know, Dr. Bob wants to say that expositional preaching through the books of the Bible has a deep precedent church history. Calvin preached line by line, verse by verse, subsequently throughout the Bible. And now I want to get to another category of preaching that I see that has come up a lot more. And I guess it would be a subcategory of topical preaching. But this idea of pastors writing books. and then preaching messages based on those books. Michael Todd did this with his book series Or with his sermon series, relationship goals, which he then adapted into a book and then preached another sermon series on that book And Levi Lesco du did this with the books that he started the and published. That's what I would ask. Why? You already preached it. Why are you preaching it again Well I yeah, I can't speak for Mike Todd. Like he's an obvious prosperity preacher. uh and they can turn their sermons into books and then get the message out in written form to people. I have no problem with that I would probably have an issue if somebody writes the book first and then uses the sermon series as a marketing tool to try to sell more books. I would have pro I would have a uh I I would have some questions about that I think that's where the question of love of money comes from. Like it's one thing for uh John MacArthur, to use him as an example again, to have someone ghost adapt his sermons in the books. Yeah, that's one thing. It's another thing to write a book, then do a sermon series based on that book to get your congregants and perhaps other people to buy that book from you because you have a captive audience So I think that's another issue that comes up sp specifically within the megachurch movement. And, you know, I don't think it's wrong for pastors to write a book, but you know, the book that you should be preaching on on a Sunday morning Is the book. Yeah. And by the way, in reference to the comment that uh the the viewer, the commenter had about, you know, where there's a long history of uh ex expositional preaching and John Calvin my words by verse and all that. And that's true. But I I um yeah, Ray, you know me outside of even uh this thing that we're doing here. So you I think you know this to be true of me that Uh I want to be fair, fully fair to what is the absolute truth of a situation. And so while what the commenters said is true It's also true that somebody wants to make put up their dukes and fight over topical preaching could find ample evidence of a thread through church history of a lot of topical messages taking place. It's very much the uh the the the homily, kind of the Roman Catholic homily method where they kinda uh pick a topic and and uh and they have a practical application tied to that topic. It's very common, it has deep roots. Um so I think that some of the more um uh uh muscular preaching traditions uh come from ex expositional tradition. So if if that was the point he was making, I would agree. I would say that the the the the best long-lived most helpful kinds of sermons we have preserved for us today would be the expositional sermons for exactly the reason we're talking about before. It helps us to understand the text. We have so many Christians right now that don't understand what the Bible says. And I know this is a, you know, a buzzword, a negative buzzword in the postmodern culture. But we can't begin to understand the meta-narrative of Scripture. I know the postmodernists don't like meta-narrative. But I'm sorry, there's a meta-narrative to history. That's just truth. And there's a meta-narrative to the arc of how the Bible uh teaches that to us. That is just truth. And you can't begin to grapple with that meta-narrative if you don't understand what the specific text is saying. And so we have pastors that aren't wrestling what the text is saying, so they're not teaching the people to understand what the text is saying. And so then they grapple with something you know, in a p in one of those hard to understand passages, and by hard I don't necessarily mean hard to understand like intellectually, I mean hard to understand emotionally like this is hard. I don't want to believe this is true. How could this be true? I I I oh my gosh, my faith is now shaken because it sounds like God's a big old meaning But if you understand the whole arc and what the text throughout Scripture is saying, you're equipped to come to terms with, oh, I know why this text about God being a big old meanie is actually not about God being a meanie, but it's about him expressing his love through judgment that comes out in a way that is his vengeance expressed And that his vengeance is actually love because he's defending what is good and right and proper. And uh he's defending his truth and his honor, and he's defending his own honor and glory. Why? Because then he wants to then share that honor and glory with us. So him defending his treasure is defending our treasure. And so when he's doing those big meanie things He's doing it out of love for his people. Well, that makes that's a totally different kind of understanding that you miss if you haven't grappled with all of the tests of scripture to get to that place. And it's just about how to manage your money and be a better parent and have a loving marriage and be a good worker for your boss and have series like that endlessly. Those things are important, and those things can be used as illustrations within an expositional sermon and say, here's a good opportunity for me to bring up a point that has to do with husbands and wives. That can be totally fine Uh and as a Sunday school lesson, maybe that's totally fine. Or in a men's group or women's group thing, that can be totally fine. But from the pulpit we used to see heralding the the gospel, it's not so fine. In my opinion, for what it's worth. Alright. Um I'm gonna ask uh watchers to give a last call for submitting questions as we kind of wrap these things up. It looks like we have one question already. Um Uh whether dispensationalists tend to do topical sermons whereas covenant guys tend to do exposit exposition preaching. Do you think there's a tendency? Do you think there's a correlation? Well I'll say this. I haven't done a uh a research study on that to see if it's true but I I do I will say this and I and I've never thought about making that connection until now. So this is totally off the cuff here, but It feels to me like the dispensational uh view would perhaps lend itself more to that because the dispensational view is more focused on uh end time prophetic teaching and so they're looking for things happening in the news and in the culture and in the happenings around us. So they might have more of a natural inclination, if not tendency. uh uh to to go in that direction. So I could see that as possibly true. Okay, interesting, because I I had never made that connection either. So I I just found that fascinating to see if that was true or not. So um uh since we're closing things up, uh tell the audience where you can be found. Yeah, I'll do that. And by the way, there's one thing I did wanna to uh mention really quick before we c we close out. And um 'Cause I've been paying attention to this debate with the plagiarism and all that sort of stuff, and I I started out our conversation by saying, look, we want to be careful to to to clarify and define our terms. What are we meaning to say? What do we mean by plagiarism? And if what we mean is theft of intellectual property, that's fine because we can then turn to, as a good expositional uh pastor, Go to the text. What does the text say? Stealing. Bad. Don't do it. Avoid stealing. Be a generous giver. Don't steal. So if you're stealing somebody's intellectual property, that is a sin. It's not a sin because you've plagiarized per se. And so I I want to make that clarification because There are ample examples from Scripture that stealing is bad and wrong. But there's not a clear cut scriptural proof text, if you will, about plagiarism per se. And the closest thing I think that we get would be in Jeremiah chapter 23. I've heard a few people on different platforms Try to use Jeremiah 23, I think it's verse 30 specifically, that talks about uh God being against those prophets whose Steal my words from each other. And so see, the God's prophets aren't to steal each other's words and use them. But holy cow, that's making the error of of what what the topical preachers can be prone to, they can be prone to a tendency towards eisegesis. You've got this idea in mind and you've got to find a text that fits your idea and you start to make the text mean what you need it to mean to make your case and you're reading into the text. And and you need to be u using uh not easis, but exegesis. You need to be pulling out of the text what it's saying. And the way to figure that out is to look at the broader context. And if you read uh that chapter of Jeremiah, if you read I I will challenge you later on, after you're done watching this, read Jeremiah twenty-three and you tell me if you think that verse thirty is telling pastors and prophets not to plagiarize each other. Because my reading of that is the whole context is a rebuke against false prophets. People saying, thus says the Lord, when the God when the Lord hasn't spoken, and and uh putting themselves forward as those who are using uh God's truth. uh uh when they actually are using Satan's lie. And so they're saying, thus saith the Lord, when they're not, and I think when God says, look, the prophets were stealing my words I uh from each other I think my understanding, and you know, I'm open to so I'll be paying attention to the comments on this because anyone wants to rebuke me on my understanding here and say, no, no, you're totally wrong. The point there is The true prophets of God should be giving God's people the truth, the truth of His word. God's people need to receive God's truth. But instead of giving God's people God's truth, these false prophets, they're stealing God's word. It's not that I'm taking somebody else's intellectual property and reapplying it. That's not the context of that text at all. It's about people being told lies instead of the truth. It's like stealing the food from the baby. Uh and asking him to live on turpentine instead of living on actual food. I I I think that's the context. So I don't think we have a proof text against repurposing and using somebody else's work and I would argue Well other than the eighth commandment I would automatically. If if it's stealing, right? If it's stealing. But if I'm quoting someone, if somebody gives me an illustration that I then use or gives me permission to repurpose what they've used, that's not stealing. And so that wouldn't be against the commandments. And so is it a violation of God's word to me is it to merely repurpose if you haven't in fact stolen. And I would argue we want to be careful because scripture itself might fail that test. We've got uh we've mentioned Revelation a couple of times. The Apostle John, who I believe is the author of uh the book of Revelation. The Apostle John is quote unquote borrowing, repurposing illusions and teachings and and images and illustrations and analogies from the Old Testament like it's going out of style. I mean he's using probably more than a more than a dozen uh he's lifting more than a dozen things from the Old Testament and putting to use for his purposes in the book of Revelation. Is he a plagiarist? When Matthew is borrowing heavily from the Hebrew scriptures in the in his gospel account, uh without attribution Is he plagiarizing or is he just repurposing? Or you know, the people talk about Well, I I think you make it make your point pretty well that we shouldn't do isegesis to rebuke sin. And I think that Yeah, that that doesn't just apply to this issue with Ed Litton. I think that applies to everything in you know any any kind of sin. We shouldn't do eisegesis ever, even if it's for a good cause, like rebuking sin. Uh one of the Yeah, if you do if if you do isegesis, what you're doing is you're buying into critical uh scholarship, you know, higher criticism where And that was modern constructing. Yeah. You're basically saying I'm going to decide what this passage means and I I as the reader get to do that because the reader is is the one who brings the truth to to the words on the page as opposed to authorial intent. So exegesis is authorial intent, isegesis is reader intent. One last uh question that has to do with whether easis or e ex expositional preaching Um and how the spirit laying a verse on a preacher's heart, what is the relationship between that? Do you see there's a contradiction? in doing like a sermon series model, whether expositional or even topical. And the idea that is uh the spirit laying a verse on a preacher's heart, do you see a contradiction there? Or what do you think the relationship is between those two? Uh activities. I want to make sure that I'm properly understanding because I'm not sure that I'm fully comprehending what's intended to be asked of me. Are you saying that there like if a uh a a pastor is um The regular habit might be to do things my way, but then has this moment where he's a thunderstruck with, oh my gosh, the pastors It's almost as though I audibly heard God's voice and you told me I need to preach on this instead. Is that what you're talking about? Uh I'm I'm trying to understand the reader's question, but I believe it's in the the idea being that you know, they feel led to preach on a certain passage of scripture and maybe they're already in the series, what do you think about that type of thing? You know, just go with the Yeah, uh okay, so no, uh can you clarify? Clarify. Cause I I I'd take a stab at what I think might be being said there, and I would say that on the face of it, if a pastor feels something burdening his heart, that my people need to hear something, you know, something's happening in the surrounding culture and the community within you with within which you live or your church life or something. There's something that's gonna trigger the pastor to feel motivated to to maybe deviate from plan and do something else. And we actually talked a little bit about that with like 911 happening or something. Um so that's totally fine. I will say though, a word of caution is I would be concerned about some sort of a hyper spirituality. Uh I've been in too many situations where somebody comes up to me and says, Oh, I've got a word from the Lord for you. Oh yeah, what's that? Uh it's that you should buy your own radio station and run it yourself. Oh interesting. Like this word from the Lord came about how and how could I test that against Scripture? How do I know this from It's you didn't just have some, you know, bad lasagna last night and uh it gave you this weird impression about what I should do with my life. Like this hyper spiritualized or or trusting upon ideas that are maybe perhaps merely uh formulated within our own mind and heart. Uh you know there's a line from uh the movie uh Fireproof where one of the firefighters says to the Kirk Cameron character, he he he tells them, Look, y you don't follow your heart. You need to lead your heart And what is it that we should Christians, what is it we should be leading our hearts with? We should be leading our hearts with God's Word. So if I'm studying Scripture and through my study of Scripture God's word and through the illumination of the Holy Spirit, I am then as the pastor led. I'm struck in the moment by God's word, like, wow, I need to preach on this this week. God God speaks me in my His Word. I can't fully explain it, but I'm that that instinct because it's coming I'm I'm in God's word in the moment. That strikes me as different than I've got this ethereal feeling and a whim and you know what, I'm gonna I'm gonna trust my whim and my gut instinct. On occasion I think I'd be okay with that, but if that became my steady habit, I'd be concerned about if I was trusting God's word to lead me or was trusting my own broken, fallen dark, uh still being uh sanctified heart to lead me. Alrighty. I think that uh hopefully uh covered that sufficiently enough and I think uh That's all we got for today. Uh just tell the audience where you can be found and just more about what you do. Well the easiest place to find me is probably uh go to my church's website, which is Household of Faith. in Christ. I know it's kind of a mouthful, but I felt like it'd be easiest just to have the church name be the web address. So it's household of faith in Christ dot com. There you'll feel the connect with uh all the the various social media that uh that that I've got out there, uh podcasts of of uh not just sermon messages, but also the radio shows I've been hosting for the last seven years a radio program called The Faith Debate. It's a uh 25-minute weekly show. It's a panel discussion about various uh topics and hot issues and and uh spiritual debates and Christian Sometimes the panel is me and a Christian pastor and a Buddhist or a Muslim or a Jew or a Hindu or an atheist or whatever. Uh uh so we're talking about it's kind of an interfaith dialogue and we're talking about Christian teaching versus non-Christian teaching in those shows. Or it's sometimes it's a Christian pastor and another Christian pastor, and we're having kind of an in-house, intramural uh discussion about, you know, things like baptism or uh or even the kind of things we're talking about or what's happening you know in and with uh and surrounding the Lord's Supper or you know those kinds of things And you told me you were relaunching you're getting ready to relaunch that. Yeah, we're gonna so f uh the the show in seventeen years has gone through a couple of minor facelifts and we're about to experience another minor facelift. So uh Starting with the first uh the first week of September, uh the show is gonna have a slightly different uh um format and take. The general format was the same, but specifically the big change is it's going to be a steady diet of the same panelists. So it's going to be me and there's three guys that have agreed to be on the panel with me recurringly. Every show will be either all three of those guys or at least two of those three guys if somebody can't make it. And it's going to be the same guys giving our perspective. And the reason I'm doing that is I I'm I'm feeling like in today's environment it's helpful for people to have what they can grow to uh lean on as trusted resources. And I want people to hopefully if they agree with my my take on things and the people who are on this panel that they'll be like, you know, these guys are serious discussers. They're talking about tough stuff and they're doing their darndest to do it biblically. And I I feel like I can trust where they're coming from and where their heart is. And so I'm gonna incorporate them into our habit of social media consumption because I'm getting good stuff from them. I can trust them. Whereas the old version of the show You know, sometimes the non Christian viewpoint ended up getting more time and it was a little bit more dominant. Um now always the truth, because I was the host of the show, always the truth would be expressed and would be given at least some sort of a fair hurt hearing, but it wasn't ex it wasn't exclusively, here's the issue, here's the Bible says about it. It was a lot of, here's the issue, what does Hinduism say about it? Oh, well, as a retort to that, here's what the Bible says about it. So it was more of a mix. And there's so much confusion right now. I feel like it's better to have, you know, three or four guys that are all equally committed to the truth of the scriptures, the inerrancy of the scriptures, grappling honestly. with the scriptures in a way that will be edifying and helpful to other people. So that that's gonna starting in September the show, the faith debate show. And the easiest way to find the face debate show is to go to the Household of Faith in Christ dot com website and you can find a link to the Faith Debate there. That'd be the easy thing. I'll be sure to link that. Um again, my name is Ray. This is the Evangelical Dark Web. If you like this kind of content, subscribe to the channel. And also check out evangelicaldarkweb. org. That'll be linked in the description as well. Have a blessed day. Thank you for all your comments and comment below after this. live stream. Let me know what you think about what I think and what Troy thinks. And I will catch you on the next one. God bless. And there we have it. That was the end. And Modi g gave the contact information and uh Ray was able to plug his thing there, so I don't have to spend any time doing that. That's the conclusion. These last four weeks uh covered uh the hour and a half plus amount of time that uh Ray and I spent talking about you know Sermon Gate and related issues. By the way, it's been bugging me because I meant to mention it weeks ago when uh Ray kind of posed the question, Adrian Rogers, I I I think he's passed away, hasn't he? Um in case you're wondering from weeks ago, yes, uh quite a while ago actually, back in two thousand five I believe. It's it's been a little while. He could theoretically have still been alive. He'd be way into his nineties if he were still around. But anyway, for those who might have been wondering, what's the answer to that question? Well here you are many weeks later now having the answer to that question So I I feel like we're beginning to get some momentum with this new way of doing things as far as a technical setup for the faith debate show. Um not sure what I'm gonna bring to you next time. Um I'm gonna maybe see if we can venture into actually doing a panel discussion, a fresh new panel discussion using this new setup. A little nervous about it. We'll see how it goes And if I can't quite pull it off, then you know something else to help edify you and be interesting to you will be provided on the Faith Debate show. So just I guess stay tuned. What else can I tell you Anyway, thanks so much for listening to the Fake Debate, whether it's being live on the radio at 930 WFMD on Sunday morning or it's later on via podcast. Whenever it best fits your schedule, whenever you make time for the show, trust me, I I greatly appreciate it. Uh I'm a consumer of content as well, and I know how um how hard it is sometimes to know what you want to trust and where you want to turn to spend your time. And so if you're spending your time with me. That is a that uh it means the world to me. So anyway, till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless