Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County. Where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. Sponsored by Footman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? If you find our show online, just go to WFMD. com, keyword faith. On the Faith Debate page of the WFMD website, you will find uh the Faith Debate blog, which is really now has kind of evolved into something where it's just It's our vlog. You'll find a whole bunch of the videos that Jonathan Schweitzer likes to shoot for the show uh there as well as finding them on Facebook. You'll find some various news items on occasion. You'll find podcasts for this show, hundreds, literally hundreds of podcasts of this show. We've been doing the show for over eleven years and all but two of those years are represented. Yes, they were the two lost years. Maybe one day they'll be found and it'll be a some sort of special, you know, retro show, the lost tapes for the Faith Debate. Anyway, probably not. Last week we had the first half of a message called Know That Yahweh is God. Normally this show is a panel discussion show. Uh we've had a string of shows now where that has not been the case. I I'm thinking and hoping that today is the the last of these special editions of the Faith Debate. This is gonna be the the second half of a message uh on Psalm one hundred. Again that message called Know That Yahweh is God. And then I think we'll have handle discussion show and our normal format for the show again next week. At least that's our intention and our plan. So you know, Lord willing the creeks don't rise. That's what'll be coming at you next week at this time. But I hope you enjoyed the first half of this message, uh, know that Yahweh is God last week, and now the completion of that message here this week. We're gonna be picking up in the middle, but I think you're gonna be able to figure out uh I think we had a pretty clean break point, so hopefully it won't be too horribly awkward now that we joined this in progress. I want to give you an alternate and amplified translation of Psalm 100 to help to draw more deeply you into the fuller meaning of this beautiful psalm. As with any language, there is a range of meaning for each and every word. That's why we find multiple definitions for words, we look them up in the dictionary, but you know generally they have kind of the same meaning in a general sense, but there are slight nuanced differences for meaning for different words that we use. And it's no different here with this passage. And so Here's Psalm 100 translating the same Hebrew words, but using some nuanced alternatives, okay? Psalm 100 beginning with the title. And it's it's helpful to you. You might want to read along in your English translation you have and just kind of see. where the nuances are falling. A Psalm for a Sacrifice of Thanksgiving is the title. And verse one. Raise a war cry to Yahweh all the earth. Verse 2, Serve Yahweh with jubilation. Come before the face of him with exaltation. Verse 3. Know that Yahweh is God. It is he who made us and not we who made ourselves. We are in paternal relationship with him. We are the flock of his feeding. Verse 4, Enter his gates with a song of thanksgiving, and his homestead with a community sacrifice of praise. Confess to him and praise his name with thanks. Verse five, For Yahweh is good. His love endures for eternity. His covenant faithfulness continues from generation to generation. Now once again with some injected commentary. A psalm for a sacrifice of thanksgiving. Have you ever considered the sacrificial aspect of our giving God thanks? Raise a war cry to Yahweh, all the earth. A war cry. Because he is king, after all. Serve Yahweh with jubilation. Worship him by serving him. Come before the face of him with exaltation. Oh, how personal to come before the face! Of Yahweh. Know that Yahweh is God. And what are we to know of Him? It is He who made us, and not we who made ourselves. As all the surrounding Psalms have said, He is transcendent. We are in paternal relationship with him. In other words, we are Yahweh's people. We are within Yahweh's clan. We are part of Yahweh's family. We are the flock of his feeding. God is imminent. Enter his gates with the song of thanksgiving and his homestead with a community sacrifice of praise. Come inside his very dwelling place, not afraid, but with joy, thanks, praise. Confess to him and praise his name with thanks. And we know his name. Yahweh. For Yahweh is good. How good? His love endures for eternity. Now eternity can seem like such an abstract concept, like the mathematical term infinity. But then this very same thing is repeated in personal terms. His covenant faithfulness continues from generation to generation. Not just any kind of love. But covenant faithfulness. We are in covenant with Yahweh, bound to him in a personal way, from generation of loved ones to generation of loved ones. Oh, that's a king I want to serve. I will gladly raise a war cry for this ruler. How about you? Verse 1 invites us to shout for joy, all of us, everyone. You see the end of the verse? Right? Verse 1 says, All the earth is invited to shout for joy. Not just the Israelites, the Gentiles too, the entire earth, all the nations. God has a passion as King of the universe for blessing the nations. Praise God, because that's almost all of us We're from the other nations. We're from the Gentile world, not Jews, most of us. Not the ancient Near Eastern people of the original twelve tribes. Now who is the king the whole earth is to shout for? It's Jesus, of course. Let's keep this in mind as we continue that this psalm is about our Lord and Redeemer, Jesus Christ. Verse 2 commands us to worship. We are to worship by serving God. How do we do this? We obey him. This is the God who is king, after all, and judge, after all. But notice that we are to do this with gladness. How can we do this with gladness? We can hardly do it at all, much less with gladness. We do not worship as we should, serve and obey as we should We stand before the judgment of our king and must admit we are guilty. Where is the gladness in that? But I remind you, this psalm is about Jesus. He is our Lord to be properly worshiped. And he is our Redeemer and Savior who has accomplished this worship for us. So we now can, with absolute gladness, come before him face to face Jesus did this for us. Doesn't it make you want to sing joyful songs? Verse 3 is not only the middle verse of Psalm 100, but it stands at the center of what this psalm is all about and what it's communicating to us. First, know that God is creator. We've already talked about it. Now he's bigger than us. By a long shot, he's bigger than us. By a long, long, long shot of the longest source of long shots. He made us. We are but mere creatures. But he has also told us his personal covenant name. He is Yahweh. He calls us His He scoops us up in his arms and he says, Mine He loves us. He cares for us. Protects us. As our good shepherd. Who is the Good Shepherd? What is the human name that we call out when addressing the incarnate Good Shepherd? Jesus of Nazareth. We are his. And so we can enter his gates. We have access to his holy presence, his temple, his dwelling place. Thank you, Jesus. We enter his courts. The courtyard of our righteous, everlasting judge. And so we praise his name, as it says in verse 4. We praise you, God! We thank you and praise you, Yahweh, because Yahweh, we praise you because you are good. God has proven himself over and over again to be good, to be a loving and faithful Father, never more so than in the person and work of the Son, Jesus Christ. And so we know his character. We know that he has been, is, and will be good, loving, and faithful forever, through all generations. In Psalm 100, it becomes clear as we examine the passage that through these words we are addressing Christ. As our covenant Lord, it is Christ we are praising, worshiping, serving, thanking. He is creator, king, and judge. And it also becomes clear as we examine this passage that in Psalm 100, Christ is voicing the song for us. For all of us, corporately. He leads the shouts. He has shown the way to serving God, to worshiping as we should We can enter Yahweh's personal place and stand before the very face of God because Jesus has gone before us. And prepared the place, interceding for us, by the power of his blood shed for us Christ has made for us the trespass offering and the sin offering for our atonement. Christ has made the grain offering and the burnt offering, expressing devotion and complete surrender to God on our behalf. And Christ has made the peace offering, the thanksgiving offering that this psalm calls us to. He has done this for us because we have grossly failed to do it for ourselves. We have been too obstinate. God has welcomed us into his home. But we stubbornly refuse to worship, praise, serve, and obey as he calls us to. He is not some small tribal deity. He is the God of all. He is clearly the one in charge. But we too often tend to fight him. Convinced perhaps that we know better than he does. If only God understood better. Maybe he once knew, as he walked the earth as Jesus, what it was like to be me, but that was a long time ago. I mean, 2,000 years, even for God, that must be like half a lifetime, right? In other words, if we're honest with ourselves, we have to admit we tell Yahweh. Our personal loving father, I can't wait until I move out. Then I can do whatever I want And God has every right as the one ruling over us to say, fine, you're on your own But instead he says to the Christian, you're under my roof, and you're part of my family, and I love you. And I care for you. And I will discipline you because that's what's best for you. But I won't let go of you. I've adopted you. And so now I look at you as I look at my eternal and perfect Son. You are a co-heir with him. What is his is also yours. Because this son of mine has done what it takes to make this so. He is righteous as an heir of God should be, and he has shared this righteousness with you. He lived a human life, living by my rules. And now, therefore, you are set free to do the same. Set free of your shame. Set free of your guilt. Set free of your absolute inability when relying on your own strength. By the power of my spirit, God says. You are set free to serve, to shout, to sacrifice, to sing, because you are my sheep and I am your shepherd, you are my people, and I am your God. Whom you may call Yahweh. See Psalm 100 is a hymn for everyone. Everyone who believes in the one true God, anyway. Psalm 100 is a hymn, and hymns are for when the times are good, when all is well, when we're leading the charmed life. Christians, regardless of your life-specific circumstances, I need to remind you, today's cares and concerns, your worries are temporary. There are struggles. You will get no argument from me. I do not disagree. You have struggles. I have struggles. We all have struggles But we know the day is coming. We know that day is coming. We have our afflictions of the moment to remind us that he is coming. Jesus is coming back. Our king is coming back to righteously rule over his kingdom. Our judge is coming back to set all things to the way he always intended them to be. With no more tears or mourning, no more loss or loneliness, no more sorrow or suffering, no more crying or pain, no more doubt or death, no more fear or shame, no more No more. Jesus, our righteous representative, is coming back He has never failed to keep his word, and he has given his word that he is coming and back. So while we right now have the privilege of sharing in Christ's sufferings, we will soon enough in God's perfect timing in accordance with His perfect eternal plan, we will embrace more than just the gist of let the good times roll We will celebrate. And we can now celebrate God's work of creation and his work of redemption. Psalm 100 has invited us to praise God. It has given us some of the reasons that God is praiseworthy. And thus it has affirmed our faith, leading us to give God more and more praise. Again and again and again. Do you not yet know this mountaintop experience? Maybe you've pretended to have gotten there in the past, but are fearful now of coming clean, terrified of what would others think if you admitted that you'd been faking for so long. Is the idea, even the mere idea, of having captured a mood of swelling love and confidence in God, something that has escaped you until now. Have you perhaps said negative things about God in the past? Horrible, dishonoring things, and so now you believe that you deserve to live in the valleys, the deep, dark valleys. Valleys in which you feel yourself moving from moment to moment in isolated agony. Hardly even surprised anymore at the unpleasantness of time's passage. Maybe you even stand guilty of having beaten to death your own nine-year-old child Or some other episode of your past that in your heart is just as great an atrocity Please hear me. Are you listening? Even when this sort of situation, any of those situations I just described, even when that situation is your situation. Psalm 100 speaks to you. This glorious hymn is for you. I am telling you, yes it is. In heart-changing ways, even. Has it begun to change your heart today? Has God's Holy Spirit moved you to a place when just suddenly you seem to know, just simply know, that Jesus Christ has died for you That God the Father, God, whom his people can call by his personal covenant name Yahweh, has called you to himself. Are you almost suddenly feeling surrendered to self, realizing for perhaps the very first time, or at least in a new way, that you are not your own God? You realize you did not create yourself, that someone else did that. And understanding now that this is someone is Yahweh. And that he is your God. He has always been God, but now miraculously you know him and you yearn to know him even better. If this is you, then welcome, brother. Welcome to God's Covenant family. Welcome, sister. Welcome to the ones whom Yahweh calls my people. If this is you, come find me after the service and we will embrace in the embrace of Christian love. Now that embrace can be a hug. It could be a clasp of hands as in a handshake if that makes you feel more comfortable. But don't keep this to yourself. Let me and the others celebrate with you. Celebrate with a shout! A war cry of joy to the Lord, our King, our judge Our Christ, let's pray. Father, thank you for the encouraging words that you have given to us in Psalm 100. We ask that you would Move through your Holy Spirit to have it penetrate our hearts so that we would experience the joy and gladness that comes with knowing you, with accepting who we are when washed clean by your Son's blood. Help us to sing, to shout, to rejoice, to delight, to honor you, to trust you, to bless you, and to be a blessing to others. Help us to do this with both our head and our heart and our actions. Thank you, God. In the name of Jesus Christ, our one and only hope for salvation, we pray. Amen. And thus concludes part two of the two-part Know That Yahweh is God message Based on Psalm 100. I hope that uh it was helpful to you in in in some way. Want to thank you for listening to the show. Uh as I mentioned at the start of today's show and at the end of last week's show were Hopeful that we'll actually have a typical panel discussion type of program for you on the Faith Debate next week. Uh thank you for uh indulging these last uh number of weeks as we've had special editions as uh we've listened to uh a series of messages now that I've had opportunity to share in the uh area over the last uh year, year or year plus maybe. Uh these last month or so of shows. Anyway, what have I been reading lately? Well that's not not so much reading as referring to where to find it in the Bible, the ultimate A to Z Resource, an interesting uh little book by Ken Anderson. And for those who are interested, uh happy birthday to me, a little belated just a few days ago. I thought I wished myself an early happy birthday last week, but I didn't, so I waited until this week to wish myself a happy birthday. I'm not sure what that says about me, but I'm wishing myself a happy birthday. Anyway, thanks to our sponsor. Put my thumb in heating. Help me make you smile. Thank you for listening. Check us out online. Wfmd. com Keyword Faith. We're also on Facebook, the WFMD Facebook page. Till next week. God bless.