Good morning. Welcome to the Faith Debate. Wow, I have like no ha volume on my headphones at all today. That happens every once in a while. I don't know why that is. That's a little bit better. It's always disconcerting when you're talking and you can't hear yourself. This is the face debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Thanks so much for spending part of your day with us. We're going to be talking about yoga. Doreen Virtue, do you know that name? Doreen Virtue says there's no such thing as Christian yoga. Yoga, she writes, is pagan idolatry. Every pose in the Yoga Sun Salutation series is bowing to different pagan deities. Yoga doesn't glorify God and it breaks the first and second commandments. There's no way to scrub yoga clean and make it Christian Holy yoga is an oxymoron or an oxymoron if you talk to certain people I know. Anyway, uh wanna thank you all for putting up with uh my nonsense every week on this show for twenty years if you can believe it. And If you're watching the streams then you know that a uh relative rarity has happened, we were recording last week, and we're recording again this week I think it's only happened a few times in the twenty-year history of this show that we've recorded on back-to-back weeks. I think the record of we might have re we've recorded at least three weeks in a row. Can't remember if we've ever done four. So we're not setting a record, but we're we're dangerously close to setting new precedence here in the faith debate. I'm Feroy Skinner joined this week by Imran Raz Razvi, you can find him online at conqueredbylove. org. He co-pastors a church with his son Daniel. Daniel Razvy also on The panel again this week. Their church is called the House that meets at Imran's or Imran's house maybe. I think the houses are all different sizes, but David Fore Street he he pastors in houses that have the exact same square footage every week. So at least something is consistent. Yeah, well it's yeah, it's it's it's one church, but they decided to s share the load and and they they it's like a rotisserie league and they they uh go around to different locations week after week and that's kind of cool. And I'm the pastor of a church called Household of Faith in Christ online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. So I don't know if I mentioned Dorian Virtue, she was a big time new age guru type of person, very successful, made her mark in that world, was invited like a big conference speaker, uh, made a lot of money selling new agey things and books and things like that. And then about five, six years ago, something like that, she uh she always kind of thought of herself as kind of a Christian and then somehow somewhere along the line she got challenged to actually read the Bible and she read the Bible and she realized, Holy cow, I I I'm not a Christian, not the way I'm living my life and There are some truth claims made in this here book that I'm going to have to grapple with. And she converted and she's now a Christian and she is one of the most prominent voices against all things new age. that you're gonna find on the internet these days. Holy cow. And it's it's a new age Hinduism. Holy cow. I grew up in a Chicago Cubs fan and Harry Carey was their announcer for a long time and he was he said holy cow in the uh broadcast all the time. So it's become part of my Midwestern vernacular, right? Part of my culture. And that's one of the things we'll be talking about that a lot of New Age stuff is so pervasive in our culture. we don't even realize where it is. We were ch chatting before the the recording here and we noticed that even in this studio, which is not our studio, we're borrowing it uh from from uh you know to record the show and we spend one hour every month or so here or a couple hours every month to record. There's a whole bunch of New Age stuff just here in the studio. The various different artifacts and and uh uh you know, pagan uh symbols all throughout the the the studio sitting here and not not put by us, but uh it's it's interesting and I I wonder there n may not be very many people even at the station that understand or or know about it. Yeah, and and to be honest, I mean, how many times have I come in and out of the studio and it's I mean I notice it but I don't notice it. It's just part of the background, part of the environment. But now that I'm you're mentioning it, I was like, wow yeah, there's there's a there's like a crystal thing over in the corner and there's some candles over here and there's like this Ouija board that they turned into a Luigi board for Mario Brothers. And uh what is this thing here called again? It's a Zen garden. A Zen garden? Yes. And and and other things too, I'm sure, that I don't even hit the incense. Incense? Yeah. It's crazy. So but we're not talking about all of that right now. We're talking about yoga. Right? Yoga, according to what um Doreen Virtue tells me, the the word yoga, she says, means yoke, uh meaning bound together with the Hindu creator god. I've also heard though that it translates as union. of the idea of the of being yoked in union with the infinite Brahman, uh uh Hindu concept. Um And you wanted to talk about the poses, you wanted to talk about some of the things that people in yoga say and that they're bad and last time we were on, David said, Well Might not all be bad, so I'll be curious, but I want to hear what your concerns are first. Well it's interesting in in in law school one of the cases that we had to argue for like mock trial, it was really an appeals uh process. um was a yoga case where some group group of Christian parents were arguing that their kids should not be uh made to do yoga in the public school, they're saying this is a religion and it's not our religion. And it it was a very interesting court case and they presented a lot of evidence showing that, you know, yoga is inherently religious. It cannot be separated from religious a nature and the court ultimately found in that case a few years ago that uh there were w yes, yoga is religious, but there were ways to sanitize it or maybe not call the poses the same things or whatever and and maybe it wouldn't be religious. And of course, as we know, when a court says something it's definitely the gospel truth these days, right? Uh but so that in that in that case they just have the final say on it. But as a Christian, like what should you w should you take that for for what it is? And you're saying Leave it alone. If you're Christian, don't touch it. Stay away. Yes. It's bad. It's evil. Right? You're inviting demonic activity into your life. I would say that. Because you've said things like that. before. And just David Forcy now, do you think that Daniel Razby takes things too far? Do you think that, you know Okay, so he so he doesn't like to be made as true. I used to be very flexible. His hammies are a little tight. Well I I so I just I wonder where uh like where you would draw the line um right when it when it comes to you know what uh what what what So things, you know, in yoga are associated with um with religious practice. Yes. Right. And uh you know in large part that's That's where it was, you know, what what it was all birthed out of uh, you know, is is a particular religion worship practice. Right. Uh so I I guess my my question is where um You know, is it where where do where do you draw the line between I I assume you would say exercise is okay, maybe even good. Probably stressing also so and and and the question might come up, you know, if you if you watch a video of somebody doing a whole bunch of yoga poses y or to see some pictures of different yoga poses, you might realize that some of them look like fairly standard stretches that are taught to athletes you know, uh independent uh um but was trying to reconnect the uh Uh the stream there. Yeah, I mean independent of anybody listen to the podcast or the radio, we also do a video stream and uh Daniel's got eagle eyes for noticing when there's a problem with the video stream and so he was So there are some some stretches that are taught and and they're really independently from any religious nature. People just found that this particular stretch libers you up for whatever activity you're about to be doing. And I don't know that just because there's could be a resemblance between XYZ stretch in gymnastics or in in track and field um and then some other yoga pose that looks like that. I don't think that's an issue necessarily. The part the the issue with yoga is not only are there poses, but there And the the idea as as the practitioners teach, the you know the more religious ones, not the so-called Christian ones, but the the religious practitioners of yoga will say That if you do the poses in a certain order it opens up your spirit to uh be, you know, one with w whatever you know the the the the universe and and and so on and and opening up your your mind and and body it be by a certain order of stretches and I think that is really the the issue. That's what makes it yoga. You know doing a s a a a stretch, you know, somebody might say, Oh, I'm doing the downward dog, and Jamastics they might call it the cat stretch 'cause it kinda looks like a cat too. Just just going into a stretch for an exercise purpose independent of a whole bunch of specific order, I think that that's that's a different thing. So is it what would you say about the idea of uh of doing those stretches in in that order uh and You know mm you know, medi while meditating on God, his goodness. Well you should always be meditating on God and his goodness. Okay. Um and so but I I wouldn't recommend doing D doing the the stretches that are in in order that are supposed to be opening your your mind and and spirit up to Uh satanic type things, demonic. Now you guys seem to know a little more about this than I do, so I don't know if you know the answer. I want to ask a question that people who know about this might know the answer to, and we'll see if you do. Is there a physiological reason to do the stretches in that particular order, or is it merely the spiritual teachings of the sun salutation series that yoga adherents do? You you know what I'm saying? Like is there a benefit to doing one stretch immediately followed by yet uh another stretch, immediately by yet another stretch, and have those three be in that particular order would be There'd be less physical advantage to doing them out of order. I don't I don't know. I th I think that you you might find some practitioners that would say there is some physical advantage. And they'd certainly be incentivized to do so if they're trying to mass market to to the public uh who may not want to be involved in new wage remote. Like I said, innocently my guess is to be honest, is no. I I wouldn't think it would matter, but Maybe somebody who knows about how the body works. My guess is that it it probably is a lot of the time. You think? Because I I you know, I I think that it progresses in you know, it's sort sort of like if you're gonna do some kind of any kind of exercise, you know, you're going to progress into you know, you're gonna start warm up warming up, right? Doing something that's easier and then moving to something that's harder and then lifting more weight and that sort of deal. So I I think I think at some level probably it is. But if I stretch my hamstrings uh let's say yoga says you first the first stretch is going to stretch your hamstrings. I'm just making that up and the next stretch is going to stretch your groin, and the next stretch is going to s you know stretch your deltoids. Well what if I decide to stretch my deltoids first and then my groin and then my hamstrings? Am I screwing anything? I I don't see how that would matter as long as I'm stretching all the major muscle groups I'm getting a good stretch in, aren't I? I don't know. Right. And and what do I know about these things? And there is n it's not just a stretching component. There is like like David said, there's a meditation component and Oh yeah, and and there yeah, all sorts of things. Namaste, I think, is another thing they say. Well let's go back to the Bible, right? That's always a good place to go. Oh. So I knew Imran was here for a reason. That was the reason. Imran's gonna take us back to the Bible. So you know are you gonna are you allowed to eat uh food that was sacrificed to idols? Right? Um in in those the temples and and and such. So I think it comes down to it's all open to us, but Is it going to disrupt other people's um walk with God? Is it going to make a difference? I you know, see uh on on ads all the time 'cause I'm a little bit overweight and I'm concerned, so I would you know, check out different exercises or different uh uh machines and stuff. Not that I'm gonna buy them on machines, I bought enough that never work because I don't work 'em so come with that. But they're good clothes hangers though. But uh you know, there's this uh new workout that's uh the chair workout. I don't know if you guys have heard of this, you know, for older men y you know you you're not gonna get into the leftist chair workout I just recently heard a little bit about that. So I said, hey that sounds interesting. I'm in my office, I'm doing stuff in mid twenty night and do a chair workout. So I said, okay I'll sign up the few bucks, I'll pay it. But the thing was it's a chair yoga And I stopped. I said, Nah, I'm not gonna do it. Hmm. Okay, this is because it's called yoga. It may have nothing to do with yoga, but because it's called yoga, I did not put it in the past. They might have done it just as a marketing thing, like Oh yoga that sells like hotcakes Right. So in my in my mind I'm I am not comfortable telling people or letting people know that I did chair yoga. Yeah. Because I think that is antiqual to the to the Christ's message and the Bible. Just like I wouldn't say, Yeah, I'd go and get the free food at this temple because it's free and and sacrifice his idols and I don't mind eating that. But I'm not gonna do that. Yeah, that's the voice of Imran Razvi. Um you're gonna hear in a second here either David or Daniel. I'll let you know which one when we get there to see which one's leading forward But I'm gonna share y that's kind of where I am with the whole question of, you know, would you eat food that's been dedicated to uh to idols and it at some point it becomes a a conscience issue. So I would agree with you, uh, Imran. Like it if it struggles if it if it really twinges my conscience, then I'm gonna maybe not be kind of and a and a testimony issue, right? Like it it depends on, you know, like we have to use wisdom and discernment and know what um what m what message we're communicating to other people Um i by the things that that we do, by the things that we participate in. So so it's kinda like i if that is your opinion on the yoga thing, if you're not really convinced that it's necessarily demonic, especially if you're not praying at you know to to the the the pagan gods and stuff while while you're doing it. Think of it, you know, maybe this way. If could you should you as a Christian walk around in public wearing a shirt that has no words on it, but it just has a picture of the rainbow. Probably not. I would say not. Even though we know as Christians that the rainbow is invented by God So once you have start having other messages that make it a little bit more more Under understanding. Well, you might be thinking that in your head, but everybody else that looks at your shirt is going to be thinking that you are proclaiming some other message, which is a very dark and evil message. the LGBT uh um dangerous d uh you know movement in in our society. So as a Christian I would not walk around in public with a rainbow shirt. Maybe I would with a shirt that had explanations. Say, see the God invented the rainbow. This is not a gay thing. This is a a God thing. Like if you had the message on there, that'd be one thing So with with uh yoga if you if you're gonna have some sort of explanation with it maybe. Um, I don't know. I uh it the more I've researched about yoga, the more it seems that yoga specifically does uh do i is all wrapped up in religion and the proponents of it claim to have had like spiritual experiences um which And many of the people that are high up in the movement have be become saved and they would now say that they were being possessed or controlled or affected by demons. during those times. And so I say that's that's something that I d I don't think it's worth a Christian trying to get involved in it. Because because they were uh opening themselves up to that I I agree with that. I think you know, if you only bow down to me, I'll give you this whole world Well, there's a lot of benefits to you. A lot of that's what people say, Well there's benefits. I'm gonna be healthier, I'm gonna be you know, d uh live longer on the well, yeah, if you're willing to bow down to the devil, he will give you longer life, he will give you the good health, he will give you wealth on this world and if you're only willing to bow down. So are you willing to bow down? So th that whole thing is I I just don't know that's worth it. If if this is a code to open the doors of hell and let a demon in. Yeah, you can spell out let's say you spell out hell and that and you spell it out H E L L and the door opens. Well it doesn't mean you can't you're prohibited from using the w the letters H E L L in a different Way, right? It's still the same forms. So you could do exercises and things and be healthy, but having to do it with yoga, it just It's skirting with the the the demonic. It's skirting with it and people get pulled in with it. And one of even even Christians that do yoga, as Christians have spiritual experiences and I would say those are demonic spiritual experiences, not from God. And I would say that you know if somebody is sinning uh uh it it's one or two or all three of different things are having an impact on their life. It's either some sort of spiritual attack, demon they're giving themselves over to the demonic Right? Or they're giving themselves over to the ways of the world, the ungodly world, influences from culture, those sorts of things. And or you're giving yourself over to your own sinful desires or lustful flesh, that sort of thing, right? So it's yourself, the world or or the evil spirits are it's it's one or all of those threes or a combination of of those. And so we've been focusing mostly on the spiritual, the demonic aspect of it, but I'm concerned, this is the pastoral concern Even if it's not demonic, 'cause I I can um hear somebody right now, you know, they're listening, they they've been doing yoga for years and I don't do it religious and whatever, and it's not demonic, blah blah blah. But if you're doing my understanding, again I'm not an expert on yoga, but if my understanding is correct, if you're doing yoga in the spirit of yoga, without the religious aspects of it, but just within the spirit of what yoga is supposed to help you do It's supposed to help you kind of center yourself, clear your mind so you can find yourself, right? It's a very a very self-focused kind of an exercise, right? Where you turn your thoughts inward. That's my understanding of what's supposed to happen. And that's not what Christians should be doing. That's not what anybody should be doing, but Christians should know better. Christians know that we're we're to be looking Godward right? And then he exposes who we really are and the path that we're to be on and that sort of thing. So the Even if you take away the demonic spiritual part, you're like, oh, okay, I don't even believe there's a devil for crying out loud, you guys are crazy. Well, do you believe there's a world? Do you believe there's a culture? Do you think society has negative influences on you? I mean, unless you're blind, you would have to agree with that. Is yoga maybe making you fall prone to that? And is it feeding your flesh this idea of, oh, I've I can be self sufficient. I don't need God. I don't need God's word. I don't need his truth I can find my own internal inward truth by doing these exercises that are very calming and peaceful. Look, meditation's good, but what are you meditating on? Are you meditating on the Word of God? Well that's what David was asking. So is it okay to do that while meditating on God's word? I don't know. I mean there's no But why call it yoga? And and also There's so much baggage with that word. Why wouldn't you what's the point of even using that word? Is there any biblical precedent for doing certain exercises or poses while worshiping God. I mean the Bible is very clear on a whole bunch of examples of how to worship God. And that's not given as one of them. So I I don't know. I I think is uh I think it I think it can make a difference, right, in our in helping us uh have a a right a right humble mindset before God. David, it looks like uh Imran Bible verse or something. So if not yoga, what are Pilates? Is that different? Is that also worshipping demons in eye? I don't know anything else if Pilates have some connection to Hinduism or Buddhism or some of those spiritual things. Possibly Yeah, I mean Daniel Daniel, you mentioned Tai Chi, right, which I I think is another eastern. Tai Chi is I think does it is a little more related than Pilates. Pilates I I think. Started more secular but y I I I d I haven't looked at the biggest thing. Well well in and here's here's the thing too, like I I think uh a lot of health fitness is born out of self worship, right? Like w even if the you know, the people who are coming up with it don't think that you know, they they don't have a God in mind. right to to worship, right, or a religious practice in mind. If they are they are they they can worship themselves and their own health and Oh, there are people that I mean go to the gym religiously. Right, right, yeah, exactly. Right yeah, you can get get rid of yoga. They're just so in love with it. Ooh, I think we stuck a cord. I there's there there's there's a couple um like like I see a couple things to avoid in all this. One is I I think that people need to Christians right particularly need to give consideration to what they're doing, to to why they're doing it, right? To um you know, what they're communicating by what they do. Right. And does it bring glory to God or to self? I mean that's that's the ultimate. If all you're doing is bringing glory to God then you I don't think you could put yoga in there. Well I I can I I can either give glory to God when I eat good food or I can give glory to myself when I eat good food. Right. So I I I I and that's that's sort of the other pitfall that I I see as something that we can fall into, which is to to to think that there's there's you know, that there are particular uh physical things or you know that are in in the material world that are somehow uh in and of themselves Like evil and wicked. I and you know, clearly there are there are sinful actions, right? That uh that that are not good. right, that that are wicked. Um but outside of that, right, just uh you know, in general. So so yeah, like uh I think the the religion of yoga is bad I think m maybe some of the some of the stretches and even in a you know, maybe some a lot of Christians also probably need to take time to uh be still and know that God is, right? Rather than and so and I and I think taking time to pause And I think there's you know it's a wisdom question. So if I had somebody in my congregation that was, you know, interested in taking a quote unquote yoga class, uh I'd have a conversation, share with them my concerns, the the pitfalls, the risks, whatever. And if their motivations were good and they had other reasons that seemed I I'm not sure exactly what those but I I'm not going to say it's a sin to participate in a yoga class, but it's a really strong wisdom kind of a thing. And I will say this I'm a yeah, well well we can pick up on next week's show. We got like a minute, minute and a half, so I'm gonna just kinda put a put a button on this one and we can continue. We're gonna be talking more about new age stuff next week anyway, so we'll have opportunity to talk about yoga and other things But I'm concerned about the churches. On their website they advertise they have their holy yoga, Christian yoga class on Thursdays kind of thing. I was like, You're a church Like are you going to have your your your Brahmin meditation studies on Friday nights? You're going to have, you know, some sort of pagan game night on Tuesday nights? Like why would you bring that kind of language and and and put the stamp of approval of the church on it You're you're sending a really bad kind of a signal there that makes me nervous that you're oh yoga and and people with their guard down and they don't recognize the seriousness of the wisdom question that's at issue here. There's There's a strong weighty wisdom issue that we gotta weigh. Does it make sense or not? And oh my church does yoga stuff all the time. It's you're not even gonna a as a as an individual Christian, you're not even gonna think to ask the question, maybe. So at least be forewarn there. That'll be the the last word on this week's show. I can see that the guys are looking at me, so they might have more to say in response to that. So we might talk more yoga next week. We'll be talking I think maybe some Reiki uh next week. Um ought to be fun Daniel's look at him. Look at him. Look at that face. He's ready to go. Daniel Razby. What's that? Is that yard work? What? Reiki Reiki. David Forrest, the always thinking agriculture. Uh Imron Razzi also on the show this week. I'm Troy Skinner. Thank you so much for listening. You can find the show online at WFMD. com, go to the Faith Debate page, or just go to Householdofaith in Christ dot com. You can connect to the Faith Debate and and everything else that we're involved with pretty much through their household of faith in Christ dot com. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com.