This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 9 30 WFMD. Online at WFMD. com, keyword faith. We thank our sponsors, Hilo AutoSale. online at hiloautosales. com and hire pros of Frederick. If you go to WFMD. com and you go to keyword faith and you find the drop-down menu of the on-air programs, you get to the Faith Debate page, there you'll find uh my bio, Dr. Jace Broadhurst's bio, uh Dr. Jace Broadhurst not. on the show this week but we'll be on again soon. I'm keeping my fingers crossed. Am I allowed to say that? Is that uh is that like a pagan ritual? I'm not sure. I'll have to look that up. Anyway, he's on sabbatical s but uh should be uh pre to uh record um some shows here uh real soon. Um and actually I've got some things lined up so I can't wait for him to actually get back in the saddle so we can uh do some of those things. Anyway, go to the Faith Ebay page and you'll find uh his information, my information, information about the show in general. uh information about shows that have just recently aired and things that are coming up in the very near future on the show. And you'll also find links to the podcast via the Audio Vault, the WFMD. com Audio Vault, and also on iTunes. And I'm told that it's helpful if you like things on iTunes. iTunes. Like not just if you like it, but you actually click on something that says you like it. So it's all new to me, but I hear it's important to do. So if you're listening on iTunes and you click the like button, much appreciated. We listened to a message that I shared in Poolsville uh at Toolsville Baptist Church not too long ago called You May Know That You Have Eternal Life and the audio quality wasn't the best it could have been because it was a YouTube video that was shot from uh from the cheap seats, uh from from in inside the pews and so you heard some ambient noise and ambient comments and wrestling a paper and I sound a little bit off mic to use a a radiolingo term. Um I've now secured a better audio version and because I don't have a panel and I gotta figure out what to do here to to buy myself some time on this show until Jace and and uh and the gaggle of characters can come on to to to en uh engage in some debate. They'll listen to a better audio version. So if you have struggles hearing this the this this message in the past, you're gonna hear it better this time. And uh sometimes it's better second time around. Have you ever read the same book twice, watch same movie twice or see the same TV show when it comes back on rerun? Sure you have. Alright? So we're we're in rerun season. It is the summer and that's a traditionally rerun season on TV anyway. So Uh we're going to pretend that we're in television and we're doing rerun season here on the uh Faith Debate program. So here we go. You may know that you have eternal life from 1 John chapter 5 verses 13 through 21. Sometimes you just know You know? You have a certainty in your gut. But more than this, you have ex Experience. You have been shown some things. You've learned some things. There are facts that back up what you believe. There's a cold hard truth, and you grasp it You have every reason to know, and so you know. You just know You really do know. And if you don't, well you should. You can. Or in the words of the Apostle John, you may. You may know. That you have eternal life, Christian. This is a major theme in One of John's New Testament letters, the book of the Bible that we refer to as First John, he wants you to know That you may know that you have eternal life as a follower of Jesus Christ. You may know this because as a Christ follower you do have eternal life. It is true, and so you may know this. John is so insistent on making this point that he uses the word no, K-N-O-W, nearly four dozen times in 1 John. This is one of the shorter books of the Bible. Only 105 verses in all. This means that on average, John uses the word no, on average, almost every two verses. That's a lot of knowing. And this pattern is even more prominent in the passage that we're looking at today, 1 John chapter 5. verses thirteen through twenty-one, which we will read together. So if you would grab your Bible and open it up to the end of 1 John. First John is uh part of the collection, first, second, and third John together. We're looking for 1 John toward the end of your Bible, the end in the New Testament. And you're looking forward to the end of this book, chapter five. And we're going to notice the word no popping up over and over again, seven times in these final nine verses of his letter. Beginning with verse 13. I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, so that you may know that you have eternal life. This is the confidence we have in approaching God. That if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. And if we know that he hears us, whatever we ask, we know that we have what we've asked of him. If you see any brother or sister commit a sin that does not lead to death, you should pray and God will give them life. I refer to those whose sin does not lead to death. There is a sin that leads to death. I'm not saying you should pray about that. All wrongdoing is sin, and there is a sin that does not lead to death. We know that anyone born of God does not continue to sin. The one who is born of God keeps them safe, and the evil one cannot harm them. We know that we are children of God, and that the whole world is under the control of the evil one. We know also that the Son of God has come and has given us understanding. So that we may know him who is true. And we are in him who is true by being in his Son, Jesus Christ. He is the true God and eternal life. Dear children, keep yourselves from IELTS. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we praise you. We glorify your name. We thank you for bringing about creation by your word. And saving us and all of your creation by your living word Jesus Christ. We ask that you would illuminate our minds by your Spirit this morning, that we would truly Grasp what it is you ask us, tell us, that we may know. Encourage those of us in Christ And call those who don't recognize their eternal standing before you to turn to Christ. by what we do and say here this morning. May everything we do here this morning be to your honor and glory. It's in Christ's name that we pray. Amen. The most recent time that I was here to preach, I mentioned that I wasn't sure how many sermons I have shared with you, and so I looked it up. Counting today, I have now shared God's word with you from this pulpit 20 times. The first time being January 2010. And I am on the schedule to preach a few more times in the coming months. And so doing the math. I preach here at PBC approximately, on average, about three times a year. for the past seven and a half years. And approximately a third of the sermons have drawn the gospel message from 1 John. In fact, the very first time I spoke here, it was 1 John that we tackled together. And six more 1 John sermons followed in a kind of an on-again, off-again pattern over the years. And as I reviewed my notes from all of these sermons, it occurred to me that I have covered with you all of 1 John, except for the ending. 1 John chapter 5, verses 13 through 21. So As you might imagine, I am very excited to finally finish my series on First John. Counting today has taken eight sermons spread out over nearly eight years, but we have finally gotten there. Anyway, as I review reviewed my notes on all of these uh first seven sermons, and as I reread 1 John for the umpteenth time. I found my mind wandering deep into my past. And it wasn't wandering because I was losing focus. It was wandering because I was actually gaining a clarity of focus. So let me tell you where my mind kept running off to, and then I will uh tell you why it went there. Approximately twenty-five years ago I proposed to my wife. And we work in the radio business together. And so I proposed live on the air. And here is what I said. A friend of mine in Illinois is getting married in a couple of months. He caught a few of his friends off guard with the announcement and he told me that one of his friends asked him how he knew that the woman he had just gotten engaged to was the woman he was meant to spend the rest of his life with. He said he used to ask the same question. How will I know when I found the right one? The one that's perfect for me. And he was told by someone else, you'll just know. So when his friend asked him that question, he answered, I just know. In the past, of course, he wasn't very satisfied with the answer. He wanted to know, what do you mean, I'll just know? How will I know? When will I know? What are the signs, the symptoms? But now he understands there are signs and symptoms and signals, but there are so many, and they're so strong that they're almost beyond, and actually are beyond the ability of the human mind to fully comprehend, at least on the plane that we use to communicate. It's the kind of thing that goes to the farthest reaches of our ability to comprehend, and we have such a fragile grasp on it, such a newness of feeling that we can't adequately describe Or explain to someone else what the whole thing is all about. And thus we get the answer. You just know. Well, I just know. I found that special someone. She's the most beautiful person I've ever known. The most beautiful person I could possibly know. She's absolutely gorgeous, but the depth of her beauty comes from inside. Her love, caring, kindness, and simple goodness are so genuine and so deep that at first you can't believe she's real. Attempts to compare her to others quickly fall flat because there's no person alive with a heart like hers. Generous thoughts permeate her entire being. She does more than just wish others well. She sacrifices a part of herself. To make those wishes come true. She's special, and she makes me feel special. I love her with everything I've got. And just when I think I couldn't possibly love her more. I do. I find more love, a deeper love than before. She's the one I'll spend the rest of my life loving and with her continue to find new levels of love. I've tried here to adequately explain my feelings and her worth, but no matter what words I find, they just don't do her or my feelings justice. Let me say again that I know she's the one because I just know I wish I could scream from all the rooftops in the world. How wonderful life is for me now. But no building is tall enough and my voice wouldn't carry far enough. But working in radio has its perks It allows me to effectively shout from all the rooftops at the same time. And it allows me, before all the world is my witness, to declare my love for the most incredible woman on the face of the earth. And to ask her, Dina Carol Casolino, to spend the rest of her life at my side, as my wife. And to allow me to stand at her side forever as her husband. I promise I will try to make you the happiest woman in the world for the rest of your life. And you can make me the happiest man in the world. By accepting this ring. Dina, will you marry me? She had to say yes, by the way. First she sort of laughed giddily and she expressed some surprise at me having ambushed her live on the air, but she she said yes. And then she quickly said that she had to urge to go throw up. True story. I take that as a good sign. Anyway, why did I share that proposal with you? Because I recall that feeling of knowing. I recall using the word know almost as much as John does in his letter to us. And the knowing is somewhat similar. Knowing that we are loved, knowing that there's someone who sacrifices for us, who is caring, kind, and good. And it's hard always to find the right words to express how this makes us feel, how this changes us for the better, how it impacts the world around us. As you can tell from my proposal to Dina, my wife presents me with a picture of Christ. Oh how I hope I do the same for her. If you're married, I hope that your spouse does this for you. Or that they did if they've passed on. And if you're not married, know that this is what you're looking for. You are looking for someone who you can grow with. As the two of you challenge and support one another to better represent Christ to each other and to the world around you So with this as our backdrop, let's dive into the text. 1 John chapter 5, verses 13 through 15. Say this. I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, so that you may know that you have eternal life. This is the confidence we have in approaching God. That if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. And if we know that he hears us, whatever we ask, we know that we have what we ask of him. Verse thirteen is the thesis statement for the entire letter. I want to underline it. John tells us, I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, so that You may know that you have eternal life. This is why he has written what he has written. He wants you to know, believers. That you don't believe in vain. You have eternal life. You are loved. As true believers, you don't merely acknowledge that Jesus existed or simply give assent to this idea that Jesus is the Christ. You believe in the name, it says, of the Son of God. There's power in the name, authority in the name, the authority of the Son of God, the Son of God. This is the one in whom you believe and trust and follow and depend. God has brought you to this place so that you may know that you have eternal life. This is the gift of our covenant-making God with His covenant people. This is not merely some Lovey dovey soft and squishy personalized experience with God. He does love you specifically, but as a particular member of his covenant people His Israel, his church, his bride, interestingly, like Dinah is and was mine. But with me and Dina, there's a one-on-one sort of thing going on. And that's it. For Christ His pride is the elect. The entire group comprises his covenant people. This is why the pronouns in verses 13 through 15 are corporate pronouns. They are plural pronouns, difficult to see in our English translations because of the way that English differs from Greek. When you see the word you in your English Bible in these three verses, what's really being said here is, in the original Greek, what it says is y'all Use guys. And in verse 18 through the end of the chapter, through the end of the book, everything is plural again. You'll notice there are the words we showing up Recurrently, along with us and other plural words. So, what does this mean for you? It means that as a Christian, you are part of this group. God has promised to be with this group forever. And this can give us confidence. In verses 14 and 15, we can see that we can actually approach God. Do we appreciate this enough? I would have to answer no. This is me in the studio again now. That's the uh first half of that message on first John chapter five, the last part of chapter five, the last part of the of the book. titled You May Know That You Have Eternal Life. I hope that you have uh enjoyed it and have found the first half edifying, and she'll be back again next week for the last half of the um of the of that sermon message. I mentioned that Jace Broadhurst is on sabbatical. Well that's one of the reasons you might have heard me reference uh in that message that I will be uh preaching uh with some uh lum or regularity over the the next little bit at Poolsville Baptist Church. uh helping to fill in while Jace is away. But Jace is uh planning to play hookie from his sabbatical. Uh and uh come and appear on the Faith Debate Show and have a panel discussion. Um and I've got some things lined up, but you know things change. I don't want to advance promote it too much. But if you want to kind of get a heads up of what might be coming up, go to the website WFMD. com keywordface takes you right to the Faith of Eight page. You can also hit the uh drop down menu on the homepage and get to the Face of Age page that way. And here you'll see uh what's coming up and things that have aired more recently. You'll also find links to podcasts of this show. So uh in the Audio bulk in on iTunes and if you listen to iTunes, I would ask you to like it on iTunes. I want to thank our sponsors, Hilo Auto Sales, online at hiloautosales. com and TirePros of Frederick. And I want to thank you for hanging in therefore we're coming up on if you can believe it thirteen years of the faith debate on News Radio nine thirty WFMD. It's really uh astounding, uh really kinda hard to believe and I'm I'm humbled that we've been allowed to do it this long. Um and I'll get in trouble if I mention specifics but the ratings are looking Pretty good too, so thank you for that. Until next week, one hundred and sixty seven and a half hours from now, God bless