This is the same. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 9 30 WFMD, brought to you by Hilo Auto Sales, online at hiloautosales. com and also Tire Pros of Frederick. Thank you for tuning in. We're on the same station every week at the same time, Sunday mornings nine o'clock till nine thirty, or just after the top of the hour, nine o'clock news until nine thirty. And you can visit us online at WFMD. com keyword faith. Last week we heard the first half of a message that you can hear the second half of last half of today. The reason is, well, we can't quite get our act together to pull together the panel. Doctor Jace Broadhurst is uh is out on sabbatical, making scheduling a little bit tough right now. And uh I'm just uh off of vacation myself, so we're we're We're kind of reconnecting the dots. Hopefully next week we'll have our regular panel discussion uh back in play. In the meantime though, we're gonna hear the the um uh what are we looking for here? The the last half of a message that's called a multitask. I'm talking to you and and watching moun uh levels and clicking on different things and shifting between different audio sources. Not the easiest thing in the world for me to have to figure out how to do, but I'm uh I'm I'm I'm getting there. Anyway, this is the last half of a message called You May Know That You Have Eternal Life based on uh first John chapter five verses thirteen through twenty one. God is a John's God He justly maintains his holiness. He righteously guards his honor. There is a sounding heretical for just a moment. Imagine God guarding his honor and holiness. Imagine then they guard dog. This great big awesome Rockeweiler car dog. Rockeweiler. Sharp teeth and powerful hunches and bite grips or jaws, penetrating clean to the eyes. The imagining is imposing, unpredictable. Gard dog. Hair standing up on his back. Now imagine approaching him. Go ahead. Reach out your hand. What are you waiting for? Walk right up, ignore the growl. Ignore the snarl, the bark, the fangs. Sure, the wrong ladder could rip off your arm, but you have another one? Do you really need both ones? Or these skins on surrounding your face? Do you really need all those planks of blood kept staking inside your body? Now, if you're not afraid of rock bottom the guard dogs? Then imagine imagine something that does scare the ease out of you. I think you get the idea, I think. It is appropriate to remember that God is not safe But he is good to paraphrase his voice. He is good to those who are his. And so his church can approach Hyna. And when we do, we get to know that he hears us And he grants us what we ask as his church. That's what John is saying. He keeps us safe because his church is made up of his children, and he gives his children understanding. Revealed in Christ to those who are themselves in Christ. What is this that we, the church, have been allowed to understand? If the church asks for anything according to his will, then God hears us. What is his will? God's will is that his church go and make disciples, that his church go forth and be fruitful and multiply. God's will is that we yield to his word, that we love one another. That we love our enemies even. That we announce the kingdom of heaven. This is God's will. And so when we evangelize for the chosen of God to respond to the call of God on their life, That we can know that God hears us. The church has to give them the keys to the kingdom, after all. As we learn in Matthew chapter 16, verse 19. And this applies in an important way to our individual prayer lives too. Again, John here is talking about corporate life. But it applies to our personal life too. Verses 16 and 17 are not addressed to the corporate church specifically. The pronouns are singular. If you and I as the church particularly are in mind here, and as a reminder, here's what those verses say. Verses 16 and 17. If you see any brother or sister, commit a sin that is now leading to death, you should pray and God will give you a mind. I refer to those whose sin does not lead to death. There is sin that leads to death. I am not saying that you should pray about that. All wrongdoing is sin, and there is sin that does not lead to death. Okay, so let's slow down This is one of the passages that befuddles by the readers. What is John meaning to say in this section? Pray for those who don't need it, but But don't pray for those who do need it. This can't be what he means. But it's how it's not puzzled over John Statement. First half of verse 16 seems to say, pray for the fellow Christian who sins in a not very serious manner, so light in the offense that it doesn't even lead to God. And the last half seems to say that someone is in danger of death. Don't worry about that. Is this what John means? Well it can't be, and the happy news is that is not what John means. He's not talking about physic levels of sin at all. And if murder is a bad sin and gossiping is a comparatively good sin. Now we're talking about. And we know this for sure from the context of the rest of the letter, and the context of the rest of the biblical canon for that matter. The way it's just been is death. All believers understand this. The Apostle Paul states it flatly in Romans chapter 6 verse 23. So there is no acceptable level of sin that does not yield death as its result. Wages are what we're paid. Death are things we pay. The wages of sin, death. Sin brings a debt and it must be paid. The sin must He paid for. Sin always results in death. So is there a typo in our Bibles here? Some sort of transcription error perhaps? Did John make a mistake? Rest assured there is no mistake here. John knew, and in part because of him, we know. The debt for sin has been paid in full by Jesus Christ for those who trust in him. This is the good news. So, while sin does result in death, when Jesus absores that penalty for his people, then sin does not result in death. We're done. God the Father's people, trusting that God's Son has rescued them. From the path of death. They are now led down the path that gives life by God's Holy Spirit through faith. When the church, that's us, When the church prays, we should pray that God's people be reminded of this truth. This is the point John is making here. As for the sin that deeds to death that we do not need to pray about, first let me say that It might be important to notice that God's word is not commanding us never to pray in these situations. What we read here is permission to focus on prayers that will bring God's people, God's chosen people into reconciliation with their Creator. Rather than focusing on those who stubbornly remain unrepentant, refusing to allow Jesus to pay their debts. And that sin is what leads to death because the very nature of the sin is to reject the life preserver, clinging instead to idols of their own making. And we can pray for these people. John is simply telling us he's not arguing that point right now. in this letter. He's focusing on the other point that we've been emphasizing this morning about knowing believers that you have eternal life. He's arguing for Christ's followers to maintain confidence that they really have what they They have what God has told them that they have in Christ. Remember the thesis statement? 1 John 5, verse 13, I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, so that You may know that you have eternal life. He wants you believers to know. We forget, and so he reminds us to remember. And he calls us to pray for those who comprise Christ's church. Be called back to this truth when they sub When they stay in it. When they when we seek life in someone or something other than God Himself. So allow me to remind you one more time. Brothers and sisters, we know him who is true. And this gives us confidence. Or at least it should give us confidence. We can have confidence in him far beyond the confidence that we can have in anyone or anything else. As we've already talked about when praying, God hears His church. He hears us. Compare this to my situation at home. Do you know how many times Dina has said to me, you don't listen to me? I listen, just sometimes don't hear her. You know, she's dropped these huge, painfully obvious hints about what she wanted me to buy her as a birthday gift or a Christmas present. And I failed about every single time to get her what she wanted, what she was asking for. It's hard to hear her when I'm not listening. God's not like that. He's not like that. Here's what he is like. You ever see movie Courageous? In that movie there's an opening scene of a parent pumping gas. And he gets distracted for a moment and during that moment of distractions and feet jumps into his truck and starts to drive off And this guy chases after he dies and grabs onto the truck and he's hanging on for dear life and the driver's swerving around trying to knock him off the truck. He starts punching the guy in the face, trying to make him let go. He won't let go. And the truck finally comes to a screeching crash and calls a banging. Thank goodness your lives are lost. It is a crazy scene. A crazy scene of crazy love. That guy really liked his truck. No. The father was willing to risk everything in that scene because his baby child was in the backseat of that truck. Because of his love for his child, he risked everything. This is the kind of heavenly father that we have. He holds his people in his protective embrace. He saved his people spiritually and ultimately physically too. As Satan tries to steal a drug. So God hears us. God Holds us. And God humbles us. It is humbling to truly know who God is. As Saul, also called Paul, on the Damascus Road in Acts chapter 9, when he comes to know Christ, understand that he is true, the truth. Paul is humble. He drops to the ground. He calls Jesus Lord. I remember years ago, when I was just getting started in the radio business, I had an opportunity to visit the studios of WLUP in Chicago. It is a legendary station in the business. The production facilities were dazzling. I was mesmerized. Felt kind of unworthy. that has stood inside this great heritage radio station, which had produced some of the most compelling, innovative radio programming of its generation. It was humbling. being in this nation. How much more humbly being in the Christ. Those of us in Christ, what do we know? What has God revealed to us? Look at first John chapter five, verses eighteen through twenty. We know that anyone born of God does not continue to sin. The one who is born of God keeps them safe, and the evil one cannot harm another. We know that we are children of God, and the whole world is under the control of the evil one. We know also that the Son of God has come and has given us understanding so that we may know him who is true. And we are in him who is true. By being in his son Jesus Christ, he is the true God and eternal life. This is what we know for sure. Yes, the world is a rotten place sometimes because it's under the influence of the evil one. And we know that sometimes we give in to the temptation of the flesh, of our broken human nature, and we sin. But we know, as those rescued by Christ, that we do not continue in sin. We don't wallow in our sin. It's not what defines us anymore because God keeps us safe We are his children, and to his children he gives understanding. And so the evil one can do us no ultimate harm. We are protected by being in the body of Christ. That is what is called the body of Christ, the bribe of Christ. Christ, who is the true and eternal God, giving us true eternal life. Real life. Christian life is real life. Except no substitute. Jesus Christ, the Son of God Most High, is the way, the truth, and the life. In and through him we know the way. We know. The truth. We know the life. We know. Our Creator is the real deal. Jesus Christ is the true God and eternal life. Except no substitute. As John writes in the final sentence of this letter, dear children, keep yourselves from idols. Accept no substitutes. And know that you who believe in the name of the Son of God, you may know. That you have eternal life Let's pray. Father, we thank you and praise you for your promises. We thank you and praise you for the confidence and the knowledge. that you keep your promises, that everything is fulfilled in and through Christ. We thank you for calling us those who are currently in a place of understanding our salvation in Christ, calling us by your Spirit to be in this place. And we pray for those who are still grappling with and wrestling with whether or not they are in this place that your spirit would actively and persistently call unto yourself So that they can know what it is to have you hold them, hear them, and hold them. Thank you, Lord, for your bride, for your church, for this gathering of your people. We come together to praise and worship you to lift up your name and in the name of your name. In the name of your Son, Jesus Christ. can be prayed. Amen. Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding To God our Savior, who alone is wise in glory and majesty, dominant and power, both now and forever. Amen. Well, there's the uh wrap up there with a little cameo from uh my good friend Carl Edema, uh Pastor Carl Edomah, one of the elders at Poolsville Baptist Church doing the the benediction there. Uh hope you enjoyed that. First John chapter five, the tail end of of that book of the Bible, you may know that you have. Eternal life. Uh we're gonna hopefully have a panel discussion for you real soon, maybe next week, with Dr. Jes Broadhurst And uh and a guest uh opining about something that's maybe in the news or something of interest from the Bible or religious comparative religious uh studies or things like that. We will have to see how all that uh comes together as we figure how to navigate the schedules. I mentioned earlier Jace Broadhurst on sabbatical right now, which makes it a little bit difficult. And me just uh on the on the getting back in the groove after having been out on vacation for a while. So we'll figure it out and I appreciate you hanging out with us and uh hanging in there with us and I hope that that uh message last week and this week uh was uh edifying and uh encouraging to you Want to thank our sponsors, Hilo AutoSales, online at HiloAutoSales. com. Entire pros of Frederick And sponsoring us all year. We appreciate that very much. Shout out to my uh good friend Bo. And I want to uh thank you for listening. Encourage you to listen uh online as well to the podcasts. They're all available there. Go to WFMD. com. Keyword Faith takes you to the Faith Debate page. You can go straight to the audio vote section of the website. as well. Uh on the Faith Debate page you're gonna find uh information about the show, bio about me and Jace and uh the line up of shows that have recently aired and ones that are coming up in the uh in the near uh future. And uh I guess that's about it. And that'll also link to the uh to the audio. And we're on iTunes. And if you listen to us on iTunes, give us a like. I'm told that that's something important to ask for. So say you like us on iTunes. Till next week, God bless