The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. How to Love Someone Who Cannot Love You Back. That's the title of one of the books that we'll be addressing thematically today on the Faith Debate. We've been spending the last few weeks and probably we've been spending a number of weeks in the future as well, talking about family matters, parenting, children, husband, wife, that sort of stuff Last week we talked about the kinds of things one should think about before they become an adoptive family. This week we're gonna try to focus more on, okay, now you're an adoptive family. What do you do? And we're doing that with Imron and Daniel Rasby. They are pastors of a house church in the northern end of Frederick County, and also they've had a ministry for years now called Conquered by Love. And their website is conquered by love. org. And some of the books that they have out, and you can check them out at their website and and see if any of these titles uh do anything for in addition to the one I already mentioned, there's caring for someone who has been abused. Uh trick a trigger journal, a workbook for caring for someone who has been abused. So some of their books have workbooks that go along with them. Uh Godly Discipline for Adoptive Children. Uh give them three years, allow them to healthy infant But they never had. We touched upon that actually uh last week a little bit. Um by the way, I don't know if I mentioned really what this is all about. This is the faith debate on nine thirty W FMD on the FM at ninety-nine point nine HD two and all around the world at www. wfmd. com. Um Thank you so much for spending part of your Sunday morning with us and we've gotten some nice notes from people recently and uh you know not that I'm gonna beg for those but they sure are appreciated so if you want to send me a nice note You can find all my contact information at household of faith in Christ dot com. But maybe even more importantly, if you want to send a note to the uh management of the radio station, let them know how much you appreciate Like you couldn't get through the week if you didn't have a faith debate radio show. That that would be appreciated too. Uh I I I don't know that I've ever really solicited that sort of thing before. I've been doing the show almost eighteen years. Maybe I should have been doing all along. We could have a whole st we could wallpaper the walls with all the fan mail. I'm sure we would get Um, so adoption. Last week we talked about, you know, should I, shouldn't I? Somebody just said, okay, I should. And now they've adopted. And now they're dealing with the realities. And it's parenting, so uh all the things we've talked about a few weeks back would apply. Right, make them feel you know, wanted and and needed and uh secure and all all of those things are still in place. But it's more complicated, I'm imagining, with an adoptive situation. Well well, as you mentioned last week, you're gonna have to unlearn a whole lot of things in order to start from scratch, right? So it's not like you're bringing somebody in who's seven years old or ten years old and that's gonna act like a ten year old that might already be in your home that you've had for ten years. So not only do they not have any foundation, they actually have negative years because you have to unlearn and and uh some of those behaviors and train from scratch. So it does take at least the three years of infanthood really n don Treat them like a baby is not not really the the the right phrase because it it brings to mind you know you're belittle in them or s or something, but really giving them that security. So my treat them as the focus of your life like you do with baby. My um uh mom gave the example of uh she was walking through the grocery store uh one time and and she saw this a two-year-old in somebody's cart and the two-year-olds kind of crying. Ki kind of kinda crying and and whiny like he was tired, um and you know, a little fussy. And uh the other people in the grocery store are kinda giving that mother a c you know, uh empathetic look. So, Oh, I'm so sorry you have to deal with that, you know, it's kinda hard to have a crying baby. And you know, then you have imagine now you have a parent walks in with their twelve year old who's kicking and screaming, I'm hungry, I'm hungry, you gotta feed me Everybody's giving that parent dirty looks. Oh, how dare you! You're a terrible parent. How do you let your twelve year old act like this? But if maybe the twelve year old was just adopted and has never had three square meals in his life, does not know for a certainty that he's gonna get dinner today. He really does not feel secure, he does not feel protected that he's g uh that he's gonna get i his his food for the day and so he has that emotional baggage, as you said, got baggage last week. So treat him like you would a baby. Make sure he knows and is is completely sure that he's definitely gonna get food. That's that's a maybe a silly example you might think, but it really happens more often than than And it'd be hard enough if they if the child simply didn't have um all the right things going on. But there's probably been a lot of bad things going on. You know, I I used to know a g a golf pro and he talked about how His best students are the ones that never picked up a club before. 'Cause it's so hard to unlearn bad habits. You know, if you don't have a horrible golf swing, he's gotta like somehow get them to break their swing so that he can start to teach them to swing from scratch. And it's probably a lot uh probably not all. I'm sure it's unfair to paint with a broad brush But I imagine in uh even if they had an idyllic childhood growing you know, and they're eight years old and everything's been they've been the best model parents ever, but if they're all of a sudden in an adoptive situation, that means something horrible's happened Yes. And so now they're dealing with they were the perfect childhood and now it's a horror show childhood, right? Like, oh my gosh. All of my security, the people who really wanted me and and made me feel loved and appreciated, they're gone. And so you so even if everything was idyllic, it's not idyllic now. Yeah, but even when saying that that is more of a fairy tale type of adoption where somebody's killed in a car accident or a plane accident They usually have extended family members that'll take them in and and they're okay. Most adoptive kids are coming from very abusive drug related situations. That's the majority of that. So it's very rare. It's more of the Disney type of coloring of hey these this k these kids, you know, the par lost their parents, it's not an accident, but they had a perfect child. That's n rare, really rare. The biggest thing is a wake up call. Well, the parents get a wake w wake up call because they don't feel loved. They don't feel appreciated. Hey look, I did all this. I took time off from work. I spent my hard earned money and I adopted you. I took you out of this terrible situation where you were being abused or s or d And I'm d giving this all for you and you're treating me this way? How dare you? That's the reaction we get m from most parents. So how do you how do you get past that? You gotta step back and remember what God did for us. God loved us while we were yet sinners. He pulled us out. He gave us a family. He gave us acceptance in Christ Jesus. He covered us with Jesus uh with Jesus' blood. He gave us all these things before we did anything to deserve that. It wasn't until after all that salvation is complete that we could even begin to understand what's happened to us and feel some kind of gratitude and maybe serve him in some tiny way before we pass away. Right. Yeah, the the newly adopted child has no capacity to love. You may feel some love, but that's more testing. That's more seeing how you'll react And it's not really love. It's it's more of a uh of of the child testing the waters and first it's gonna be a honeymoon s time period because they don't wanna be sent back. So they're gonna do everything you say for as a in a honeymoon time period for a little while. And then the honeymoon's gonna end. And then they're gonna test you. They're gonna push you. They're gonna do all sorts of nasty, terrible things trying to see if you really love them, if you really mean what you said the last few weeks. or months. And you're gonna find that the child has no capacity to love because they don't trust anybody. And even worse if it's been an abusive situation. Absolutely. Right. Absolutely. So just expect that they're not going to return any love or show any gratitude and still help them go through just like you would help a baby. You don't expect your baby to wake up when you you know the day after it's born, Oh mommy, I love you so much. Thank you for uh spending your nine months and and all that uh you know stress and morning sickness, you know, taking care of me. Like i in a typical situation, like not everybody agrees, but it's not unusual for uh particularly bible believing families to feel like you know a little swat on the tush is uh is appropriate on occasion. But if the child's coming out of an abusive situation maybe that's not the right way to go. So how could they associate that with a negative thing that that was very abusive and and evil. And so it is it that this is the hardest one for especially for Christians that we're where counseling is Oh well the Bible says uh uh you know this is the way godly way. So I have no argument that uh spanking can be a a very godly form of discipline. But we do caution that if if there has been any abuse and and in almost all cases for adopted children there has been some kind of abuse, then maybe that's actually counterproductive if it's specific. Now what what is biblical that's definitely commanded by scripture and I think without exception adoptive parents need to do as well is have consistent corrective discipline. Especially when there's a sin issue. I mean you need to be correcting that and disciplining. But there are other things you can do that don't involve uh physical uh punishment. Chastisement does not mean physical punishment. Chastisement means that they have to be corrected and the correct behavior has to be demonstrated and practiced and moved in that direction. I mean God God teaches us and chastises us and not always that's physical. I mean he gave uh uh Uh Job had boils for a while. That wasn't necessarily uh uh comfortable at all. But there's also things that are that are not physical, right? God might give us a financial difficulty or have us uh you know uh uh lose to lose something else or whatever. There's a lot of different things and stresses God can chastise with us with or allow to happen that don't involve physical um punishment. So there's Obviously we we with any sort of disciplines for adoptive children, you go back to the three steps we talked about. Training, make sure you train first, practice behavior. And then check on the emotional needs. This is gonna be the the first several years, you really not there's not a whole lot of punishment necessarily because they don't they haven't gotten those emotional needs met. But once that has happened and now there is an issues that still need to be uh dealt with, then have uh c uh punishment that fits the crime. We talked about this I think a couple of months ago w about jail in our society, that I I I I kinda feel like jail is not really a g a godly form of uh of punishment. You know, the punishment for sh the for the crime. If you steal something you repay. So restitution is, you know, a a very useful tool in in parenting and in punishment. You know, if you if you hurt somebody, then you need to make it up to that person. Or if you were not responsible with this toy, maybe you shouldn't have that toy for a while. There's a lot of things that you can do to fit whatever the behavior was. Even something that is outwardly or visibly a sin, let's say lying or stealing, right? That's a sin. It's not anything else. How would you correct that behavior? You could uh most people go to spanking. Hey, that's a sin, let's spank it out of them, let's spank the devil out of them, right? But this is not a case where you do that. Uh what we did with our children, if they lied then they would spend the day with us, meaning the day it cannot be out of our sight because we can't trust what they're gonna say. So we have to experience everything they're doing. Oh boy was that difficult. It's hard for us, but it's hard for them. They see everybody else playing or doing other things, but they gotta stay in the kitchen, they gotta stay right outside the bathroom to go to the bathroom. They they they have to stay with us for the entire day. That makes it very, very real for them That lying is not a good thing. We gotta be able to build trust that my parents have to be able to trust me so that this doesn't happen anymore. Uh Daniel, you have mentioned used the word about, you know, if you hurt someone you've got a I apologize, make it right, whatever. That raises the question. If you've got a twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen year old who's been in a abusive, difficult, maybe drug-infested kind of a situation They might be dangerous. So And there's a lot of if you can just Google, you could find lots of horror stories about d uh dangerous kids that came into the home and and there's there's problems that happened with that. Um, so that's a that's that's a legitimate. So if you have other kids in the house, you might want to really be thinking carefully about what age bracket you're gonna bring a child in, for example. Right. A four year old's probably not gonna be a physical threat but a fourteen year old could be. Yeah. Right, but would you leave a an infant alone in a room by themselves for three hours? You wouldn't. So why would you leave a fourteen year old that's an infant in your house alone for three hours? Yeah. I is this the way that most uh like an adoption agency or whoever helps people transition with it do they address these things the way you talk about it? No in fact we've trained many social workers and adoptive agencies on some of the concepts we have. And many of them said, This makes a lot of sense, but what's the central thing that that's holding all together? It's God. No, no, no. Except your faith you there's something else holding all together. No, no, it's God. No, I understand you believe in God, but uh tell me what's what's bringing this all together. So they don't get that. Unless they're saved, unless they have a relationship with God, they don't understand these are biblical principles. This is the reason we do this is because God loved us and he showed us how to do this. And many, many, many people adopt children thinking they're adopting a dog. The dog's gonna give them unconditional love. A child is not gonna do that. They're intelligent beings. They're not gonna do that. They don't trust you. But what if you adopt a an abused dog? Abused dog's not going to love you either. They're going to have bite you, they're going to snap at you because they're afraid. It's just a little bit longer with adopt the children because children are a little smarter than than animals are. So you're gonna have that problem. So you you don't ex adopt a child and expect them to love you and fawn all over you and thank you and and praise you for your great deed of adoption. They're gonna test you. And they're gonna when you think that everything's resolved and stuff, they're gonna test you again. And that's something that you're gonna aware when you're gonna do things. You know, God is long suffering, be long suffering That's the best picture. I mean we talked about that. The adoption is the picture of God's love for us. Just keep coming back to that place. That's the you have to have the right mindset in order to frame all of this that's going on in the home is what did what is god what did God do for me? Right? It's kinda like in in marriage. Oh I can't believe my wife's being this way. Look look I don't deserve that. Yeah, you don't deserve to be alive. You deserve to go to hell Okay. So same thing with adoption. Uh I w I don't deserve my my kids treating me this way I don't deserve it. No, you're right, you don't. You deserve to go to hell. and burn for all eternity because you're a sinner. So what did God do? Did he do that? No, he offered you and he pulled you out of that and gave you salvation. This is What we uh do uh reminds me of one of the great classic one of the many great classic lines from R. C. Sprawl, uh now dearly departed R. C. Sproul. Um he said in one of his uh teachings he says, be very, very careful about asking God for justice. You might Just get it. Exactly. That's scary. But it's true. I mean Jesus said, right? This is what we did. Right. God's only son. We killed him. That's the salvation. Th this is what w and and then we think, oh well how can my eight year old I adopted spit in my face like that? These sin issues are real regardless if you have a biblical worldview or not, so how you deal with it, it seems like the system probably be set. But they've got a lot of names for it and a lot of medicines for it. I was going to say it's probably just medicine on top of medicine. Absolutely. Right. And in ev in almost every case, most adoptive kids are medicated, and medicated heavily. And you have to get them off the medication with your doctor's help to make sure they don't have reactions and you have to solve the emotional needs that are that are that are the problems. And most of these medicated uh uh symptoms go away because the emotional needs are bad. Not in every case. There are there are cases that there's gonna be challenges and and things like that. But y there are you can solve a lot of these by meeting all the needs that God meets in us. That's what the world wants to do, they just medicate everything. Because and and parents do the same thing even without medicine for their two or three year old. Oh I don't feel like Or actually using medication you know for oh th they they need their child to take a nap at a particular time so they give them NyQuil. Yeah, yeah. And Troy, you know if you see see a man drowning, you can probably save him, right? But you see a man dying of sin, can you save him? Can you do anything to save that person? No, you can't. Only God can. So w uh whether they're birth children or adoptive children, all we can do is lay a foundation and expose them to the gospel and act like Christ in their lives, but only the Holy Spirit can save them. It doesn't matter if they're birth children or adoptive children. Yeah, the challenge uh you I I'm trying to look at this outside of my own worldview, which is is difficult, but it's a good exercise. They should all try to do this. That's a really difficult thing. Yeah, we try to get out of the outside of our own worldview and look at this and it sounds uh somebody who doesn't understand God and Jesus and the Bible sounds nuts. Like, wait a minute. You're saying don't put my crazed child on drugs to make them less crazed? I should spend three years like being uh you know taking off of work and treating them like they're ch Are you nuts? It sounds nuts, but doing the right thing right is is nutty. Right. Absolutely. I mean the do uh we wouldn't say that about a baby, right? Oh you had a baby. Okay, just leave him at home all day while you're at work. No, you can't do that, right? You go to jail for child abuse also. Um so it it's it's important to have that mindset that they are it is like a baby and so you have to be willing to give that commitment to the several years. Are there some um Like I don't know, pop culture is the right way to think about this, but are there some like pop culture type of uh resources or examples, like a a good movie or something about adoption that Not really. Not really. Hollywood does a really big disservice in most uh uh most what Hollyhood talks about adoption is, you know, either the idyllic, oh, the k kids died in a plane crash and and they're so grateful to have this wonderful home now, which isn't really ever the case. uh at least not from the start and and then the other side of it is oh well they in the movies the original family they go and find and oh this is such a wonderful family I can't believe I m I missed that before and and that's the news likes to show examples of oh see they can be connected uh you know after many uh decades. But there are there are maybe e examples where, you know, some something is can be a positive um relationship eventually, but I think Most of them movies and th things you read in the news and stuff about adoption really do a disservice and they don't give good examples of of how how it is real. Yeah, and even in Christian circles like uh Mark Schultz is a a relatively well known uh contemporary Christian uh songwriter and singer and uh he was adopted and he wrote a song about it and so he got some notoriety But even that, it's a very plastic, uh everything's kind of papered over. It's it it it just reinforces the is probably ninety-nine percent of the time a false idyllic view of what it should be like. And we go to the movies to feel good. Right. Right. So I don't blame Hollywood. I mean Mark Wahlberg did uh did a movie, Instant Family. It had a lot of good points in it. But again everything gets solved. In in real life they don't all get solved Real life you have problems forever. Real life you have children that adopt it and and grow up and there's always gonna have problems. And that's birth children too. Um but the problem of the son obviously went off and did did all so he always had problems. Eventually he got saved in the story. But there's there's always gonna be Yeah. There's another book in the movie Blind Side. And that again, that was good too, but then you hear all these things about how um uh Michael Orr says that that ruined his life or this whatever else. You know There's always gonna be side effects. So these movies are designed to make us feel good. And all I have to say is adoption. Yes, there'll be a lot of good moments But they're not not guaranteed. Is it worth it? Is it worth it? Yeah, is it worth it to have a baby? Same thing with adoption. There's there's always positive things So we're we've been talking a lot on other negative things and negative children. And we've known families that have had birth children that have the birth children have have been done really terrible things. And so it's not about adoption. It's about advanced. And it's a life change thing too. So like the husband and wife need to make sure that they're aware of their marital relationship too, because you bring a big change into the family. Same with a natural birth, by the way, but biological birth. Well yeah, the same thing. You're bringing a big change into the house, it could have effects across the board in ways you hadn't imagined. Right, and you have to maintain the emotional needs of the children that are already there. Because when you adopt the the adoptive children are gonna take all your time and your birth children that were already there before are gonna have that negative effect of lack of the emotional. Now suddenly the three or four year old is gonna act like an infant again, they're gonna feel insecure, they're gonna ask for all attention because the same thing when you bring adopted children in. Surprised I hadn't thought to ask you yet. Uh and we got a couple minutes left, so I'm not sure if you need a couple minutes to answer this. But what's the best way or what are some of the better ways to handle letting the child know they've been adopted? Like if they were adopted when they were so young that they wouldn't know. So you adopt a baby, you adopt a one year old, a two year old, they don't w they might not know that they were adopted. What's the best way to handle letting them know? Uh uh really by God's example, we're adopted into God's family. So as we minister, so let's say the baby and the baby has no idea and no and no no knowledge of being adopted. Well, as they learned God's story of what God did and we got adopted into God's family And then as you feel comfortable and they you feel that they're emotionally strong enough and usually it's a little bit later in time and when they feel secure, you know, you start asking questions about what do you feel about that? How do you think about that? And It's gonna be different for each child. But almost without fail whenever that happens and you usually see it happen with when they're adopted as infants. As soon as they find out they're adopted, that's like a it's like a midlife midlife crisis, but for a ten year old or a four year old And they go through all those emotional challenges again. Oh, well I I I they didn't want me. They didn't want me. I I was a bad uh thing. That's th th and so they go through So you are gonna go through that with your adoptive child when they learn that they are adopted. That's gonna happen Some of these same strategies will be in place for divorced situations too, right? Where the son or daughter doesn't it's their fault. They they got divorced but they didn't want me anymore. There's probably some of that that goes on. Some parents might be tempted to never tell their child. Do you think that's ever appropriate? I don't think it's necessary to tell the child. I mean they came into your family, that they're your child. What does it matter what their history was? I mean, when you're saved, your wife clean. What does it matter what your history was? Yeah. The only thing I think would be like medical information, right? Possibly. Not necessarily. When you as baby born, you don't really have any medical things before. It could be totally different, right? I mean I've I married a woman from the opposite side of the earth. I'm from Pakistan, she's from German descent from from America. Yet our children still have allergies. Who would have thought? Two totally different genetics and we got kids with allergies. So you don't know. You can't protect yourself. You can't insulate yourself from sin. We're in a sinful world and sin is here and it's breaking down the world. Yeah, well, this has all been informative, hopefully helpful for those that are uh you know thinking through these things, think through them with your spouse. Don't you know don't spring it, hey honey, we're adopting. I listened to a radio show and I got all sorts of information. Where ready to go now? Yeah, we do have a lot of resources in ConquerBylove. org. We are a nonprofit organization. We are you're welcome to uh ask us to speak at uh your church or your uh place wherever you want to have that. We do workshops. There's a lot of information and uh we're self-supporting. We don't have any church supporting us, but we just want to share the information and hopefully help you get into a better position and hopefully get your children unmedicated and and more secure with uh their family. And we'll have more information about raising families and that sort of stuff because they've got more materials on other issues we haven't even touched in the last several weeks. last month now talking about these things and hopefully it's been a blessing to you. Thank you, Imron. Thank you, Daniel. The Razbees, they've got a church, a house church in the north end of Frederick County I had a house church in the center of Frederick County. It's called Household of Faith in Christ. Their website that you should check out is conquered by love dot org. My website is Household of Faith in Christ dot com And of course the radio station's website is WMV. com. Give them a quick look too. We'll be back next week, 167. 5 hours from now. God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com, a service of Hotsupple heating and air conditioning.