Broadcasting for the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County. Where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. Brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating, how can we make you smile? We're online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith takes you right to the page where you'll find links to just about every major and even minor world religion tradition you can find out there links to podcasts of shows just like this one. In fact, if you wait a couple of days, you'll hear a podcast of this show exactly. You give it about forty-eight hours usually put it up there. And of course the Faith Debate blog, our blog is your blog. So email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com, send me good stuff because I'm gonna post whatever you send me. So if you get addicted to the faith debate uh iPod uh downloads There is a uh recovery program for that. Is there? Some people just can't stop. Can't get enough. Yeah. Yeah. You could listen to goodness, you could listen to uh can't see the math fast enough. And you you can three hundred and what, eighty-ish? Don't tell him that. I'm just you know, three hundred and eighty something podcast in a week. You know, pace yourself I know. Close to four hundred podcasts you can listen to in one week. That's right. That's astounding. It's just so good. Actually it would if you did that You still have some left over. We have probably uh what, five hundred hours worth of what is that stuff you give cats and they just can't get enough? It's it's like that. It's uh what's it called? Antifreeze. Cat's not it. That's awesome. Love that you said that. Wonder why your kids are not turning out so well Kids, don't try that at home. That's right, since we have a large No, that was a very unfunny joke. Don't even think about it. Seriously Seriously, don't even think about it. So Anyway, oh something new I forgot to mention by the way. Yeah. Um you know we do eighteen blog posting updates a day. Right. That's right. So in the past in the past that was just weekdays, eighteen blog post updates a week, Monday through Friday. But now It's seven days a week. You're supposed to take a Sabbath. I mean, I don't want to get distracted. We have the ability now. We didn't have it before. I have the ability where I can timestamp it so that I can load it in. But it won't actually release to the website. Kind of like you're collecting two days of mana on Saturday. Exactly. Yeah. You're a spiritual guy to use that analogy. You must be a preacher or something. He's Jonathan Sweitzer, the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, so in fact he is a preacher. Um, a y at least former youth pastor. I don't know. Are you still a youth pastor or just a former youth pastor? In my heart. Once a youth pastor, always a youth pastor. Shelley Aloy, she is the honorary chair of the youth prayer rally that's taking place uh soon, May 7th in Frederick. And uh she's joined this week by the regional coordinator for the National Day of Prayer, Carolyn Jackson Uh we've got family and friends in here as well, and a couple of youngsters, young whippersnappers, youngins, as uh they were referred to by Carolyn Jackson earlier via email to me. Uh Kyle Andrews and Daniel Dietrich And you had a thought at the end of last week's show about a book I think you were going to recommend, and we rudely ran out of time. So you want to share that now? Rudely ran out of time? Yeah. Uh I appreciate your apology for that. I'll uh uh show you what you could do to make restitution later on. I've been thinking about that. I'm sorry, but it's already covered by blood of Christ. So uh there's a book that I've been reading called uh Introduction to Old Testament Survey by Gleason Archer that grapples with why uh the Old Testament can be trusted as it is in uh some of the um scholarship that has tried to uh prove that the the Old Testament scriptures could not be trusted. It's in a phenomenal book. and uh digs into archaeology and all of the um uh arguments that have been used. It's just an excellent book. I highly recommend it. It sounded like it was intended to be a a textbook probably with a title like that. Is it a textbook? Yeah, so so I'm teaching a class on Old Testament survey uh through the Bible Institute of Frederick, which is a new institute here in Frederick that is working together with several churches and we're just getting up and running. There's two classes of the second class is a phenomenal class. It's just a two-day one-credit course on Ferguson And uh the why is it that that different people when they look at the events of Ferguson, even in the body of Christ, whether you're black or white, you look at it differently. Why is it that that event has exposed, even in the evangelical body of Christ, a major gap in division and We're going to be doing it right here in Frederick. I'm very excited about it. It's led by Dr. Pam Blake, who was on the curriculum development team for Duke University. And uh she's an African American and uh I just highly recommend it. So anyways, that's coming up March thirty first and April eleventh. Okay. Now the Uh textbooks might scare people away. So what level is it a master's level textbook, a college level textbook, or um that particular textbook is probably master's level. It's on the uh recommended list for uh the uh Old Testament survey class required. Okay, just so you don't you know get disappointed and feel like you're in over your head. That's I I encourage you young folk, do you read? Are you readers? Yeah. You better be readers, because you know what they say? Do you know what they say? Leaders are readers. No, actually they say readers are leaders. If you hope to be a leader, you gotta read. But I get to I I I I try to avoid people being set up to be like overwhelmed by what they're reading. So it sounds like if you're Yeah. A younger person or maybe a person who just hasn't done a lot of reading, I wouldn't grab a master's level textbook and start trying to dive in necessarily. Right. Yeah, man, Dr. Seuss and So we didn't have a chance to talk about like I thought we would in last week's show. So I want to uh before I run out of time to do this, um Kyle and Daniel, you guys are um Not just your average run-of-the-mill participants in this youth rally. You have some sort of leadership position or role in this, if I understand correctly. Is that right? Um yeah, to uh to a degree. Okay, so what is the what is it exactly you're responsible for doing? Um We're not really uh responsible, but we we uh Your mother's nodding over here, by the way, that you're not really responsible. Careful. Um don't give her fodder. Well as of right now, uh my family is uh taking a break from uh National Day of Prayer um because of personal issues in our family and uh Uh but last year I think yeah, I was the only youth uh representative for National Day of Prayer in the meetings and all that. So that was kind of uh interesting. And your role was they were bouncing things off you like to get the Luth youth perspective? Was that was you were kind of a poster child for all youth everywhere? Yeah. I mean it was kinda hard to get through since they were all adults, but um yeah, we're kinda dense that way. Yeah. Um It'll happen to you too, trust me. Um but yeah, that that was basically it. I didn't really have a uh uh major role. It was more when we were actually doing the uh The actual National Day of Prayer, uh I was kind of to called up to um say whatever needed to be said for like uh when we were doing kind of an MC yeah kind of role. Like the social media, make sure to follow us, stuff like that. Who needs Toastmasters? Exactly. That's scary. Yeah. I was kind of the leader of the youth. Hmm. And now what's your role this year? I'm not actually quite sure yet. I'm just gonna fill in where people need me. Um if they do the choir again I Servant leadership, right? Yeah, I'll just um I'll just kinda fill in fill in where they need to. I mean I'm not gonna I don't know. Okay. Well part of why I uh uh maybe Shelley's gonna have to speak to this. You're you're the honorary chair, so I don't know if that means you actually really do anything at all. Or if you're kind of like me in this radio show, I just show up and, you know, get lots of credit for things I had nothing to do with. Um so do you have actual uh a function or you're kind of like Just a really well known face that can bring attention to this? Uh what's the So an official honorary chair can do as much or as little as that person deems necessary. So for me, I'm more of a hands-on person, so I am very glad to represent this um National Day of Prayer in churches, in groups around the community. And in particular, um, calling people in the government to come and participate. Because uh National Day of Prayer has some specific things that we pray for, including the government, government leadership and that sort of thing. And so Um, having had a former role in that community, I want to call upon those folks to come and and participate and follow the young people. You know, Jonathan, you're you're good. The scripture, the young shall leave them. You come Isaiah. I I don't know the exact place of that scripture. Do you know it? So not to put him on the spot or anything. But but there is this amazing thing that happens when young people step up to the plate, you know, and and it doesn't matter how old they are, they can be Tiny tots or teenagers, but there's something that happens when they take that place of leadership that encourages all the rest of us. So what's the passage? I know it's Isaiah eleven, a little child shall lead them, is what you're thinking of. talked about um turning the hearts of the fathers to the children and the children to the fathers. There's this there's this other powerful thing that happens when we do that, when we join together. And so whatever role I can play in that, I'm glad to play. Remember in the old days of the David Letterman show back when he was on uh uh later at night than he is now and he had the man underneath the steps that would show up recurringly, right? Mm-hmm. Well, the man under these steps who just spoke, that was Chris Jackson who gave us uh Isaiah eleven. He never ceases to amaze me. The guy, he is just truly a walking concordance, right? Uh it's it's it's so I want to talk about the government part of of this. I mean th that's something that I think should probably be touched on. But I really want to talk uh I w I wanna go from the I was asking what the leadership part Because is part of your role here in leading in prayer, meaning to set an example in prayer, to encourage more prayer, to Cajole people into praying praying, to follow your mother's example and force people to pray. Uh, you know, what and Um if so, how equipped are you to do that? And if not, how equipped are you to do that? I think uh it's more the power of prayer, uh, you know. Um I I don't know if that's something I would uh I would be the one to do that, but I think uh you're asking like what's the National Day of Prayer like? what it's about, right? Well it well, whether you like it or not, you have just you're you're on a blowtorch radio station right now. Yeah. So people are gonna say, wow, you must know a lot about this prayer thing. You were on the radio So whether you like it or not, people might look to you like, okay, so what should I do here? Is that a responsibility, kind of a mantle you're willing to take on, or is that something like, Oh, I didn't realize the Columbus Radio Show was gonna bring all that No, I mean I can yeah, uh it's not I've learned from past experiences to just kinda go with it. Uh if someone like asked me to do something just randomly or or uh Uh you know, uh a good example if we have time is kind of a sort of long story, but um in Honduras we uh take a uh yearly uh not yearly, but it's for about fourteen days to uh Honduras. And um last year uh was a very uh challenging year. Um that's like a mission trip or something? Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's a week long missions trip. Uh your family goes, your church goes or my family is kind of the the leaders of it. Uh that's why where me and Daniel actually became I went. Yeah. Oh Daniel went too. That's why it wasn't as good last year. Yeah. Um last year should have come. Last year coming back, uh We uh the layover we started all off with the layover in the Honduran airport was an eight hour layover and uh about seven hours in there was this guy over at Intercom speaking Spanish which no one really understood except my friend 'cause he's fluent. And uh he told everyone that uh flight is canceled. So we uh were driven to this this really just incredibly nice hotel in this third world country which is so weird and it's really like sketchy getting there. Like there's this beautiful hotel and then there's like guys getting robbed right outside. It's like Vegas. Yeah, pretty much. Um but we were at this incredible five star hotel. Um anyway, we got back and uh Uh the uh airlines they uh messed up our tickets. So me and my mom uh were put on a different plane or we weren't put on that plane uh and we were taken off for my mom and I by the way. Yeah. Uh We got our I do to my daughter all the time, she doesn't like it. We were put on a separate plane, which is uh really weird 'cause we were literally the only people on the plane. Which was actually kinda scary. Um But wait a minute. They put you on separate planes but you are the only people on the plane? Literally the only people. You each got your own private plane No no no no no together on the same plane but only us two. Oh you're the only two people. So the two of you were on One plane. With no one else. Not even a pilot. No We drove the plane. Um anyway, we got home and uh My mom called uh my dad and um she said she was talking and uh apparently my dad they got delayed in Houston. Uh their plane, they missed the plane by five minutes I think. So they were they were stuck in Houston for the night. Um and then uh oh to back this up until I forgot this is a big part. So like that movie Home Alone. When we were uh when we were in the uh Honduran airport, my brother, he's looking through his luggage. And uh he like screams and just runs out of the room like what's wrong? And he's like, There's a tarantula in my suitcase And we're the thing is the tarantula would have gotten through security. But um anyway, I was nominated to look for it. Um, yeah, so it was really terrifying with the undercovers and stuff. But anyway, we got it uh back to where we were. Uh we got home the next day and we all regrouped. But The reason I was saying that is just back to going with the flow, you were asking uh uh are you gonna take the responsibility of uh, you know, people asking you this stuff because they think you're really smart? Um but yeah. Sure. That that that isn't necessarily have to do with being the guy that has great vision but just being the guy that's willing to step up and go for it. You and I are gonna give you some basic marketing advice. And you don't talk about missions trips and say how disastrous they are. But I just want to step in and say that Kyle really added, he was really an integral part of the planning committee And we were so happy to have him on. Um as adults, we didn't really think that we would have any youthful input until we laid the you know, foundation and presented uh the activity to them. And I just want to point up and I just want to thank Al for that. He has gifts that he does not realize he has yet. And we're so thankful and we were so blessed by having him. He was really uh a motivator and encourager to me. He just doesn't know how much. Good Kyle. Good Kyle. And I do want to point out he he brought up missions And I just want to uh share my missions experience in Haiti where I led a uh vacation Bible school. And it was something that hadn't been done before uh the children didn't realize that they were missing anything. But once you bring it to them and lay the foundation, all of a sudden you know, they see what's possible and all of a sudden it takes on a life of its own. And because of Kyle, we've got a second year of Any uh any tarantulas in your Haiti trips? Yes, we had plenty of tarantulas. Wow. How about that? Okay, so apparently it's a running theme. Be prepared for tarantulas if you go on a missions trip. Alright, so uh we didn't get a chance to get Daniel's uh response to the being equipped. Do you see that as part of your role? Uh helping others to pray and are you equipped to help others to pray? Well, i what do you what do you mean by equipped to pray? Do you pray, young man? Yes. Yes I do. Um and I wouldn't even say that there are people that are more equipped to pray. I mean, that's kind of like a I don't I don't know. Like is how does how is someone more equipped to pray? I mean God listens to us all. So being equipped to pray, but being equipped to maybe help or encourage or coach others to pray. Yeah, um I think kinda almost like what um what Kyle and John were saying, just being I'm just gonna be willing to to do whatever they need me to do if that means Um, I wanna be helping other people pray if that's what God wants me to do. Um, even if I'm not necessarily like good at that. Um I mean, if that's what God wants me to do, he'll give me grace to do it. It's There's you know, I I can I'll do what I can to prepare, um but I'm just gonna be willing to do whatever they need me to do, whether that's a prayer counselor or being in the choir or praying up on stage or writing an essay or whatever Whatever it might be, um, I'm just gonna try and be willing, uh willing to do what I need to do. So being using your communication or uh using your you know gifts God has given you and just not saying no Shelley Loy is leaning forward. I uh you know, I want to echo what Daniel just said. What he said was really powerful if we grab hold of it. There's there's something that happens when we take the step. We see the next step. And so so just by virtue of acting, taking action, then we're empowered to do more. And so what he said is really powerful. And that that goes for any kind of leadership. A person who's never led before, they take the first step. They're empowered to do more. And so I I just wanted to say, yeah. Absolutely, Daniel, yes. And God's given us all gifts um to use in different ways, whether it's it's for praying, um You just gotta be willing to say yes when God says to go. So I mean even for tonight, like I I thought I was gonna have a whole bunch of homework and stuff and I was just like, ah, I can't come to this radio thing even though as cool as it sounds, but then I was like Um who cares about it? No, no, no, no. No, so I understand. As cool as it sounds, as cool as it is. As cool as yeah. As cool as it is. So um but I feel like I was just saying um Uh, alright, Daniel, do this, go. So I was just like, All right. You know, not obviously physically like I didn't like hear a voice, but I just got the sense like you need you need to do this. You know, and that's really using as uh uh precedent for that. When David showed up, you know, uh w there with Goliath Uh at the end of the day he didn't he didn't know that he was prepared, right? He was just there and then all of a sudden he's like, Oh, you know what I've been practicing with that sling thing for years and I'm really good at it and I've beaten lions and bears, you know, and so he just saw it and he was in the moment sent there by his dad. you know, forced to go, you know, by his dad. And so I think that it's it's just the case that that leadership and destiny is something that we just kinda stumble into because there's been the preparation, we're just willing when the time comes. Let me ask um I I guess I'll start with Shelley first and we'll work our way around the room a little bit. Um what are your goals for May seventh? It's nine, ten o'clock at night. evening of and you're gonna feel like, you know, this was what we wanted to have happen, what just happened. Uh for me, what we've done is that we've lifted up the Lord and that we've prayed and that that we have um set a voice, we've set an atmosphere in the center of the city of Frederick. the county seat and we have changed the atmosphere by our participation together and by our our prayers So that that's that's what it looks like to me. How about you, Jenny? Um I think for me, um, just to affect a at least one person. I was in a a drama camp last week and um the direct it had a Christian theme in the um The director was saying, you know, if there could be you know, like three hundred people come to this play, if one person comes to Christ because of this play, then it's all it's all worth it, all the hours, all the energy, um, all the time. So I think that's just one thing that um through this um even if it's somebody just walking through Baker Park and sees something going on at the band shell and was like, you know, prayer, what's this? And then talks to somebody about it and they come to Christ. If it's one person No matter how many hours, um, you know, if that's one more person in the kingdom of God and it's worth it. You know, eventually like a bumper sticker or turn that into a cliche or something. I've never never heard that Just teasing. A good motivation. Okay. How about uh how about you, Kyle? What are you hoping will be the the outcome of all this? Um I kind of agree with Daniel, but also to show even uh Christians uh the power of prayer or to reinforce that uh that There really is no small prayer uh or anything too big. Um Yeah, I mean basically what Daniel said too to to g save that one soul. And well as the organizer ultimately of all of this stuff that's going on, uh Carolyn, Carolyn Jackson, uh what are you hoping? Yeah, you're going to be putting your head down on that pillow that night and you're gonna feel like yes We accomplished what we wanted. What happened? And that's to teach young people that. Yes, they pray and and minister with each other in their own individual uh youth groups that they can all come together and minister publicly and not be afraid and not be intimidated by it. And that the National Day of Prayer is just not one day for prayer. But that we build upon that focus throughout the year and come to realize that prayer is one of the most powerful weapons um in a Christian arsenal. Now is any of what's happening leading up to or on the day of uh designed to help people to pray more, to pray better, pray more fervently? to pray uh more biblically. Uh is that part of it? Is there a training aspect to this or not that's not really what this is about? It is that that is an aspect of it. Uh you can go on to the uh uh national uh website. uh there are chapters in each and every state. But the National Day of Prayer dot org has plenty of resources. Uh they have started initiatives I think a couple of years ago I helped orchestrate getting the prayer bus into Frederick, um we were at the um the stadium, Harry Grove Stadium, and the national director one of the national directors was driving a bus through about thirty something states and he was able to stop in Frederick and to show that Prayer is just not for that one day. And then there have been other resources that have been developed. Um there is an initiative where churches can start praying seven days before the National Day of Prayer. And then hopefully that they have a prayer Sunday where the church focuses on prayer leading up to the National Day of Prayer. And there have been some awesome events in Washington, DC. One of them, and I hope to bring that to Frederick is a Bible reading marathon. This uh couple, Terry Hall and his wife, have for twenty-five years led a National Day of Prayer, Bible Reading Marathon on the steps of Capitol Hill. And they have said that over the years, uh, the police department comes to them and say, Crime literally drops off And they have such amazing testimonies. They started reading out of one Bible. Now they read out of a hundred and thirty different languages. And he said they have been that many ethnic groups coming and reading from the Bible to keep the marathon going. You've got Navajo, Comanche, there's Jewish. They even had a harvest play Psalms. And he said the testimonies are so awesome. People get saved, people come and prostrate themselves on the Capitol Lawn. And there are just so many other things that are that are being done, you know, nationwide. They have had over forty thousand uh prayer events on the National Day of Prayer across the US Hm. Well if you guys are willing, I want to do uh one more uh episode of the Faith Debate with this panel if you guys are agreeable to that. Uh Jonathan Sweiss has nodded his head, so he's agreeable. He's always up for another show. He's a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. I'm Troy Skinner. Our sponsors Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Our guests this week have been Kyle Andrews, Daniel Dietrich, Shelly Aloy, and Carolyn Jackson. Shelley is the honorary chair of the Youth Prayer Rally, and Carolyn is the regional coordinator. for the National Day of Prayer here in Frederick taking place on May seventh. You can the easiest way if you want to find information online, put in National Day of Prayer, Frederick Into your search, just and search for it. It'll take you it it shows up right at the very top of it. It's easier to try and remember that long convoluted uh uh website address That Carolyn gave us earlier. Anyway. And I'll tell you what I'm reading next week. I'm out of time. Thanks for listening. Till one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from now. God bless.