Welcome to Faith Debate on News Radio nine thirty WFMD It's a pleasure to meet you today. Hiya Ben. I'm Troy Skinner, host of the Faith Debate and pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of Faith in Christ. com. joined this week by David Forcey, if you want to get in touch with him, you gotta get in touch with me because he doesn't have any sort of legitimate like significant anyway. It's not that he has illegitimate presence online, but he doesn't have any significant presence online. And uh he doesn't even have a like consistent location that he meets. they they kinda do a rotisserie league they they meet a different place every single week uh for his house church. Another house church in the area is um Shepherded by the Razvis, Imron, and Daniel, and uh they are online the at uh um conquered by love dot org I I I got past that mental block for a while, but i it it reared its ugly head again. Concord by love ministries online at Concordby Love dot org. I'm gonna pick up where we left off last week. Where was that? We were grappling with a an article written by a pastor who left the church and told us why he was departing. His name is Alexander Lang. He's with a what we would call a liberal denomination, the PC USA, the Presbyterian Church of the United States of America. They have been a far left theologically and of late it means far left politically as well for what that's worth uh for a long, long, long time now. And he wrote an article explaining why he was leaving and um Daniel uh Rasby did a a word search to see in this lengthy, lengthy article, it's almost seven pages that they printed it out. And how many times does the word God show up? Four times. Four times. Oh, in like one little section at the end. Okay. Talking about a poem. Not even that thing. All right. And so he he's not focused so much on God, which explains why he doesn't feel like he's ultimately as a pastor responsible to God. He's responsible to a whole bunch of people. In fact, anybody who walks through his door. So he was walking well we left off last week oh you wanted to say something. That was basically what you're about to say. There's seven skills. Yeah, yeah. There's seven things he says that pastors are expected to be able to do and we talked about a few of them last week and now we're picking up where we left off He says you have to be f a professional fundraiser. Mm, maybe. Yeah. Uh I'm gonna pause there for a second and say that you don't have to be and you shouldn't have to be. But practical realities make that the case in too many situations. I don't think that Uh people should expect that the pastor would be a fundraiser, but they have to understand then that he's going to be a tent maker And he's not gonna be available at the drop of a hat 'cause he's gonna have to earn a living making tents. You know, and he might not be able to respond exactly when you want him to, 'cause he's he's he's funding the ministry another way. Um but anyway Uh let me finish reading this and we can all participate in com conversation. Not only are you raising money for your own salary and whatever staff you might have working with you, but you're also raising money to maintain the building and help uh people who are struggling financially You're also expected to be a counselor for people who need help. Sometimes you act as a confidant. Other times you're helping people mediate conflicts and disputes In a church like mine, I'm also acting as a human resource director, multiply responsible for hiring and firing as well as creating a positive workplace culture. Beyond all of these day-to-day tasks, you serve as a master of ceremonies at baptisms, weddings, funerals. Which means you rarely get a break as these events often happen often happen on the weekends. Your thoughts? Uh well yeah, th I mean that that whole thing about you don't get breaks because it's twenty four seven That's that's kinda true. Pastors don't get arrests even if you're uh hold to a traditional Sabbath rest. A lot of pantomime pastors are not getting that Um so they have to find other other other places. Um you know, maybe if pastors weren't expected by our culture to be pr uh participating in in making the weddings happen, that would alleviate some pressure 'cause I think really it should be between the two fathers in the f uh family. doing the marrying. Um but that's a topic for another day. In general that part's okay, but I mean he's acting as HR director, CEO, fundraiser, all these titles which have nothing to do with God or the ministry. He's saying these are the things the pastor should be doing In a church of his size there would be a should be a number of other people in leadership. And he's alluded to that. He's saying, I'm hiring and firing people. So why aren't these people doing these other things? Fundraising and and and uh uh advertising and and and stuff. It sound it sounds like he's saying these are all the things that are typically expected of a pastor, right, or of the primary pastor. And I mean part of the part of the I think what that kind of reveals is that that people right, that means that uh that people in general just view the church as another kind of business. If that's what people in general are expecting the pastor to do and need to be, right, then and and so that's just that's already that's entirely upside down. That's the voice of David Forcey. Before that you heard the voice of Daniel Razi. The other voice you'll be hearing on today's show besides mine is Imran Razvi's. And the other thing that struck me is, you know, you gotta worry about maintaining the building and fundraising on financial concerns, but There's a prescription for that in Scripture. Who's supposed to handle that? The elder, the pastor, right? The the overseer, the bishop? Or the deacons. Yeah. So he's taking on responsibilities that aren't his. That's a problem. There's a there's a leadership model problem here that would have uh alleviated some of these pr these issues that he th he's arguing about or complaining about. I mean uh part of part of what seems to be a theme here is he's just He's uh he's leaving a church because it it didn't work. And I I think we could say, Okay, yeah, maybe it it didn't work. Sure, for the church it doesn't work because he's not operating within A a biblical model for the church. Amen. You're here. The next section is kind of continuation of this Part of things he's talking about, and then he's gonna move on to something else. But here's what he's finishing out his thoughts on this topic. People also look to the pastor as the keeper of the Bible and the guardian of orthodoxy. Meaning they depend on you to correctly interpret the Bible. Duh. I've I'm trying to keep a straight face. This one is actually really important because if your interpretation crosses a line into what others deem heretical, you risk members of the church questioning your authority. Finally, you're expected to be a pillar of virtue, meaning you must be blameless or morally pure. Too much pressure. Your spouse and your children should all be perfect or close to it. Most importantly, you know, he's overstating the point making a straw man here, but anyway. More importantly, you must be unconditionally loving. Meaning you have to love everyone in your congregation and show them grace and forgiveness no matter how poorly they treat you. Putting it all together you can see how crazy it is. You gotta be a professional speaker, CEO, counselor, fundraiser Human Resource Director, Master of Ceremonies, Pillar of Virtue. In a normal company, you would have some a different person doing most of these jobs. Sometimes multiple people, nobody is capable of being sufficient at all of these skills, and yet pastors are expected to do all of these things and do them well for fifty-five thousand dollars a year. So first of all, one thing quick. He says about in a normal company and uh we're all laughing hearing that, but let's just pretend it's a company for a second. One of his seven things is CEO. In a normal company, yes, the CEO leaves all those things and hires people to do them. Right? And that's what we've been talking about. Is that if if you're gonna run your church like that, yeah, you need to have multiple people. He's make uh uh uh put this article out there like most churches don't have this or won't have this. and never have. Like I I don't know that that's really the case in successful churches that are kinda run like companies, they actually do have people in all those roles. Now, I I I wanna uh also talk about that pillar of virtue, that last thing. You must be blameless or mor morally pure. Your spouse and children should all be perfect or close to it. No. The whole point of Christianity is that you're still having a sin nature. With a what makes you different when you're saved is how you deal with sin when you find out that you're doing it, right? You you stop doing it, you repent. And I I don't think I I I agree with him. I think people's he's he may be correct that people expect the pastor to be perfect. But that's a wrong expectation. You should not expect that. And the best pastors that I've heard preach from the public say, look, I make lots of mistakes. Please call me out if I'm doing something wrong. Say it also on that The you know the people look to me to interpret the Bible for them. Well yes, but you should also be a Berean and search the scriptures. And then when that's not true, raise your hand and say, Pastor, that's not right. Now Because the he's worded this the way he has, he's been a little hyperbolic it seems to me, and he's built a bit of a straw man and he's used this uh okay, if you're gonna put it that way I have no choice but to agree with you. And that's what Daniel's reacting to, and I I agree with the way he's phrased this. But I think what he's really saying I would disagree with. I don't know if David agrees with where I'm maybe going on that. Are you reading my mind? I I don't I don't know yet. So he's saying that people expect that the pastor is gonna be the keeper of the Bible, meaning you can correctly orthodoxy interpret the Bible. Yeah. That should be expected of every Christian, honestly. Well right? But but it should be it should be expected that the that the pastor is is leading the congregation in that. Yes. And you're not going to be perfect or absolutely morally pure, but you should be an example to an example for. The congregation. Yes. And and you should not have active ongoing patterns of sinful behavior. Sure you will sin, we we will all continue to sin, but to have something that is, you know, ongoing undealt with And he says you're to be unconditionally loving by showing grace to those who aren't treating you well. You know what? Yes Now sometimes being unconditionally loving means you're saying things they don't want to hear and they will they will accuse you of being a hater, but you're telling them those hard truths be out of a place of love. You Christ set that example I I mean, again, good riddance don't let the door hit you on the way out. This guy should have never been a pastor if this is the way he's conducted his himself for the last ten years. Right? Am I wrong? Yeah. No, I I yes yeah I think you're right. And uh yeah, but I I uh you know, again I think what's revealed here is it's not just You know, his uh he he's he's not in a in a situation where he is actually a pastor or where the church is actually being a church, right? So And in fairness, he's in a he know he's in a denomination that maybe there are some exceptions, but ninety-nine percent of the congregations are sure. They're not churches really. by a biblical standard, so he fit right in maybe. I don't know. I think we'll see that actually as I continue. Now if you're reading along at home I'm jumping way ahead. I'm skipping a whole section here because he goes on to tell the story of another pastor. And and it's relevant and it's supposed to be an an uh you know uh uh an illustration of his problems, but they're not his story, so I'm skipping ahead. Yeah. Pastors have PTSD from all this difficult stuff they're dealing with. And so the solution is to go see a therapist or a psychologist, not like another pastor or uh elder or brother in Christ. And then he gets into this psycho babble, he continues on this psycho babble thing talking about growth mindset versus fixed mindset, and I'm going to skip the first part of that and pick up in the middle of that where he writes. When I became a pastor, I thought the reason why this group of people gathered every Sunday was to explore deep questions about life and to push ourselves to become better humans. Anybody wanna raise their hand and volunteer why do the uh Christians gather together every time? I mean yes, if he if he's speaking in code for uh you know seek to seek to know God more and to repent and turn from sin. Well this is one of those places Where I'm looking nope, this is not one of the four places he mentions God. Nope. So his that would have been a great if you're gonna mention God, that'd be a place to be a good idea. We gather together to worship God. Nope, that's not here. Okay, well Maybe I'm wrong. Uh instead you're to explore deep questions about life and push yourself to become better humans. Now there is an a idea that you are to progress in your sanctification, become more obedient to God. But that's not what he's saying. But anyway, he says what he's learned is over the last ten years, my assumption was wrong. No no look at what his assumption is wrong, Mike. We disagree with this one too Anyway, now he talked about a bunch of stuff here that I think I can skip by because he kinda repeats himself a little bit. So I'm going to jump ahead of paragraph. And he says, although I've always tried to end my messages with a sense of hope, my goal is to make you think. Nothing was off limits. I have no problem dismantling the traditional Christian belief system in service of logic and reason, particularly if it uh particularly if it helps us to make sense of the world. Hence, I eventually came to the conclusion that my particular skill set and perspective is a mismatch for the institutional church. You think? What I offer is not what most Christians are looking for, which is another reason I decided to move on. I realize if I spend the rest of my life fighting a system that's not designed for someone like me, I'm gonna end up angry, bitter, broken, and a shell of a human being. He does he doesn't know what the church is, he doesn't know what a pastor is, right? He doesn't know what the gospel is. Well he he describ he just described himself as a it's a wolf. So Yeah. That would be would be good for him to not be a pen. He didn't use that word. He has he is said he'd have no problem dismantling traditional Christianity. Right. Right. And he said he doesn't he doesn't give people what now he I I don't know if he would define Christian the way we would define Christian, but I'm gonna take him at his just the words on the page. And he's saying I I've discovered that I don't give Christians what they expect from a pastor. No Christian would expect what this guy brings to the table as a quote unquote pastor. So he's right Right. No actual Christian would expect this sort of nonsense. Right. All right. So now he says he does say most Christians expect the pastor not to push them to grow but to reassure them they're on the already on the right track. and s and uh be supporting the party line. That's not that maybe what many most people be going to church actually expect, but that's not what Christians expect. That's the He Gets Us campaign we were talking about a couple of weeks ago. Mm-hmm. Right? That's the chosen version of Jesus So we need we need to get to his final service. Yeah, so his final service. And uh there's I'm I'm gonna leave some of this out because he gets into details about the final service that aren't gonna be relevant for us to talk, but the the portions that are are are relevant, at least I that struck me as relevant, I'm going to read. He says, I preached my last sermon this past Sunday. Again, this was back in September, I believe. Or it's late late August. Late August. He wrote this in September, but his last sermon was in August. I was actually blown away by the number of people who came out to say goodbye. More than three hundred and sixty people were in attendance and eighty online. A church of a thousand, by the way, so only about a little over a third of the people showed up. That's just blown away. Blown away And here we go. The music was awesome. Coldplay. That's a rock band, by the way, who those who don't know. U Two, another rock band for those who don't know. And the Beatles, a pop rock band that everybody knows. And I would say it's probably everybody knows uh U2 as well. Coldplay probably the one of what songs. And I would say well probably um Streets with No Name, uh All You Need Is Love. And imagine there's no heaven. He says, I would say that I gave one of the best sermons they've ever preached. It was called Change. And then it says he ended it with a uh uh a poem that he wrote specifically for the sermon. That's how he ended this message. Says the poem represents my hopes and dreams for my church going forward. I wanted to leave them with something beautiful. Catch this. Because I believe through experiencing beauty we encountered God's presence in our lives. As for what I plan to do next, I believe one of the most important ways we encounter God's unconditional love, now that's We are to be unconditional on our love that we show people, but I think it's a mistake to say that God's love is unconditional. Right. I think we've got to be careful. We can talk about that maybe if we want to. We can talk about unconditional anyway, maybe at some point. So anyway, beauty and uh and and sort of things uh is an important way to encounter God's unconditional love and and relationships with others. I'm going to be investing all my energy into a business that helps people find a form of find and form these kinds of relationships so they can experience God's love in their lives. More to come on that in future articles because he's a blogger and stuff now as well. And then here's the poem that he wrote. And I wasn't going to read it, but I think I should in this context. I think it helps us to understand his heartbeat a little bit. It's called and. And though we may stumble, and though we may fall, we shall tarry amidst the tides, seeking the better angels of our nature. And as we bid farewell to friends who journeyed before us, our hearts eternally whisper, aching for the timber of their voice. And when our lives are but memories. Long lost like the breath of wind, we shall find each other once again consoled by the tears of our long embrace. And beauty, though piercing, will not leave us undone, for our love will bind us together, and we shall always know that we are truly one. If this were in the 1980s, I would right now say gag me with a micro s mic with a microchip man Gag me with a spoon, man. Come on! Are you kidding me? What kind of trite nonsense was that? Did Hillsong write it? Is this a Bethel music song? Come on. It's not that good. It's not about God. Nothing in this is about God or Christ. It's about the better angels of our nature. Yeah. It's uh our nature. There's nothing better about our nature. Oh my gosh. I I he sounds uh I I don't know about like Uh uh more Buddhist than Christian. Yeah. Right. New Agey. Right. A an amalgam of uh Buddhism and Hinduism and and some of the esoteric psychology stuff and wonder how he does yoga. Yeah. We're gonna be talking about that on a future show. In fact, I'm not a hundred percent sure, but I think our very next episode for the Faith Debate might be talking about that kind of issue, uh uh yoga and reiki and the the enneograms and all that by the way. Spoiler alert. Oh well oh okay, now we can't even do the show. People are gonna be hanging on the edge of their seats. Is it good or bad? I ought to know. I disagree with Daniel. D, you think it's good? Well, he said all bed. All bad. Oh, okay. Interesting. So I think I think we have to I think it has to be parsed out. Wow, look at this. David Forcey bringing a little nuance. Okay. But anyway, back to the main thing here. This this guy who who has if he was ever approximating a cre look, I I agree with the Apostle John, which is a good place to be. I agree with the Apostle John when he writes in uh in his first epistle that those who were with us but then left us were never actually really with us from the start. So this guy was never actually a Christian. But if at some point he gave a better appearance of actually being a Christian, right? He he checked a lot of the right boxes initially, even if he didn't really truly believe them in his heart of hearts At some point along the line, he did what is called deconstructing your faith. So uh anybody wanna talk about What what do you mean by that? What is what is deconstruction here? So first I want to say um because I'm pivoting right now by the way. Pastors, if you've heard what you said this show and last week's show Be warned. This could be you. It could be uh it could be any of us if we're not careful. We could make an a a a joke of of of being a pastor if we're not careful. uh you know, if it weren't for the grace of God we we might travel down that same kind of path. Maybe if we're saved we're not gonna go hopefully as far as this guy. But is but now I want to transition to just the average professing Christian and warn you It the this Christian deconstructionism, it starts with little compromises. And it's little things like, well, I'm not so sure that Jesus actually fed all those thousands of people with the bread and fishes. That's probably just a story. I'm not so sure that God actually created everything out of nothing. I think that things just kind of came along by some sort of spontaneous combustion. And it starts with these li and and following his pattern, it starts with Yeah, and that's exactly what happens with these these con these guys that deconstruct their faith. So they they claim they have a faith. They profess to be Christians But then there's that doubt. Did God really say? And Troy, this is different than asking the question why? I often I often tell people, if you believe X, Y, Z doctrine, you really should ask you why And you need to think about it. And if you can't answer why, then go back and study, because you need to know why you believe all the things. But that doesn't mean change your belief if it's actually in scripture. The metric is scripture. If it's in there, it's true. But you need to know why your specific doctrine is true. So that's not the same thing as what you're calling deconstructive faith. Asking questions or struggling with doubt, that's one thing. But to entertain for too long or to entertain to the point of well, b God didn't I mean it says it's a miracle, but it's not really a miracle. I mean God doesn't intend for us to really understand that miracles happen. Oh yeah, well then how did Jesus raise from the dead and ascend to heaven? Right? How do How how do we have the miracle of the presence of the Holy Spirit within us? How did the incarnation happen? Like you lose everything if you lose the idea that miracles can happen. So that's what starts as a doubt. But then what what was the next thing that Satan, the serpent, did in the garden? First it's like casting doubt. Did he really say? The next thing he just directly contradicts. You will not surely die So it goes so that's what happens in these extracts. It starts with some some doubts that you allow to become part of your biblical quote unquote worldview, your faulty biblical worldview, and then you start denying flat truths. Things like homosexuality isn't really a sin. It's okay to have women uh as as elders and pastors in the church. I know these are hot third real issues, I get it. But these are flat black and white things that are talked about in scripture. You start denying all that stuff too. Well the only thing left is the last thing which is to completely reject God and make yourself a God, which is what Satan invites Adam and Eve to do. You will be like gods. Just Take this tasty fruit. That's the path of the thing. And that's how you can get to a point where you can write an entire seven page article about being a pastor and not mention God once. To the very end in in terms of context. I'm gonna be um as accurate as I can here, because in fairness to this so-called pastor, he mentioned God over and over and over again from his point of view. His God is I. No, no, it was congratulated. Remember? Oh right, well yeah, he he's beholden to them, right? He is accountable to them. Yeah. Yeah. So he's a weak well, I still would say that he's his own God. If they were his God he would still be there. He's a weak God. But because he's his own God. Yeah, I guess if he's his own God he needs those worship worshipers. And if they don't worship him anymore then he's not So be warned. I'm I'm not saying that you have to agree with everything that I would say or even the four of us on this panel say week in and week out on this show or you know we get things wrong. Uh I'm not sure what those are because if I knew what they were, I would change them and fix them immediately. I'm sure I get some things wrong, so don't don't misunderstand me. But there are some things, Christian, hear me, you can't get wrong. There is a creator God. And the fact that he's a creator God who made everything means he is a miracle-working God because the creation itself is a miracle. And the center and the foundation of the Christian belief is that God took on humanity through the incarnation, miraculously, died and rose himself from the dead miraculously. I mean, you can't lose that. You if you start to doubt those kinds of things, you might still call yourself a Christian. You you gotta rechange your thinking on that. You got some stinking thinking and you've got to fix that immediately or you're gonna end up like this pastor who's not only not a pastor, but Imran said it, I've said it, I think all of us agree, he's not even a Christian, much less a pastor So before I guess I got the last word, sorry, we're round of time. I didn't mean to do that. We just looked over and we had like thirty seconds. Yeah Absolutely. That was uh Daniel Razi. Give me an a edible. I appreciate that. Imran Razi is on the show today. David Forcy, I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks so much for listening. Online at Household of Faith in Christ. That's where you can find us. Till next week. God bless Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com.