To stay in here, in my own, will cry while you have home. The name you the rest we are with me Amen. I love the hymns of the church. They're so inspiring. Many of us grew up with the hymns of the church, and while there may be uh new genres of music within gospel. There's something about those hymns that remind you of how God has brought you through. There's a word from the Lord today ask even now that you might get your Bibles, uh that you might look for the book of Acts or what we call the Acts recording of the Apostles actually So find time now to get your Bibles, to get your tablets, and if you're just joining us, make sure If you would so kindly spread the word, because we're about to do the word. Amen. The word of God. So there in the Acts of the Apostles Let's read starting at verse number 29, 4 and 29. It reads, Now Lord, consider their threats. and enable your servants to speak your word with great boldness. Stretch out your hand to heal and perform signs and wonders through the name of your holy servant Jesus. Verse thirty-one After they prayed, the place where they were meeting was shaken. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and spoke the word of God boldly. I want to preach from the Samonic title, Say His Name. Say his name. They're in Minneapolis, Minnesota at 38th Street and Chicago Avenue It is the place where George Floyd was killed, where he lost his life. And we know that even as things unfold, that there's been an arrest, charges have been filed, but there have continued to be cries for justice. But in the midst of those cries for justice, we have found in the midst of that that we see a cry for Jesus Christ That Christ's name is being lifted up in the midst of what's taking place there in Minneapolis And because of that name, because of the name of Jesus, 38th Street and Chicago Avenue, it has become, I believe, a sort of healing station. It's become a place where people's lives are being transformed. There's a boldness taking place in the midst of all the sadness and the challenge Lives are being transformed. Souls are being saved. And get this. People are being baptized right there in Minneapolis. What a great opportunity as believers when we see things that are happening. What is the Christ component? What can we do to lift up the name of Jesus wherever we are? When I think about what's happening in Minneapolis, I think there are parallels to the text. The Acts of the Apostles. That was Jerusalem. This is Minneapolis. But what you found were persons who were bold. who did not mind sharing the good news of Jesus Christ. Now if you go back to the third chapter of Acts You will find this particular narrative. You'll find Peter and John, two of the disciples of Jesus Christ, about three in the afternoon, they're heading to the temple to pray. And they come across a man who has been lame from birth and he's there looking for a handout. You know when you pull up to an interstate persons are there with signs, I'll work for food, or can you help me? God bless you. And as they approached this man, they made it known that silver and gold we don't have But in the name of Jesus, get up and walk. And here again, in the name of Jesus, this brother got up He hung out with Peter and John. They went to the temple. They prayed. The Bible says he was leaping and moving to the glory of God. Can you imagine? for 40 years not being able to walk and when you hear that name there's a connection this guy got up and walked Now, when you're about a good deed, not everybody is happy. The word got out on the street. What had happened And so about dark, Peter and John were arrested. They were brought in to the authorities. They spent the night in jail and came up for a preliminary hearing the next day And those who were in charge wanted to know, why is it that you're preaching in this name? They were upset. There's some folk who are upset with you. Because you're lifting up the name of Jesus. Well, they like you, but they don't want to hear anything about Jesus. Can I just say they may have labeled you a Jesus freak? To God be the glory. Wear that label well. They said, you all are unschooled men. How is it that you have so much authority? And before they could do anything, the Bible says 5,000 people had heard the word and had believed And when they realized they couldn't do anything with Peter and John, they let them go. And said, now you all stop saying that name. But they couldn't help themselves. They went back to the camp. They went back to those other believers and they shared what had happened and they began to pray. This example in the early church, I believe, shows us how they prayed for an opportunity, for a miracle, and for power. They prayed for an opportunity. Verse 29 says, Now, Lord, consider their threats and enable your servants to speak your word with great boldness An opportunity is a set of circumstances that makes it possible to do something, in this case, to do something positive. Amen. All they wanted was a chance to reach someone for Jesus Christ. That was their prayer, is that we want the opportunity to speak your word and to do it with great boldness. I thank God every time He gives me an opportunity to meet someone at a store or meet them at a coffee shop and to share with them that name. I find a way by way of the Holy Spirit to maybe start with the weather And say, yeah, the Lord really is good, isn't he? I'm not slipping it in, but I see an opportunity as he sets the stage I don't go around picking people. If you see me in the store, don't run from me. But if the Spirit of God leads me your way, I'm going to tell you about the goodness of Jesus and about his name. When was the last time you were presented with an opportunity to tell someone about Jesus? When was the last time you came across someone and the Holy Spirit prompted you to get in the name of Jesus in that conversation? Maybe you didn't know them But you saw an opportunity for it to happen. And sometimes we blow those assignments. Why? We we don't want to really say anything. We don't want to do anything that might offend anyone But my God from Zion, it's okay to offend folk when you're talking about the name of Jesus. Now, Romans 1 and 16 says, For I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ. For it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth to the Jew first and also the Greek. Don't be ashamed. Use the opportunity to say his name. And when you ask the Holy Spirit to give you what to say, it'll just come out. And what you have done, you've planted a seed. The Bible says, one planteth, another watereth, but God gives the increase It's not just Minneapolis. In your city, in your town, in your home, there are opportunities for you to just say it. I dare you just to say Jesus in your home. Say Jesus in your community. Say Jesus on your commute to work and see if the Lord won't do something. They prayed for an opportunity, but they also prayed for a miracle. Verse 30 says, Stretch out your hands. This is their prayer. to heal and perform signs and wonders through, there it is again, the name of your holy servant Jesus. They were praying for something they had already experienced. Remember when they went to the temple to pray? They used the name of Jesus and a miracle happened. This man began to walk. He had not done it. since birth. And what they wanted to do was be very specific in their prayers. Lord, this is what I am praying for. I am praying for a miracle. They wanted God to stretch out his hands. Isn't it great when the Lord just takes charge and control? He says, heal. And do what? Perform signs and wonders. Don't you know that God is still performing miracles even now? And it is my prayer he might continue to perform miracles. Why? I am a miracle. Hello, my name is Tim, but I'm also a miracle When I think about the goodness of Jesus and all that he's done for me, I realize that of myself I am nothing. Through him I can do all things. Can I get excited for a moment? I am a miracle and you are a miracle. They pray for a miracle. Are you praying for a miracle? Not that God might just fix something for a season, but no, Lord, I'm praying for a miracle. And as I say your name And I speak the name of Jesus. The Bible says, at the name of Jesus, every knee shall bow, every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God. Say His name. Amen. Are you praying for that today? For a miracle to happen? I know you've been trying to get cousin Johnny to give his heart to Jesus and Sister Sue don't want to hear it But you keep saying Jesus in their presence, and maybe you won't even know. But the Lord can do something. Say his name. Acts 4 and 12. For there is none other name under heaven given among men where we must be saved. It's not just Minneapolis. In your town, in your city, in your home, God is prepared to work a miracle. Do you believe that today? I certainly do. Not just an opportunity, not just a miracle, but they also prayed for power. It was the result of saying that name. Verse 31 says, after they prayed, I mean they were done praying, the place where they were meeting was shaken. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and spoke the word of God boldly, prayed for power. And God answered their prayers. And he did it in a fashion that they knew their prayers were being answered. Ever prayed and it wasn't just a nice quiet answer, but God shook some things up in your life You had to pull over the car because you realized that a phone call came in. God, you have worked a miracle in my life, and I just want to give you praise. There's something about that name And they needed power, the Holy Spirit, to speak that name boldly. Keep in mind, they could have lost their lives just for saying, I'm a Christian They could have been thrown into prison just by saying, I'm a Christian. Sometimes we get excited to say what church we attend. No, but are you a believer in Jesus Christ? I realize that I am powerless without the power of Jesus Christ operating in my life. It is so important for that to happen. Amen? It is so important to know who it is that drives your ministry. Important to know who it is that allows you to live and to breathe and to have your being. Are you praying for power? I don't mean just, well, Lord, if you can, but I want you to just to shake things up in my life. Shake things up in my home. Shake things up in my community. And my God, shake things up in this nation. Don't you know that God is not sleep? The Bible says he neither sleeps nor slumber. He knows exactly what's going on. And I just want to change speak that name. 2 Timothy 1 and 7 says, For God has not given us the spirit of fear, but a power of love and a sound mind. Minneapolis is just one place. Ask for power to come to your block. Ask for power to reside in your workplace. Ask for the power of God to operate. I believe He will do it. John 14, 13 says, Whatever you ask in my name, this I will do. It's a promise. So that the Father may be glorified in the Son. Say his name Savior, Redeemer, Messiah, say his name, wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, say his name Prince of peace, King of Kings, Alpha and Omega, say his name, the beginning and the end, the first and the last. The bread of life, say his name, the Lamb of God the way, the truth, the life, say his name, it is because of what he did on the cross. He gave his life one day on an old rugged cross. Amen. He died for my sins and he died for yours. And there's something about the name of Jesus. There is a name. I love to hear, I love to sing its worth. It sounds like music in my ear. It is the sweetest name on earth. Oh, how I love Jesus. Why? Because he first loved me. And I don't mind saying that name, the Bible says when you say that name, the demons tremble. So wherever you go today, just say, you know what, I'm gonna say his name. I'm gonna go in, I'm gonna whisper it. You know, I may say it loud in the store, but I'm gonna go in, I'm gonna whisper the in Jesus and see if something won't happen You've got to say that name wherever you go. Those saints will say, take the Lord with you, children, everywhere you go. In the streets, in your home, in your house, all alone, on the highway, on the byway. Take the name of Jesus with you and say it. See I I d I didn't hear you. Say his name. Uh would you say something? Did I hear you? Say his name. That name would give you peace. Say say what Say his name, that name will give you joy. Say what that name will give you understanding. Say what that name will give you knowledge and wisdom. Say his name His name is Jesus. Praise be to God. We want to have a song of invitation. It's all about the love. I love you, and I make my law to the shirt. Oh my soul is so. I love you, and I live my borders. You all might so be so Amen. We exalt the name of Jesus. Bow your heads where you are today. Heavenly Father, as we come, we do exalt you, for there is no other name by which men and women can become saved. I pray even now For those under the sound of my voice, if they don't have a relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ, that today they might receive you. The Bible says that you should confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. God, I pray for a new life today For someone who's listening, someone who's watching, that they have been affected by the name of Jesus. I ask it even now in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank God for you as we look forward to this coming week. Just don't play now. You know Father's Day is coming up next Sunday. I'm just giving y'all a chance if y'all want to buy me some socks I'm okay with that. But you know, we want to hear from you on Wednesday, 8 o'clock. We're going live from right here to talk about the things that daddy said. Not what mama said. This was stuff that daddy said that you as a daughter or son remember very well And we want you to flood uh we'll be streaming in on Facebook Live. Let us know. I want to be able to repeat them. Daddy said what Amen. I started thinking of the uh the song from way back. Uh I may as well be a DJ for a moment. Uh Gladys Night in the Pips, Daddy, could swear I declare. And there's so many daddy songs, amen. So whatever your daddy did, there's some things that have stuck with you, and I pray they've made you the better Tell someone, 8 o'clock this Wednesday, we go in live to talk about the things Daddy said as we get closer to Father's. Amen.