Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. I know you're super man and superwoman, but every now and then You need somebody to have a shoulder to lead on. Somebody to call up and say, child, here's what I'm going through. God arranged it that way that we might minister to each other. We thank God today just for being God all by Himself. Let's bow today. Heavenly Father, we do come once again to Share your most precious word. As always, it is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. But when this time is done, we'll be so careful. To give your name the praise and the glory. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thank God for Many of you here and certainly out in Facebook land, we thank the Lord for technology. We can use it to his glory. Isn't that something? Now what if they had this back in the 70s? We'd be in trouble with me. But they didn't. There is a word from the Lord today that comes from the Gospel of John There in the 15th chapter, verses 18 and 19, it reads, If the world hates you, keep in mind that it hated me first. If you belong to the world, it would love you as its own. As it is, you do not belong to the world. But I've chosen you out of the world. That is why the world hates you. I want to preach from the Samanic title simply, Don't Hate. Don't hate. The Southern Poverty Law Center is an organization that Charts the movement of hate groups in our country and extremists. They get that information, they report it to law enforcement and the media. And at last check, they found that there were 917 hate groups in this country, pretty much in every state in the Union. And the truth of the matter is, is this is an area of conversation in our nation. I'm always amazed with my co-workers. They'll say if something happens, Reverend, I know what you're preaching on Sunday. They expect the clergy, they expect people of faith to address real-time issues. It's not to take a political side, but it is to bring it to the forefront. Hate is something that's been on our minds, even if we've said nothing about it It's hard to escape what we've watched on television, what we've seen in our own neighborhoods. It's not just Virginia, but we found out uh this week, Spain, so many other places, that hate is real. Would you agree with that? You know, hate is such a strong word. It is to feel intense or passionate dislike for someone or for something. Washington, D. C. clinical psychologist Dana Haran came up with her own definition of hate. She says the things people hate about others Are the things people hate and fear within themselves? It's worth saying again. The things people hate about others are the things that they fear within themselves. Hate is akin to evil. And we know we live in a world of good and evil. We know some good people. And we know some evil folk. And yet we're called to love them anyhow. You know, it was the theologian, the late theologian Carl Barth, who said something very real about pulling in what's happening in society and bringing it to the public square, he says, take your Bible and your newspaper and read both. But interpret the newspaper from the Bible. What that means is whatever is happening in society today, there's a word in the text to address it. You know, I always want to see what is the perspective of Jesus Christ. What does he have to say about a particular item of interest of conversation. And so I came today to get his perspective. Today we're in the Gospel of John. That simply means that John is one who recorded uh the ministry of Jesus Christ. John is believed to be the youngest disciple, the one the Bible says who just hung out with Jesus. He's the one That Jesus loved and cared for in a real way. But Jesus in this text reminds his disciples and those of us at large of the importance of remembering who they are. He says, now don't get too big for yourself. I'm the one who chose you. Aren't you glad today that you got picked? That as popular as you are, that the Lord chose you. He says, I picked you. I put my hands on you for a particular reason. And what is that reason that you might go out and bear fruit? I didn't save you for you to look cute I didn't save you to say, you know what, I'm saved. But the work and life of the believer is to do something. My God, you ought to have influence on your job. You ought to have influence in your community. Folk ought to know that there's somebody who loves the Lord with all of their heart and their mind and their soul. It's not the time to take cover, not the time to pretend that you're kind of sort of on the Lord's side, but he chooses them and carries on with them a conversation. And during this time, the Jewish leaders had already planned to arrest Jesus and to kill him. That was already in the works. King Herod had tried to kill him as a child. And Jesus knew what was coming up, but he takes time to just talk with his disciples and to address a very real issue of hate. Hate is not new Evil is not something that just showed up. It has been around since the beginning of time. And I love how Jesus is able to address all issues. And the first thing he does, he issues really some reminders. It says, if the world hates you. Keep in mind that it hated me first. That that while you feel like you got your feelings hurt, while you're feeling down and out about hate acts Know that the world didn't care for me. Know that the world couldn't stand me, and that the world hated me. And because you associate it with me, the world hates you as well. Now the world in this context is the evil, fallen world system. The world does not acknowledge or respect Jesus Christ. I know some folk who just seem to think that they did it all by themselves. Folk that seemed to think that everything that they have, it was because of their ability. They don't acknowledge God for anything until until the going gets rough. And then they say, I yield, I yield. What must I do? to be saved. He reminds them as he reminds us that that hate is something that has been around and because you are my children, don't be surprised If the world hates you, the world sees Jesus as a figment of their imagination. They see it as as some kind of a fairy tale. Isn't that amazing? You may say, Reverend, no, there are some folk who give no reverence to God. Yeah, they think they they they they really think that it's on them. But aren't you glad that as you hear this familiar uh passage John 3. 16, for God so loved the world. Let me stop right there. He so loved the folk who didn't love him. He so loved the folk who were preparing to kill him. He so loved the mess of sometimes backwards confused world He sends his only begotten Son, Jesus Christ, to die for a world that hated. That's some tough medicine to take. You know folk don't like you. You know they hate your guts. That's old school stuff. But yet you're called to love them That God so loved humanity, God so loved his creation, that he would send his very best. in the person of Jesus Christ to die for them. Weren't you in the world? I was. I was a worldly somebody. Yeah, I was out there and so were you if you were honest today. I say anything bad, but you were a part of the world system until the Lord snatched you in. We didn't come voluntarily, but aren't you glad that the Lord took you out of the world? I dusted you off and said I can do something with you. I'm so glad today that sometimes it's the tough places of life that will bring you in. Haven't you heard the old testimonies? Lord, I was down and the Lord lifted me out. Most folk don't come voluntarily. We gotta be jerked in And so I was in the world, and so were you, but God sent his son to die for the world. He's just reminding them. He had had this conversation earlier. Just a footnote, the world hates you. Not just a reminder, there were also some restrictions If you belonged to the world, it would love you as its own. As it is, you do not belong to the world Stop trying to to fit in. Stop trying to be uh kind of in the world and kind of on the outside and kind of faking until you make it. The world Don't like you. You don't belong to the world. You belong to the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's why the world hates you. See, you're no longer connected to the world system. And therefore, they, that is, the world system, gives you no respect. And don't feel like you're alone. I've often said that there are more folk out there who love the Lord. They may not always confess it, but God's got his people in the right place. Don't he? Can he place you strategically in a place and folk know they wonder why they're getting blessed? There's a praying somebody on that job They wonder why things are going well. There's a praying grandmama somewhere say Lord in the name I know for a fact. Told y'all this story. I went to college Thought I was the man. Almost got kicked out of college. The grades were a little shaky, but somebody was praying for me. While I was in the world, them crab meeting sisters was coming every Wednesday. I know they were saying, Lord, go with Mr. Doris's son. I'm glad also I'm I'm glad they prayed. Even though I was in the world, there was somebody praying for me that I might come out of the world. And one day I came to my senses. One day I realized boy there's something in you that God wants to work out of you, and here I am today standing in the forfeit. My God, who would ever thought that? Yes, indeed. He lets them know that there's certain restrictions, and that is, you don't belong. If you belong, it would have kept you. If you belong, you would have been blessed in the world. If you belong, you would have fit right in. But your status has changed Amen. You can't follow the world's rules. You can't do what the world does And feel comfortable, you're restricted. Amen? Ever got so close you almost crossed the line between the world and the Lord, and you realize I'm getting a little too close I need to make sure I'm living for the Lord. Amen? And then later on in this particular chapter, Jesus is praying for his disciples. He reminds them about it. He said, Lord, I am praying for them. He says, My prayer is that you will not take them out of the world, but protect them from the evil one. In other words, you gotta keep living. And keep going. And so he says, even while they're in the world, make sure they are protected. They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. Yeah, yeah. Don't hate, but the world hates. He gives some reminders and he gives some restrictions, but also he gives some reasons He says, but I've chosen you out of the world. That is why the world hates you. The world mad you got away. World is upset as you all of a sudden became a holy roller. The world don't like it that you're on the choir The world don't like it if you come to church on Sunday. So there's a reason why that they hate you. There's a reason why there's hate in this world. It is an opposite of what God has done by way of love. I've picked you. I've chosen you. I've brought you out of the world. You're on my team. Amen, y'all sports fans. You may not have been a number one draft pick, but aren't you glad you got picked today? Or some of y'all are not glad. I'm glad he said. He said, uh in the third round, I picked Tim Tutin. Come on down out the world and let me use you. Aren't you glad that something happened where you got tapped on the shoulder and said, You know what? There's something in you, and the word says, He who begun to good work in you will do up, perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. That I'm glad that he snatched me and pulled me out of the world, away from the grips of Satan, and now I've got a responsibility. That in spite of what I see on the television, in spite of how folk may act, I am still called to reach a hate-filled world for Jesus Christ. No time for debate. Love the hateful. No time to say, well, I'll tell you what, I don't know what. No, no, no, no. Don't worry about what other folk are saying. What is your responsibility as a believer? It is to still love that person. Love your enemies That's one of the hardest things he's ever asked. But you know they don't like me. Love 'em. I know they thought love 'em. I know I'm gonna love you anyhow because I am called to love you. In spite of. Don't you know something about love? It really conquers evil. Love wins every time. That don't mean you soft, that just means that you know where your help comes from That means you know what the love of Jesus can do to someone who has a hard heart and you wait and see if they won't turn. It may not be when you want them to, but my God, I dare you, teacher, you know what, I love you anyhow I know you put out a trap for him, but I still love you. God bless you. Have a great day. I love you. I love you. I love you. I know you you my my flesh is struggling, but in the spirit realm, I love you I love you, I love you, I love you. You don't like me, but I love you. And so we are called to do what the Great Commission says. Go ye therefore teach all nations Baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Lo, I am with you always, even to the end of their that is our responsibility. Those are our marching orders as believers And so around the water cooler, your your conversation is, you know what? I'm gonna just keep loving. Yeah, I know, I know. I'm just gonna keep on praying for them and when I go by the desk and they're not around them and say in the name of Jesus touch the desk. Hallelujah. And you gotta do that. You gotta love folks. Don't worry about the symbols. I love you. You have the greatest symbol, then you got the cross. Amen At the cross, at the cross where I first saw the light. And the burdens of my heart rolled away. Love was best displayed at Calvary. Love was displayed when Jesus sent his son. Jesus came and died on that cross. That was love. You know why? He died for folk who hated him Amen. Folk who were around him and yet he did not come down from the cross. Isn't that amazing? That if he can do it, we too have to embrace those who hate us. He said from that same cross, Father, forgive them. For they know not what they do. I know you think they do, but they don't They ought to know, but they don't. They should know, but they don't. But you still must be the kind of person to know that he will bring you through And what a great testimony, knowing that even in your own life, that the Lord is always with you. When you fall, he lifts you up. When you're weak, he makes you strong. When you're hurting, he's the one that heals you. When you're broken, he's the one that mends you. When you are blind, he's the one who leads you. Amen. When you're hungry, he's the one who feeds you. And so that's why we stay with the Lord, because of all the things He's done for us. And all the things he continues to do through us. I love that old songwriter who says, Guide me, O thy great Jehovah, pilgrim through this barren land. I am weak, but thou art mighty Hold me with thy mighty hand. Bread of heaven, feed me till I want no more. And so today, don't go out of here trying to match up hate with hate, but make sure that you come out with love all on you That love is in your eyes, and love is in your lips, and love is in the way that you carry yourself today. Just carry the symbol, I refuse to hate Knowing the information that I know. Having the intel that the world hates me. Knowing that they hate it, my Lord, I I still must march on. I still must continue to live out the promises of Jesus Christ. So long as I love you, I love you, Lord, today. Why? Because you did such great things just for me. Is that something to do today? Say to your neighbor, don't hate. Let's love. That is the word of God today. It's already blessed. Come on, stand today. Amen. It's an end-time message. Once you realize the behavior on God by way of Jesus Christ Don't you feel bad? Just continue to love with the love of Jesus Christ. Strong says, love lifted me when nothing else would work. Love lifted me The world must know they've got to come to Jesus. There's no other way to reach the Father except by the way of Christ. There's no shortcut. There's no easy pass. There are no reward points. You gotta just come to him. And when you come to him, he'll change your life. And turn your life around. That's been the invitation for over 2,000 years. It's to cut the Jesus. And there's some reasons. He will save you. He was free, he was not. Let me just pause right there. What does that really mean? That means that Jesus can save your soul What does that mean? The Bible says that God sent his son. Romans 10, 9 and 10 says, if you shall confess With your mouth. The Lord Jesus. And believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. The Bible says, Thy shalt be saved. Saved from what? Saved from this world. Saved from damnation. And once you accept Christ as your personal Savior, that means that heaven becomes your home. Now, just because I'm older don't mean I'm thinking about heaven more, but we know that one day the Lord will call us. And the question is, will you and I be ready? Ever had something happened suddenly you didn't expect it and you weren't quite ready. You know, the somebody came to your house before time, they came an hour earlier when you thought they were coming, the appointment was changed But he will show up in the twinkling of an eye. And today I want to make sure that you know him. And so I came by as just an ambassador Just to spread the news. As you bow your heads today, I want to offer Christ to you. The Bible says you just believe that God Who sits high and looks low. That when he saw the condition of this world, no longer was there a need to send animals to sacrifice. But he sent his only son. Innocent. To be a sacrifice. To go to a cross and to shed his blood and to be killed. But here's the difference Unlike other folk, he didn't stay in the grave. On the third day, he arose from the grave with all power in his hands. My Bible tells me if I can wrap my mind around that and wrap my heart around that, then I will be saved. Folk may say, well, how do you know? I know by faith. And faith is something the things hoped for, evidence of things not seen. I know. Heaven is my home. Why? Because I've accepted Christ As I paused today, take a moment. If you've never said, Lord Jesus, come into my heart. If you've never said, God, I believe that your son was sent. I believe that he died You have to say that. And I believe that he rose again. The Bible says just that confession of faith can change your life forever. Maybe you've spoken that prayer even today. Maybe you whispered it. But nevertheless, he's able to save you Thank you today, Lord, for that soul that surrendered unto you. We ask it even now in Jesus' name. To give God a praise today Amen. Maybe you come today you've been be a part of this fellowship. The doors are always open. Always say folk come one or two times, we just claim them. Save their seat for them. But you know, we live in such a time that no need to be Distraught or worried. You know whose side you're on? You're on the Lord's side. And you're more than a conqueror. To him who love you. And so so what's the takeaway today? Okay, Brother, what what what should I carry out today? Yeah, what what's the carry out? What's the what's portable is that even though the world system hates me. Hates my ways, hates my savior. I am still called because of who saved me To love the world. In the world, but not of the world. You ought to stand out as someone different in your classroom, on your job, in your community. Folks say that there's some strange people. They're peculiar. Yeah. We're on the Lord's side. Come on, give God a praise today. Amen. Amen. Always open to hear what the Lord says. He always has an answer. Always addresses any controversial issue. Amen. We thank the Lord today. I was told to pause. I want to say even now, while we're where we are. Let's bow for a moment, even let's make transition I realize sometimes we don't mean to, but we'll harbor hate in our hearts. I want to pray for you today. Father, I come in the name of Jesus. And because we are flesh and spirit, there's some things that have gotten on our last nerve and things that have caused us to sin. We've been angry and we've been Looking for revenge. But I pray today, in the name of Jesus, that you might give peace and understanding. We didn't come here to be weaklings. We came to know who it is that we serve. And God, you make all the difference. So today, empower every person As they go about, as the debate starts, they may say, you know what? Hate's not new. But I'm so glad today that love wins. That's why Jesus came. Empower your people today as they go about their daily lives to walk with their heads up. Knowing that I serve a risen Savior. He's in the world today. And his name is Jesus. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Amen. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comethenumber to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement. You can get them by way of iTunes from Podcasting or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.