I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I'm also the author of the best-selling book, Leading by Example. A parental guide to teaching and modeling Christian faith at home. What you're about to hear is an interview about my book on the Listen Up Radio Broadcast. out of Baltimore, Maryland, on radio station WEAAFM. Many thanks to Faraji Mohammed, the radio host, and a longtime friend. Listen now. I'm your host for Raji Muhammad. Tonight I am so excited. He traveled all the way through the rainstorm. of two thousand seven let me stop saying it's over. In this part of town. We have our beloved brother. He is the education reporter for WBAL TV. He's also the pastor of Carvis Christian Ministries and he's now a new author of the book Leading by Example, a Parental Guide to Teaching and Modeling Christian Faith at Home. So happy to have him. He's actually A like a radio guru. He's done this for many, many years. I'm so happy. How many years? Um. Pastor Tim Taton. Doctor Tuton, how are you, sir? It is great to be here and I won't tell the story of how long I've known you. You won't tell that story. No, I won't because I've known you since I've been in Baltimore. But it's great I and I hear you often. Okay. And you're doing a great job in the community. And I'm I'm glad to be on your show. In fact, you asked me first. I did ask you first. What book even came out? I did ask you first because I had a the great opportunity to come to your church, Harvin Christ Harvest Christian Ministries And I was I was so filled with the spirit. You did a wonderful job. And I mean family, I'm gonna be for real. Y'all you say for what do you visit the church? Yes, I visited the church And look, I went to the pastor's church, and when I heard what you talked about, and talked about faith, and you did it in such a very logical way, but it was filled with the spirit. Well thank you. It was really that Sunday, but I you know some of them was good. A pastor sometimes will forget. The next week. But if people are helped and you told me that day uh that you were helped. I did. I was so excited to see you because I realized Man, I haven't seen you in a long time. So I I I'm so glad to see you and knowing you. I'm great to be able to come on this show and to talk about apparroting. Parroting and faith. You know what? This is a big issue uh because um you y you when we look at Where we currently are. This book right here, and I'm I'm a w this is not your normal like professorial book And uh, you know, if you're on Facebook right now, this book is literally a workbook. Um, and it's it's a parental guide to teaching and modeling Christian faith at home. Uh Pastor talk to us about what was the inspiration? What what led you to get to this point? Because when you're talking about parenting, it can become a very, very Sticky sensitive topics. So what was the inspiration about? And it came out of parents coming to me at church and saying, Pastor, I've got my son, and they've got a tough question on faith, and you must know the answer. And I would say yes, if they would give me the kid and I would go on the side and I'd try to explain it. And then I said to myself, wait a minute, what if I equip parents in their own faith? And then they in turn could share the faith. Let's do something that make them the first teachers because parents have influence. And so it was through my doctoral work that we tried it out at Harvest Christian Ministries. It became a part of my doctoral degree. And then I said, well now that that's done, I want to take what I have, talk about my own faith journey. and about what parents can do in light of the problems we're facing, somehow we've forgotten that it still starts at home. And that when you become more comfortable with what you know or was afraid to ask about, then you can say, let's talk about it. So there are family activities But there are real lessons that you can do. I mean my mother said it's like something a baby could get. She's 87. Wow. And so I really want that to be something that parents can grasp and feel like I can do this Yeah. And this is the thing about that because now there is so much more to faith than what we saw maybe fifteen, twenty, twenty-five years ago. You know, uh I remember my parents telling me or hearing the stories of them telling me how when they had questions about God A lot of times the response was, well, that's just how it is. It wasn't there wasn't really a deep explanation. There wasn't really any real understanding. And I and I'm not and certainly this is not a shot to any of those transactions of those answers. But I think that nowadays, like my four year old, he asks me questions and I I and I have to like literally like They ask the best questions. And they ask the best questions. And I have to sit down And like and I just start explaining him things so he understands. Break it down, but you know, get getting into the process of explaining because I don't want my son to just understand, well, that's just how it is And you know what's so important too is about spending time with your kids. I mean I think if we're not careful, and I'm a grandfather at this point, it will just say, okay, you you do your thing, I'll do my thing. But I mean I think kids still enjoy you sitting down with them they still enjoy uh you know on the way to the amusement park, on the way to what you're doing, having those conversations. Right. And then if you're home and you have something you can actually work with them You can color in the book. You can do word puzzles. I just think it's so important because kids do ask the best questions, and we struggle often to find the answer. Well this book will help you uh gives you a jump to say, okay, at least I'm somewhere in the neighborhood. Right, right. So let's talk about it. Your book mentions the multiple areas the child can be engaged. physically, spiritually, cognitively, and emotionally. Why those particular areas, Pastor? It's dealing with the whole child. I mean, we know that that's our makeup. And so you've got to minister and teach into each area. It can't just be sit down, listen to me, I'll talk. Talk with them in all of these areas and what you are able to do is translate uh whether it's playing, uh, whether it's something that they're dealing with. So I think that you you can't overlook any of that is that children are made up that way. And you have to minister and talk with them on their level but cover all these areas because they go through stuff. And they have questions. Does does it bother you to see that you know you have a lot of young parents nowadays, right? But does it bother you to see that some young parents don't take the time to really learn their child's learning style But just also from themselves as the parents. Does does that does that kind of get under your skin when you see that? You're like Maybe he's not getting it because he's not you. You know what? Called Multiple Intelligences. Uh I think it's Martin was the author. And we all learn differently. I'm a visual learner. Me too. I mean I if I see it, I'll I'll remember. Exactly. And so you have to do something that really ministers to them in that area and talk with them about how they're learning. My son is 27 now and he loves sports to this day. I had to do vocabulary stuff using sports like a sports thing because he understood it better if it was in the context of a touchdown. Yeah. Or in the context of a home run. Right. And so whatever their interests are Being able to find a way to say, well, how can we tie faith to this? How can we talk about how this connects to what you like to do? Because kids get bored very quickly. Let's let's say and I'm gonna open up the phone lines and even on Facebook Live if you're joining us here on Listen Up on WEAA 88. 9 FM and WEAA. org. We're talking to Pastor Tim Tootin Sr. of uh Harvest Christian Ministries, talking about his new book Leading by Example, Parental Guide to Teaching and Modeling Christian Faith at Home You can give us a call, 410-319-8888. I get that number. It's 410-319-8888. Now, Pastor, there are so many challenges that face this particular generation of parents and children. I put a post on uh on Facebook the other night because my son, at four years old, loves watching YouTube videos and playing Roblox. If any parent knows, about and they have like a child, a new son, daughter, niece, nephew, whoever, and you know what I'm talking about YouTube video they got this little boy named Ryan's Toy Review. And Ryan, all Ryan does is he takes out the toys and he plays with them on camera and he gets his little like six, seven, or eight-year-old He gets his little review of the toys. Right. Then they got Roblox and stuff, and I'm starting to see my son is addicted to this thing. He's like, Dad, can I hold your phone? And I'm like, son, son, I need my phone for myself. But Dad, I want to watch Ryan You know, it it is a different challenge. And I I my hair's gray. And so I raised children before there were real cell phones. Right. And iPads and that kind of thing. So it was a different It was a different challenge. Yeah. Um it is tough, I think, trying to understand what a parent has to do in this day and age. But I just think that when you connect with them and take those moments and once they see that you believe it's important. Yeah. You know, like what are you looking at? Uh then I think they will gravitate. But you've got to be in their world. And I think you're your your point on, you've got to be in their world and not just teaching it, but look at this, modeling. Because kids are watching you. They may not seem like it. They may be playing the game, but they're watching how you live and what you do and what you believe is important. They begin to do that because they want to be like their father and mother when they see positive things happening So let's let's look at it. How do you insert faith into this? Especially um if you are you have a child that has parents that have two different faiths. You know what I mean? Or how do you in infuse faith into the conversation when as a parent you may not be as such a you know quote unquote involved in re organized religion? So how how does that where does that when when do you have that conversation and how How do you have that conversation? Yeah, there's two different faith systems, and the other part is how do you start the conversation? I think that when it comes to um you practicing your faith, uh I think I think children watch you. Uh and for us we used to imitate the people at church and church was fun. I mean I was more concerned about uh getting out of church and and going to the you know, nickel and dime store. Right. But I think kids will watch us And they they watch what we do. And we have to make it important. Well, I do know you can't say it's time to sit down right now and do this. You've got to be creative and say, hey, you got a minute. Why don't we why don't we try this? And what this book does, their family activities uh that the songs and the things that take you outside. Or let me go do this and do this and do that. And when it comes to uh another question about the whole faith system Being able to talk about what you believe. You know, I was able to go to St. Mary's Seminary uh here in town, and what I loved about that, it was ecumenical. So you have a Christian and a Jew and a Muslim and different denominations all next to each other, but we found out that there's so many things in common. within our faith systems. So being able to connect that. Yeah. And this is for a Christian perspective, but what it is that you believe, that you believe is important. I think what happens is that sometimes kids were taken to were sent to church. Yeah. And not taken. Uh or or sent to wow, you know, to the mosque. But you know, but they say, well, I'm not going. So they say it's not important to you. Then it's not important to me. Is it a good idea to um expose children to all different types of faith at a young age? just to get them get the motor running, so to speak. I'll answer that by saying I've heard people say this Uh I'll let them choose. Well they're five, six years old. You know, I'm not gonna pressure them. You know, you wanna feel passionate enough about your faith that you believe is worth sharing I think that when it comes to learning about different faiths, it's what you project. If you say, yeah, you know, I've got Tim Tudonolo, I know this person, but you see my friends and they're all of different faiths. then they become tolerant to what other people believe. Yeah. But yet know what their faith is. Right. So I guess to answer your question, I think exposure is good. Exposure is good. But to say I'll just let them figure it out down the road. Well how how do you expect they go, you know, I'll let them learn how to tie the shoe down the road or ride a bike down the road. You know, I'm not being uh you know, sarcastic, but I think that there's such a heavy responsibility on parents and parenting is different. Yeah. You know, I mean and our parents told us that, oh, it's tough out there And we didn't really believe in it. We got to be parents. But your generation, because I've got kids your age, it's another challenge. And it's, you know, when my grandkids traveled out, there was a game luggage. With nothing but games. Right. You know, but that's the way it is. But when I catch them at those moments, I was like, hey, let's go outside for a walk. Let's talk about the trees and the birds. I try to find some way to infuse faith and to model it. For the parents that are not as faithful, quote unquote. Right. Uh what do you recommend? Because um, you know, at the end of the day A lot of the values that we have, especially in the black community, it really stems from our belief system. These aren't just quote unquote you know, isolated values. These are old fashioned and we gotta say it, they come straight from the Bible type of belief system. But then you you know the Pastor there has been an ar there's a ton of articles right now that you got a lot of millennial parents that are moving away from their faith. Moving from their childhood faith they're more becoming quote unquote more spiritual in nature. But how do you make sure that even from them moving away, they don't break the chain for their children or for the next generation after their children like? How do you make sure that you really are producing a faithful generation You know, it's interesting 'cause you were at my church that Sunday. Yes, sir. And one thing you notice I think that we we didn't stay in there all day. No. Thank the Lord. And No, no, no. That was no. You're you passing your church service was real straight to the point, which I love, and then I really appreciate that. It's I think that, you know, you're not gonna drag a kid into church and say you go here for the afternoon service And you're going to be all day, you know, because you recall that as a parent and say, oh God, I would never take them through that But don't throw out the baby with the bathwater and say, Well, therefore they get nothing. Because what you find out is that Sunday you can drive through and see people playing lacrosse and baseball, and while you're on the move Take the opportunity to begin to share what you know about God, what you know about Christ My parents uh didn't sit down per se and say, you know, but they said, You're gonna do what I tell you to do. That's biblical You go to be home on time. That's biblical. Right. You won't talk back to me. That's biblical. And so there are biblical things that you may not be able to quote them scripture. But they're still looking for discipline and instruction which all goes back to the Bible. It all goes back to Christian upbringing. And you have to be sure and intentional about that. I don't think we can just give the fight up. I mean I I I think that yeah the generations that may not be churched or may not think that faith is important. Uh you gotta walk it. Right. And you gotta talk it. Right. And I I'm hopeful today as I'm any other time that the church is still relevant. It's still important. And I think we still need those teachings because you get there with people And we still can draw from the I think I'm becoming like an elder now. I got a birthday this weekend, but you know we become the wiser folk. But I think we still learn learn from people. Right Uh and that's exciting. So I guess that the answer to that question, then we have to just find creative ways to, you know, even watching that game. I my grandson said, man, look at here now. Why why are they doing that I said, you think he got God on the side, you know me, I'm buying ways and watching the game to insert faith. We gotta be creative If you're just tuning again to listen up here on your source for cool jazz and more, WEAA 88. 9 FM and WEAA. org. We are talking to Pastor Tim Tootin. He is the author of the new book, Leading by Example, A Parental Guide to Teaching and Modeling Christian Faith at Home. And uh if you're on Facebook Live right now, we Definitely post your question so that way we can ask our beloved pastor any questions that you may have about parenting and faith. Now, you you you talked about a couple of things here, Pastor. You're talking about the relevancy of the church at this point in time. And then you talk about some of the challenges. I'm gonna deal with the the the former. Uh the relevancy of the church. There is a huge generation gap right now. Absolutely we don't see as many young people in the church. And now you have another generation of pastors, um, you know, more hipper, I I want to say that, more hip more hip hop oriented type of pastors. Uh and and and whatnot Um and there has been some criticism about that. They're saying, hey, this is this is kind of going away from the traditional or this is a slippery slope that you want to be hip or you want to be culturally in tuned but then you start to lose something. What what's your take on that whole debate? You know what I I know that I can't be cool at this stage. Oh come on. But I don't try to be Uh I I think I think young people, millennials, appreciate a real adult who will keep it real with them. Not talk down to them. Let them know, listen, I've been out there. I've messed up. And so there's got to be some some transparency, even in your sharing. Uh no I'm fortunate. So you're not you're not an advocate of how I see often no parents they say trying to be the friend of their children. No, no, no. No, you're not going to be a good thing. Yes. I mean you you don't want to be boring, but you gotta set boundaries. And when it comes to sharing say from a pulpit situation, just be honest. There's no Sunday that goes by I don't share something from my childhood or some my I don't tell you everything. But they gotta know that you had some experiences and that you had some moments where God had to bring you out and that becomes important. And you don't really want to to water down your faith. And and the the blessing of having millennial children and I'll ask them and say, Well, what do you think about this? You know, you is that a good tower? No, that's a bad tower. You know, you don't want you don't want to say that. But but you can help that you know TV dad, don't embarrass me. I'll think millennials They appreciate you coming to them because it's a sharing. You know, they great they they get wisdom from you, but you get to ask them questions about what's out there Yeah. And so you know, I don't try to find a hip title, I don't try to find something that's gonna get them, but I do want to keep it real. Right. They want to know if you're real And they want to know, what do you know about that? Did you grow up Tim Tootin' in a home where no we had to go to church, you know. And when I got to college, I realized I can say it in the in the name of the Lord. I I knew there were the nice girls that child with the church, these nice girls go to church in college. But I mean, maybe for some of the wrong reasons, but I had enough in me to realize it was important. And then in life situations and challenges, there are things that draw you back to your faith. I'm not saying it anymore, it's as easy. It isn't. And that's why this guide and this book, I try to make it so simple that you can understand it and and try uh to model some of us say, wait a minute, that's a nice lesson about love. Let me get a love sticker. I got little things there that will help you around the dinner table. Right. Uh on the go to be able to infuse. And you never know what children catch. In your chapter two, you point out statistics on drug and alcohol use um especially among high school and and middle schoolers. How is a uh the program or teaching like yours able to turn this around? Because we're now seeing with the quote unquote opioid crisis, um, we're seeing that there is a huge number of young people who are leaning towards that that that in that lifestyle What would you recommend? No, I think you have to to to take your head out of the sand and recognize that things are happening so much earlier now you know, that drugs and over your training in Maryland uh this year i it's required yeah in third grade to talk about this. And so you can't pretend that it doesn't exist. You gotta see the numbers. And it's not just Baltimore City, I always look at the numbers. You go outside the beltway and that's where you've got a lot of your problems. I think that you have to be aware of all that's happening around you. You can't dismiss the numbers and the data. And this all came from Maryland students who were honest enough to say, oh yeah, I've smoked and I've drank and I've done this. And you may not want to hear that, but it's real. Yeah. And so how do you minister to them knowing that some of that stuff you've tried? Exactly. And so help them to understand that there's a way out Help them understand that that you know there are many vices and things that will tempt you, but always keep God first. Always, you know, learn that He'll bring you out of situations and then give a testimony. Man, he brought me out one day. Yeah. You know, I think and they say, Oh really? You know, I used to hear the old deacons at my church talking about how they used to run I said, Man, you you didn't do that. You all in suit now. Right. But kids want to know that you're real. And they want to know that you've been through things and they want to know that you feel them. And so when you can take time with them, I've got parents say, well, Reverend, I got teenagers. You got a book for that. Well you gotta start now. Right. You know, uh don't start when you're a teenager. The earlier the better. The earlier the better. You've been doing education reporting. For many years you've been in the schools and now we're at this place where in our city violence has become A part of the culture. It has become a part of who we are and is now with our tradition. Um, is there anything that you can offer, or any type of words of guidance that you can offer for parents or for for children or young people that may um go down that path. You know what? It's prayer. I mean I I I we've got to keep praying. And and the Bible talks about, you know, faith without works is dead, but There's some mothers out there right now who are holding down, you know, prayer. Yeah. And I think that still makes a difference. is believing that we serve a God who can answer prayer. Yeah, does it look bleak? Absolutely. But there's not All that's going on. There's some things that are happening. People are getting breakthroughs all the time. That we can't abandon faith and prayer and believing that God will answer our prayer. and make a difference. It's bigger than a book. I got the book, but I need to pray over the book so that I need some help. I think that when we cry out uh to one another, we cry out to God in a special way and ask him to give us guidance. I mean I think that still works. It may seem old phobey, old fashioned. I got grandmothers buying the book. I got the grandkid, I didn't get that book. But people who may not feel comfortable and what they know, it is like basic fill in the blank uh you know drawing crossword puzzles got laps in the hand yeah Things you gotta help session plan, lesson plans. This is beautiful, Pastor. And that way if you want to teach it, yeah. Um you can it's it's your book. You can say, Well, I got lesson plan number one. It's very specific. And what I found with our people is harvest It works. Some of those kids that were little, they're in college now. So they've taken that with them, and I'm real confident that it can work in the lives of young people. Pastor Tim Tootin, Dr. Tim Tutin, leading by example his book, A Parental Guide to Teaching and Modeling Christian Faith at Home. Pastor, how can folks get your book? Man, let me tell you now, you can go to Amazon And if you forget the whole title, which is Leading by Example, a parental guide to teaching in Modeling Krishna, put in Tim Tutin. Someone search for Tim Tutin. T-I-M-T-O-T-E-N-A-S-B-Nobles uh Zoolon Press, iBooks, you name it. It's all there. We're there. But you want to get the copy. You see how big it is. It's a nice copy. So that way if you get the hardback copy or paperback, it's yours. You write in it, you color in it, it becomes a keepsake. Yeah. Down the road you say when you were four, look at what we did. That's right. I'm going to um I'm going to include this in my son's curriculum. That's what I'm talking about And you know, may God continue to bless you, Pastor. You're doing some wonderful work and keep keep representing for the education reporters. Yes. You know what I'm saying? 'Cause I tuned into you, you were the first one to tell me if my school was closed. I still got those hats. Yeah, I got hats. Man. They still exist. All right. Dr. Tim team, thank you so much. I appreciate you. I appreciate you. The book wasn't even print yet. I was lying the whole time. I know that. Big shout out to my homegirl Tia Jones for getting that reaction. All right, that's what's up right there. All right. Thank you so much, Sasha, for um for coming through and all the graph for you. Absolutely. Many thanks to the staff and production team at WEAAFM on the campus of Morgan State University in Baltimore and the radio host of Listen Up, Brother Faraji Muhammad, for allowing me to share from my new book, Leading by Example. A parental guide to teaching and modeling Christian faith at home. Pick up your copy today at Amazon, Barnes Noble, iBooks, or my publisher, Zulon Press. That's X-U-L-O-N. Well, stay tuned for the next stop on my fall and winter book tour. Be sure to check out our website. It's www. comthenumber 2harvest. org. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Have a great day.