Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. And while water may be coming down Across many parts of our nation. We want your spirit to reign on us. We come even now, realizing, dear God, that we stand To declare your precious word. It is always our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase Lord, save someone today. Encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory. In Jesus' name. Amen. Somebody say amen that you take your seats today. We can't make it without The Lord. There's just no way. How many people can try to make it without him? Only to realize that you were back to square one. I don't care how knowledgeable you are and how good looking you are and you're gonna need the Lord in your life Won't he take care of you? Won't he guide you along the way? I've seen him do it before. There's a word from The Lord today is so thankful that he has provided the holy scriptures that we might learn and live thereby. There in the Acts of the Apostles in the third chapter, verses 19 and 20. It reads, Repent then, and turn to God, so that your sins may be wiped out. That times of refreshing may come from the Lord and that he may send the Messiah. Who has been appointed for you, even Jesus? I want to preach today for the Samonic title, Make a Uter. Make a U-turn. If you have a driver's license, and I assume you do, if you operate a vehicle, that you would be familiar with something called the U-turn. It's when you take a sharp left at 180 degrees and head in the opposite direction. Now in Maryland, if you are caught making a U-turn or U- You're really breaking the law. And you can pray, call on the Lord, quote scripture. Speak in tongues, but there's a good chance for that offense that you might get a ticket. In Maryland, it's $200 Amen. Some of y'all already knew that. And a point on your driver's license. If we're honest today, we've all found ourselves making a U turn, a Y O U turn. And that's when we change directions in life. A turn in the direction of having a better attitude, a better sense of our behavior and our point of view. And so today think about the vehicle, but I want you to focus in on what does it take for you and I to turn our lives around. In the Bible, this turn is really considered Our being able to repent. And to repent is to change one's mind. To change one's mind. Now some theologians make note of two types of repentance. The first is attrition. That's when you repent when you realize that you've gotten yourself into trouble And you say, oh Lord, help me. And your intentions are that you really just got caught. attrition that you need to get yourself off the hook and so you repent to save face But there's also, as it relates to repentance, contrition. That's when you are truly hurt And truly sorry for having disappointed God. It is to be at a place when you know that you've hurt the heart of God. Now I don't know about you, but we've all been down that road and whether we premeditated that particular sin, but to turn And not to say I've blown it again, but say, Lord, I'm sorry because in doing so, I've really hurt the heart of God. I know both. Attrition was like when you thought you got a whooping coming and you say, Lord, I'm not gonna do it again. You know, I'm so sorry. But contrition means that you really desire a fresh start. Aren't you glad you serve the kind of God that gives you not just the second chance But so many chances. Repentance is what Jesus preached as he went from town to town. letting folk know that they have to repent because the kingdom of heaven was at hand. John the Baptist preceded him just with the same sermon Every week, every day, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. In our text today, we meet one by the name of Peter. A committed follower of Jesus Christ, someone who's highly regarded, he began his career as a fisherman But one day, Jesus stopped by where he was and said to him, follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. And that's what the Lord is saying to us. He's saying, I want to make you more than what you currently are. I know what you're known for But I have other work for you to do. Can you imagine leaving the family business to follow who's some considered a radical in the person of Jesus Christ? But Peter did it His brother Andrew went along with him. They followed Jesus. One day the Lord tapped me on my shoulder real hard. He said, I want you to follow me. I had no choice but to drop my own net and to follow Jesus. Aren't you glad you made that kind of decision? As I look back, I'm so glad he allowed me and still allows me to follow him My God, I was not looking to follow him full time. I just want to do just enough. Let me just testify today. Just enough to say, you know, I I know something, but not willing to jump all the way in. But one day he pressed upon my heart that you are all in How many folk are all in today that I'm on this road for the Lord and I'm going to run this race just for him? Peter wasn't part of the inner circle. He was right there with Jesus in some of the high moments. But when the going got tough, Peter denied Jesus Oh faithful Peter said, No, I don't I don't even know him. And Jesus said, You'll deny me three times, but Peter He did just that. But aren't you glad that in spite of what you may have done, that Jesus already knew the plan for his life? And so Peter found himself uh locked up uh in prison. He gets out and has a one-night revival, and 3,000 souls are saved. He baptizes them right on the spot He is someone that the Lord can use. And he did not mind telling everyday people about Jesus. He didn't mind telling religious leaders about we shouldn't be afraid of folk. Amen? Ever been in the office with your boss? I know they the boss But you just have to you can't help yourself it just come out and you don't mind that then you just say praise the Lord I told the story some years ago That I was a part of the broadcast for uh telethon. And we were there, it was late, I was tired, and they said, we'll come on back to you in two minutes. They said, we now have a total I say, praise the Lord. And didn't realize I'd said it. And didn't take it back. So don't be afraid to express Jesus in the midst of anyone, let them know I am a child of the King. Amen? Nothing to be afraid of Truth of the matter is they'll respect you because you're not trying to hide your faith, but you're being real in him. And Peter talked about this U-turn, this Y-O-U-turn. As we explore the text today, I see in this a few things. First of all, there was a sort of proposal. Peter said, Repent then and turn to God, so that your sins may be wiped out. Peter is saying, here's something to consider. That here's an opportunity, really, to get your life together. Anybody ever sold you something and you knew they had a sales game on and you didn't stop them, they went through the whole thing. Now in your opinion, is this something you think might be good for your family? I know. I sold insurance I would get right there and say, amen. I say, no, you know, this is a product that you might want to have. And what Peter is saying that you need to make this U-turn, you should think about and consider turning. Away from the way that you're living. That's good news. He was offering kind of a pardon. He was not the president or the governor who offers pardons But he was a servant of the Lord. And he's saying that I have the executive power through the Lord Jesus Christ to say to you, just turn. Turn away from the way that you're living. Turn. Move your whole self away from that that's held you hostage. And just try for the moment to turn. Ever been in that place in the Lord that you were in a place and you know the Lord was pressing upon you to say, now you need to turn. And you gave a half a turn Not a whole one. You see, well I'm gonna give uh a sum of it. I kind of position myself. I'm not fully don't let me get a cramp here. I'm not fully turned the other way. And Peter is letting them know that Jesus died just for that very reason. He went to the cross so that you might be able to have a you turn. Or maybe you you you you feeling uh let me just tell I make new turns often. Amen. I made some new turns this week And so did you. There's some things that you were seeing or thinking or you did and you were driving home and the Lord convicted you and you had to make a U-turn. Am I by myself this morning? Anybody made a U-turn this week? Okay, I'm just checking. And because all have sinned and come short of the glory of God, you ought to be glad that you can make Oh, you turn. To turn from that that's distracted you. So I'm going to turn back to the Lord and be in fellowship. I love what 1 John 1 and 9 says. If we confess. Our sins. He is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Make a you Peter said, now you've got to consider this. This is good for you. But there was also a promise embedded in that. Repent then and turn to God so that your sins. But there's this. That times of refreshing may come from the Lord. The Lord always keeps his promise. He never goes back on his word. He's not like you and I. We try, but we uh sometimes don't keep that promise And this is a benefit for those of us who are willing to do the right thing in the Lord. This word refreshing refers to restoration. It refers to the strength. It refers to nourishment. And this refreshing comes from the Lord Himself. The one who died for us. I don't know about you, but just refreshment sounds good, don't it? Some of y'all like refreshments. There's gonna be refreshments afterwards. You don't leave. Till you get your refreshments But when you turn to the Lord, there's this refreshing. In the Old Testament, it really related to the outpouring of the Spirit of God. When the Spirit came upon us. And when you repent, it will be painful to separate from what you've been doing. I'm going to go down that road. We have found ourselves stuck in categorizing sin. Like Irma. We'll say, you know, I'm not that bad. That's only a category one sin. And really uh it was category two. But God is no respect of persons. Sin is this. Amen. There's no little sin and no well now that one's a five. But we all have sin. And he says you want to turn and there'll be some refreshment You'll feel better when you lay your burdens down. You will feel better when you come clean with the Lord. And again, I I'm thinking by myself today. I mean you you ever found yourself? You know you're wrong And somebody happened to mention, then you get mad at them. But when you know you're wrong and the Holy Spirit weighs upon you, you say, okay, and you will turn back to him. You'll make a y some of y'all right now. And maybe me. Let me let me let me let me take a yeah a U-turn. Turning back to the Lord. The promise is made. Like what 2 Peter says 3 and 9 says, the Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness. But his long suffering puts up with us, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. Aren't you glad that God puts up with you and with me? And we say I'm not gonna do it again, and we do it again, and so you find your life is a life of uterns. Amen. The proposal is made by Peter. There's this promise, but there's also a provision. Verse 20. And that he may send the Messiah. After you repent and your sins are wiped away, and the refreshing comes, that he may send the Messiah who has been appointed even Jesus. Aren't you glad about that today? That sounded like good news. But this is when we kinda expect something to come and That a well be made, but aren't you glad that Jesus comes? He is the one who can change our lives around And God is preparing at this point to send the Messiah. And know the Messiah has come. Amen? Some faces may tell you they're still waiting for him to come. I was saying this morning as we set up, and I always encourage everyone to learn other faith systems. Amen? You might have two Sunday school verses, but you ought to know what other folk are talking about. You can witness to them And my friends drove by in their little van this morning. They they knew what I was doing. I said, Praise the Lord. I knew who they were. And they said, hey, how you I said, how you doing? I said, you go ahead now. We gotta spread the word. Meaning the word of Jesus Christ, the one who died and rose again. But we kind of knew what the deal was. And so stand on your faith today and know that Jesus has come and he will come again. He says, the one who's been appointed for you and for me. That's kind of special. I'm kind of glad that the Lord uh came and died just for me. I I feel kind of special that he would come through forty and two generations just for me He had to make it personal. He didn't just die. No, he died for my sins. He died to give me an opportunity so that I could make this U-turn for the better. David knew something about that. I mean David messed up. David was God's man, but he he blew it But he did not mind saying, you know what? I messed up. Psalm 51 says, Have mercy on me. I can stop right there. Have mercy on me. Oh God, according to your unfailing love, according to your great compassion. Blot out my my my transgressions and wash away all my iniquity and cleanse me from sin. Don't you feel fresh now? But nobody will force you to make a U-turn. You gotta decide for yourself, I will make a turn. You know, I I know that in the spirit you say, I see this reverend, I see the you turn, but there's a military folk in here And they know about faith. That you're at one place, now I may not do it because I didn't do military, but I think that you You turn, is that right, Brother Kenny, and Deacon Marsh, and y'all was in the Army and Navy and Marines and all that? You had to do an above face. And so we've got to do an about face when it comes to the things that we face and to come clean with the Lord. And in doing so, He will begin to change your life. And begin to change your outlook. Things will look a lot different once you make a U-turn. My God, you won't go down that same road again. Why? You know what the penalty of sin is. But to know that he'll change my mind. The Bible says, let this mind be in you that was also in Christ Jesus who humbled himself even to the it's gotta be a mind thing. Amen? You gotta change your mind. I just want to just stop right. You gotta change your thinking Amen. You can't put garbage in and expect to have a clear mind. Garbage in, garbage out. And so do your best to put good things in your mind Do your best to read the right kind of material. Do your best to watch the right kind of program, but make sure you get the word of God in you I dare you to take a little a little bite every now and then. I've said before that God has blessed me with this devotional. And I'm at number eight hundred and forty-two now It's not for you. It's for me. And so what I've done because of that is every day I write a devotional. And in writing it, it gets in me that I might share it. And then Karen put it the good, make it look good. So she get it. And then when you log on, you get it. Amen. It's about spreading the good news of Jesus Christ. He will change your Position. Amen. The Bible says, be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. For as much as you know your labor is not in Vain in the Lord. Quit looking at the world. But turn your eyes upon Jesus. Look full of his wonderful face. And the things of earth will grow strangely dim in the light of his glory and grace. In the light of his glory In the light of his glory, the fact that when you turn, that things will happen. I dare you just to say, you know what? I'm turning away from the things that have held me back. I'm turning away from the things that have blocked my path. I'm I'm turning away from those things that the world told me are good. Amen. And right now I'm gonna end the sermon this way. Come on stand all over the place. And come on and stand in Facebook way. I can't see ya. But let's make A you turn not all together. All over turn. Amen And after you turn, you'll feel better. After you turn, you'll feel some peace. After you turn, you'll feel some joy. After you turn, you'll feel some hope After your church of the Lord, I'm ready to run. Why? I didn't break the law. I was leading by the law by making a you That's the word of God today. It's already blessed. Come on, give God some praise today. Yeah. Come on, surrender today. Surrender unto him I've been wanting to turn, but I I I got stuck about halfway with the Lord's help. Surrender. Come on, sing with us. Give it up Oh, yes. Just a render everything. I'm gonna be honest with you today, it's one of those areas of life that We're flesh and blood. And so we're prone to mess up and to blow it. But don't just Stay in your space, well, I I kind of messed up again. But Jesus died so that you might have the opportunity to turn away from that thing and from that person and from that place. And today you can do that. Just make your your mind up. Allow the Lord to give you this sense of refreshment. I guarantee you you'll feel better when you make the turn. Let's bow today. Heavenly Father, we thank you for Jesus It was his number one sermon. Repent. For the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Repent This is urgent. Repent and find forgiveness through Jesus Christ. Today, God, I pray. For that person and for this person to stand in the pulpit, that we know that repentance is necessary. to regain full fellowship with you. So today God, turn us around and let us head into a new direction of life today. A new route. A new path. We're not finding any joy where we are now But you provided for us. As we come today, God, we pray even now for that person who may not know you. They've been stuck in one place for way too long. And then a peeler stops by and just puts the rubber. To the road. Repent. Turn away from your evil ways. God pray even now for that soul that may be Listening today. The Bible says you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead Thou shalt be saved. We thank you, God, for the heart that you touched today. And all of a sudden now, folk have turned it everywhere. Making U-turns all over the place. In their homes, U-turn. On their jobs, U-turn. In the communities, they're making U-turns. And they're legal. In the Lord. We thank you. We declare it today. In Jesus' name. Amen. Somebody give God a praise today. Amen. My God. I feel better. I often say that if the word can't get to preach it, then I'm bringing it. I bring a y'all word. It's an all word. For all of us today, thank God for each of you as you continue to leave this place. Folks say, what's wrong with them? Won't they go ahead On the elevator, you just say, I'm turning it over to the Lord. Maybe you've come today and you desire to be a part of this fellowship called Harvest. The doors always open. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD. But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's come the number to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com. All you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called speeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.