I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen. Whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website, I really do believe that God has a special message just for you. A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries. Well worship experience already in progress. So there's a word from the Lord today that comes from uh the very second book of the Bible, the book of Exodus. There in the 34th chapter, we're going to pick up verse 33. It says, when Moses finished speaking to them, he put a veil over his face. But whenever he entered the Lord's presence to speak with him, he removed the veil until he came out. And when he came out and told the Israelites what he had been commanded, they saw that his face was radiant. Then Moses would put the veil back over his face until he went in to speak with the Lord. There's a subpassage that comes from 2 Corinthians 3 and 13. It says, we are not like Moses. Who put a veil over his face, so the people of Israel would not see the glory, even though it was destined to fade away. I want to preach today from the Semonic title, very simply, A Close Encounter. A close encounter. I was just as excited as the students on that particular day As we went to the Maryland Science Center, and the assignment was that an astronaut was coming to speak to a bunch of third and fourth graders. Astronaut Terry Wirtz came, he showed up, he took the platform, and I was just thinking to myself, wow, what it must be like to go out of space. And so for a moment, I was the kid. I went to all the kids, got away, they took pictures with them, and I said, excuse me. Um I was curious. that you have spent more than 212 days in space. What what is it like? Did you you sense, you know, I don't want to Rubbed the wrong way, but did you feel like did it kind of feel different that you were closer to God? You know, not the close to line of faith and journalism and he said, Oh yeah. He said, man, it felt uh it felt different to be in outer space and to be close. Uh to God, a close encounter. Now I don't want you to uh I don't want you to go get on space to I don't want you to say, uh Pastor, I've signed up for NASA's next flight. Uh but there is a way To have a close encounter, I believe, with God, and it's by way of our relationship, by way of the Word of God. I mentioned earlier how it takes you right on the scene. That it comes by way of the Holy Spirit, which is the power of God, that there are ways that we can actually have this close encounter with the real God. The Bible says that God is a spirit, but don't you sense his presence in your life? Don't make me push you, but you know when you had a God moment, things just seemed to happen, oh that was God. I just saw him show up at my house. God was on my job waiting at my desk. If I'm sounding crazy, y'all let me know. You know, God was in that meeting God was behind the wheel. Oh y'all heard that before. And that somehow you've had a close encounter with God. A God who has so many attributes, and attributes just means simply a quality or characteristic of who we are. And your best attribute might be that you know your attribute is that you're a person who is a helper. You're known for certain things. But the God we serve has so many attributes and I just want to mention a few of them and and there are Hebrew names. In Genesis 181 he's Elhim He's the strong one. Don't you see God all buff in your mind? Genesis 14, 20, Elion, he's the most high. Genesis 16, 13, Elroy, the strong one. Genesis 17, 1, El Shaddai, Almighty God. Exodus 3. 13, Yahweh, Lord I am. He's a self-existent God. Exodus 4 and 10. And Ania, Lord, servant. And so we think about God and how we're able to get in this space, in this place that we can fellowship with Him. So in the Bible today we meet one by the name of Moses. Moses is one whose life is really something to behold. During the time when mean Pharaoh was going to kill all the male Israelites. Uh God worked on the heart of his mother. She said, I tell you what, we're gonna put him in a little basket, allow him to go on the river, and then Pharaoh's daughter picked him up. Well y'all know the story Uh-huh. And he said something wrong. These are not my people. And it came to a time he knew exactly who he was. But Moses wrote those first five books of the Bible Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, called the Pentateuch, the Torah. And in that he lays out the law of God. And then he would go up to see God on Mount Sinai. I mean, think about God's steps effort. He would go up some 7,500 feet. And modern people who climb say it would take four and a half hours to go up and down. But Moses made time to get into the presence of God. We may not want to walk one step, but to think that you wanted to be in his presence in such a way, and of course God invites us. You know, so well he never told me no. He said, Come under me. All you who labor the heavy laden. That's what Christ says. But God is waiting. He's made an appointment. He's waiting for us to take time to be in his presence, how many want to be in the presence of a holy and a mighty and an all-powerful God But that still blows me away that I can get into his presence. That little old me from down here in Baltimore can just say, I'm gonna get in the presence of God. And you know when you've been in his presence. Something happened to you when you say, God, I know I was you. I know you were with me. I listened to what you were saying. It is a close encounter. So Moses goes up the second time around. The first time he had attitude. So he broke the first stones, but isn't God great? Come on back up, Moses. I'm gonna say it again. And we broke some stones and had some bumps in the road, but God still invites us to come to be in his presence. I think I got you yet, man. That's amazing. That you mean right where I am? Yes, he invites me to be in his presence. Moses comes up. God speaks to him. There's the scene of the cloud. And all of a sudden he knows that God is there. God begins to speak to him. He begins to write down what God has said, all the commandments, and then he comes back down to earth. Literally. It would have been at a high place and then somebody come get on your last nerve after that. He said, oh man. You know, he comes down. You know, they have been impatient, but he comes down from that high place. And begins to share with them because he has had a close encounter with the Holy God. And things happen when you get in God's presence. First of all, I believe there is a glow. Let's take verse 35. They saw that his face was radiant. They who had been waiting. I don't know where Moses is. He'd been there 40 days. Should we pick somebody else? I ain't seen him. Have you seen him? And but when he comes down, his face is bright. There's a glow on him because he spent quality time with a holy God. Has someone ever said to you, you look different? I mean it really minute. Like you look, you don't dump, you look, you look to her. Whether it's in my hair, the old maybe I got new glasses No, I've lost some weight. Oh well what is it? People will say to you because this is your countenance is a little different. This is something is different about you When he came down, there was this radiance that he had been in the presence of God. And don't you know, you and I can have a glow as well? May not say a mumbling word, just good morning, good morning to you. Oh, something wrong with them. They have been and you have been in oh I'm getting excited about that, in the presence of a holy God. So much so that when you come out of prayer, oh, there's something on you. You look a certain way. There's a certain glow about you. Has it ever happened to you? And you didn't even know it. You're like, hey, how you doing? They're like, do I know you? No, I don't know you. You look familiar and what they see is they see the God in you. What they see is the glow of God resting upon you once you come out and come down from your time of being uh it'll happen. I dare you, I double dog dare you to try it. I'm gonna shut the door, shut everything off, and get in my anybody on my knees, and then when I come out I don't even know folks in traffic going. What you look at? I've been with the holy God. I've had a close encounter with a God who is real. Gotta lock yourself up sometimes and say you know what? I know I was gonna go, but give me a minute. I think it was the George Mess choir put out, Come On in My Room. And Jesus is my doctor. He writes out all my prescriptions. I can see that mother saying, we only go doctor Hold on, baby, and mama said, Give me a closet. And once she came out, that boy was held. And when you come out of your prayer closet, things will happen because You have the glow of God resting upon you. When I began to read this thing, I got excited. Say, did I go out with nothing on me? I need to have some gold. I need to take a moment and say, wait a minute, let me pause life busy. season and say God thank you for allowing me to be oh anybody ever been there? Anyone know what that feels like to be in his presence? And to come out feeling a different way, all your burdens have been laid to the side, not pulling your hair out, because God, I've been with you When psalmist says, seek the Lord in his strength, seek his face continually. Always Trying to seek the face of God. Always trying to see what God says about it. And you'll be amazed that when you go in with one way, you'll come out a different way. You go into prayer I'm just checking, taking a poll. Have you ever gone in to his presence Feeling one way, and then you come and say, wait a minute, that don't even bother me no more. I'm all right. I got my answer by way of prayer. A glow. But there's also a flow. Ah, says then Moses would put the veil over His three what I went like something wrong with it and wasn't look let me just uh y'all let me just So that that way when I go back with God I'll leave but when I come out with uh I'm done But that's the flow because there was something that he had shared because he had spent time with God. He didn't bring down no foolishness. He brought down some real meat because he had spent time with God. A flow is when something is continuous and steady and consistent. And there's this outpouring because he has spent time with God, he came down with the tablets. God told him what to write. On the stones. God dictated it. Some of y'all remember show hand. I never understood that. But it looked real cool though. It talked like what the way, but it was it made sense, didn't it? Amen. There was this book. God gave him this commandments, and there was the ten, thou shalt not kill, shall not steal human. But then he gave him some other stuff. He was the same Moses who had a speech impediment. The same bullshit saying you got the wrong wrong wrong wrong wrong one. They won't listen to me. And I can talk about a stutterer. Why? I used to be a stutterer. Amen. And God changed my tongue, but I used to stutter. Bad. Had a struggle getting worried up, but now I can speak the songs of Zion and tell you about the goodness of the Lord. So Moses had this flow. I've been with the Lord. Flowing out. I got something to say. Just came out of him. And when you come down from your high place with the Lord, something will just flow out of you. You just walk in mind your business all of a sudden, mm-hmm. Yes, Lord, thank you, Jesus. There's some things in me and they're flowing out of me, unbeknownst often to me. Amen. I'm not doing a flow a flow check Like, did you get anything? No, I'm just I'm just I'm just I'm just walking and I'm talking and I'm living with the Lord and all of a sudden things are happening within my sphere. And once you hook up with him, there'll be something to say. There was something for him to say. He had a close encounter, and because of that, something will come out of you. See when you ain't been with the Lord, other stuff come out. The real you. The head shaking you. Amen. The hand on the hip boy. I'm just talking The other you. But when you spend time with God, you may have intended to do some things, but once you come out, there's a flow from you. It may not be 25 scriptures, but God will give you some things that will help and bless others, and it'll just come out of you. Well you go I'm just going to lunch. But as I'm going to lunch, I feel the anointing of God in my mind. I'm just going to lunch. Minding my own business, but I've been in his presence, and there is a flow that comes through me by way of God. Isn't that amazing he would look at this vessel and your vessel and say I can do some things through you? He don't need us, but he chooses this vessel. To reach what is often a stubborn and stiff necked and hard hit people. Amen. Praise God. Do you have a flow? Are you in the flow? Are there things coming from you? Just talking to you, church. That was a question. Do you feel the flow? Do you sense there's something that God has put in you that others might receive? Because you have had a close encounter. Like what Jesus says over the Gospel of John, he that believeth on me as the scripture hath said. Look at Jesus quoting Scripture. Out of its belly shall flow rivers of living water. What's that sound? It sounded like some water. What do I hear? It sounds like God is using me to his glory. It sounds like because I've been with him that things will happen through me unbeknownst to me. Does that make sense this morning? That it's all a part of being in his presence. That Moses says, here is what thus saith the Lord. Got that glow yet? I see you shining back there. Got that flow yet? Got something to say and you ain't said a word but to come out of you. But let me just end it by saying, if we're not careful There can be time of a show. I said, well, I should end it on a high note. That's a good note. That Paul picks up this narrative. And it's deeper theological. It says, 2 Corinthians, we are not like Moses, who put a veil over his face. So that the people of Israel would not see the glory, even though it was destined to fade away. If we're not careful, We'll try to have a glow and we've not spent any time with the Lord. We'll walk around saying, praise the Lord. But behind that there is nothing. Oh, ain't he worthy? Nothing. Oh, he'll make a way Nothing. Moses probably got so busy he didn't have time. So busy, his favorite show was on. So so busy on Facebook. So busy he didn't have time to go to the mountain. And we get busy. And we don't have time and don't make time, and we lose our glow. Lose our radiance. Have you been there? Well I'm gonna testify for you. It was a busy week, so busy, I don't know how. And you spent little to no time in his presence and your week was a wreck. What happened? You ain't go to the mountain. But I had my veil on. But it wasn't no glow. But when somebody asked me, ain't you the church? Well praise the Lord. But there was a show. I had nothing to offer because I didn't spend time. I didn't have a close encounter. What Paul was saying deeper was that there's no need for that because you can come to Jesus just as you are Now he wasn't busting on Moses. He was just saying that in life it'll fail unless we spend time. Make time to stop. I love the saints of old. They would just sit out on the porch with a piece of cardboard looking like a fan. They would just. W fan and rock. But they were humming some old song. And they found a way to say my I I I love technology. I got two cell phones, iPad, two computers, and let me check my fake and and we Oftentimes, we'll miss the quality time. Do I have a witness at the end of the day? I'm all by myself. And then when somebody on the job approach you, you done buffed up Oh I ain't gonna take it. It wasn't right. You're still wearing the veil, but your radiance has faded away. I said that because we all do it. But thank you, Moses, just for reminding us of the importance of having a close encounter. Book of Hebrews says this. It says, let us approach God's throne of grace with confidence. So that we may receive mercy and find grace to help us in our time of need. We have got we We have got to make more time to have a close encounter with the Holy God. A God who is so powerful. A God who is eternal. His existence will never end. A God who is immutable. He's unchanging. A God who is just. No respect to a person, a God who is omnipotent. all-powerful God who's omnipresent. He's everywhere. At the same time a God who's omniscient. He knows everything. A God who is one. There is no other. A God who is worthy of all praise and glory. A God who is righteous. He won't look past wrongdoing a God who is sovereign. He's supreme, a God who is spirit. The Bible says God is spirit. And those who worship him must do it. And spirit and in truth, for the Father seeketh such. Amen Isn't that good news today? There's an old song I used to like to hear. I love it. God is the joy and the strength of my life. removes all pain, all misery, all strife. He promised to keep me, never to leave me. He's never fallen short of his word. I've got to do what? Fast. And pray, stay in the narrow way, keep my life clean every day. I want to go with him when he comes back I've come too far and I'll never turn back. God is all in all. Aren't you glad today you serve that kind of God? That he's everything that you need Oh, I'm glad today that he is the kind of God who is everything that you need. We gotta return back to that. Yeah, yeah, yeah. The world is is turning. Yeah things are happening. Yes kind of but but but God is still God. And you can still make an appointment with him. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed a close encounter. My God, I said him right now. In this place. Hey, I'll tell him right now. When you talk about him like that, that she's gonna show up You mention his name like that and put him on blast? Don't you know he'll show up in your experience? I feel him right now in this place. I want a close encounter. Is that what you desire today? It's to be in this very presence. To be right where he is. Hey! Hallelujah! I desire that today Hey. Hey. Glory, glory. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.