I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries. It's no accident that you're about to listen to this particular sermon. I'm convinced that God has a word just for you With done with tenure, Who told you I was saying you can only come with this five Who shall move where to hide you? Whose word the love can catch a falling time? I know I really All of the Asia and the eye with the Everything In the rise to space things and holding Run to the weaving the war and wings. Ain't gentle hand behold me when I'm broken be conquered death to breathe. And I hope very I know my regions have With the precious light he gave, but now he would lie and clear. And I know I will be And in time we can be good. I know my team I know my deep. To take away my chair. How many persons believe that today? I know my Redeemer lives. He has redeemed us from the penalty of sin. How many folk use coupons? Amen. And you've got to redeem them for some value. Well, we've been redeemed today by the blood of Jesus Christ. Let us bow together Heavenly Father, we thank you for another chance to stand and to proclaim the good news of Jesus Christ. In a world where there's so much bad news, we've just stopped by on a Sunday morning to declare that you live And that you live in the hearts of believers. I pray for now, God, that I might decrease and that you might increase. Lord, save a soul today Encourage another and when this time is done, we'll be so thankful to give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. God is so good. He's so worthy. Want to share from John, the Gospel of John, the 15th chapter. Verse number 15 will be our time of sharing. And it reads, I no longer call you servants Because a servant does not know his master's business. Instead, I have called you friends. For everything that I learned from my father, I've made known unto you. Want to share today from the Samonic title, A Friend Request. A friend request. If you own a personal computer or at least have logged on a time or two, then you have probably heard of something called Facebook. Have you? It is a social networking opportunity for persons who can log on and connect with other people In fact, there are more than 800 million people around the world who log on to or consider themselves to be a part of Facebook. We understand that most persons have at least, on average, 130 friends. you may have more. And what this means is you're able to share messages. You're able to share uh pictures you're able to share sometimes personal I believe too personal uh information on those sites Some years ago, I had the church Facebook site, I may as well testify, and I didn't do it right because I got all your business So much so I have to go ahead and cancel it. Some things cast alone need to know about you. And so I have been in the mode as of late. I've got a few friends and I've not confirmed anybody else and don't be mad at me. I'm still your friend. I just don't want to read about you And so what happens with this is you can actually, once you get a Facebook account You can put your profile in there about what you do. And what happens at that point, you can actually add friends. These are persons you would invite into your social circle. But you know, I find that this whole sense of friendship is nothing new, and there's nothing new under the sun because I believe that Jesus was already making friends Years and years ago during his public ministry. He had a way of finding people where they were and sharing with them and befriending them as they followed him Now on Facebook you can either confirm or ignore. But I believe today that in our life that the Lord wants to confirm us. He wants to make us a part of his friend list. In the text before us today, it is the Gospel of John. And by the time we get to this text, Jesus It's really right on the eve of his trial. He's about to be crucified. So he's spending time with those who are closest to him, his disciples. And he's sharing with them a kind of a review on what they've been through, what they've been challenged by, and at the same time, he's also trying to prepare them for what's going to happen next He talks about he and his father. I am the vine, my father's the gardener. He talks about this sense of being connected Isn't it great to be connected not just on Facebook but to be connected to the Lord Jesus Christ? And as he's sharing with them the whole time, he's trying to let them know that there is a transition coming And that whatever they do, it must be rooted in love. That's the whole piece about our faith. You may not know all the books of the Bible and all the scriptures But make sure that you know that he's commanded us to love one another. That really is the crux of our faith. You can have everything else going on and you still hating on folk If everything is going on in your life and you just cannot love them, they're despicable, you can't stand them, then you are not really practicing the Christian faith. That does not mean that you're a pushover. That does not mean that you're going to take so much stuff. But what it does mean is we've got to love one another. The Bible says by this, folk will know that you're one of my disciples. Isn't that something that folk will know not based on your big cross? Not based on your Bible, but they're looking to see how you would treat one another And sometimes Christians are hard on Christians. My God, they'll beat folk up. Not worried about the world, but Christians will sometime take it out on themselves. And so what happens is Jesus in the modern vernacular is really trying to say uh that I'm really trying to change your profile. Trying to change your status. I know that on the Facebook you give a undercover name. You don't give your real name, but what he's saying to them is that because of what's about to happen, I want to be able to change your profile from being just a servant to a friend. It does not happen automatically. We live in a microwave generation. We want things to happen right now. But it takes some time of walking with the Lord. It takes some time of talking with the Lord. It takes some ups and downs for you to draw closer to the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. And oftentimes when we are faced with dilemmas, we're being drawn closer to Christ. And so what He's sharing with them is: for all this time you've been with me, you've been a servant. There's nothing wrong with being a servant. He taught them what it was like and what it meant to serve each other, but it said a servant does not know his master's business A servant is not quite there yet. You know some stuff, you know how to serve, but you're not where the Lord would want you to be Love the old hymn to serve this present age, my calling to fulfill. Oh, may all my power engage to do my mess. I don't mind serving I love to serve. I feel like I want to serve the Lord every chance I get. But he's saying that now comes the time that I gotta change your profile. I gotta confirm you as a friend. And he does that because I believe he sees the potential in us. I no longer call you a servant. But I'm about to change your status because I believe that at that point he could see the potential in them Don't you know the Lord sees potential in you? While the world may talk you down, while the world may talk about you, he's saying, I see something really special in you. I don't know about you, but I didn't make most likely to succeed in my high school annual. I wasn't a popular guy. You know, I didn't start on the basketball team. I was second string. But nevertheless, in life, God, by way of Jesus Christ, sees what's in you and what your potential is. That's why he changed their profile. You are no longer just my friend. My servant. But you are now my friend Is that something you want to do? To know that the Lord will confirm you? While the world may deny you, he'll confirm you as his friend Because in doing so, you then learn what the master's business is. And the master's business is reaching somebody for Jesus The master's business is letting someone know it's going to be okay. The master's business is letting folk know that you may be down right now, but the Lord can lift you up. That's the master's business As a servant, they couldn't get all that. While they were in close proximity to Jesus, while they hung out with him, there came a point he changed who they were And he wants to do it in our lives. And so he says, I see what you're able to do, what you have the potential to do. But also let me let you know that I have a wider perspective. I now call you. Friends. I don't know how that makes you feel, but some folks will call you a friend, but they're not your friend. Some folks have Facebook you 20 times, but they don't really care much for you. I always tell my children, friends are strong words. My friend called, are you sure that's your friend? I mean, friends are folk who stick together through thick and thin. Friends won't go behind your back and Talk about you and go behind your back and set you up. But friends will hang with you. I've often heard it said when you get a certain age, you ain't got but a couple Yeah, I mean you know you can talk about you you're popular on Facebook now you got some friends but real friends how many folk got one or two? Come on now, let me see your hand. So Holy Ghost poll Yeah, one. Amen. Other folk will hang with you when things are going well. Folk will hang with you once you're on a Time magazine and once you make the couple of people, oh, they with you. But when you get down and out, you cannot find them. They are like their colleagues, they're social, but they're not your friends. And so Jesus changes their status and their profile because he knows there's a water perspective. You've got work to do. I'm about to go, but you're going to need to know what it means to be my friend. When you're persecuted, you want to know I'm a friend of the Lord. When I go through tough times, I want to know that I'm a friend of God. He gets the big picture. He knew it would not end there. He knew that they got some ups and some downs along the journey. And so he has the why. Aren't you glad God has a big view? Of what you're going through. Aren't you glad God has a bigger view of what you're going to be? If folk could actually chart it and they could predict, they wouldn't give you much chance of succeeding But the fact that the Lord has his eyes on you, the fact that he's got the bigger picture in life, it gives you some hope. But you don't look too hopeless today. You look kind of hopeless today. And is it giving you hope today? Then you find yourself saying, you know what? It may not be on my resume, but I'm somebody. I'm a child of the king. And that's because I am a friend of God. He sees our potential. That's why he changes over and calls us his friend He has the larger picture in life about what we are going through and what we can become. Bible says it does not yet appear what you shall be. Ah, there's much more in you. Let me stop and pause right there. You've not reached your top level yet. There's so much more in you that God wants to do. How many folks sometimes limit themselves to who they can become? Oh, you know, I'm on the ARP now. No, no, no. God has so much more. I feel this thing this morning. He has so much more for you if you're ready to receive it. Not what the world calls you. What does the Lord call you? He has much more for you to do. But not only that, he says to them in so many words, is that you've got to have a password. Ah, look at that. You can't just log on to anybody's Facebook unless you're a hacker. But he says to them that because you are now my friend, that I get to share with you some things that the Lord has given me. He gives us access as a result of being his friend And everything we need to know is contained in the Bible. And because you are now a friend of God, are you able to plug into his word You're able to believe what he says. You're able to depend on his promises. There is a change in who they are based on their status changing. You're my friend, and therefore, now the floodgates will open up to you. And you'll be able to know more about me by reading my word, by following my statutes. That's a password. So you can't pass over the word and expect to live a holy life. But you've got to have the word of God in you. You can get it by way of C D, get it on iPod, get it on on uh iPad, however you get it, get the word in you. Could be a daily bread, could be another devotional, whatever chance you get, how many folks just want to eat some word today? Amen. Amen. Ah, like what happens when Jesus finds himself in the wilderness and he's approached by the devil. Devil said, hey man, won't you just turn this bread stone into bread? I mean you are Jesus, aren't you? And he says to him, man should not live by bread alone. But by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God, you've got to have a past word. As a result of being the friend of God, it's not so you walk around with your new status, but you know what? I've got his word to go to I've got his word to depend on. I am now a friend of God. I wasn't always a friend of God. No, I wasn't. I was going the opposite direction. Didn't want to be identified as a believer. Maybe you've always been proud to wave the banner of faith. But some of us was raised up in church and couldn't wait to get away. We didn't want to talk about Jesus. Sometimes we don't now But every time I think about what he's done for me, I get excited. And I declare today I am a friend of God But I'm not the only one. Can I just call a few witnesses and stand today? Abraham, considered to be a friend of God. Abraham has some connection with God. He was there. And God said, I'll make you a promise I need for you to get up, pack up, and go to a place I will send you, and you'll be the father of many nations. And God kept his promise Abraham packed up, went where God had sent him, and it says he's a friend of God. And then there's Moses, born in tough conditions. Braised up in Pharaoh's house. But it says that he actually sees one of his brothers being attacked. Commits a crime. He's on the road He's a fugitive, and God meets up with him on the backside of the mountain. And the Bible tells them that he begins to talk with God by way of a burning bush. That would not be consumed, but instead he talked to God as one talks to a friend. I don't know about you, but when I talk to my friend, man, we have some laughs. And we talk, we share. And when I talk to God, if I'm talking to God of the friend, I won't hold back on him. If I'm talking to God of the friend, I don't mind telling him what I'm going through. If I talk to God of the friend, I don't mind letting him know that I need him every hour. Trying to be and desiring to be a friend of God. He's made a request today for you. Have you ignored what God has been saying to you? Have you signed off? Have you changed your page name? He wants to be your friend. And I'm so glad. He didn't just talk to it, but he proved it. He went to a place called Calvary. That's proven that I'm your real friend. He went to a place and he shared his blood just for me and just for you. A friend. Giving his life just for us. You may have some folks, your buddies, but they'll only go so far for you When the going gets rough, they'll say, uh, text me. Uh, get back with me, K. L-O-L, uh, you know, but they will not be with you the way the Lord can. My God, he'll be with you through every situation. Will you believe that today? Has he been with you today? Has he made a way in your life today? I'm talking to you, church. Yeah, you, you, church. Has he been with you? Has he brought you through some places and when it was all said and done, and when the dust cleared? You have one friend. What a friend we have in Jesus. All our sins and griefs to bear. What a privilege it is to carry everything to God. In prayer. Oh, you just gotta request to be a friend He was to be your friend today. As you stand over this place, that is the word of God. It is already blessed. Lord, I want you to not just be my friend, but my savior. I want you to be what I need as I'm going through. I need you every hour. Sharing this week on Facebook with one of my friends. No, you only have a handful. And uh they sent a message. I'll do a message on Facebook. And the scripture that came up was one that I said, my how the spirit works. It says to be a friend of the world is to be an enemy of God. In other words, you can't love the world so much that you forget who it is that's brought you through Isn't that something? Yeah, I want to be here. I want to be in. But I'm so directed by what the world says is in. I'm so trendy. I'm so with it. Until I compromise who I am. Am I a friend of the world? Then watch it if folk think you're so popular. Watch it if your friend page gets over 2,000. Oh man, you're somebody. But don't get so connected to the world Because what you end up doing is compromising. No, that's not a teenage message. That's a grown folks' message It don't take much for the world to say, hey, have you tried this? Hey, don't you remember back in the day? And before you know it, you've plugged in again to be a friend of the world. Maybe you've come today, friendless. Don't even have Facebook. But I've come to tell you today. He will carry you through. He will be more than the world against you. Let's bow today. He really is Lord. And he's really risen from the dead. Father, I come in the name of Jesus. And I thank you that. I don't need to check my status. I know who I am. I'm a child of the king. God, as we come today Confirm us. Let us know that there's much in us that's not even been developed. And as you've got the larger view of our lives, who will become? And yet, the result of being a friend is getting the inside stuff. The things my father told me, I'm gonna share with you. And while I may be departing, Going back to glory. It's all written in my word. Everything you need is in the word. Father, I pray today. That some soul was lifted. I pray today the next time we log on Facebook We won't check our messages, but we'll think about the message of hope that you brought us through God, we thank you today. There may be one that's come today. Bible says he be a friend to the friendless. Bible says that he hung out with sinners. He hung out with folk who were outcast. That's who Jesus hung out with. And today he wants to hang out with you. If you've come today and you've never accepted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, it can happen today Right where you are. Bible says, thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in my heart that God raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Lord save somebody today who may have come and they're not sure who their friend is. You can be their friend today if they accept you as their personal savior. Lord, we thank you, and we love you, and we glorify you. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. comtoharvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called Seeds of Encouragement. You can get them by way of iTunes from Podcasting. or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.