Pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen, whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website I really do believe that God has a special message just for you. A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries for a worship experience already in progress. Okay. See the Jesus. See the Jesus. I would love. Yeah, yeah, yeah. See the Jesus. See the Jesus. Slowly we can mark. Well. New life, new hope, won't you listen to angel painting? Glory Glory to the new Oh King, help me sing it now. Jesus, Jesus, Jesus, Jesus. Oh, what a wonderful child. Well, well, well, Jesus, Jesus Jesus, Jesus, the Lord will hope won't you listen to the angel Singing to the new body. He was hero. By the angels born in a lowly manger. The Virgin Mary was his mother, and Joseph was his earthly father. Three wise men. They came from afar. They were guided by that shining star to see King Jesus where he lay in a manger. Fill with hay. Come on, help me. Jesus. Jesus. Jesus. Oh yeah, yeah. Oh my. Jesus. New life new hope for me bringing. Oh won't you listen? The king angels be singing Glory, glory, glory, glory, glory to the new glory. Let me say one more time. He was heroin. By the angels. He was born in a low reger. The Virgin Mary was his mother. And Joseph was his earthly father. Three wise men. They came from afar. They were guided by that shining star. To see King Jesus where he lay In a manger, fear with pay, come on helping me. Jesus, Jesus, Jesus, Jesus Oh Varavarbach, Ma Ma Ma Sus, Sina Jesus, the Lord in Vikema. Oh, you like You hope God won't you listen to the angel singing? Glory, glory, glory, glory, glory to the new For him, one more time, glory. Glory, glory for Amen. Glory to the newborn king. We give God the praise and the glory today, and There's something about knowing that you got a king as a father, one who will watch out for you, one who will care for you. Let's bow over this place today. Heavenly Father, we come. And we thank you for sending Jesus Christ, your Son, to die for us. But he got up from that grave with all power in his hands. I pray as we come today, God, that you might search each of our hearts. We thank you for your word. I pray now that I might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today, encourage another. But when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. Such a wonderful day. And can I say it's glad to see each of you? Amen. Come on, give me a smile And if you can muster one up, it's good to see your face. It's good to be in the presence of the Lord one more time. Uh there is a word today of which shared briefly. Romans fifteen verse number thirteen. Just one passage. Romans the fifteenth chapter. Verse number 13, it reads, May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace as you trust in him, so that you may overflow with hope By the power of the Holy Spirit. I want to preach today from the Samonic title: Simply A Glimmer of Hope. A glimmer of hope. It's the most wonderful time of the year. Andy Williams belts that out and has for many years. And it is a wonderful time of the year. You can walk through the malls, you can hear that song. If you're not careful, you'll go right with the medley. And while they've been retakes of it, Andy still does it like no one else. It's the most wonderful time of the year. It's also the most challenging time of the year for a lot of people. What I mean by that is that this is a time that mental health experts say that we're challenged. We're depressed that we are in a place that is not always happy, happy, happy. In fact, it may not be festive, even though we know the Christ child. Even though we know the Lord, there still comes those times when we are chap. I thought about that this week In fact, the Lord flipped the script on me about Thursday and said, Your message is not the one. I want you to take time and to minister to persons who may just be holding on. Who maybe had to fight just to get in church. Who it was a struggle just to get out the bed this morning because this is A challenging time for them. But I just stopped by with a glimmer of hope, and not hope as the world sees it. Now for the world, hope is I hope we win the Super Bowl. Uh for the world the hope is I hope we make it to the World Series. I hope I get a raise next year Uh that is what the world does. The world will hope soul, God's people know soul. They know he'll make a way for them. And so we come today to look at this sense of the advent that Christ is coming And in his coming, we have hope in him. In fact, Paul says early in this particular book that we're saved by hope But hope that is seen is not hope. Would you agree that hope sometimes is what you just kind of see out there, you believe, you trust God it will happen. And so Christ really is the symbol of our hope. That whenever you find yourself in a place where you are losing hope, and then when you're feeling down, think of Christ. Think of Jesus, the one who endured so much and yet was victorious. Amen. And so I just really want to stay right there as we think about how do we unpack this one passage. We'll look at really this sense of a source of hope that God is a source of hope. He is one who also shares his hope with us. He's not a stingy God. Because he is God. He says, I am available just for you. And he's one who seals our hope by way of the Holy Spirit. Let me ask you a question. What does hope feel like for you right now? What does hope look like for you right now? And paint the picture on the canvas of your own mind based on where you are today. Here's what hope looks like for me. It means I can make it. It means that I'm down, but I'm not out. It means that it may look cloudy, but sunshine is on the way. Paint on your spiritual canvas what hope looks like for you. And while it may be a glimmer, I can assure you that God can expand it. Do you believe that today That you see I may not have a lot of material stuff, but I I got some hope. I believe that God is faithful And the fact that he sends his only begotten son is proof to me that, first of all, he is the source of hope. And so what Paul is sharing to the church at Rome He's writing to a church. He's talking unity. He's talking love each other. He's talking all of the things that the body of Christ would need. He's writing to Rome and the church at Rome. That is the church people. Amen. Can I say it again? This is a word for the church people. He's saying for those who are in church, those who love the Lord, those who will say, Thank you, Jesus. He says, as a prayer of intercession, he stands in the gap and says, May the God of hope. Fill you with all joy and peace as you trust in him. Can I tell you that scripture got me excited? You ever have one that just jump off the page on you? And I said, that is a good word. Made the God of hope. He is the source of hope. He is the hope that we need. He is the hope of glory. Jeremiah talks about that he made plans for us, that is, to give us a future and to give us hope. How many have hope today that life will get better? Hope that trouble won't always be on your notepad, but that God is faithful and he's able. And so as he's closing this with a prayer, he's praying on their behalf. And he says, I know someone who really epitomizes what hope really is, is God And he sends his son, Jesus Christ, he sends hope to us. And so during this season, we can have hope in him. Amen. That is powerful. That's good news. That wakes me up. That gets me going. That I may not have all the material stuff, but you know what? I'm going to hope in the Lord. Can I tell an old country story? You know I love them. Years and years ago, while working in the hot Florida sun, a hundred-degree weather or more, we didn't know any better, we were 16 years old, and you would be on a rope with your back bent. and you'd be cropping tobacco for probably a mile or more all day long, smelling the diesel for about $9 a day. I never forget a crew picked me up and said, man, we can make $15. I said, praise God. I'm with y'all. And when I got in the field, they were so fast they left me. And I was trying to catch up till the field was done, and I was the only one left. And one guy said to me, Hey, you want me to hope you? I said what? He said, do you want me to hope you? I said, do you want to help me? He said, well forget you then. I'll leave you out there. And what he was saying in the country vernacular is that he wanted to help me, but I was saying he means hope. How many folk from the country? You know what I mean? Let me hope you Man, I think I never forgot that because it was that much harder. But the God that we serve is a God who will help you Won't he do it? He'll hope you out. And whatever you're going through, he will do it. And he will fill you. Paul didn't say fill them. He will fill you personally with all joy. Yeah, not not just happiness, but joy. He will fill you with joy. The Bible says the joy of the Lord is what gives me strength. Amen. A good laugh, a good I can make it. I'm hopeful, he says, the God I serve will fill you with all you'll be bustling at the scenes with joy unspeakable. All from the source. And peace. Chill peace. Uh-huh. Peace that passeth all understanding. Uh the peace that I give you, the world does not give you. The world's peace is kind of faulty. It'll run out, it'll expire, but God's peace will keep you. Won't it do it? That you shouldn't be pulling your hat, you should be losing your mind, all of a sudden you're like chilling in the Lord. And so, all from the source. But it comes by way of your trusting in Him. That God being the source and peace and joy, that's fine. But do you believe it? Do you believe that He's the one who supplies it for you? Do you believe he's the one that can fill you to oh do you believe that today that the one who we're talking about is able to give you peace and able to give you joy in the midst of circumstances, in the midst of what you're going through? He is The source, go to him. But not just the source of hope, but also he don't mind sharing it. He's not a stingy guy So that you may overflow with hope. That it's so much hope I'll share hope with you. I'm sharing myself with you so much until your cup will run over. Mmm. It'll fall over in your saucer. Why? Because he says it won't just be enough to get you by. It'll be peace to just take you over. It'll be peace that'll just help you to get through your life circumstances. He says it will overflow. You have so much hope, you'll be able to share. He shares himself with us He did it by way of Jesus Christ. He sent his best, his only begotten Son, and says, Because of this, you have hope, and you can spread it Nobody has a corner on hope. And sometimes we think we really do, don't we? We think we're better than folk who don't go to church. We think we got a little bit more God and they'll say, Oh no, you go to church. And he said, Yes, right. No, you don't. You don't have any more God than anybody else. But you have a take God with you On the job. Old song says, Take the Lord with you, children, everywhere you go. In the streets, in a crowd, in your home, all alone, on the highway, on the byway. Take some hope with you this week You go and shopping, what you got? I ain't got much. I got some home. You want some? And share it with somebody. Amen. That is what we have today as we look at this passage. He's saying Not only that, but it'll you'll be overflowed. It'll be so much, it'll overcome you. Ever had a moment that you were so hopeful, and folk look at you and say, You look so dismal, and you say, I don't see what you see Say it is just the hope that I have at a Savior who's in the world today, and his name is Jesus Christ. Don't ask me how I know. I just know it's on the inside, it's working on the outside that he shares with me. I'm glad that I serve a God like that. And so Paul is just saying, it is my prayer. I'm praying on your behalf. I'm staying in the gap for you. I'm just telling you, if you come on and get some of this, it's going to take you over. That's been overtaken before. I mean how many folks swim a little bit? Or try to swim? Or want to swim? And you get out so deep and all of a sudden it, you know, that that water will go over your head Well, that's what I want you to picture that. That's what hope will do. Hope will just overcome you and overflow you to so much so, even it says then 23rd Psalm that you know the anointing That God talks about, that your cup will run over, overflow. And so we're glad today. I can see right now you're already on full. Anybody on full today? This is a check, a house check to see do you sense and do you feel that God, by way of this son Christ, is giving you the kind of hope that it may overflow. It may be of such potency that it keeps you afloat. He's the source of hope. He also has no problem sharing his hope and that you might share with someone else. The people who look like they don't need hope are the ones that need it. You know they give you the best space. Oh they they alright. I'm going over to the person who's on the corner. But the person right in your office need to hear a word of hope. Need to hear how the Lord brought you through. Need to hear how you made it. And he said, Well, I thought you had it again. Look like I got I don't have it all together, but let me tell you what the Lord will do. He will just text you over overflow. But finally Today, he seals his hope. So that you may overflow with hope by the power of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit, I believe, is what drives hope. It's the engine that gets hope going. And so it's by the power of the Holy Spirit, the person of Christ That not on our own, that we can sense that God is giving us more than a glimmer, but a great hope Victory in him. And that's what I like about this passage. It tops it off by saying it's all because of the Holy Ghost. It's all because of the person of Christ, it's all because of the power that worketh within you. And you ever felt the Holy Ghost? You ever felt him come and meet you in your car and you felt empowered all of a sudden? It wasn't uh one of them drinks you had, it wasn't five hours Six hours, whatever they it was just the Holy Spirit empowered you by such a way that you felt that He had filled you and He will what until the day of redemption I want to just say I want you to have hope today. And you can find it by way of the Lord. He sends his son to provide hope for a generation that looks as if it has it together. Watching TV lesson that my wife said, you know what? My God the stuff they put on now for the generation before that said the same thing I can't believe you I can't and they will say after that, oh my God. But you know what? There's something about the power of the Holy Ghost That will keep you centered, that will keep you on the right track, that will allow you to say, God, I'm not giving up on anybody. All things are possible. Amen. And that's what our faith does for us Amen. Faith is the suffering of things what? Hope for and the evidence of things not seen that by faith the elders obtain a good report. My God, can I spread some hope in here today? Can I just dispense some hope so you might feel and say, you know, I can make it along this journey? I'm not depending on people, places, or things I'm not depending on Wall Street or Main Street. I'm not depending on the government anybody. I'm depending on the Lord who will give me hope whenever I need it And right now we need some hope. Whatever you find in your situation, say you know what? Come, I need hope. My hope is built on nothing less Then Jesus' blood and his righteousness I dare not trust. The sweetest frame will wholly lean on Jesus. On Christ, the solid rock I stand, all of the ground is sinking sin. Aren't you glad today you can stand on him? And you can stand with him, and he'll stand with you and give you hope when it looks like you can't make anybody ever go anybody going through in the other day and saying, you know what, I'm just trying to make it, Reverend. I hear what you're saying, but I'm just Bell and making it. Well, can I tell you he's got hope today that he's the God of hope? Can I tell you today he'll give you hope? Can I tell you today he'll overflow you with hope That's it. That made the God the source of hope. Who shares his hope and who seals his hope today That is the word of God. It is already blessed. Stand all over this place today and let's give God the praise. Amen? If you know that you have hope today. I want to let you know it's possible. It's possible It's possible. But you better come to him. Paul was the kind of fellow that ran for a while. He was hopeless But one day the Lord met him on that Damascus road. Hey, what are you doing, man? You're messing with my people. I'm not gonna have it. Changed his life around And the truth is, he caught us on a road one day. He said, What are you doing? You're hopeless, but I can provide hope for you. Amen. Let's just say the first part of this: come to Jesus. Come to Jesus, come to Jesus, come to Jesus Come to Jesus just now, just now Come to Jesus, come to Jesus Here's what I know. He will save you. He will save. He will save He will save you just now, just now He will save you. I got a couple of minutes to make my case. One day I was lost in sin. Number one. I looked the part I talked the part. I knew just enough to keep the holy rollers off of me. But I did not know him in my heart. I was hard-headed, so I said, well I'll just keep playing it safe. And then light threw me a curveball Circumstances became dire, and I cried unto the Lord, O Lord, hear my cry. At that moment, he said it won't be that easy. Come on back to church. You ain't got no job. Go to Bible study and let me grow you. And today he wants to grow you. I want to introduce you to him today. His name is Jesus. As you bow your heads today, I don't want this to be a long Uh sharing, but I want it to be to the point. If you have never opened your mouth to Jesus, never said, Lord, I am lost, I'm a sinner, save my soul, and believe it. Then perhaps you may still be lost. But today that can change, and you are on the witness stand You have to say, I swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, so help me God, and say I am lost and I need you as my Savior. And the Bible says, if you have confessed with your mouth, Lord Jesus, and believe in your heart that God raised Christ from the dead, you shall be saved. That's your testimony on the stand And the judge is God who sits on high. And the witnesses, those who around say, Yeah, I saw it. They told me they got him. And there's evidence in your life. For the next 30 seconds, give yourself an inventory today and say, do I know him? Just 30 seconds. Maybe you worked it out. He'll receive you right where you are today. We need to fix up. He'll take you just as you are. As our head around this bend, while those heads are still bowed, if you know that you've never given your life to Jesus Raise your hand today. I want to pray with you right where you are today. If you know it without a shadow of doubt, I am not saved. I've never given my life to Jesus Christ. I know enough church stuff, but I'm not saved Today, while heads are bowed, I want to pray for you right where you are and give you hope today that He'll save you from all of your sins. Even if your hand does not go up, he'll receive you today. He is the hope of glory, Jesus Christ. Hallelujah. One more call. If you know it today, you're not saved. Just raise that hand. I want to just want to pray you the right way. Right where you are today. Right where you are today. Amen. If you know it, then you all you got hope. Give God a praise today. Amen. Amen. Maybe you come today, you desire to be a part of this fellowship. Call Harvest. The doors are always open just to walk away or talk away. But I'm so glad that you came today. I pray you leave out of here with so much hope that you will just drop it. Spread it as you head out today. Amen. I pray you were helped in some way by this message Be sure to follow Harvest Christian Ministries on radio, CD, podcast, or over our new website. It's comeetoharvest. org. That's Come to Harvest, C-O-M-E, the number two, and harvest. org. Take time to experience the website and all that we have to offer as a ministry. In the meantime, pray that God will continue to allow us to reach a community for Christ for the cause of the kingdom. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin. Have a great day in the Lord. You in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries for a worship experience already in progress. Come on, sing with us today if you know it to be true. How he loves. He gave his life. Glad about it today. Here's why. Jesus to Calvary. Aren't you glad about that today? What he did there Glad about that today. As you bow your heads all over this place today. God, we thank you that you loved us so much that you sent your only son, Jesus, to die for us. That's no small thing. It guarantees us eternal life as we come today. It is our prayer that your spirit might fill this place and fill the hearts of your people. You know what we stand in need of. You know what we've gone, what we've been through, and what's around the next bin, but just knowing how much you love us. We have faith that we can make it. We ask it all now in Jesus' name. Amen. As you remain standing today, let's share the scripture before us. Exodus 17, 11 through 13. Verse 11 says, as long as Moses held up his hand The Israelites were winning. But whenever he lowered his hands, the Amalekites were winning. When Moses' hands grew tired, they took a stone and put it under him, and he sat on it Aaron and Hur held his hands up, one on one side, one on the other, so that his hands remained steady till sunset. So Joshua overcame the Amalekite army with the sword. Amen. You may take your seats today in this place as we Take the opportunity to share and to those who are listening by way of radio or by way of CD or by way of the internet, we've been going through a book called I Am a Member by Thomas Rayner. And we're moving further in that book. If you don't have a copy before you leave today We have a copy of that book for you to read and to sign the pledge. And so really you in Bible study already because you read your chapter. Amen Doesn't sound too good. You've read your chapter, right? Praise Jesus. You'll read it for next week, won't you? Praise the Lord. Amen. I want to share today from the Samonic title, It's Not About Me Part two. It's not about me. Part two. And as I hold this book up, there's a chapter, or chapter four, talks about Pastor Mike. Pastor Mike is one who has some kind of schedule. He's one that is busy throughout the course of the day. And he's one who loves the Lord, one who is called by God, and one who is a servant and realizes that what he does is not really about him. I can't relate to Pastor Mike. Don't know him. I'm not sure if that's a real person, but this is Pastor Tim. I can tell you during the course of my own week Uh there are 40 hours of work as a journalist, and there are at least 35 to 40 hours of work with nothing but ministry. Yesterday was probably a 15-hour day of doing many things that prepare for this time. I'm what you call a bi-vocational pastor. I work a 9-5 or a 10 to 6, and at the same time, I am doing what the Lord has called me to do. I'm not complaining I'm glad to be chosen by him to do what he's called me to do. Amen? But I know that what I do is based on the prayers of the righteous. They do avail much. There are times when I can feel your prayers. Ain't got to be a long one. Just lower it, go with Pastor Tim Go with this family. It makes a difference that when I stand in this place, there's so much joy that I share because I can see your joy I can see your pain. I can see your struggles and I can see your victories. It shows on your face. Sometimes we come here, I can feel the heaviness in the place And there are times when I stand that we're in warfare because the enemy didn't want you to be here. He told you to get your snow shovel out, but you came anyway. He is a liar and the truth is not in him And now that we've come together today, we're so grateful to be able to share about this sense of not being about us, but being about God. And so today we'll do a few things I think that will help us to uh get through we're going to talk about the importance of holding up high hands when it comes to prayer and that every now and then those hands would get heavy But aren't you glad that God sends along some helpful hands? Amen. In our text today, we meet one by the name of Moses. He's no stranger to struggle, and is one who follows the voice of God. He's the one who brings the people of Israel out, some 600,000 strong, through the Red Sea by holding up a staff and praying unto God. He takes them to a place And he encounters along the way all kinds of enemies. Don't you know that you've got enemies? I know you thought you were most likely to succeed, that you're the most popular person on campus, but somebody don't like you And they don't like me, but I don't get caught up on it. But they had at that time enemies that were coming up against the people of God. And so Moses meets with Joshua. Joshua, my understudy, Joshua, my intern, I want you to take the men and go down to fight the Amalekites. And now you're stooting up for battle. I'm suiting up for prayer. He offers prayer support. There's always got to be somebody who's praying. Amen. And that's so important to know that you've got cover. How many folk watch the old westerns and the bad guy would be running through town? And the high sheriff said, Wait a minute, I got him, but I need some cover. Can you make sure I can get from the canteen over to the post office? And in life, there's somebody praying for you. We said it in that song earlier, mother praying for you. Family praying for you, husband praying for you. And there are people who are lifting you up. And Moses says, Here's what we'll do: I'll go up to the hill. And me and Aaron and her, and we will pray while you fight. Amen. And so he didn't just take anybody. Aaron was his big brother Her was somebody he could trust. Be careful you take to the hill with you. Amen. They might jump you on the way. Praise God. But he takes people he can trust And he goes up with his staff and engages in prayer. And it makes a difference that there's somebody who don't have to always remind you that they're praying for you, but they're praying for you. Amen. Do you have somebody like that, a prayer partner, somebody you know without a shadow of a doubt is lifting your name up? Amen. Praise God, somebody you know, calling your name before the Lord God has brought you some tough situations because there's somebody saying, child, I was thinking about you. And praying for you. You say you were what time was that? It was at noon. Oh, I was going through at noon, but I got a breakthrough. Amen. Anybody else have a breakthrough in prayer where God came through, showed up, and showed up in your situation and looked meet But God came through and made a difference. And so in the text today, we talk about this sense of hands And so whenever in this time you would go, you would raise your hands in prayer, that's what they. So they were high hands. So there in the 11th verse, it says, as long as Moses held up his hands, the Israelites were winning. Whenever he lowered his hands, the Amalekites were winning. In our society in the recent, we've had this hands up, don't shoot. uh people of all backgrounds and social status have come together and say we have concerns about injustice, whether it's Ferguson, Missouri, whether it's New York City, whether it's Cleveland. And so the corn, the corn, the phrase hands up Don't shoot. Today I say hands up. Let's pray. Anybody got your hands up? Come on, put them up. Put them up. Put them up. Put them up. Hands up. Let's pray And so we've come together. You got to put them down yet. Put them back up again. Amen. Hands up. Let's pray. And so we've come today. The Bible says, for as long as he held his hands high, they were winning. He went up in the morning and was praying unto God, looking high and praying. You ever stretch your hands to the point where it starts to hurt? Can you imagine? He didn't take an elevator to the mountain. He had to go up and climb up there and then begin to pray. And as long as his arms stayed up. His hands were raised. There was victory. But the moment they begin to droop and to drop, it says that the enemy won. But you know, we're in an ongoing battle. The Bible said we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against spiritual wickedness in high places, but to put on the whole armor of God, we've got to pray for each other. It may just be a whisper Oh Lord, thank you. Or Lord, watch my children, or Lord, protect my home, or Lord, make sure I can get through. It may not be a long prayer in front of the church, but every now and then you've got to say, Lord, I need you Lord help me. Lord, stay with me and stand with me. And because of that, you will get the victory through the Lord Jesus Christ. And there are many passages that talk about this sense of victory. We think about God having hands. We use human attributes. Isaiah talks about that he'll uphold you with his right hand. I don't know whether God is left-handed or right-handed, but isn't it knowing that the Lord's hand is looking over you That as Moses lifted up, he wasn't just throwing hands to be throwing them up, but he threw his hands up, knowing that God would hear his prayer. Has he answered your prayer? I know I keep asking that question, and you keep looking at me strange. Has he answered your prayer this week? Has he done something for you this week? Lord, had it not been for you I know what an answer prayer looks like you know what one looks like? What an answer prayer looks like when you thought you weren't gonna make it and he came through? When situations in your life seemed to have you pinned up and God brought you that's answer prayer Somebody has some high hands up. Excuse me, but I'm raising my hands up. Let's pray. And that's what happens in this text. We see it Gospel of John, Jesus proclaims that you are my sheep. And I got you. In fact, you are in the palm of my hand. And nobody can pluck you out. That's a great scripture. Here's why. Because once saved, always saved. Once you receive Christ into your life, the enemy cannot pluck you out. So anybody telling you that you've lost your salvation, tell them nope, wrong. I still may be a rascal, but I'm still saved. I may not get it right, but I'm still saved I may slip into, but I'm still saved because I'm in his hands. My God, isn't it great to be in the hand of God? Not just high hands, but there comes a point where they're heavy hands. It says when Moses' hands grew tired, they took a stone and put it under him and he sat on it. All of us get weary. I'm no superman and you're no superwoman It might try to be, but we all get weary in our time of sharing in life. You ever been just tired? Whoop, beat, run down, burnt out. And you know what it means. And so even though Moses had great intentions, there came a point during the battle that he just had heavy hands And they put a stone under him. No lazy boy. They put a stone under him. A hard place. They didn't stone him. They put a stone under him I don't want y'all to get that. They disowned people, but they say, you know what? We want to make sure that you're comfortable. They were watching to see that at that point, even though his hands were heavy, when you sit down, the weight goes where on the seating surface. And so that's what happened with him. And that's what we can do in our own journey. to know that there's somebody watching and say, you know what? We don't always listen. You're tired. Why don't you take a nap? Can I just pull the house? Any nap people that love to take a nap? Ooh, I love myself a nap. Thank you, Jesus. When I was growing up, and you know the old folks say lay down And you'd be like no and you of course you wouldn't talk back there. You just lay on down with one one eye open and you before you know it you asleep But my God, thank God, I'm gonna take a nap today when I go home. After I pray for y'all, I'm gonna go down for about two or three hours if I can. And so it's so important that in life struggles will come. Situations will wear us down not just physically, but emotionally, but know that there's someone near that God provides people for you. To be there to watch out for you. Amen? Isn't that good? Word says, don't be weary in well-doing. You'll keep making it if you think not. Amen. Isaiah 40, 29 says, He giveth power to the faith. To them that have no might he will do what? Increase your run like a young people. Amen. You have some up and some get up and go in your step because folk are there and recognizing that you know what? There's some heavy hands. So hands are high. Hands up? Oh y'all y'all getting it hands up, let's pray. Yeah, I'm gonna get you every now and then. Make sure you're with me. That's that's a good mechanism to keep people awake too. Can you hear him say hang hands up? But God is so good Heavy hands, high hands, but you know, I'm so glad that God sends along helpful hands. Amen. Aaron and her held his hands up, one on one side and one on the other, so that his hand remained steady till sunset. That there was somebody who recognized But you know what? I think Moses is about done. Let's go over because we know if we hold his hands up, the victory will be ours. Is there somebody near you that you know who's willing to say, I got you? I'm standing in the gap for you. I'm holding your arms up because I know what you're going through. It's bigger than you and me. I got you. Now, I may not go over and physically hold you, but I'm thinking about you. And I'm praying for you. Why? Because there's someone that you know and you love and you're thinking, and you say, you know what? I got you. I'm holding, I recognize that your hands are heavy. It's bad if somebody with you and they didn't really and they over there talking and you droop. You ever had anybody go sleep on a job on you? The disciples didn't. They were sitting there asleep And Jesus said, can I just get somebody to stay awake for one hour, please? Amen. So we need people. No matter how big and bad you are, we all need somebody else. Amen Isn't that great news today that there's somebody who's standing in the gap for you, somebody who's saying, you know what, it's not really about me, but I'll take time and pray for you. I'm alright, I'll make it But I want to lift your name and you ever lift anybody's name in prayer just today. My God, you did it doing prayer. You said, No one, I don't know your name, but I want to pray for you right now that God might come through just for you. Not about me. All about him. Bible talks even in that regard. over in Colossians 3 and 1. If you then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above where Christ sitteth at the right hand of God. He's right there on our behalf. You didn't think you were going to make it, but all of a sudden you felt an extra joke in your spirit. It's because prayers were being answered. Isn't that good news? Psalm 121, 1 and 2, I will lift up my eyes to the hills from which cometh my help. My help cometh from the Lord who made heaven and earth. At the end of the day, the people of God won. Amen. They won the victory with the sword. It was over and done because there was a process. And today you have the victory in the Lord Jesus Christ, who went to a hill. And went to a cross and gave his life just for us. He he was on the hill. And they nailed those stakes in his hands. But he was on the hill. And so much so that one of the persons on the cross near him. Said, when you get into your kingdom, will you remember me? And Jesus prayed on the cross for that brother. And the cross makes a difference. The Bible says that he died, but he rose again with all power in his hands. And that he now sits at the right hand of God. Making intercession for the Saint. Don't you glad today that he's praying for you? You say, well, that's little old me. Yeah, he knows your name. And he's saying, I've heard the old preacher say, man, he's saying, Father, I know what they're going through. And so as he looks down, he sees your condition. And there's nothing that he's not experienced. In this life. Does he not understand what you're going through? Absolutely, he does. He died, but he rose again. Some 50 years or so ago, I learned a little song, and maybe you learned it too. He's got the whole world in his hands. Got the little bit of baby in his hands. Got me and you, brother, in his hands. You and me, sister. Don't you know that song? And he does have the whole world in his hands But I gotta be modern as I close today. There's some folks say, I don't remember that song, Pastor. That's that's an old one. That was before my time But maybe you went to a concert and they said throw your hands in there and wave them like you just Don't care. Amen. And you start waving them too. And so today as we come, we wave our hands in the air today because we serve someone who does care The Bible says, be not dismayed, whatever betide, God will take care of you. Beneath his wings of love abide, he will Take care of you. God will take care of you through every day. Oh, all the way. He will take care of you. Will He do it today? My God, He has a plan like no other plan. He will take, and that's why I can say, hands up Let's pray. Why? Because prayer makes a difference. Hands up, let's pray because he's brought me through. Hands up, let's pray. He's the wheel in the middle of a wheel. I can do that because he's brought me through and he's brought you through Isn't that good news today? That's the word of God is already blessed. Come on, stand and put those hands up. Amen. We bless the Lord today for everything He has done. Everything he is doing. Thank you, Moses, for stopping by to be an example for us today. About what's possible. Prayer. Three hours of prayer. Every time I get the opportunity Behind the wheel, in the bathroom, anywhere I can say, Lord help me. Sweet hour. My God that calls me. Admits me to Oh, yeah. Distress and grief. My soul has all found relief. This is eight though. Tempest snare Just want to talk to you for a minute. The work of ministry is a is a great work. A buddy of mine told me, said, so you're going to pass it out? Yeah, man. Praise God He said, bruh, you're going to always think ministry. You won't just be able to put it on the side and say, well, I'll think about them Sunday. But all week I'm consumed with you. I think about you. And I pray for you. And that's what a servant does. I don't mind because what you're praying for me. So I thank God today that as I look out over this place, that we are one community of faith Nobody can make it by themselves. We all need each other. Can you pray for me? No, not next week. Can you do it right now? So we come today because Jesus prayed for us. Maybe you've come today and you've never given your life to Jesus. That's a possibility. I want to offer Christ to you today. If I just give it to you in my live old Florida country way, He'll be with you He'll keep you in line. He'll make life good for you. You won't find a friend like him. When other folk turn away, he'll be right there. And you're real. And all you have to do is ask them to come into your heart. Nobody can do that for you. Say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. And neither of a savior. Will you come into my heart today and save my soul? And he'll do it if you believe. Bow your heads all over this place today. I want to pray with you. Father, I come in the name of Jesus. I thank you for so many examples in the Bible of how you show up. And how you show out. God, I bless your name today. That you would use us for such a time as this. To be able to minister to your people, to love on them as they love on me, and as you love on us today. God, this week I'm praying for breakthroughs and hallelujah. Breakthroughs. In the lives of your people. Break through God. That you might show up at the right time. Might change that situation. Turn it around because you're able to do it. You are a miracle worker. You can do it. Help our unbelief. Help us not to give up today, God. No, we can't see it, but God, you can do it I pray on behalf of my brothers and sisters in this place that whatever they're going through, God, you are able Can't move from there. God, you're able. God, you're able. God, you are able. You've proven it. Time and time and time again. It's not just in the Bible. We've got our own miracle stories, our own chapters, our own verses, hallelujah, that we've been through And we can celebrate who you are today. God, if there's one who knows you not, may they open their hearts today and accept you as their personal Savior. You said if they do that, God, that you would give them eternal life. Do it today, we pray. In Jesus' name. If you're here today, if you're not sure about your salvation, you can accept the Lord today without any fanfare. But you can say, Lord, come into my heart. I want to be saved today. And he will do it. I want to just open the altar for prayer. I want to open the altar for prayer. I I I I want to just pray with you. If you have a need today, if you have a concern, or maybe you just say, you know what, I'm going down to pray with somebody else. That's fine too. We have limited space, but you come on and we'll keep stuff in the place. Amen. Oh God is able. Thank God for Sister Gibbs today. We're praying for your husband as well. See her in the back. God bless you. We're praying. We're praying. Never met him, but I'm praying for him. Amen. Thank God for Brother Lee. Praying for him, God brought him my soul. But I can look at your story. I know your story. Many of your stories already know what God will do. Amen Is he not able? Come on, let's trial this place today. Whatever you're going through, we're going to trust God. Let's trust him all the way. Oh, work a miracle today, God God, intervene in that situation today, God. God, break through in the life of your people today. Do it, do it, do it, do it, do it. Those who are still there, just raise your right hand. Oh, look at that. Better yet, put both hands up. High hands. Amen. And put those hands over toward those who are there at the altar. And let's pray. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. Nobody knows what we are going through, what we've been through, what's around the next bin. But God, we have faith today. We trust you With our very lives. I pray even now. In the lives of each person, God, you know you are not some fantasy, you real Hey, you're so real, God, you've done it before. We just bless your name. And so God, we come and we petition you today On behalf of those persons who come, we plead the blood of Jesus Christ over their situations. God, we know that you are faithful and that you're able today And God give them courage today. Allow them to have the joy of their salvation. Allow them today and say, you know what, I don't see it, but I believe you can do it That's what faith is. The substance of things hoped for. And the evidence of things not seen. By it, the elders obtain the good report. Thank you, God. So we bless you And we thank you. We're not telling you anything that you don't know. You already know. But they took the walk of faith to say, you know what? I'm going because I believe that God can do it Thank you. You're a healer. You are deliverer. You are company keeper. You are friend like no other. God, we thank you for being all of those things today. We bless your name And the people of God said, Amen. Amen. Hands up. Let's pray. Hands up. Let's pray Come on, somebody give God a praise today in this place. Hallelujah. He's worthy to be praised. Oh, yes, he is. I pray you were helped in some way by this message Be sure to follow Harvest Christian Ministries on radio, CD, podcast, or over our new website. It's comeetoharvest. org. That's Come to Harvest, C-O-M-E, the number two, and harvest. org. Take time to experience the website and all that we have to offer as a ministry. In the meantime, pray that God will continue to allow us to reach a community for Christ for the cause of the kingdom. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin. Have a great day in the Lord.