Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Amen. And while you remain standing, we're going to read the Word of God today. He has done great things for me. We're reading today from 2 Chronicles 20, 21 and 22 21 reads, after consulting the people, Jehozaphat appointed men to sing to the Lord and to praise him for the splendor of his holiness as they went out at the head of the army. saying, give thanks to the Lord, for his love endures forever. Verse 22, as they began to sing and praise, the Lord set ambushes against the men of Ammon and Moab and Mount Seir who were invading Judah and they were defeated. Let's bow today. Father, we thank you. For your word today. We thank you, God, that you are the same yesterday, today, and forevermore. As we stand to proclaim your word today Might we decrease and might you increase? Save someone today. Encourage another. But once this time is done, we'll be so careful To give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated in this place today. We thank God for another opportunity to share the word, our title today Samonic title is A Song and a Prayer. A song and I grew up singing in the church choir. I remember our little youth choir would go out to visit another church. We thought we were somebody. We got in the back of an old van that had the door cracked open and our bench was a piece of wood, but we loved to sink Sometime later we would go with Mr. Dan Smith. He would take the youth across town to sing. And my town, very small, so to get across town was about 10 minutes. But we would go and we would sing and would enjoy ourselves and on the way back, Mr. Dan would buy us all milkshakes. I liked him But I love to to sing. I I still love to sing here at church on Sundays. And I love to hear you sing, and I love nothing more than to hear the congregation together lifting their voices unto a holy God. You know, and during my devotional time I I pray, but every now and then I'll feel a song coming up in my spirit. Has it happened to you? You're praying and the whole time you're praying, God has given you that song that you just can't get out of your head. And you'll start humming it. You may not have all the words right. It may not be the exact song, but there's something in that song that inspires you and gets you going. Amen? I believe that you've got to have a song and a prayer. I think about Paul and Silas, they were faithful followers of Jesus Christ. And because of that, they spread the good news around and found themselves in prison. And while they were there, The Bible says that they began to sing and to pray. One was singing, the other one was praying, and at midnight something happened. God shook that place and they were free. There's something that happens in a song and a prayer. And Jesus would sing a song. I found that in the hymn. I said, there it is. We often see Jesus as one who prays. who goes to the garden alone, one who gets up early before day and prays. But there in the gospels, and you hear it every Fourth Sunday during communion, the Bible says, and they sang a hymn. That lets me know that they included Jesus. Will it be something to hear him say? I mean I know he'll heal you, he'll bless you, he'll give you joy, but I I wondered what that voice would sound like to hear Jesus himself singing. You need both. I stopped by this morning to tell you that your victory can come by way of song and by way of prayer. And that's what I see in the text today, in the book of 2 Chronicles. And 2 Chronicles simply means that there's a recording of history. In fact, if you read 2 Chronicles and 1 Chronicles, and then you read 1 King and 2 King, you read 1 Samuel and 2 Samuels. Wait a minute. This is some of the same stuff. It sounds very much alike, but this is written to the people who are going through persecution. You know, we have freedom today. to praise like we want to praise with no problems. But back then, the fact that you served God meant that you were a target. That someone was looking to take you out. But there in the Old Testament books, and that's thirty-nine books from Genesis to Malachi, we find Second Chronicles. And we find within that a king by the name of Jehoshaphat. He's the successor to the king of Judah. His father moves on. He is a famous king, but there's one thing about being famous, he was also a king who consulted God. He was someone who didn't just shoot from the hip. He was someone who said, well, let me just check with God on this. Isn't that a good discipline? That with all the things, maybe just me talking. I just say that Lord, I know what I want to do, but is it what you want to do? I know how I want to handle the situation. Uh that's conventional wisdom, whatever that is, but I want to seek your face about what you think about something that may be small. Maybe it's a purchase. Maybe it's uh accepting an invitation. Maybe it's something that you've been thinking about, and you think that maybe I should check in with God. Is that all right? You think it's a good thing to check in with God? I'm just doing a little rumparole. Is it a good thing to say, God, let me just let me just run this by you I got my mind made up and I've been there before, but can I just run this by you? That was the kind of king we found in Jehoshaphat He is one who never lost sight of God. And just because you are following God, there will be enemies. Uh Judah didn't have one enemy or two enemies. They had three enemies. Now one person may not like you, but my God, when there are two or three that can't stand you, you know that you gotta go and ask God, how do I deal with this issue. How do I find victory in the midst of trouble? I'm kind of stuck there. That God uh uh my flesh tells me here's how I ought to handle it. But my spirit man and spirit woman said, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, hold up, give it a day, a day or two, think about it, pray about it. I don't used to be that way. Man, if it felt right, I just did it. Often laugh about uh purchasing vehicles. I would go in the lot telling the man I'm not gonna pay but this much. It's okay That's all you're gonna pay. Over 40 years. But when I start thinking about it, I I oh some of y'all been there, huh? And I love car salesman, but when you think about making decisions, even in your own personal life, be like Jehosaphat. who takes time to think about it. And early in this 20th chapter, uh a prophet had come to him, a messenger saying, Jehazaphat, the battle is not yours, it's the Lord's. Yeah. So that that was the setup that even when we get to this text, he'd already gotten the word from God that don't you get all worked up about your situation because It's not your battle. Anybody try to fight their own battle? The thing that you're going through and you're fighting, it's not your battle. You want the W, you wanna say I won, but the battle is already won in the Lord. Amen. Be still and know that I am God. And so sometimes it's a song And a prayer. It's a prayer and a song. It's humming. It's giving thanks unto God. But it all points to the same place. And that is victory. But in this text, I have to laugh Because Jehezaphat uh takes a pretty odd battle plan. He said, here's the plan. But it's a little strange It's a little different how he goes about it. Let's unpack at least few verses. First of all, there is a select group that he calls together. In order to prepare for the battle. It says, after he consulted with the people, he apported Men to sing. I like that. Well, I'm a man. Yeah, that's why I like that. But all of the other versions of this particular passage just said they sent people. But the NIB version said they sent men Brothers to sing. And they were carefully chosen to do this work The king had prayed about it. He consulted others about it. But this was an assignment for a select group. I want the men to sing. We pray, but I need some singing brothers. Amen? To sing to the Lord and to praise him for the splendor of his holiness And they went out ahead of the army. It's a little different, isn't it? That you coming to take me out, but I'm gonna send me in Singing. It's the light of mine. But that's not what they sang, but they stepped out ahead of The army. Couldn't you imagine the enemy saying, are you kidding me? That we all armed and ready to go? And you got a group, a praised team coming out to defeat us, it's ludicrous. But he had prayed about it, and God had directed him to send the men out to sing. Put them up front Not behind, not on the side, but I I don't know, I just feel like some brothers up in here. Yeah, I'm ready to go. Can I see the hand of the brothers ready to sing? I'm talking about he sent the men out ahead of the army he picked them to sing. And God wants to use your song and your voice and your testimony to defeat the things in life that have blocked you. You thought all you had to do was to say your prayers, but I dare you to mix up in your prayer a song. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Do a little singing. And sometimes, if we're honest today, life can become so hard and our circumstances so challenging, it's hard to get a prayer out. Anybody ever been there? You got down on your knees and you're gonna tell God. And once you got on your knees, nothing came out You couldn't say a word, but deep down in your sanctified soul, you felt a little A little song coming up in your spirit. And can't you imagine? I don't want you to see that picture. Men out front singing praises unto the Lord. He chooses us. Like what Paul says in Ephesians 1 and 4, for he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be wholly and blameless. In his sight in love. Lest you say they pick me, he does the choosing. They could have picked the combination of men and women. He does the choosing. I don't know why they got those singers. They don't sing that good. He picked The people, he picks you, he chooses me to use us to his glory. I don't know about you, but I'm glad to be selected. I'm glad he picked me. I'm glad he said, you know what? I can use you to my glory. So there's a select group. That goes out with the audacity of singing. But not just that. There's a particular song that they sing. They say, Give thanks to the Lord for his love endures forever. They didn't get to pick the song. There was a particular song that God had ordained Jehoshaphat to give them. A song that was packed with all kinds of theological meat. Give thanks to who? To the Lord And so that's what they were singing. I don't know the key, Tammy, I don't know the note, but I said they were sing Give thanks to the Lord for his love endures forever. And I'm sure there's 20 songs in that. But that's what they sing. They had a specific song for a specific battle. And God has given you a particular song for your situation. Oh, you got a catalog of top ten hits. You know what you do Yeah you do, yeah you do, yeah you do. And so depending on where you are, God will give you a song That he wants you to sing and folk may think you're crazy while you're humming that. Anybody would go into the house? Let me just get real on this thing. And you just singing your own song. Ain't got no music, but you just yes, Lord, you just having church up in the house. And it's the song that God has given you that gets you through that moment. I want y'all to sing this song. Give thanks to the Lord for his love endures forever. I love the love part. That even in that, that's the Psalm 136 and 1, oh give thanks unto the Lord. Well I guess what? Oh give thanks. unto the Lord, for he is good, for he is good. Give him glory. Glory. For he is good. For look at that. And so you may oh you just thought of another one, didn't you Yeah you did you like Reverend Mine. But what I'm going through, I got that same song that mama used to sing. That same song that grandma used to always hum. But that song gets me through my battle That song takes me through my situation. That song gives me joy divine. A song. They had lived this song. It wasn't one to heard on the radio. They said, man, I can tell you what it means to have his love to endure forever. been there, done that. Hold on to your song. In fact, if you don't have a song, you need one. I would love to bring my hymn book in here, but you butter find you a song before the day is out and you work that song. You drive into work, mm-hmm Satan, I'm gonna tear your kingdom down. Oh Lord, be on backup to Satan. I'm gonna tear your kingdom down. You've been building your kingdom all over the world. I mean, one of them old that was way back. But find your song, your particular song today. Like what said in Psalm 96. It says, Sing to the Lord, look at that. A new song Sing to the Lord all the earth. Sing to the Lord. Bless his name. Proclaim good tidings of his salvation from day to day. There is a particular song that you can sing. How many have already got the song down? I know y'all think wait a minute, let me write this down. Yes, Lord, I get to write this song down. I might forget it. And on the way home today, you'll be ooh ooh. Working that song. You need a song and a prayer. But finally. There was not a select group, but there was also a way that they got defeated. As a result of them singing, They began to sing in praise, and the Lord set ambushes up. Yes, he did, against the men of Ammon and Moab and Mount Seir who were invading Judah. And they were defeated. The strong was so powerful. The strong was so rich until the enemy said, wait a minute, who are we fighting against? They start turning on each other. Isn't that amazing that God will send praise out ahead of you? You plan to go into work and tell them a thing or three. No, just sing your song. And see if God won't work it out. You would go tell somebody, uh that tell them a thing or three, they're on your last nerve and you can't wait till you get home. But no, I declare that you start singing and it will cause the situation to change around. In the case of the enemies, they got defeated as a result of being obedient. To go out and to sing. There was a specific result. That comes from our faithfulness. That something that God does, we do what we're supposed to do. And they were obedient. You find that story fascinating? I do. I said what? You mean they didn't pull the swords out? No. They didn't get the I mean they didn't didn't they was it a beatdown? Uh-uh You mean they didn't know? They just sang. But you sure they didn't. There must be no? That's what the word says. They just sang their song Amen. That's good news today. And the Bible tells us we ought to be singing our song. Ephesians 5 and 19. Speaking to one another in songs. In hymns and spiritual songs, and making melody with your heart to the Lord. Isn't that great I dare you to start skipping. Say, well, I know the Lord's gonna make it away somehow. I ain't worried. That's my song today. And the result will be that God will come through. I need a song and a prayer. The Bible says the rest of this text that when they got in there, there was so much available, jewels. All the everything that been left, those guys were really, I mean, they they killed all they killed each other. It took three days for them just to pull everything together as a result of what had been left. So even on the back side of victory. God has something for you. The the text says that. That's not uh uh you know name it claim it theology but when they got done that there was so much available at the place of the enemy they just scooped right on up. And took it with them. Isn't that good news today? So as I close out today, I started thinking about The songs and the hymns and the spiritual songs that have blessed my life over and over again Like amazing grace, how sweet the sound that saved the rest like me. Or because he lived, I can face tomorrow Or maybe come to Jesus while there's time. I love down at the cross where my Savior died. Glory to his name. I will trust in the Lord until I die. Jesus painted all Lift him up till he speaks from eternity. My faith looks up to thee. Know not one. Oh, how I love Jesus. Pass me not, O gentle Savior. Hear my um but cry, while all others thou art calling, please don't pass me. But rock of ages cleft for me. Let me hide thyself, Spirit of the living God Fall fresh on me. This little light of mine is one of my favor. Y'all know that. I'm gonna let it shine. Victory is mine. We are standing on holy ground. But I'm so glad today that he died on that cross, but he rose again with all power in his hands I'm glad today that God so loved the world that he sent his only begotten son. Even when Mary got word, she starts singing. Although the text there are places where you'll say, you know what, it's time to sing. Anybody came to sing today, sing the wondrous love of Jesus, sing his mercy and his grace Amen. In the nations, bright and blessed. He'll prepare a when we all get to heaven with a day of rejoicing that will be When we ask seek Jesus, we'll sing and shout. I got a song in my spirit. What about you? My God, I'm glad today. Jesus is everything to me. I'm praying. But I I I I I hear in the midst of my father I I I hear while I'm pray oh I I'm trying to get but but but I I feel I feel I feel I feel I feel a song. Anybody feel a song today in your spirit? Come on stand today and let's just give God some praise because we need a song. A song that will get us to I really love the Lord. That's another song. I love that song. Why? He first loved me. How many love him today? I mean really love him. That might be your song today. I really love. How many love him today? That might be your song today. I really love I love my love my love my love You don't know I did not want it Yeah yeah yeah Give me the victory, I love him, thy London, I really love that. Any witnesses today? Come on, put those hands together. Do you really love it? You wouldn't fool me, would you? I believe what? You don't know what it's like on me. One more time for the Holy Ghost. I mean really get it, really get it, really get it. Come on, get it, come on, come on, come on. Yes I do, yes I do, yes I do I believe that what is I love him, I love him, I really love. You don't know what he's done on me. Take me the beat from me I I love you. I really love. Somebody give God a praise today. Hallelujah. I wouldn't believe you. I love him. How many love him today? I ain't talking about liking. I don't mean this. I mean this I don't mean this. I mean this. I don't mean this. I mean this. No. If you know he's got to be true, I love you. I'm respectfully loving. I'm in show-off lovers. Hey Just take a moment even now. Allow that. Just think in today. Hit your record button and say, I'm gonna get this on my playlist so that when I go through, I'll hit my mit It'll bring back all the songs that have got me through. I've seen God work In my midst through my song and my prayer. Father, we come in the name of Jesus and we thank you. Thank you for a bold example. In Jehovah Fat. Bold enough to put weapons down and send singers. And we thank you for the praise that defeated the enemy. Maybe you come today. You don't have no song. Today, God will give you a song. If you allow him into your heart today, he'll change your circumstances. You'll become a singing somebody. I went on the choir, Reverend. Sorry. You can join the angels. They can sing say but if you come today you've never opened your heart to Jesus never said Lord Jesus I'm a seller and I want you to come in to change me today you can do that. That can be your prayer today. Your song might be, He lives. Christ Jesus lives In me. I pray today, God, if there's one in this house, that you might work on that heart, allow them to confess unto you that they might become saved. You have the power. We thank you and we glorify you in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Somebody give God a praise today. Oh, come on, bless the Lord today. I give you You've got your song today. We're making transition. Maybe you've come today and desire to be a part of this fellowship called Harvest. The doors are always open for you. That's this old school church. What doors? The door of opportunity. The door for you to walk through. In fact, Christ says, I am the door. You can be a part of this fellowship today. We welcome you into this. house today. Is there one today? Praise God. Let's give another praise today. Amen. Don't stop Celebration. Yeah. We're prepared to leave this place. Don't forget Bible study today and please see Dick and Roy as it relates to our men's breakfast Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you It's www. com2harvest. org. That's come the number to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.