Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope. It'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Amen. What a powerful testimony. My God, I took a moment As instructed to pray even then. What about you? Did you get one in? Lord, let me just whisper a prayer right now. My prayer was that he might use me in this hour to share the truth of the Bible. That was my prayer. God Use me today to your glory. As we bow today, I want to pray that same prayer again. Father, I come in the name of Jesus, trusting you That you might work through this earthen vessel, and that your word might take center stage and that the heart that you've identified might be saved, touched. And encouraged. And will be so careful to give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. We serve a wonderful God, don't we? Oh yes we do. Nobody can do you like Jesus. Other folk might try, but at the end of the day, nobody can do you like the Lord. We now prepare to share the Word of God today from the Gospel of Matthew, starting at the 26th chapter in verse number 40. It reads, then he returned to the disciples and found them asleep. He said to Peter, couldn't you watch with me even one hour? Keep watch and pray so that you would not give in to temptation, for the spirit is willing, but the body is weak. Then Jesus left them a second time and prayed, My Father, if this cup cannot be taken away unless I drink it, your will be done. When he returned to them again, he found them sleeping, for they couldn't keep their eyes open. So he went to pray a third time, saying the same thing again. Then he came to the disciples and said, go ahead and sleep. Have your rest. But look, the time has come. The Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. Up. Let's be going. Look, my betrayer is here. I want to share today from the Samonic title, Your Wake Up Call. Your wake-up call. We owe a debt of gratitude to an inventor by the name of Levi Hutchins. In 1787, Hutchins made life manageable for all of us. He invented the first mechanical alarm clock. One catch though. It was programmed to get him up at 4 a. m. every day But thank God sometime later a French inventor came along and was able to make that better. But right now, aren't you glad that there are alarm clocks That you have them to get you up. The saints of old would say, I don't need a clock, the Lord got me up this morning and started me on my way until you miss your appointment. There's some wisdom in using the things of the world to better our lives. If we're not careful, we'll hit the snooze button and perhaps some folks did that today. We love them, don't we? They snooz their way right to bedside Baptist Church. But nevertheless, you know, my focus is not really on the alarm clock this morning, but more so on whether or not we become cognizant of the fact that we could become so busy, so preoccupied, so uh Involved in our life that we tend to miss and to overlook and to ignore the alarm and the wake-up call that God has in our lives. Your wake-up call. In the text today, most of it is embedded right in the 26th chapter of the Gospel of Matthew. Matthew, of course, was just one writer who was able to chronicle the life and ministry of Jesus. We called it gospel because gospel means good news. He's able to share what our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ was going through at that time. First of all, he foretells his own death. This is no surprise. A time will come when I'll be betrayed. I'm not to a point that I don't know. I'm not naive, but I'm gonna call it I'm gonna call my own death. It is going to happen. It takes time to meet with those in the community. The woman comes Mary and she anoints his body. There's some big discussion about the perfume costs too much money. He said leave her alone. She is looking at the better part of this. He knows something is going to happen My God, we don't have that kind of thought life and that kind of spirit to know when something is going to happen. Truth be told, we are often caught by surprise when we face life circumstances. But Jesus knew well. what the path would be. He knew what was ahead of him. He knew that Judas, the church treasurer, was going to double cross him. He already knew. Can you imagine sitting with someone you know going to set you up? Smiling with someone you know has the knife out to put it in your bag. Sepping five with someone who is ready to dig a ditch for you. Jesus knew in advance what was going to take place. He celebrates the Passover meal, a time of remembrance for those who recall the time when O mean Pharaoh would not let God's people go. God continued to put plagues on him. Sam will kill the firstborn males. But if you put blood over the doorpost, the death angel will do what? Will pass over Even to this day, that time is celebrated within the life of the believer. And then he institutes the first Lord's Supper Kind of a busy day for the Lord, isn't it? He sits down with his disciples. He knows well what's going to happen. He demonstrates from this, this is my body which will be broken for you Take, eat ye all of it. This is the blood. I will share. Drink ye the wine. And then he begins to go out. He knows at that time that even Peter will deny him Can I just stop there for a moment? I think sometimes we try to slip God. As if He does not know our intentions. Holy Spirit just put me right there Sometimes we really think we're pulling one over on the Lord. Isn't that amazing? You think he does not know what you're up to? And what your plot is. My God, it's time to wake up to think that God is that way, that He's not know the intention of your heart. Am I helping somebody this morning? He don't know what you're already thinking. Your Monday is already planned out because uh I already know. It's with that backdrop that he makes his way to prayer. He takes with him his inner circle, Peter, John, and James, the ones who have been with him in some of the tough places of his ministry. And there's nothing wrong with having an inner circle. Truth is, you can't trust everybody. And your circle might be small A circle of influence. But Jesus influenced those who were in his circle. He takes them with him to the Garden of Gethsemane. It is a time of stress because he's holy man, but he's also holy God. But the man in him is struggling to get through this moment. I want you to feel the tenseness. Ever had something before you that you knew you had to do, you didn't really want to do it, but it was before you and you struggled with it? Well, Jesus, the fleshly part of him. Went to the garden to pray. But it's great to have somebody who's kind of got you back. And so supposedly, allegedly Peter, John, and James had his back. But something happens in that moment. They can't help themselves their eyes close. I don't know if they were in the realm stage of sleep. I don't know where they were, but they fell asleep. And Jesus takes time and what he shares with them. I believe can help us this morning. Isn't that great about the Bible? It's an ancient document, but what is shared and proclaimed is for the here and now. How will this help me as a believer? First thing we see is there is a plea. It says, then he returned to his disciples and found them, can I say, knocked out? Asleep. He said to Peter, You the head man, Peter, you're the leader. Couldn't you watch with me even one hour? Couldn't you take a moment to wait and to watch? And see, first of all, he talks about this sense of just watching. And to watch is to be alert. It's to stay awake. It's to be sleepless. It's to be on guard. It's to be alert. He says, I just want to know. Couldn't you just hang man? Couldn't you just like keep your eyes open? Peter, Peter, I'm talking to you. And today, he's talking to us. You've gotten so busy with your things, so busy with your life, that you really, even though you're walking around, you've fallen asleep. Let me help you today. I'm helping me. Wake up. I'm awake. Now you might physically be awake, but spiritually, you are not out asleep and snoring on life's job. He makes a plea. He comes to Peter and says, couldn't you just do it one hour? Now we're thinking, God, am I on the clock? I believe that because God dealt them a different time, it was not 60 minutes But could you not take time to hang with me? And then he returns again and found them sleeping, for they could not keep their eyes open. The enemy, the devil, really wants you to fall asleep. He wants you to be in such a state of mind that you can't keep your eyes open. Amen. I saw somebody yawn when I said that. Praise God. That's all right. You at least you're still awake. Amen? But it takes time to make this urgent plea to them and says that you have made some missteps. Can I confess? I have fallen asleep in life circumstances. And sometimes not doing anything puts you in a category of sleep. And right now the Holy Ghost is shaking. Hey hey, wake up. There's work to be done. I've asked you to be on guard. And what have you done? You've fallen asleep. My God, am I on anybody's street this morning? Is it just me? Am I all alone today that I'm a wide awake, but I'm asleep? My eyes are bright, but I'm asleep. I'm moving and doing my thing, but I'm asleep spiritually, and the Holy Spirit will generate a kind of a no-dose to get you awake. In life. Paul talks about this sense of just being alert for the Lord. A wake-up call. Romans thirteen eleven says, and that knowing the time, that now it is high time to awake out of sleep. For now, our salvation is nearer than when we first believed. It is an urgent call. We can spend time talking about what we don't like about the government, and I don't like her, I don't like him, and I don't like Beyonce and I don't like that person. Wake up. You fall asleep on the world stuff and not paying attention to what God is doing in each of our own lives. Does that make sense this morning? This is a wake-up call to come back to me and to focus on me and to keep your mind stayed on me Otherwise we'll get choked up by life stuff. But Jesus makes an urgent plea. I just need you to stay awake. Not just the plague, but also there's the problem. And so he prayed Came back a second time, my father, if this cup be taken away, unless I drink it, not my will. He was actually pouring his heart out. Don't you know Jesus is still praying for us even today? The Bible says he sits on the right hand of the Father, making intercession for the saints. And he's still saying, I believe. Are you awake? He's still saying the time is at hand. Verse 41, keep watch and pray. So that you will not give in to temptation. For what? The spirit is willing, but the body is weak. I always say the people say, Oh man, I can handle that. I've been in the world. And yeah, yeah, your spirit is willing, but your flesh is a bit weak, my friend. I would not suggest, you know, I love to evangelize But you wouldn't find me at half hour trying to be like I'm in half hour trying to win a soul for Jesus. Amen? I know that would wake y'all up Hey, the spirit is willing, but you got to be able to hear the spirit's call in your life. And they tried probably to stay awake. That was one that kept you right there this morning. That was a gotcha moment. Amen But this whole sense of knowing that yeah I'm I'm I'm set but you gotta know your flesh and what you can take And what you can handle, I like where I hear feel loaded, you gotta kill the old man and old woman every day. When you get up, the old Tim get up. Hey, what's up, man? Man, you got to go. The old person still comes up. Still has the same thought of mind, but when you're on the Lord's side, there's a transformation that takes place. But the problem is, he's saying, you'll still sleep. I've come back again Did you hear it the first time? No, we pretend we heard something and said, Oh, I heard you. No, you didn't. You were deep in sleep. And the problem was, he was saying to them that this time you can't give in to temptation. The problem is when we fall asleep on the job, fall asleep in the presence of God, we set ourselves up for what Temptation. It's a problem. As leaders, we've gone to sleep. As husbands, we've gone to sleep. As wives, we've gone to sleep. As children, we've gone, wake up. Let me do this now. This is not to reach over if they don't mind, somebody you know, and just tap them on the shoulder and say, wake up. Amen. Tap on the shoulders. Need to wake up. It's a wake-up call, waking up in the Spirit. And sometimes we're so concerned about other matters from the Lord that we miss the main thing. We miss what he's trying to say. I love what he says in the book of Acts when those disciples are so into what's going to happen next. When you coming back, give us this time. Says in Acts 1 and 7 It's not for you to know the times of the season which the Father had put in his power. Don't you worry about, I got this. God has the situation and then he just needs for you and I to be awake. Shake it off Throw some holy water on your face. Get up. Look in God's mirror and say, I am up and prepared to move on. That's the good news of the text today, is that he comes back time and time and time again and finds them asleep. The plea, the problem, and then the priority. So he went to pray a third time. Saying the same thing. He came to his disciples and said, Now go ahead. No, no, no, no, no. Go ahead. Go ahead, sleep. Have your rest. But the time has come. So somebody must have hunt somebody and said, hey, I think we missed them the two earlier times And thank God that it gives you persons in your life who don't mind elbowing you in the spirit. Did you catch that? But by then, the Lord says, is I No worries. Take your rest. Get another one. But now the time has come. The Son of Man will be betrayed. It's a crucial part of my ministry. You slept through it, but now that you're awake, your priority ought to be is to get ready for betrayal. Get ready for what's going to happen next. Now that you're up, now that you've awakened, get ready for what God has said will come. Judas is on his way. He's been paid off. He's coming. He's going to kiss him. This is the one. The one I kiss is the one. And there's some Judas in our own lives. They just kissed you the other day. Amen. But as a setup, the priority is be awake and alert in such a sphere that you know that God is at work. Amen. I just can't say enough the importance of being on the job. I never forget when I first moved From Florida to West Virginia, somehow I'd gotten word that one of my mother's friends lived in Ohio, he would leave at night. And that's a good idea, man. Now I'm not a night driver. I hopped in that Buick about midnight, got on the road, I was 15 minutes out of town, and I started nodding and go, oh Lord, help me. I reached over and got some of mama's cake. That didn't work. There was no XM, there was no telephone, you can listen to music. It was just the AM radio. But I struggled. What? In staying awake. In life, you may struggle spiritually to be alert. But know that the Lord our God is always with you. Amen? And what I like is that you don't know when he's gonna come back and check on you. 1 Peter 5 and 8. Be alert and of sober mind. Your enemy, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion looking for someone to devour. You see the benefit now of a wake-up call? You ever stayed at a hotel and you say, you know what, I gotta leave early tomorrow? I'm gonna call for a wake-up call. Now that's really old-fashioned because you got your phone now. That'll wake you up, but I remember the day we thought that was a big deal. Did you call the I didn't call? I want a wake-up call You trusted the clerk to call you at the right time to get up and to get on the road. Well the Holy Spirit right now is sounding the alarm. It's time for us as a people. It's time for us as individuals to wake up and hear the call of God. He's praying. He needs you to watch and then to join in prayer with him. I love the story of the late Fanny Crosby. A person who God had his hand on. Early on, she became blind, but took time to memorize like the whole Bible. In fact, five chapters a week. As a little girl, Fanny was spitting that word right back out. As an adult, she had a conversation with a composer. They were talking about the next great hymn. And they began to talk about the nearness of God, what it meant to be so close to Him. As she departed that night to go to her room, this thing stayed on her That in her mind and in her spirit, she kept composing this tomb in her mind. It goes like this: I am thine, O Lord. I've heard thy voice and it told thy love to me. But I long to rise in the arms of faith. And be closer drawn to thee. Consecrate me now to thy service, Lord, by the power of grace divine. Let my soul look up with a steadfast hope, and my will be lost in thine. Draw me nearer. Nearer, blessed Lord, to the cross where thou hast died. Draw me nearer to thy bleeding side. Don't you want to be drawn today? To be drawn nearer to Him. I do. I want a closer walk with him today. To do that, I've got to be awake. To do that, I've got to be in tune. To do that, I've got to hear his voice. Did you catch the alarm? It just sounded. A wake-up call. To this generation, a wake-up call. That is the word of God today. It's already blessed. Come on, stand today all over this place. Wake up today. He just showed up for a second time. Wake up. The Lord is ready to use you. Wake up. There's something for you. But to do that, you've got to surrender. It's my time. Yep. Surrender. It's my life. Surrender. It's my thing. Surrender unto him today. Amen. Prayer makes the difference. These are the same guys saying, teach us how to pray. I'll teach you. But you gotta wake up. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D. But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comethenumber to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com. All you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called Speeds of Encouragement. You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.