Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvard's Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Yeah, yeah, yeah. How many believe that today? That all things are working for our good. But let's bow today all over this place. Father, we thank you for your word by way of song. And we know that all things work together for good to those who love God and who are the called according to his purpose. Now Lord, as we stand today, may we decrease and may you increase. May this word find someone right at the point of their need. Heal someone today. Encourage another. Save a soul. But when the day is done, may you get The praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. This is the day the Lord has made. We can rejoice And be glad in it. See any debate about that? How many know it's the Lord's day? And He's made it. Amen. We come today, we come to share. the good news of Jesus Christ. I count this a privilege every time I stand to look at the word and then to have the word to get into me. And then to share that word and then to live that word when the church doors are closed. Amen? Let's share even now from the Gospel of John. 1, 40, and 42. Verse 40 says, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, was one of the two who heard what John had said and who had followed Jesus. The first thing Andrew did was to find his brother, Simon, and tell him, we have found the Messiah, that is the Christ. And then verse 42, and he brought him to Jesus. Jesus looked at him and said, You are Simon, son of John, you will be called Cephas, which when translated is Peter. I want to share from the Samonic title as we continue to do this walk, follow us, actions speak louder than words. Actions speak louder than words. This is a popular saying. And it really means that no matter what you say, it all comes down to what we do. You've heard the old saying that talk is cheap. American author and humorist Mark Twain added to this famous saying when he said, Action speaks louder than words, but not nearly as often. And then there are the mothers in my neighborhood church who would say, I'd rather see a sermon than hear one. James, the half-brother of Jesus, talks about this when he says over in James 1 and 22, says, be ye doers of the word and not hearers only. Now if you won't admit it, I will, that every now and then my talk can get in the way of my action. And I'm a big talker. But to talk and then not to follow up, to walk means that there's something missing. There's a disconnect Because no matter what you say, what are you doing? So long as only what you do for Christ will last. You know, I try and spend a lot of time sharing with people the goodness of Jesus. But at the end of the day, what is it I am doing? I'm talking about me now. How am I living my life? Is it adding up? Does it match beyond the church doors? Am I a person of integrity beyond the pulpit? In our passage today, we meet one by the name of Andrew. He didn't make the biblical headlines. Andrew does not have a book named after him. His speaking role was very small. He was the brother of Peter, who's very well known. They were fishermen. And he meets Jesus instead of doing, uh looking for trout and and looking for um I'm not a big fisherman, so I'm not getting all the nails, I can eat 'em. I need some fishermen to get me like a nail rockfish or whatever that might be. He in turns, he's fishing for souls. God will take your occupation of what you supposedly are good at, and then use that to reach someone for Jesus. I know your job may be mundane, but where you are, you can be used to reach someone for Jesus. You know, I remember the excitement of going back home. I just really made sense out of what it meant to be saved. And while I joined the church at six and gave my heart to Jesus I got off on the wrong path and kind of did my thing. And then the Lord brought me back. And so I went home. I was excited. I wanted to tell the brothers who I used to party with, hang up, man, y'all need to be saved. I came with vigor. I came full blast ahead. I couldn't figure out. Anybody with me today? Have you done that? You saved, you excited? You can't understand why everybody's not getting this. And I was like, come on man. But what they saw was the old temple. They heard me talking, but they did not see any action because it had been some years. And the last time they saw me, I was not holding a Bible. I was not saying praise the Lord. I was not saying thank you, Jesus. And so while I had words, there was no action to back up my words. My testimony flopped on the spot. And people want to hear what we have to say about Jesus, but they're also watching us to see if we're the ones who laugh and take part in the nasty jokes at work. Uh-oh. Are we the ones who are consistent in our walk? We've got two Bibles on our desk, nine crosses around our neck. Palm branch in the back seat under the driver's seat. But people want to know, will your action add up to what you are saying? I'm helping me this morning. Amen. People are skeptical of you church folk, you saved folk, you've been in church, and they're watching you to see if you will walk the walk and talk the talk. And I feel challenged already. I know what you're saying, church boy. I I know what you're saying, sister Holy Ghost But I'm watching you to see if there's some action to what you're seeing. Andrew helps us in this regard, and we'll be able to watch and see the pattern in which he uses because there's a sense of building trust. dealing with truth and in the end there's a transformation based on our encounter with just put your sandals on this morning I want you to get a mind's eye I want you to say, no, that's just the Bible. I want you to hang out. Strap your samples up. You're hanging out with Andrew today, okay? It's Andrew and the harvest folk. Hanging out today. You're hanging with Andrew. You're watching. You're right there with him as he is trying to reach someone for Jesus. Again, not a big player, not a lot of things behind his name. He was just someone excited about bringing others to Christ. Anybody know somebody like that? Well that ought to be you. Praise God. Anybody excited or know someone who will find a way to slip in something about Jesus in some form of fashion. I'm talking to the church this morning. Are you intentional? about trying to make sure that someone can see your lights so shining before men that they may glorify your father in heaven. Is there anybody today who's intentional? about saying I really want to live the life that Christ has called me to live so much so that my walk lines up with my talk Oh my God, I'm just all off script, but I just want to help us today. Is there anyone in the house today can say, you know what, I'm not a big talker, but if you look at my life You will see some results of someone who's committed to sharing the good news of Jesus Christ. So we talk about building trust as we take this particular text. Verse 40 says Andrew, Simon Peter's brother. was one of the two who heard what John had said and who had followed Jesus. John had been talking Jesus up John was the forerunner. John the Baptist man, there's one who cometh whose family I can't even unloose. He's coming. And so Andrew got wind of that and said, Well, if he's all that, I want to follow him. I want to hang out with somebody who is all that you say he is. There is the Lamb of God. If some of us have bowed to peer pressure, we either were too cool, not cool enough, we hung out with somebody who was cool Never been with a group that you know you weren't cool but you hung out with them? Come on church break this thing down to the lowest denominator. You wanted to hang up with the cool group even though you weren't cool. Well in this case and say, you know what I want to hang out with Jesus You've talked him up. And so I want to spend time with this savior you've been telling me about. And so guess what? He hangs out. With Jesus, and he builds trust. Once he hangs out with him He's able then to build trust and to say, you know what? I'm following Jesus. And when you hang out with Jesus, something happens just in your commitment. Now you said, Reverend, how do you how do you do that? It's 2015. How can I follow Jesus? He's in heaven and we're in Baltimore You follow him. This is the roadmap by which you can follow Jesus. The story is in the text And find yourself in the text walking and talking and sharing with Jesus as we build trust. Now you folks before you don't trust everybody, right? Listen smooth talkers. Don't take any wooden nickels. You've heard it all. But Andrew says there's something about Jesus that I trust him with my very life. And there's something about trusting the Lord. Something about believing that God would do what He said He would do. Anybody ever experienced that in your own life? You just said, you know what? I know it looks crazy. I'm just going to trust God. I don't see a way out, but I'm gonna trust God. I don't know how it's gonna turn out, but I'm gonna trust God. And folk may ridicule you say I don't know about that. Don't take all that Jesus stuff You need some common sense. Yeah, but how many folk have said, you know what? I'm gonna trust in the Lord until I die. I'm gonna hang in with the Lord. Why? He's hung in there with me And so, before I can even talk about action, I got to make sure I know the one who lays the way, the one who makes the rough places smooth, Andrew said, I trust Jesus so much it's made me excite. How many folk trust him today? I mean show up. I know, I know, I know, I've I've got my doubts, but I'm gonna trust him With my own life, I'm gonna trust him with my family. I'm gonna trust him with everything that I do. And I like what the proverb writer says, the wisdom writer He says very much so. He said, You know what? Trust in the Lord with all of your heart, and lean not to your own understanding. In all your ways, acknowledge him. He'll do what? He will direct your path. That's right. Just trust him I'm going to commit today to trust him with everything, even though it don't make sense. I'm going to trust the Lord. My God, I want to keep you awake today. I'm going to keep moving. Amen. I know the lights are low, I know that uh it's kinda cold this morning. But how many folk gonna trust God with all they have Trust them with your life. Trust them. And so that way it gives you some real action. Because first of all, it takes action to trust. You can't say, well, I trust him, but then you won't follow him Andrew helps us in that regard. But it's not just trust. He deals with a truth Verse 41. The first thing Andrew did after hanging out with Jesus was to find his brother Simon and tell him We have found the Messiah, the Christ, the anointed one. He didn't go to the neighbor. He didn't go down the street. He went to his brother. Amen. Sometimes we bypass family to go tell the greater world. Amen. He says, this is so exciting to me. I gotta tell somebody And my brother understands it. Where is my brother? And I'll tell Junior some stuff. Amen. I've got brothers in Christ. And so I'm so excited that I want to tell somebody. Do you get that kind of excitement that there's such a truth in your life that you gotta share with someone? Well you don't sound too excited about that. My God, the sleep demon is alive today in the name. I would cast them out right now in Jesus' name. Enemy don't want you to hear this word, so therefore you've fallen asleep for me. Come on, church, wake up, wake up to the glory of God. I know it's rough and the hills of heart decline. But There's a truth, and that is that he was able to go and to share that I have found the one that we've heard about. I found the one that's been preached about. I found the one who's coming and some faith believe the Messiah is still on the way. I've come about to report breaking news. He's already come. Amen. Wrapped and swathed in clothes and lying in a manger, he now sits at the right hand of God. So he says, you know what? We found him. I've got the one. And that is a truth he's able to stick with and say, my brother needs to hear this. You know what I figured out is that sometimes We are intimidated by people. Afraid. I've talked to you about everything else. But now Jesus is off limits. Why are you afraid of family? I mean, nobody else You know the people say, you know what, bro? We grew up together. Let me tell you a truth about the Word of God. But sometimes the enemy will try to get us to be afraid of our own family. They live in your house. You ought to be able to talk Jesus. You paying the tuition bill, talk Jesus. You paying the gas and electric, why are you afraid to talk about Christ in your house? Oh, let me back that thing up for a second. We can become intimidated to share Christ with people. I don't want to offend them. And yet you drive down the street and there's some offensive language in the car next to you, but you offended. And so share the good news of Jesus. With Pharaoh. He went right to his brother. Man, we have found him. Everybody looking for him. I was hanging out with Jesus. Just today, I found him. Isn't that good news today? That Andrew believed a truth. It made a difference. He took action by going to his brother and not saying, I'm gonna tell somebody later. He leaves and said, you know what? My brother has got to hear this There's some stuff about Christ that someone in your family needs to hear. Let me just stop for a minute. You talk to him every day. You're not being judgmental, but you know they're not they're not safe. You know that they have no relationship with Jesus Christ. You're intimidated, you're afraid, don't want to hurt their feelings, but they may be in jeopardy of losing their soul, and you have what they need. You got a truth and you're afraid. You've got the gospel and you back it up. You've got to let not just I've been the church and I got the word, but where's the action in the life of the I'm just helping somebody today that don't don't don't don't be intimidated Tell them the truth of Christ as you best understand it. May not be able to quote 40 verses, but I got one. Jesus wept. I can break that down. Can give it to you. And then talk about what he's done in your own life. He finds his brother. But that's another truth that I came across Uh there in the Gospel of John, he says, I am the way. Jesus says, and the truth. And the life, no one comes to the Father except through me. Actions speak louder than words. I just got the truth I sprinkled a little Tim on it, but basically here's the good news of Jesus Christ. Amen. Building trust. So much so, I'll hang out with Jesus. I'll get to learn of him. Getting the truth that I understand it in such a way, I'm able to share first and foremost with family. You're going to save the whole world and you go home and your house is not saved. I'm stuck there. I'm stuck there. I'm stuck there. I'm not getting in your business, but I am in your business. The Holy Ghost will get in your business We can save everybody else, but let's take time to start in our homes today. I can't say that enough. Finally, there's a time of transformation. Verse 42 And this is Andrew still. We still with him? Okay. You thought that you got on a different path, did you? Are we still hanging out with Andrew today? Thank you, church. Praise the Lord. And he brought him, that is his brother, to Jesus. Jesus looked at him and said, man, you are Simon, son of John, you will be called Cephas, which is translated Peter. So he brings his brother to Jesus. Uh come on, man. Let's go. Who have you brought to Christ lately? He brings him to Jesus. Jesus looks at him over and says, uh-huh. I know you. You you saw I I know your daddy. But more so, I'm gonna name you and give you a new title. I know what they call you in the streets. I know what they call you on your job. I know your whole name on your birth certificate. He says, if I see something more in you, you will be called Cephas, which means stone around. I'm glad today that the Lord came in my life and to begin to change some things around in my experience. I know what they call you, but he sees in us that what the world is not seeing. And can you imagine the encounter uh that Peter had? He comes and he meets Jesus and Jesus jumps up and he says, Hey I know who you are. I know your name. I'm changing your name. From rascal to righteous. I'm I'm I'm changing your name. Amen? From what you used to be, but God sees our potential. It doth not yet appeal, but we shall be. But God, do you believe that God has something in store for you? That he's in the midst of transforming your life today And transforming your experience. You won't be the same that you've always been. I know you like yourself now, but the best is yet to come. God is not done with you. I like the fact he just bends me and turns me and takes him like a rubric cube and just say you know what I need to change you up. And when he changes your life, it is for the good. My God, you know the person you used to be. He's at work in you, and when he finally gets his brother there, he said, now Jesus got up from here. I got you here. And once we get folk to Christ Let Christ do the work in their lives. Don't jump in now, Lord. I got him here. I told you. But no, no, no, no, no. Just bring him. He'll do the rest. I recall some years ago I read the introduction to a book. That was all I got. I didn't club up having too many books. Sometimes books is made to be tasted. I may get a chapter and be done with it. This book talks about the power like of a praying Husband, wife, stormy, or I think the name is. And I like that because it said in the beginning, don't keep going back to check with God to see what he's done God, I brought them to you now. Let me check it. Did you get them? Did you straighten them out? No, no, no, no. Your prayers that they might hear the voice of God. I'm bringing you so that you might hear Jesus speak to you for yourself. And it's our role to take the action to lead someone to Christ and let Christ pick it up from them. He'll change their name. He'll call them and speak things in their life as if they are. That's what he will do. And you've taken the action by bringing them to Jesus. You will be called seekers. Not Mike. Change your birth certificate, man. You are now Peter, the rock, because of what I'm going to use you to do to the glory of God. Amen. And I like the fact that even in 1 John 3 and 2 says, dear friends, now we are the children of God, and what we will be has not yet been made known, but we know that when Christ appears, we shall see him and be like him and see him as he is. I'm wrapping up today, but I just want to tell you that he who began a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. I'm excited about the fact that God is yet working on me and that every time I declare something, I'm saying, does it match up with my walk? Are my actions louder? Are my words dominating? Is it just me talking about Jesus? Or am I trying to live the life That will please him. Anyone excited about that today? That you know what? I'm a big talker, but not much talk. What is the action I'm taking? Y'all know I love hymns. I heard this one, it's the old hymn of the church. Says you may build great cathedrals, large and small. You can build skyscrapers, grand and tall. You may conquer all the failures of the past, but only what you do for Christ will last. Everything you're doing. May not be for the glory of God. But when you lead someone to Jesus, you're on the right track. When you let them know that the Lord is my shepherd and I shall not want You let them know that greater is he that's in me than he that's within the world. When you let them know that I'm looking to the heel from his coming, when you let them know that how God has changed your life, that will become contagious. Amen I dare you, double dog dare you, I challenge you to tell somebody today about Jesus. So much so that you are planting a seed. The Bible says one planteth Another water it, but God gives the increase. You can't make them get saved. I declare you can do something. I'm gonna throw one seed in. And my brother will come along, he'll put some water on it And next time I see them, they'll say, Praise the Lord. And you won't get the glory, but God will get the glory. Why? Because you've done the work of ministry by saying, I got one seed, I'm going to plant in the life of someone else I'm taking action and not just talking. Talking loud, saying nothing. Am I committed today? I believe this within my soul, that to be a soul winner, you've got to know that there is a truth. That you have that's so exciting you want others to have it. Amen. That is the word of God today. It's already blessed. Amen. Let's stand all over this place today. You are on assignment today. To reach someone for the glory of God. Don't be afraid. Don't doubt. But know that God will go ahead of you and provide you with just what you need To the glory of God. Amen. Let's give God a praise today in this place. You believe it today. You believe it today. Offer Christ to you. Presented to you today in case you don't know him. He's such a great and powerful God. And the invitation is already out. I want you to come on. What you're waiting on. I'm praying about it. What you're praying? I'm thinking about it. What you're thinking about. Even now, come to the Lord Jesus Christ. I present to you for the lead. Christ. Gotten word that he was ready. We thank God for what he's already done in Lee's life. The prayers of the righteous do avail much. As we come today, Brother Lee, as you come today, do you believe that God sent his son Jesus to die for you? Praise God. You believe that he got up on the third day with all power in his hands? Amen. The Bible says if you believe that in your heart and confess it You shall be saved. Amen. Do you accept Christ as your personal Savior? Praise Jesus. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Amen. As a church. community. We welcome Brother Lee into the larger family of Christ, but also the local assembly. Amen. Praise God. We thank God. Let me just say this. The Lord is moving in this place. On last Sunday as we left. I got the chance to talk with Sister Michelle. And she said, I'm ready to join this church through shelf come on now amen amen amen praise the lord the harvest is plentiful but the laborers of you amen we welcome you in the name of Jesus today as you come to be a part of this fellowship do you believe that God sent his son Jesus Christ to die for you. You believe that he rose again with all power in his hands? Praise God. There's something about a confession of faith, not that others might hear it, but that the Lord Might know that there's no doubt where she stands. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. comtoharvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they are really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.