Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvard's Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Amen. How many want to go to the king today? I didn't say the ball game, I said the king. I didn't say Mother Rose, I said the King. I didn't say my best friend. I said take me to the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. As we bow today all over this place, it's time for the Word of God. Father, we come. And we thank you for yet another opportunity to stand and to handle your precious word. It is our prayer today that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save a soul today. Encourage another But when this time is done, may we give your name all of the praise and all of the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen As we come today, we want to bring your attention to the Word of God and the Gospel of Luke 9th chapter, verses 57 through 62. It reads, as they were walking along the road, a man said to him, I will follow you wherever you go. Jesus replied, foxes have dens and birds have nests, but the Son of Man has no place to lay his head. He said to another man, follow me. But he replied, Lord, first, let me go bury my father. Verse 6 says, Jesus said to him, let the dead bury their own dead, but you go and proclaim the kingdom of God. Still another said, I will follow you, Lord, but first let me go back and say goodbye to my family. Jesus replied, no one who puts a hand to the plow and looks back is fit for service in the kingdom of God. That is the Word of God. During the course of our time, we'll be preaching from the overall theme, Follow Me. But today's Samonic title is It's All or Nothing. It's all or nothing. We think of a disciple. We have a certain idea of what we think a disciple looks like. We think of disciples or persons who have beards and persons who portray the biblical days, persons who have on garments. We see that as what we call a disciple As you look at the screen, you're looking at what may have been a traditional looking disciple. But I've come to tell you today that it goes against all that we think. That a disciple is someone who follows the Lord Jesus Christ. How many want to be a disciple today? Amen. A disciple is a learner. A disciple is a student. That's what a disciple really is. One who obeys the commands of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. You know, there's something about just being able to be in his presence and to witness his miracles How many feel like a disciple? Amen. You gotta do better than that over the next few months. You're gonna be wearing a whole nother label. What's your name, disciple? You'll change your name from just being who you are to being a true follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I tell you what, when it's all or nothing, that means there's no in-between. And one thing I became convicted about this week in our study is that you are either in or you out There there's no in-between. And I I said I'm in this thing, I'm in it to win it. And so becoming a follower of Jesus Christ You don't get to get on like a mirror round and then get back on when you want to get back on. How many know it's a commitment for life? Amen So a true disciple is one who follows uh the commands of Jesus Christ. Today we're really going to uh meet three men in the text today in different situations We don't know their names always say that's good because they will talk about them. But put your name in the space. There are ones who are following Jesus. uh going along uh maybe for the ride but what really blessed me is the fact that they were in his presence and were able to have a conversation with Jesus. Can I just say how cool is that That you actually just walking with him and talking with him and having a conversation. I love talking to you, but I can't imagine what that would be like to walk with the Lord Not where he's walked, but to walk with him. Let me mess you up now. Spiritually you can do that. Amen. Put on your sanctified mind and say, I'm gonna walk with the Lord Through hell and high water, I'm gonna walk with the Lord. Through trouble and tribulation, I'm gonna walk with the Lord. They got a chance to do what? To be with the Lord. They were walking along the way, and Jesus had a way of just kind of talking to you As you're going, hey, by the way, while we're walking alone, he would strike up a holy conversation. And that's what he did with these three men All different situations, all different uh outlooks in life, but they were curious. They were interested in what he was doing. You can be interested in something, but not committed You can like it, but you don't want to put your big your whole foot in it. Just your toe. Anybody ever done that? You didn't really want to get ready with the Lord, just I'm gonna get enough. I'm gonna get Sunday and that's enough for me. But when you start walking with the Lord, man, that's gonna take you over and you realize I'm in. Amen? And so it's either all or nothing I like that. That thing just blessed me all over again as we move into this. And so really we think about this whole sense of where we're going to go today. We're going to look really at this sense of not having a home There's no home. We'll find that these guys want to go, but there was no place to go. They want to hang out with him thinking some other things. And then there's no hindrance when you're following the Lord. And then there's no hesitation when you're following the Lord. Amen. So really in this particular chapter of Luke, and each one of the writers kind of write this a different way, just a little theology of 101. Matthew, Mark, and Luke, they're called the synoptic gospels. That means that they see the same thing with a little different look. Amen? And theologians believe that actually Mark wrote the original text And that Matthew said, Can I steal some? Because I'm writing to a certain group. Then and then uh uh you know Luke said, wait a minute, I got a different kind of folks, so I'm gonna write it. Can I use some of yours? So when you read the Bible and say, wait a minute, did I just read that some other place That's called the synoptic gospels or different lenses for a different time. So each one of them wrote within the audience they were trying to reach. And so this first brother May have had this resident. He said, you know what? I'll follow you wherever you want to go. Isn't that eager? He approached Jesus. Hey, just wondering if I could hang out with you Isn't that bold that he comes to Jesus and says, Hey, I'm available to follow you. You need some extra help? Here I am. Now how many of you came to the Lord like that? Uh oh. Some of us you had to chase us. Can I be real? I didn't say that. I didn't say I want to follow you. Say no, you're gonna follow me because what things got so rough in my life, I said, where are you? I want to follow But I did not initially say amen. And so this brother, brother number one, says, Oh man, I'm I'm I'm ready. I I want to go with you. I'm I'm I'm all in. And I applaud him. Uh to say, I want to follow you. But then something happens because first of all you realize that Jesus didn't have a home. And so he says, I'm with you. But he says, wait a minute now, before you get all in, uh foxes have have dens, and birds have nests, but I I don't have no house I'm homeless. So if you're in it to think you go get a condo or the holiday inn or the Hilton inn, sorry, that's not my story. And so maybe your life is so comfortable that you would say, well, not yet You know, it's not so much a physical home, but this brother was at a comfort level. They said, no, I don't think that's for me You ever been there before? You say I'm gonna start out, but I you know I don't want to get too Holy Ghost, too religious, too, they think, you know, too short of my Bible. And so he really backs out Even though he asked to follow Jesus, he said, You ain't got no place to live? I mean, to himself in his mind's eye. That's not in the text, but I mean you you And Jesus already knew what he was thinking. He said, I can take you by the buried now, they got some place to live. But the Son of Man has no place to lay his head. Now some of us will say, well, I'm not going to follow him. He ain't got much. But really he has everything. Isn't that good news? Is that it may look like there's nothing, but really he's the savior of the world And that's really exciting to me. That yes, I have found myself in situations to where I didn't want to sell out completely I want to hold on to a little bit of the world, but give the impression, can I just testify today? But give the impression that I was with it. Oh some of y'all fake it until you make it. I mean I'm talking about really say, well, I look the part, but am I really sold out for Jesus? I got that this week. It kept asking me in the book, are you really in this thing? I'm in it. I can't go back. I know too much. I've been in the world already, and it was like, you know, you ain't got no home That I don't know. Maybe I won't follow you. Isn't that something? That's something as simple as what did you live? Nobody had nice houses back then. They were just mud huts But he had a real issue with this radical Jesus and cannot where he was going. Amen. That's over in another text. that I like to share uh that says in John 14 and 2, he says, now I may not have much down here, but let me tell you something. In my father's house There are many mansions. Oh, you feel like somebody now say okay. Now I'm with you. Uh-huh. If it were not so, I would not have told you. And so therefore I go to prepare a place for you, and we like the mansions. But you don't get there quite yet. I believe the streets are paved with gold. I believe it's hallelujah. Every day is Sunday, but right now we gotta kinda rough it Now what he was saying, you want to follow me? You gotta rough it, and it may be a little rough, but I want to be a disciple. Let me take a Holy Ghost poll. How many want to be a disciple? After that, praise the Lord. Amen. We'll do a Holy Ghost poll throughout the series to see if you're still in. Amen. I mean I'm I'm serious. Some folks say you know what I I I'm okay with some stuff, but I'm not trying to sell out for Jesus. I'm not trying to do all that, I'm not trying to live a holy life all the way I'll do enough. Am I on somebody's street? I'll do enough, but don't push me to be really holy. Don't ask me to really live right all the time. Don't pressure me to talk to talk and to walk to walk. And so it's really bigger than a home. But not just that This sense of no hindrances. Verse 59, this is uh brother number two. He said to another man, and Jesus speaks to him and makes the offer He says, follow me. But he replied, Lord, first, let me go bury my father. He didn't think about it. He said, No, yeah, I I he didn't say let me pray about it Out the gate. Oh, you got something I got to do. Have what you've done now. Yeah, you did. It's like well hold on I'm not quite ready. Yeah, I just joined church I'm not quite ready. I just got baptized. I'm not quite ready. I'm still hanging out on Saturday nights. I'm not quite ready. I'm still smoking. Those funny cigarettes. I'm not quite ready. I'm still getting the six pack. I'm not quite ready. I'm still sleeping around. I'm not quite ready. H Alléluia So he said, no, let me go bury my father. That was his excuse. You're thinking, Jesus, that's that's kind of inscriptive. Jesus said, wait, wait a minute. Let the dead bury their own dead. But you go and proclaim the kingdom of God. I thought about that. Now Jesus, that's not being too sensitive. He wants to go bury his father. What's wrong with that? Well Jesus knows the whole things. I don't think some say he wasn't even dead yet. But he needed an excuse to say, you know, I gotta go make arrangements. He's saying there's more urgent work at hand It's either you're in or you're out. Oh Lord. And so he talks with him, and I really wrestled with that thing. I said, Well, you know what now? That seemed like Jesus was right to the point. Nope. You don't qualify. You're a little shaking. You're allowing some things in light to hinder you. What things hinder you? From following Jesus. What gets in your way from being a true disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ? The thing you just thought about, that's getting in your way, isn't it? What's tripping you up? What's standing in your way? What's serving as a detour that keeps you and I from being a true committed follower of the Lord Jesus Christ? Now take 10 seconds to think about that. There are things that get in your way that will hold you up. But because he knows everything, Jesus must have known because he's holy man, holy God, that he's just shooting some jive. He's not up to the task. And that was true. And that's what I like when I see the text. When we're challenged. Jesus challenges this brother and he's challenging you and challenging me. Some of us don't like a challenge. Now back off me now, don't challenge me. But Jesus will get all in your business. Won't he do it? Yes he will. You start reading a devotional and you say, oh, that's for me today. All in your business because what? He knows everything anyway, and yet we try to fake it like we're hey I'm just helping the church It's discipleship training one-on-one. Amen. Praise the Lord. Don't let anything hinder you, even your best excuse. Well now you know my heart. That's a popular one isn't it? I ain't gonna talk to you, Lord you know my heart. Yes I do And your heart telling me you're not ready. That you're being hindered. I'm being hindered from doing that which the Lord has called us to do. So, brother one He says, come on. I'll volunteer. He talks to the other. Let me just drop this in real quick. Another passage there. Luke 9 and 25. Jack up a little bit. He says, you know what? If. To all of them, if any man will come after me, and this maybe this was part of it, you gotta deny yourself and take up your cross daily and follow me. That some of y'all are not really fit for this, but I'm offering. And today he's still offering you an opportunity and the privilege to follow him Did you think he really needed you to follow him? Did he need thousands? He didn't really need them. But it was for our benefit that we follow him. It's our benefit that we hang out with him. And so he really is giving invitations to say, come on But we give him the cold shoulder, the half-truth, the kind of sort of in-between, the kind of I'm working on it, I'm not there yet. Please be patient with me. Uh the devil made me do it. All that stuff. That blocks our walk in discipleship. Amen. Praise the Lord. I'm feeling good now. No home, no hindrance, and then there's no hesitation. Verse 61, this is the third and final brother. Y'all keeping up? Have you found yourself yet? Oh, you still looking for yourself in the text. Still another said, I will follow you, Lord, but first let me go back and say goodbye to my family. The balloons are up. They're throwing me a farewell party. There's a cake with my name on it. The ribs are on the grill. I want to go home. And so he's saying, I'll go, but first let me go back and say goodbye to my folks and then I see we don't put the Lord on hold. We can't put him a hole and say I'll do it after a while and by and by if we want to be a true disciple. And so this guy said, I'll I'll go. And Jesus replied, that's what I love about the text You'll say something, and he'll say something. He replied, no one who puts a hand to the plow and looks back is fit for service in the kingdom of God. In other words, keep on keeping on. See ya, don't want to be ya. Isn't that something? And because he's in a farming community, uh some of y'all are too young, but I should see my daddy plow the field We didn't have a mule, but he had an old push plow. And he was doing like this. And once you put your hand to the plow You can't look because once you look back, you just mess your row up. And so your corn is going like this. And so when you decide to be with the Lord all the way, and once you put your hand on the plow, hey Judin. Hey Tim! Hey, what you doing? What are you? Uh my hands on the the the Plow plow and I got time to look back back on you. Amen. So once we decide to be a true disciple, we make the commitment, and he says that to this brother. And that's what's good about the Word of God over in Revelation. I love this. And Jesus speaks again. He says, I know your deeds according to the church. That you are neither cold nor hot. I wish you were either one or the other. So because you are lukewarm, neither hot nor cold, I'm about to spit you out of my mouth. I'm about to spew you because you suntime me. Either you're gonna be with me or against me. Don't have one foot in and one foot out. Can I testify? I've been there. I've been a lukewarm brother. Not sure what one day I'm hot, next day I'm cold. And so he's saying to the church You gotta make a decision. It's all or nothing. Either you're in or you're out. But I'm saying man Jesus said that I'm about to I'm about to spit you out. I know it sounds gross But if you're lukewarm and you'll walk with the Lord, get to spit you out. Either you're going to be hot or just follow the devil. Be cold. Make a decision for the Lord today. That's helpful for me. Is that I've decided to to hang in there. I don't know it all yet, but I'm I'm learning because a disciple what is a learner. And and I don't care how long you've been in seminary, and I got a degree in two and a half, but when I began to engage in this study, man the word of God was getting in me. Reverend, are you in? Are you out? I know you preach on Sundays, but are you in? And so a true disciple is one who commits themselves to following the Lord Jesus Christ. Hope you've been helped today. Have you been helped today? You know, the story is told of Reverend E. P. Scott A missionary in China, and he goes to share the good news of Jesus Christ, but they say, Reb Scott, there's one area that I don't want you to go to, say there's savages in this village You should not go for your own safety. Listen, Reverend Scott and Reverend Scott said, no, I'm all right. Reverend Scott goes anyway. And when he gets to this village, sure enough, he finds a very hostile atmosphere. Nobody trying to hear about Jesus. Nobody, you may work in one of those atmospheres. Your home might be hostile. And so Reverend Scott says, Well, I'm in now. And it says that when they begin to look at him all mean and pulled their spears out. Ready to attack Reverend Scott. Reverend Scott closed his eyes Took his violin and began to play on that violin. All held the power of Jesus' name. He kept playing that song over and over and over again. Can't you see Reddam Scott? Spears are drone. He's still singing and still playing his violin. Hellions are on your job and you're still playing your violin. Trouble in your community, but you're still playing your violin. You still say, oh how the power of Jesus. And Robert Scott just kept on playing And even as he played and opened his eyes up he realized they had put the spears down. And they wanted to hear what he had to say He began to share the good news of Jesus Christ with them. He was a bold soldier who went into enemy territory and began to share the story of Jesus. Don't you know that story? That God sent his only begotten Son, Jesus the Christ. That's an old old story. He sent him, he died, but he rose again with all power in his hand. The Bible says he's what? At the right hand of the Father, making intercession for the saints. And so like Rabbit Scott is going to say, oh hell, the power of Jesus' name Let angels prostrate fall. Bring forth the royal diadem and crown him Lord of all. My God, take your violin right now and begin to say, through all the trouble I'm going through, I'm gonna play my violin. Even though life might be rough and the hills might be hard to climb, I'm still gonna be a disciple. I'm in I mean all the way I'm still playing my way through debt. I'm playing my way through a broken marriage. I'm playing my way through situations I can't control, but I will close my eyes and I'm still playing And when I hold my eyes, I can say, Lord, thank you for where you brought me from, I'm in. All the way. Anybody in today Anybody really committed today? Anybody say I want to be a follower of Christ? I want to be a disciple. I want to be in. I know what I want to say and everything, but I'm in I'm in this thing. I'm gonna stay with the Lord as long as I live, as long as there's breath in my body. I'm in. Call me what you will or may, but I'm in, I am a disciple of Jesus. Don't look like much. I'm a disciple. I might break a verb every now and then. I'm a disciple. I may slip and dip, but I'm a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. That is the word of God today. It's already blessed. Come on, stand today. All over this place. And give God a disciples praise today. Amen. Come on, bless his name today. Amen. It's all or nothing. I want to be a disciple. I'm gonna follow him. I'm gonna stay with him. Can't quit. King of the attitude. Amen. Why? I made my mind up. I can't go back. I know. There's no end to go to. I know conditions are not what I think they ought to be, but nothing is more important than serving you. You never get too old or too seasoned to learn. And whenever you pick that word up If it won't convict you and make you stand up straight and straighten your back out, and that's what these series of messages are designed to do. To build disciples. Say, in the words of our chairman, that's been his mantra. Reverend, we need disciples I hear you, D. What is a disciple? What are the requirements to be a disciple? Well, you gotta know who you're following and why you're following. Otherwise you end up like some years ago when they made another fellow a disciple and they followed him over to Guyana and they drank the Kool-Aid. I ain't got no Kool-Aid I got Jesus. Amen. Don't say Reverend had Kool-Aid on the side. No, he didn't. I had the gospel. As you bow today, perhaps you want to be a disciple, but there's a Qualification. You must know the one in whom you're following. Father, I come in the name of Jesus. I thank you for this word and how it is growing us You took three men as examples, but we're in the text. We found ourselves either in brother number one. Brother number two or brother number three. When we come today, God, offering you to those who may not know you, the Bible says that if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus And believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, the Bible says you shall be saved. Because you believed in your heart and you've got it in your system That God, I'm a sinner. And I need for you to save me today. Lord, save somebody today. They're disciples in the works. And Lord, get rid of all of the excuses about why they can't follow you. All of the uh going back, the hindrances and the hesitation and the and and and the accommodations, God, even now In the name of Jesus. While those hands remain bowed today. If you know you don't know him, while those hands are bowed today, you can receive Christ right now in this place. Take a moment today And that's the Lord come into your heart if you don't know him today. And he'll come in. And he'll change your life around. And you'll come out of this experience saying, I am a disciple and a follower of Jesus Christ. Not what my sign is, and not where I live, and not what I'm wearing, or not what I drive. But I'm a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. Just 30 more seconds today. Or those heads abound. If you don't know the Savior, raise your hand. I want to pray with you today Raise your hand if you're not sure today. You can't jump from sinner to discipleship. But there's a middle ground. You've got to accept him as your personal Savior. If you're here today, you'll be here today, be here today Don't be ashamed, but just raise that hand today and ask the Lord Jesus to come into your life today and he'll do it. I know he'll do it Amen. Let's give God a praise today. Amen. If you desire to be a part of this fellowship called Harvest The doors are always open. We're the discipleship church. Yes, sir. We're disciples. That's who we are. We just plow them along. Plant some love and some joy and we Plants and peace. So if you desire to be a part of this fellowship today, the doors are always open for you. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. comtoharvest. org. That's come the number to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.