I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen. Whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website. I really do believe that God has a special message just for you. A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries for a worship experience already in progress. God of heart unlike through I can Shall you let us stand? You are my left hand, left friend of my being when I'm alone. Your hand is said to me, Jesus. Good and perfect come from you for the heart and Of my contentment, you're the whole project. Jesus brought the sins of my throat. You are by a pleasure Thing alight so music in the meadow and The voice of the children, Macalony and my border. And the king of all magic But And perfect comes from you on my Oh my god, he's taken over I She said you had a reason. You are my joy, and when I'm feeling down, you pick me up. Oh Jesus I think who I'm sick and my healer Oh when I'm alone You're my friend And I don't know how to thank you Jesus for my soul Don't see that you on the boy are the man. Thank you to Jesus For are you kidding me? The reason that When I'm feeling down, when I'm feeling down, you pick me up, you lift me up. You give my joy. Hallelujah. Jesus. You are the center of my joy. How many can say that today? That he's the center of your joy I'm just picking the Holy Ghost poll. How many know today that he's really right there? With all that you're going through, that when you add it all up, he's right in the middle of your experience. In the middle of what you're facing, in the middle of what is around the next bin, he's the center of all of your joy. Think about that today. Has he been the center of your joy? Has he made a way for you? Has he given you peace? Has he kept you from seeming unseen dangers? That's the kind of God that we serve. And so we come to honor that God today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. And we're not ashamed to say it, you're our God. We're not ashamed to say that you kept us. Not ashamed to say that you've forgiven us of every sin And so as we stand now to declare your word, it is our prayer today that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. But when this time is done, may we give your name all the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. My God, there's something about church. Folks say what they will or may, but something about Sunday morning coming together and being able to release All that you may have on you and leave out of here refreshed today. Amen. There's a word from the Lord today that comes from 2 Timothy 1, and we'll read verses 5 through 7. Paul writes, I'm reminded of your sincere faith, which first lived in your grandmother Lois. And in your mother Eunice, and now I am persuaded now lives in you also. For this reason, I remind you to fan into flame the gift of God which is in you through the laying on of my hands. For the Spirit God gave us does not make us timid but gives us power, love, and self-discipline. I want to preach from a shamanic title Are you living on borrowed time part two? Are you living on borrowed time part two? The key question is to keep asking, are you spending your time on the right things? Because time is all you have. Those were the words of the late Randy Posh, a Baltimore and Columbia, Maryland native, and those who knew him would tell you he had a heart for education and for children. He was also a college professor. That quote was taken from his last lecture series, which has become now a best-selling book. And in those lectures he talked about how he helped others to achieve their dreams. He highlighted people who along the way had encouraged him. We should never forget people that we run into who have made a difference and deposited something in our life. His greatest desire that Israel departs was to have for family members, his kids in particular, to know that he loved them and to grow up and to follow their own dreams You know, when you think about it, we all have a last lecture. We all will have a final word of sorts. a parting commentary in the life that we live. We're all living on borrowed time. You know, that word got to me so much last week that I spent the better part of last week uh being conscious of the fact that I'm living on borrowed time. And by the end of the day, like many of you, the day ran out You got tired and you had to go to bed. But as soon as that new day shows up, you are thinking about what can I do to make the best use of my time And when I shared that on last week, it really helped me. Does that sound strange that the sermon helped the pastor? It sure did. And as I look forward to this week, there's some things I want to get done because I realize that time is important. So by this morning I was up at five. Me and the alarm clock. It was rough. But as I come before you today, I was thinking specifically about this moment That God would have me to stand, that God would have me to proclaim something that would help and encourage you. My mind was focused on this very moment. So as we look at the text today from a very cold Roman prison, the Apostle Paul hins a letter to Timothy. That's what I like about the Bible. It's called Timothy. It's called 2 Timothy because Paul wrote a second letter to his understudy. To his mentee, those of you in education know you pull someone along beside you during your journey in education. And also there are persons who have been examples for you. So Paul is in this solitary confinement and he's writing his last letter. Paul is living on borrowed time. These are the final words he has to say to Timothy. He pins them to Timothy. A person he's trained along the way, a person who is now heading the church at Ephesus. I was thankful to be with the goal, thanks to the Harvest family to Ephesus a few years ago, and to be in that ancient city was amazing. It was also where the jet lag hit me on that very day. But when I recovered, it was great to walk the streets of Ephesus and to connect the Bible with what we have even today. So he writes to Timothy to really encourage him. How do they know that you need encouragement? I don't care how super duper you are, you might be super man, superwoman, but every now and then you want somebody to say, you know what, how's your day? How's it going? How can I help you? And so Paul, even though he's in this state, about to be executed because of his faith, he takes time to write some parting words to Timothy Someone he has a lot of faith in. And what he shares with him are really characteristics. The importance of having power. Of having love and the importance of being self-disciplined. All those are good. One by itself would be just enough to encourage us Aren't you glad that the Word of God is such an encouraging document? I'm trying to push you a little bit this morning. You look so serious on me. Amen? Is it because I'm looking serious? But to think about Someone who is not concerned about themselves, but about someone else to the point they want to give them some advice. So he writes it So we'll unpack these one by one. What does this mean? What is Paul trying to say? How should Timothy receive it? And how might it help us today in our day-to-day walk? Amen. Let's talk about this sense of power. It says in verse 7, for the Spirit God gave us does not make us timid. Let's just unpack that piece He's saying, Timothy, you've got something in you, man. Timothy, I know your grandmama. I know your mother. His father's mentioned, but not by name. But he says, I know your people I know what's in you. I know your potential. And he says, so based on that, don't become fearful. Don't become timid. Easy for Paul to say, right? Anybody ever got scared? Oh you big and bad. Never shook a little bit, even though you knew your game, that for a moment you was like, ooh, can this happen? Can this work? He writes him, he sets it up and says, Timothy, there's so much in you, and God wants to use you for such a time as this. It says, you know what? Because of who you are, know that he's given you power. Power, power, power. God's Holy Spirit lives in us. And that really becomes the power that we need. Now try to put this on. Okay. His spirit lives in me. That makes me powerful. How does that work? What does that look like? Is it a feeling? Is it what is it? That he's saying there's something that happens within the person who receives Christ that's kind of unusual. Can't put your hand on it. How many folk know they're powerful? Oh, I know I am. Why? Because the Spirit of God resides in me. And so all Paul was doing was kind of scratching the surface. Kind of shaking it up a little bit and saying, hey man, you've got so much in you. Because see, in life, we need God's Holy Spirit because you couldn't run on a AA battery Triple A, old school C, they still make them, I guess so. You know, because at some point you will run out, but with God's power And God's spirit, you can stand strong in any situation. Amen? And it motivates you that even when I don't feel like it, it's the power of God working in me to say you've got to get it done. Praise God. And I need that sometime. Pep taught me not to do, but I said, you know what? Man, there's something in you that God has placed in you he wants to develop That gets me excited knowing that, you mean I can just switch it on. No, I can just have my mind set on him. I mean, even the word spirit is dunymus. Which talks about strength, power. It means dynamite. How does that work for you? You're about to blow up. That's kind of old school talk, isn't it? Like maybe like the new album is out helping me out millennials. It's about to blow up. Is that still hip? Is that still cool? Maybe not. Maybe that's baby boomer stuff. Okay But anyway, what I'm saying is, you're about to blow up. Right? Because the power of God, you can get me later on that, works within you. The power works within you. Timothy, there's something in you. We're operating sometime below our potential. Just testify that, yeah, I could do it. I don't feel like doing it. What our educators do, and a bunch of them in here, they are trying to encourage the children. To see what's in them. When I worked on my doctorate degree, my advisor said, man, I'm trying to pull it out of you. I was like, huh? He was like, it's in you. I was like, what's in me? This document? Persons will see you like a Timothy and say, I see your potential and even though Timothy you are in a state now of reluctance, you need some thigh in the belly. And so I'm writing you to say, let's go. You're dealing with church folk. He had issues. He was a young guy. But don't you receive the power that God has for you? How many folk that's the power of God working in your life? You may not look like you're powerful, but what happens beneath the surface is that God has spoken to you. And Jesus told his disciples that. In the book of Acts, as he prepared to head back to glory, he says, you know what? But you will receive power Not might. It's a promise, a command. When the Holy Spirit comes on you and you will do something, you'll be my witnesses. Yeah, look at that. You won't just say I got power, but you'll be a doer. Amen. In Jerusalem, in all of Judea, Samaria, the ends of the earth, Baltimore, Annapolis, and I just name some place, your neighborhood, you'll be a powerful witness right in that place. And that's why there's such an urgency to get things done. That's why there's this urgent call. Timothy, my time is not long, but what the time I have left, I'm saying to you is keep on keeping on That's what the old folks told you back in the day. Sugar, you're doing good. But don't stop. Keep on keeping on. Amen. Amen. So not just the characteristic of having power, but also love Yeah. Power and love. Love is the peace with our faith. Amen? That that love seems so simple that we sometimes overlook it. I like you, but I don't love you. You don't see the value in loving people. Can I just say this? You have to love the hell out of people sometimes. So he said a bad word. No, I didn't. Some folk are hellish and you have to combat that with love. Amen. Just in spite of the fact you don't like me, I'm gonna love you. You gave me a dirty look, but I still love you. You set me up, but I love you. Why? I'm on a mission for God. I ain't got time to let you influence me. And love is not optional. It's not something that we say Always say to persons that I know, if you gotta keep telling me I love you, I love you, I love you, I'm starting to get worried. Just show me. And you're gonna show love and what you do, how you approach people, and and that can become your legacy. Love God so loved the world As messed up as it was and is, that he sent his only begotten son to do what? To save a broken humanity. I got that love piece, amen. That I need love in the midst of my doing what I got to do, I'm gonna do it in love. That makes the time go by really well when you can love people in spite of love through situations. Love when you got a frown in the midst of it. How many folk have a frown in there? I love you, but it's hurting me, but I still love you anyhow because God has called me to love you in spite of I don't have an option to whether I can love you or not Timothy, make sure love is in the mix. A famous poem by Elizabeth Barrett Browning entitled How Do I Love Thee? Let me count the ways. Man, I like that. That's not just a Valentine's. Let me count the ways how much I love you. I thank you to that mentor. Give them a call. Thank you. Thank you for what you've done. Thank you for getting after me. Thank you for making me mad. But because of that, I'm the better now Folk are hard on you, you think, but it didn't make you better? Didn't you thank your parents? Didn't they ride your back? Didn't they make you mad? They say I love you, that's why I'm doing it. You didn't get that then, but now don't you appreciate it? That they love you so much they would not accept failure in your life. Love Take time today to display love. And as you go along your journey, it really makes a difference. in your life, but in the life of those persons that you come across. In the Old Testament, Deuteronomy 5, 6 and 5 says, you shall love the Lord. Your God, with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your might, it is personal that first of all I love the Lord and I love you. I think the word talks about how can you not love your brother or say you love your brother who you have right here and you don't love them when you say you love the Lord if you've never seen I've never seen the Lord, but I I love Him, but I got a problem with you. Today, allow love to just overtake you. Love, power, self-discipline. Uh-oh, that sounds educational. It describes a person who is sensibly minded, balanced. who has their life under control, sound mind who will not waste time. Self-discipline, not waiting for somebody to say, I'm told you to get it done, but when you decide It's got to be done. Let me just put you on the spot. There's something this week that you've been putting off for the coming week. And you say, well I'll get around to it. But this is the week you realize I'm still on borrowed time. I gotta make a dent in this thing. Amen. Well, it's not like you can make a dent in something. So you know what? I got some progress I got one page done. I did one thing, great, but this week, make it be the week that you have self-discipline. Self-control. I'm preaching to the choir. Why? Because I'll hear this later and say, Tim, did you do it? And so I got my list ready. What can I get done this week that will help me to benefit others in my Christian walk? I got to be self-disciplined. I gotta pull myself up and say, you know what, get it done. Sometimes folk won't ride you. You have to do it for yourself. Amen. I like what Proverbs said. I found this this morning, actually. I just got it, stuck it in. It says the person without self-control It's like a city with broken down walls. In other words, can I say this? Euraggity. That's old school. That if you can't keep yourself together, how can you even lead someone else? And it hurts when you do it to yourself. Other folks are saying you get your feelings all hurt. I know, I get it, I got it. But when self say, uh oh, when the Holy Spirit says, you gotta get it done, then you can receive it better in the Lord. That's great. Now I've seen the games this week. I'm sure you've watched the Olympic Games. I've been really enjoying them. And athletes are trained, but they're self-disciplined. Look at their eyes, oh my, they're ready. Who are they looking at? They're just preparing themselves. And quite a few of those races were based strictly on time. Our hometown guy, Michael Phelps, go Michael, get him. And so you're looking at the time. They give you the split. Here's much time they have to go. They're living on that clock And in life, you're also on the clock. I'm kind of stuck on this for the past few Sundays about what can I get done and the time that God has allotted me, I'm living on the clock. Borrow time. And of course what the athletes want to do, they want to get the gold. Well yes they do a silver work. A bronze is alright, but how many folks say we got the gold? Amen. Oh, you want the gold on your job? You want a gold in your relationship? You want a gold in people you come in contact with? You don't want to have a silver relationship Or a bronze relationship. You want the gold. How many folk want the best for themselves? I do. I start thinking that I've heard the old thing about The streets are paved with gold in heaven. They are. Revelation 7. That the streets of glory are paved with gold But once you get the glory, you won't worry about the streets of gold. You'll say, where is my God? The one who brought me out. Where's my God, the one who dried my tears? Where's my God, the one who was with me in my midnight hour? I want to know where is God that I can serve in spirit and in truth You gotta have something to stretch stretch forward to and to try and to get in this life. And that's why God said his best When he sent Jesus Christ, he sent the goal. Amen. He didn't give you a second death. He sent some of him for us. He died and he rose again and he's not sitting at the right hand of the Father. And I like what the book of Hebrews says. It says there's a cloud of witnesses, uh-huh, who are hanging over glory and saying, You better run. This race with patience. Looking under Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith. Can't you hear the saints of old sin? You better run, you better not quit And sometimes we'll have a flashback from those in our lives who are saying, You better you better come on. And there's nothing like having a cheering section, someone saying you can make it. How many folk ran track? Y'all heard my track story? I wasn't that great. But man, the guys make me I mean it was like you rolling, man. I thought I was I was hidden. You know, I was in third place. But the fact that somebody said you gotta run. It sounded like my opponent was on my heel, but they weren't. And so in life, you are living in a time frame. You gotta run. Run this race with patience. It was in the games of of 86 or 88 brother in Seoul K so South Korea that some of us watched then, those of us who were born, since you're youngsters giving me a hard time, uh, but but there was a song that kept resonating. uh during the Olympics. It was a theme song performed by an artist whose life ended way too soon because of some tough decisions, Whitney Houston The lyrics spoke of reaching the pinnacle of one's life and both the fear of falling short and the thrill that can only be explained by one who has achieved his or her dreams. I want one moment in time when I'm more than I thought I could be, when all of my dreams are a heartbeat away, and the answers are all up to me. Give me One moment in time. When I'm racing with destiny, in that moment of time, I will feel eternity. How many folk are to strap up your shoes? Ready to run the race. Ready to say, I've got things to do. I've got an assignment to complete. I'm on bar time. Talk to you later. I got to go. Get in a hurry today and say, you know what? I got to continue to look for the prize. The Bible says I will lift up my eyes unto the hills From it's cometh my help, all of my help cometh from the Lord. I feel like running right now. If I had the space, I'd do it. How many folk feel energized And motivated and inspired to say, you know what? I got love, I got power, I got self-discipline. I'm running for Jesus And I'm not tired yet. I'm so glad today he caught me off the sideline of life, put me in the race, and you got to run And I've never stopped running since then. Amen. Aren't you glad to be a part of that team running for Jesus? Anyhow, I am. He died for me. I can at least run for him. Right. Are you living on borrowed time? Oh that's the watch watchers. Stop watch clicking, timing you Push yourself today. I declare that this week you'll get some things done that you've been putting off, that you'll you'll see some progress this week. Amen. How many know that you can do that? Come on, let's give that a praise. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. I feel like running and skipping And shouting for Jesus today. Amen. That thing helped me today. What you waiting on? Come on, stand there all over this place. No need to fix yourself up Come just as you are. Go for the goal today. There's something just for you. How many folk are more determined today? You needed a little boost, didn't you? Yeah, let's go, man. Let's just get this done. There's work to do in the kingdom. There's somebody who needs to get your word of encouragement. Call them to get home and say, you know what? Are you going for the goal you need to? Let them know just as they are. Come and see, come with me, come and live for. Come just as you are come and see, come with me. Come library. And for And that's the plea today that you don't have to fix up, straighten up. The only thing about the Lord He'll take you the way you are. He'll do the changing. He'll make the over. So you're a vessel that's usable. So we come today to proclaim Christ to you just in case you don't know him. Just in case you've never experienced him. He'll make a difference in your life. I've shared this testimony before I I grew up in the church. I I was a top church guy. Lived next door and we had to go. If you lived in Darrison Jim's house, you had to go to church. And the day came when I went to college. I said, okay, I got to go now. When I was checking, Mama said, Did you go to church today? No ma'am. So all right, just check him in. And then there was a church down the street. Some of the guys realized that church girls Well nice girls. I thought I would listen you on up. And so I I had one good suit, so I was like, I'm going. And I said for all the wrong reasons. I missed the Sunday too. A guy was at my door. Are you going? They wanted to go to church. But I stopped playing church. And one day the Lord moved on my heart. Well, I took this serious. And realize that he could take me and develop something out of me. And for you as well. But you got to give God permission to do that He won't force his way in. He won't beat you down. He won't make you do it. You'll say, Lord, here I am. Now do what you will in my life. And I tell you, I'm so glad he has control of my life. I'm not the tem I used to be. And not the tim I can yet become in the here and now. Well, I want to encourage you today. I stood where you stood and I've been shaky in my faith, but I don't want a God to beat me down. I want a God to encourage me. Bow your heads today all over this place here. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. And we ask as you go through this place that you might take heavily inventory. Of the lives of your people. God, you know better than any of us would ever know who's in need of a Savior, whose life needs to be turned around, who needs to confess you as Christ. We just come as an ambassador to spread the good news to tell somebody about Jesus. I pray even now that that heart might open so wide and make room for you. God, you've never left them. They may have left you, but you've been right there standing, knocking on the door of their hearts. Today, may they answer and say, Lord Jesus, save my soul and make me whole. I believe that you died and that you rose again. With all power in their hands. The Bible says, if you declare that and believe it, that you'll be saved. Today, Lord, I thank you. For your word going forward. I thank you for a heart that may have been touched. Do it now, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Somebody give God a praise today Yeah. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.