Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. God is with us. We prepare our hearts even now to share the good news of Jesus. This is all about today. Father, we thank you. Thank you for being God all by yourself. Thank you for sending Your son Jesus Christ to save a dying humanity. Our prayer of the day is that we might hear your voice And might follow your command. We decrease so that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise. and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. This is the day the Lord has made. We rejoice and we're glad in it I look forward each and every week to come before you to share what the Lord has shared with me during the course of my prayer time. And I'm always the better. I'm always blessed because of what he does. Amen? There's a word from the Lord that comes from the prophet Isaiah. 40th chapter, verses 1 through 5. Number 1 says, Comfort, comfort my people, says your God. Speak tenderly to Jerusalem and proclaim to her that her heart service has been completed, that her sin has been paid for, that she has received from the Lord's hand double for all her sins. A voice of one calling in the desert, prepare the way for the Lord. Make straight in the wilderness a highway for our God. Verse 4, every valley shall be raised up, every mountain and hill made low, the rough ground shall become level, the rugged places a plain. And the glory of the Lord will be revealed. And all mankind together will see it, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. And so today we want to share from the Samonic title Coming Soon. We worship in a movie theater. That means that on any given day Uh this becomes a place of entertainment. It is a movie house. And before you see the main attraction, uh you have to spend 15 or 20 minutes uh looking at what's called the trailers. Uh they're the previews of what's to come. Amen. You may decide, okay, I like that. I'll come back and see it on next week. But even when it comes to our spiritual lives We have to be tuned in about what God has ahead of us, what God is going to do in the life of his people. So we encourage today to pay attention not just to a babe wrapped in swaddling clothes and lying in a manger, but it's much deeper than that. So I want to suggest today that we must not allow the glitter and the glamour of this season, the confusion and the consumerism, to block our sight on the real meaning of what we celebrate and who we celebrate, it is the Lord Jesus Christ, the one who is coming. Amen? So we talk about uh this sense of adventure It really is the Latin word adventus. It means coming. We begin this Sunday and right up until the time of Christmas, we celebrate the coming of the King. Amen. Coming soon to a heart near you. Jesus the Christ, the one that we hold in high regard. the one who has saved our souls. It's really all about Jesus. Now you say that and you might get trampled at the mall, but still speak it, amen? Amen. So you know the Lord is good. Look at me. I'm pushing you again. Get out there and that shot. Get in line. Let somebody know. Yeah, I know I'm getting a discount. But I praise the Lord Jesus Christ for having me today. He is the reason for the season. In our text today, it is the prophet Isaiah. Who writes? He's one who is sent by God. And a prophet simply announces and passes along what God tells him to tell the people. His name in Hebrew means God is salvation. So Isaiah is on point to share with the people who are down, who are struggling, who are facing opposition. God says, tell the people that I am coming soon. I'm glad today that God still uses people to deliver great messages. Amen? He allows us to be used of him to let someone know. I know there are people today who say they are prophets. I don't dispute who they say they are. But I think God still speaks into the lives of people. There is something you ought to be able to say that will uplift someone, but most of all, theologically, let them know that God is still in control. So really when Isaiah writes What God has told him. I want to just look at these first couple of verses because they've been through. They're in exile 70 years and they're down and out. And what amazes me about the New Testament Is that we talk about Christ's coming, but the Old Testament is really a forecast of what's to come. How many of you said, you know what? I love the God of the New Testament, the God of the Old Testament. Man, he was rough. Well it wasn't that rough. God still today says, here's what I want you to do. And so when we don't do it, there are consequences, amen, to what we don't do And so when the people of God disobey their consequences, and so they find themselves now, the things that God has allowed, they find themselves in exile. And so here's how uh Isaiah shares in these first a couple of verses. He says, Comfort, comfort my people, says your God. He says, just say this to him. Speak tenderly to Jerusalem. They've already gone through a lot. Proclaim to them that the hard service has been completed. They've paid their debt that their sins have come against them, but I'm coming now as a God who follows up. Aren't you glad that God follows up even when we've not been our best? We've fallen short, but God does not just hold that against you. He comes around again, and that is God's mercy Do you know what mercy is? It's when you get something that you don't deserve, and that you've not been all that you could be, but nevertheless God still shines upon you Again, that baffles my mind that yes there are consequences to my wrongdoing, but God won't just leave you out there He'll come along and pick you up and brush you off and give you a new start in life. And I'm excited about that because no one else will do that. But God, who looks past What you've done and sees your real need, you're here there because what God looked past. That very thing that you did, you paid for it, but he comes back and says, I still love you. And I'm sending my son Jesus Christ to die for you. As we look at our text today, we're going to really unpack a couple of areas that I think will be real key. And that is to talk about The preparation. Getting ready for this coming king. And then not just preparing, but getting all antsy and anticipating that he's on the way. And then knowing that there is a revelation, there are things that God will share with us. So as we look at this text, let's talk about preparation first and foremost. He says, a voice of one calling in the desert, prepare the way for the Lord. Make a highway for him In this time, people would have a monarch to come and they would say, because this person of importance is coming, send somebody ahead to make sure that everything is right. And make sure the road is clear. Make sure there are no obstacles along the way. And yet we do that as we prepare our hearts for the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. Preparing, getting ready, getting our hearts in a place that we can receive Him as Lord and Savior. Here are people who have been struggling, and now there's this voice calling. in your rock place saying get ready that we gotta prepare the way we gotta make a straight place in the wilderness a highway an interstate for our Lord Oh I know you would get that. You interstate driving, uh going over the speed limit, uh getting off on the wrong exit, amen. And do do you film it this morning? We gotta make a highway in our hearts So the Lord can come in. Amen. He will make what the crooked places straight. See, some of y'all might want to be straightened out. I'm glad today that God comes along and says, Lord, make a highway to come right straight through me Amen. Make it a whole lane in the spirit. And so they're preparing for God to come. For that to happen, you've got to open your heart up and open yourself up so that God will not get a bottleneck. No, will not get a detour. Amen? And so he's preparing them. Tell them to make it plain. To remove things you may have carried on from last Christmas To remove these things that are in your heart that you're holding a grudge against a family member. To remove those things that you say, you know what? I'm gonna forget. I'll forget, but I won't forget. Amen Amen, church. But God says if you want to prepare for the presence of the Lord to come, you got to go in and do some construction work on your heart. Uh-oh. Men at work. God at work. Y'all love those cameras telling you to slow down? And in our own lives, we've got to prepare To feel the presence of the Lord in the here and the now. Preparation Are you ready? Are you prepared? Are you in the spirit? Not whether you buy anything or not, but are you in the spirit knowing that Jesus reigns? The king is coming. The word is out. Are you prepared? Oh, I need to talk back, church, today. Amen. Man, that turkey is still speaking in the house. I come against the spirit of turkey in the name of Jesus. And the dressing. Amen. Are you prepared today to receive what God has for you? Is your heart open? Are you going to make a highway in your heart for the Lord to come in and to bless you and to speak to you and to show you the way that you ought to go? I am. There are obstacles in our lives that will really block what God wants to do. And sometimes it's us. Our attitude, our disposition, you know, our I don't want to be bothered. And sometimes those very things will really put a No enter, do not enter on our hearts. Isaiah tell the people that I'm on the way. My son is coming, but they have got to be ready. Anybody ready for a miracle? Ready for a blessing? Is your heart right? Are you prepared for what happens by will the Lord? And this word, taking out, Isaiah was speaking six, seven hundred years earlier, prophesying this. But then in the Gospel of Matthew, John the Baptist is out there, I mean, he's saying it. And so he's really quoting the scripture. John the Baptist is quoting, memorized, quoting the word. He says, you know what? This is he who was spoken to the prophets Isaiah. A voice of one calling in the desert, prepare you the way of the Lord. See what I mean? That he took the scripture from way back when and said, you know what? Let me still speak this. There's one who's coming. At that point, John the Baptist says, I'm not even worthy to unbuckle his shoelace. But he's on the way. Anybody prepared for the Lord to come today into your experience? You prepare saying, God, come on. Send Jesus. I'm ready. I'm ready to receive Him into my heart. Preparation. But not just preparation. There's also a time of anticipation I believe it's gonna happen. I'm antsy. I can't wait. He said he was gonna come. You ever been in a place in life you just couldn't help yourself? You were just ooh And maybe it's Christmas. I don't know about you, maybe y'all got too old. I still look under the tree, man, and say, what did I get? I I still smile over my box. Obey God. Anticipation As a child you were all excited and tried to be good that last week and tried to help mom and daddy around the house. Why? Because you thought something was coming Amen. Oh, y'all were so good. Y'all was so good at Tushu. I mean, you put yourself in a place that I'm antsy. I'm excited about what the Lord is going to do. And so even as Isaiah writes to the people, he's saying this sense of anticipation, he says, you know what? Every valley shall be raised up. Things will change if a mountain and hill will be made low. Why? He's coming. Some stuff is going to take place. It won't be the same as it was before. The rock grounds will become level, the rugged places will become plain. There's this sense of anticipation. But for a moment, take it away from a desert, and there again, it's a heart thing. Is your heart ready? That as the Lord comes into your heart and shares with you, are you excited to have Him to do a new thing in your life? Oh, so y'all y'all just want old stuff, huh? Huh? I want to God do a new thing in me, amen. I'm okay the way I am, but I'm I'm excited about what he's going to do next. Amen? Are you excited about what God is going to do in your life next? Are you just gonna stay on first base the whole time? Stay on the one young line the whole time. Do you want to get to the end zone in life? I think I talk sports all now. I gotta get everybody awake then. Amen. Anticipation To get in the red zone of light, Lord, I am waiting for you to do a great thing in me. Not my neighbor Not my child, but start first of all in changing my heart and making me the person that you would have me to be Every valley will be raised up. Everything in me will start to change. I know it looked like not much is going on, but my God, you're at work Aren't you glad that God is at work today? I'm excited in the Lord today. Amen. I feel like preaching. I feel like preaching. Anybody excited? God, you're going to do a thing in me. And you ought to be so on the edge of your seat because of what God is going to do. And it starts with Christ. I'm coming in. You better get your stuff together. I'm sending my son to come into your life. Are you prepared to receive me? Every every valley. Not not some valleys, but every every low place in your life. Amen? Some folks have had a rough week, every rough place, that the Lord is coming to deal with that and to help you along the way Like what the Bible says in 1 John 3 and 2. Dear friends, now we are children of God, and what we will be has not yet been known, but we know that when he appears, we're gonna see him as he is. In other words, he's not done with you yet. Maybe you're okay just being you, but I'm looking for God to do new things in my life. I'm looking to grow in Him. I'm looking to love more. I'm looking to serve more. I'm looking to give more. I'm just not going to stick with the status quo. Any status quo people today You okay with your okay kind of life? Or do you want God to come in and do a new thing in you? Anyone want God to do a new thing in you today? You just can't wait? You anticipating what he's going to do? And that's the life of the believer. Is that it's always exciting. There's always something new, and it comes on the wings of prayer and what the Lord would do. There again, coming soon. Don't miss the preview. Coming soon, prepare. Coming soon, anticipate. Coming soon, form alliances. Oh yes, God has something in store for me. I feel that pain today. I want to encourage you in the Lord. But finally, there also has to be this sense of revelation. Isaiah writes in his fifth verse, and the glory of the Lord will be revealed in all mankind together will see it, for the mouth of the Lord will be revealed. Has spoken it. There's some stuff that you've not seen yet that God is about to do in your life. And but you will see it if you just wait. You will experience it if you just put your heart together. Amen. And so the glory of the Lord. Who? The divine presence of the Lord. Has he ever visited with you that you sense that God you are with me? I don't it it wasn't a coffee, it wasn't something I did no. I sense God's presence in my life. He's gonna reveal some things just to you. Nobody else may not get it, but in his coming there will be a revelation. Now love people sometimes they mean well You know, the Lord told me to tell you. I said, oh really? You know, uh some years ago I was uh at a conference and I was at a bookstore, and brother says, Reverend He said, man, the Lord just told me to tell you that you're getting a jet. I was like, okay, okay. Dr. Gilbert to blow up. I was like, praise the Lord. I don't want a jet. And so some years later, I ran to that same brother with that jet story. And I was like, you know what, Lord, I don't want a jet Do y'all want it yet? But he was like, man, he was prophesying, I guess, over me, but I didn't want what he was, I don't know if God told him that. Amen. But what is God saying to you? What is God revealing to you today? It may not be anything material. You say, God, give me more peace And give me more joy. And reveal myself to me. Let me see my glory. See your glory in me. Do it in me. And that's a real revelation. So if somebody said you're going to get a jet, now you can receive that. But I said again, I don't want a jet. But the glory of the Lord is the praise and honor of God. It may come by way in your prayer time. It may come in a vision, may come in a dream, but God is yet at work. And by sending his song, that is a revelation within itself. Recall Moses, one of the great biblical giants. Who was so bold and said, Lord, show me your glory. I said, you know, you're gonna bowl somebody. No, I want to see your glory. Show me. Moses, you can't handle this. What do you mean? You can't. But here's what I'll do for you. I'll take you and I'll put you in the cleft of a mountain. And then what I will do is, I would allow my glory to pass by you. But you can't stand it. So when my glory comes by, I'll put my hand over the cliff and the mountain. Isn't that something that you think you can handle? You can't handle this, but I'm glad that God's glory is yet a alive Amen. His glory is just like his presence, his divine presence is so powerful that you all know that I've been in a place where God is. Ever had a God moment I mean you just fit that God you up in this interview. God, you're on this you're in here. Amen. You own the job, you're in my office, you're in this hearing. I believe that the presence of God His glory is revealed in many places. Amen. Those shepherds who are out in the field, all of a sudden they will say, I don't know where we're going, but the glory of the Lord showed up. Even in that place. Aren't you glad today that He's coming and coming soon? And there'll be a second advent. That we're preparing in our hearts theologically for the coming of the king, but Jesus really is coming back. I believe that, that he died and rose again and said, I'll be back. Uh-oh, there's another coming soon. Get your house in order. I'm coming back. That used to scare me when I was in the world. Can I testify? Not doing right. And some mother said, boy, you better get your life right. He coming back. I was like, oh, please, not today. Amen. But God is long-suffering, not willing that any should perish. He gave you another opportunity that you didn't get caught in your mess Or me. That he's coming again. Now I know folks trying to forecast, they try to be a prophet. You don't know, but they know the hour when the Son of Man shall come. But he's coming. Isn't that good news today? He promised he's coming back just like he said he would. I believe him today. Story is told of R. H. Cornelius. It was a young man whose career dealt with teaching. He loved to teach in the public schools in his city. He was so good they promoted him to an associate principal. But there was something that was burning deep in his heart. Cornelius says, I like church songs. And he kept dealing with the church song, but what really he found out is that he got a taste of Jesus. And no matter what profession you're in, if you allow the Lord to get in, you may start with just a little bit. For him it was a song. For you it was just from go check church out. I'm not really gonna come back again. I just want to come check it out. But don't you know that when you begin to come into God's presence, That Cornelius realized that something got a hold of him. So much so that he would begin to give his whole life to God. Not some of it. And so Cornelius writes the words to this old hymn As I journey through the land, singing as I go, hourning souls to Calvary, to the Crimson Flow. Many arrows pierce my soul from without within, but my Lord leads me, and through him I must withdraw. Oh! I want to see him. Look upon his face, there to sing forever of his saving grace on the streets of glory. Let me lift my voice. Cares all past home at last. Ever To rejoice. Did you come to rejoice in the Lord today? I can rejoice because He's kept me. I can rejoice because He's led me. I can rejoice because he's made a way for me and that gets me excited to know that don't you change that channel coming soon You prepared? Are you anticipating on the edge of your seats? Are you looking for the revelation that you will get in his coming? Allow your hearts today to be so saturated with his love. This season won't be like other seasons. You won't worry about whether you don't get the special, but the special that you want is to have the presence of the Lord to reside and to rest in you It'll bring a joy to your heart. It'll bring a smile to your face. It'll put clapping in your hands. You'll be going skipping around. What's wrong with you? He's coming. Who's coming? The Lord Jesus Christ is coming to reside in my heart today. I hope you've been blessed today. Can't you tell that I'm excited about that? Coming soon? That is the Word of God. It is all Ready, blessed. Come on, stand today and give God a praise. Amen. He's coming to a heart near you. He's just waiting. For you to make a highway. To make an entrance point for him to come in. I do believe what I share every Sunday I do believe that the Lord is real. And I do believe that He desires to come and to reside in us. It amazes me me, but I believe it today. Aren't you a better person because you've opened your heart to Jesus? Isn't life for you Totally different because you made the decision today that you know what? I want Christ to live in my heart. And it's only when I Move the signs out of the way. And say, Lord Jesus, come on in. I'm taking a risk. Because you're going to get into all my business. You're going to search every room with my heart. But I'm available. Come on in. As you come today, maybe you've kept a sign On your heart. Do not enter. Under construction. Exit close. Stay away. But one you begin to open your heart. It's so supernatural because when you do it, he won't force you the way, but once you do it, you'll just allow the spirit to come right on in And it saturates you in such a way that your life will be the same. Guard your heart today. Guard your anointing today If you're not careful, there's so many things in life that will seek to diminish what God has done in your life. But it all starts with salvation As you bow your head today, ask yourself the question. Am I saved? Have I allowed the Lord Jesus Christ To come into my heart. Am I prepared to give him room and to give him a run of my life experience? Ask that question. He wants to reside in you. Allow him in today. Take a moment. And search your own heart today. Lord, what's my status? Where do I stand with you? Come into my heart today and save me. The Bible says thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart. That God has raised him from the dead, the Bible said, Thou shalt be saved today. I am so glad I'm saved. I am so glad He saved my heart. I am glad. Are you Willing to give your heart to him today. He's available. Speaking today, say God, come in right now. Send Jesus into my heart. Save a soul I pray now. In Jesus' name. Hey. Have you let him in today? Are you excited about the coming of the king? We bless God today. We know you're saved today. Just give God a praise. Don't be ashamed. Don't be ashamed of who you are today. You are a child of the king. Amen. We will praise the Lord. How many come to serve him today? My house. We will serve the Lord. As for me in my house, we will serve the Lord me. We will. We will serve the law. We will serve. When you go back home, say, wait a minute, I'm back. The whole house is gonna serve the Lord. We serve. I'm gonna declare today. It's a house of service. Amen? We serve. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comethenumber to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.