Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits And then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Bless God. There's a word from the Lord today. From the Gospel of Mark, 10th chapter, verse 32 through 34, says they were on their way up to Jerusalem with Jesus leading the way, and the disciples were astonished. while those who followed him were afraid. Again he took the twelve asides and told them what was going to happen to him. We're going up to Jerusalem, he said, and the Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief priests and the teachers of the law. They will condemn him to death and will hand him over to the Gentiles. who will mock him and spit on him, flog him, and kill him, three days later he will rise. I want to preach today From the Samonic title, very simply, Critical Conversations. Critical Conversations. A conversation is something that's very informal that takes place between a person or two or a group. I love to engage in conversations, especially with strangers. Give me a minute in the coffee line, I will know your name, where you're from, where you're headed, and where you've been Give me 10 and I'll get a chance to plant the seed of the gospel into your soul. But some conversations go beyond just a brief, hello, how you're doing. But some are deep and they're critical and they're serious and they're soul searching. But a conversation is what happens between people who may or may not be of like mind. Our Lord and Savior, according to Scripture, had more than 130 contacts just in the New Testament where he encountered people and shared with them. It may have been in the temple or the synagogue, but more often, Jesus just met folk and started chatting with them and talking with them on dusty roads. On the seaside, up at the mountaintop, I could hang out with Jesus as much as I love to talk and listen. I could hang out and just have a talk with Jesus and tell him all about my struggles. And that is what we see even today, that Jesus takes time to talk with the twelve. You know, I love hanging out with some of the senior saints. You know why? They've got great conversations. Man, they'll take you back down the road and They've been around the block a few times and they've been through a few tunnels or two, but they'll tell you their experience I treasure some of the stories of old, and they are there and available for us to grow from You know, also, with a sense of paying attention to what happens over the course of the next few weeks, this is a high time for the believer Every faith kind of has their day. And they get more excited than we do sometimes. Is that this is this is exciting. Something is about to happen in our faith. That Jesus is on his way to a cross. He's going to be crucified, but he's going to rise again. Man, that's your back pocket story All week long tell folk, it's my day. I remember some years ago, uh one of my Jewish bosses had to remind me that I did not take off Good Friday She came toward the desk all in an uproar. I said, what's wrong? So you didn't take your day off. So what day? She goes, Good Friday I say, thank you. And so now for vacation, Good Friday is the first day. I take off. But we ought to just embrace our faith, embrace what we believe. Amen. So I want to suggest this morning that what Jesus shares in critical conversations is so important in the life of the believer as it relates to how we live, how we share. By the time we get to this text today, Jesus is certainly on his way toward Calvary. And the Bible says that he and his disciples are heading up to Jerusalem. They're heading to Jerusalem because he knows what would take place during this time. But he says they were astonished. Others were afraid. Keep in mind now, this was not just small school yard stuff. Something big was about to happen, and so when he begins to share with them, they're blown away. And let's somebody tell you something, you say, okay, that's casual conversation. That was serious. He begins to talk with them, and even though they've been with him, they are totally blown away. You're gonna do what? And when? And even though they heard it, it really blew their minds that Jesus was about to make transition. Twelve disciples. I know I said it before, but again, he takes them up to a high place. They're bewildered They're confused. They're frightened. Now don't care how big and bad you are. There's some things that will get you shaking at the knees. The person you have dedicated your life to The person you have followed for three years, and while some had it twisted, believing that if I hang with Jesus, I'll get this big cabinet position in the kingdom, they had it all mixed up, and I can but he said, look at it, I'm about to die. That I'm on this road and I'm heading to Jerusalem, but some things are about to happen, and I want to remind you what I've told you And so when we really think about that, that really got me this week that here is a suffering servant who is heading to give his life for people like you and me. But I know a lot of people, and so do you, but nobody is saying, hey, I'll die for you. And I'll do it soon. And I'll be risen again. Many folk don't say that. But when it comes to these critical conversations, they point really toward, I think first and foremost, a place. We're going up to Jerusalem. The holy city. And Jerusalem is where the wise men ended up when they were looking for Jesus at the time of his birth. Jerusalem is the place that Jesus showed up to. Have a debate with the doctors and the scholars who were around talking about what they knew He blew them away. Said, wait a minute. You don't even know who I am. I may be in middle school, but I got it going on. I'm the one that you're speaking of He's familiar with Jerusalem. Jerusalem is also the place where he will give his life there at Calvary, or what we call Gogotha, which means place of the skull. It's in old Jerusalem. He's going to a particular place. And so it is with us that God is taking us someplace. We are our own Jerusalems. Our places of challenge, our own Jerusalems, our places of confusion, our own Jerusalems, our places that God is taking us. We're going to a specific place. I just want you to know That I got the directions, I've spent time here, but they're thinking in their minds, big things will happen We'll get all the spotlight. We'll slap five. You know, we'll say that's right, we're with Jesus. But they did not understand what was about to happen. I don't know where you are right now. What where is your place in life Know that wherever you are going and where God is taking you specifically, He is already provided for you. I've never been to Jerusalem. Me either, but my God, your neighborhood might be your Jerusalem. Your workplace might be your Jerusalem. As you move ahead, know that God has sent Christ to die for us, and it's all laid out specifically We are going up to Jerusalem. Y'all ready? And the Bible says he went ahead of them. Jesus kind of led the way. Hey, y'all follow me. And I'll tell you, I just want to follow Jesus. Remember when your parents told you mind the crowd you keep and the company you hang with because they'll lead you down the wrong path. Oh some of y'all heard that. I hope parents are still speaking it. But mind the folk you hang with, they'll lead you into a whole lot of trouble. It happened to me one time. I was hanging out with the crowd. I didn't think they were that bad. Till they started throwing rocks. And the police showed up And I said, oh Lord, mama told me, thank God we didn't get arrested, but this was a place that he spoke of. But you know the Bible talks about a place, and Christ talks about this place that he's going to in John 14 and 3. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come back and take you to be with me that you also may be where I am. A place. Do you know where you're going today? Do you know that heaven is your home? That's the ultimate stop for the believer. But in daily living, we find ourselves in places and pockets of life that will cause us to bend our knees. And say, Lord, thank you and Lord help me. Is there a witness today? Maybe your job is just fine. Maybe you ain't got to go to Jerusalem. Maybe you're gonna take the beltway around, take the outside route. But we all have a Jerusalem that we have to go through There was a place, he said specifically. But not just that. There's also a people. He said, the son of man, he's talking about himself, the son of man, me, will be delivered over to the chief priests and the teachers of the law. Uh-huh. Yeah, yeah, a people. Scholars. Know it alls. Uh I'm being delivered to folk uh not with name but with title. You know folk get a little big headed when they get a half a title. Amen. They don't know you all sudden now the name is on the door. He says the folk who gonna do I'm gonna be taking to some folk who are really big shop There are folk who really are somebody in the community that I'm going to be judged and tried by a people who supposedly know God. Yeah. That's kind of scary. That the world just tell you I don't like you. I can't stand you. But sometimes the very people of God can be the most destructive. And that was not in the manuscript. Let me just talk right now. Is that sometime our brothers and sisters in Christ can be some of the ones who will cause us the most pain. Amen. Say God forgive them. And sometimes we're the ones who will come so hard on someone else. Like God didn't bring us through. Like God didn't save our soul. Like we've never made a mistake, never done something wrong. He says, but we're being delivered to folk who sit high And point their fingers, we're going to be delivered to a people. Smart people supposedly. You know the world smart is different in it. Yeah, the world smartest, I got five degrees. But when you go in the Lord, you have a certain anointing and things that God will give you. But people you come across will call you everything but a child of God. Oh yes, they will. And their motives hidden behind the chief priests and the scholars of the law. But don't worry about people. God has put you and I on the winning side. How many folks love a little piece of sports and you're wondering what the outcome is? Can we win this thing? When you're on the Lord's side, my God, you've already won. You know how the story ends. We win in the end. We already know what the final score is going to be because the Lord is going to deliver us through everything that we are going through. But these are people who were in authority who thought they really had power over Jesus. It was all a process. They have folk who think they got power over you I dare you the bin you say, oh no, in the name of Jesus, I might work for you, but I serve a risen Savior. He's in the world today, and his name is Jesus. You gotta be big and bad, but you know who hired you. They didn't give you that job. The Lord gave it to you, Amen. Opened the door for you. Amen. So we keep in mind that people will exist, and even in the day of Christ, there were those who thought they really Had all this power over people. Amen. They become enemies. I love the 23rd Psalms there in 23 and 5. It says, Thou preparest A table before me in the presence of mine enemies. Thou anointest my head with oil, my cup runneth over. That even when folk messing with you I heard a preacher say this that he'll get out and set the table right in front of them. They messing with you and he'll put a falay migrant right on the table. They'll bow before you, amen. He sets the table that no matter what people are doing or saying about you, don't worry. The Lord says, I've got you covered It was a critical conversation. These are the things you need to know as a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now standing even today, the very things that make all the difference in the life of the believer. Amen. But finally, there are conversations that relate to a plan. They will condemn me to death, hand me over to the Romans, and this is graphic language. Now this is this is some tough stuff. And we try to paint it where he went to the cross and died for me. No, no, no, no, no. Look at this. They're gonna mock me, gonna make fun of me, gonna bully me, gonna pick at me, and on top of that, they're gonna spit on me. No that that's rough. Even a non-fighter, if you do that, well you you just gotta fight. Amen? But they're gonna spit on me. They're gonna flog me, they're gonna mess with me, and they're going to kill me. Yeah, they they they they're gonna take my life. They're gonna put a crown of thorns on my head. They're gonna pierce me in the side. Can you imagine the reaction by now? I'm about to turn back. That are we still going to Jerusalem? I'm just checking to see whether or not the route has been changed. Now you bad, but when you hear that kind of stuff, somebody say, come on, go, my man, where you going? We go, I might get spill on, doc. They might cut me. I might die. So I but wait a minute. I think I got a call coming in. Let me let me let me get back with you on that. I uh you know uh hold on. But they continued to follow him Because there was a plan in place. And just because somebody has a trap for you and you fall in the trap, just because somebody has dug a ditch for you and you fall into the ditch just because somebody has stabbed you in the back and you still feel the knife, know that God's plan will prevail. Again, the story ends a whole different way. That looks dark and gloomy and hopeless. Well, don't you know that the Lord says, I've got a plan, a divine plan. I will rise again. Look at that. Look at that. I will. Not I might. Not I'm still checking with heaven. No, they'll kill me, but I'm gonna get up. And folk may down you, but you know what? You can rise even today from whatever you're going through. Know that it's not over and it's not done. You may have been counted out, but you will do what? Or you didn't feel that thing. I mean you'll show up get up Why? Because the Lord is with you, and that gives me hope today in what I believe. Sometimes you feel down, say, I don't know. Nobody likes me. It's turning out bad. Woe is me. No, no, no, no. He says, I will defeat death. Hell and the grave. I got this. Who is a God who keeps his word? And I like what Paul writes for the church at Rome, Romans 8 and 11. And if the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead is living in you, he who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your immortal bodies because of his spirit who lives in you. What it means is the same power that raised Jesus from the dead will raise you up. My God, you get up and say I know you had me down. Look out, look out, look out. I'm I'm back up. I've gotten I know you thought I was done, but I'm not done. I'm still I'm still I'm still in the game. And focus trying to knock you down Enemy tried to trap you up, and you said, wait a minute. Ever seen somebody come off on the mat and the boxing mats? They were counting you down. All of a sudden you got up and said, Wait a minute. I got one more left in me. I've got the Lord Jesus Christ on my side. Isn't that good news today? That I know there's a place and a people, but my God, there's a plan. And I'm a part of the divine plan of Jesus Christ. I like that. You were counting out. So he's gonna make it. You wrong. It looked bad. I know it does. Don't you know God will bring you through? So we celebrate this kind of conversation that makes the life that we live a life that is spirit-filled. Now I know that you're gonna have on your best suit and you're gonna look good in it and your dress is gonna be tight Tight meaning looking great. But y'all starting that. I'm trying to bring it home to Jesus. Let me get my punch out here. Amen. Praise the Lord. I woke up the church then. Tight, not like you think tight. But looking good, amen. Come on, young people. Help the pastor out this morning. Praise Jesus It won't be about O Peter Cottontail, the bunny. It won't be about the Easter egg hunting. It really is about the cross of Jesus Christ. I love that hymn that says, Must Jesus bear the cross alone? And all the world go free. No, there's a cross for everyone. And there is a cross for me. The consecrated cross I bear. Till death shall set me free. And then go home. I know that I will go home what? Saying I've got victory in Jesus. How many folks have victory today? Amen. That I've heard him speak a word to me, but I've got victory in Jesus. And that's what gets me excited. But you know, as I close today, it really baffled me and surprised me that no matter how many times look at this word, to think that Jesus would go through with this plan. I can tell you the times I've been close to the complete, oh, I'm gonna drop out of this. But the fact that he went to that cross And the fact that he gave his life willingly, and the fact that he got up with all power in his hands. That makes him the Lord of Lords. That makes him the King of Kings. That makes him the first and the last. That makes him the beginning of the end. That makes him the Alpha and the Omega. Why? Because he did it. He kept his word, and he'll keep his word in your life as well. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. Come on, give God a praise today. Amen. A critical conversation I gotta have it. Gotta talk about it. A place, a people A plan. I thank God today for sending his only son. To die for a wretch like me. He did it. That's why we offer Christ to you today. Come on, sing with us. We are right Oh Master Scan. Oh yes he will fight the body of me come on to Christ. Come on, let's get together as we come to this point of invitation. We offer Christ to you. That's it. All for Christ to you, oh my sister. He will give you a life. Yes, he will life abundantly. Oh come. Come on. I've stopped by it not as a a salesman. I can't say Jesus to you. My wife is a QVC shopper. I just gave them an ad, didn't I? But she can work that thing. But they have a way of saying, now you got to get this. The clock running out. You don't want to miss it. Come on, come on now. We got a payment plan for you and everything. And folks be saying, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. I gotta get this. I'll get in trouble later for this. But when it comes to Jesus. Jesus. The Bible says he's long-suffering, not willing that any should perish, but all might come to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. There's no frill in salvation. There's no buy one, get one free, let me Call him something else other than Jesus. His name is Jesus. As we come today, I want to offer Jesus Christ to you And the one who will save your soul. That's a guarantee. It's guaranteed by his blood that was shed on an old rugged cross. What a horrifying death. What a murder scene. But on three days, he says, but all of this, I will Rise. As you bow your heads today, maybe you've come and you've never experienced Christ in your life. Here's why you can do it. The Bible says if you shall confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, the Bible says then You shall be saved. Today, where you are, you can speak a word to the Lord. Lord Jesus, I am a sinner in need of a Savior. I believe, God, that you sent your only begotten son Jesus Christ. I believe the Christmas story. A baby wrapped in swathing clothes and lying in a manger. I believe that you got up We call it Easter morning, but you got up with all power in your hands. And the Bible says that you can embrace that. Get it into your system. Speak it. That you will be saved. Right now, if you've never done that, you beat around the bush, you've talked at it. But speak that today Ask the Lord Jesus to come into your heart and He'll do it. He'll do it right now. On the spot. Hallelujah. But most head about it, if you're not sure and you're in this place, I don't want you to leave. Without making a commitment. I can't save you, but I can bring the message to you and lay it at your feet. Say, hey, here's what the Lord told me to tell you. I pray you'll accept it today into your heart today. Whether you raise your hand or not, don't leave this place until you know Jesus and accept him as your personal Savior. Is the whole house saved? Is the whole house saved? I'm just checking. Amen. If you know you're saved, come on, give God the praise today. You know without a shadow of doubt. Amen. We exalt you, Lord. We We exal you. We exalt thee. Oh Lord. Isn't there a sweet spirit in this place? I love you, Lord. I love you. How many love him today? And I live my voice. Hey. Worshi oh my soul rejoice take joy my team In one you yeah, may it be a sweet, sweet sound in your Woo, we adore you. We adore you. Exalt you, adore you. We love you, Lord, and we thank you. We explained. We bless your name, Lord. Oh. We exalt. From the bottom of our hearts, we exalt. There's none like you. We exalt Right where you stand today, I want to pray for you. Father, I come in the name of Jesus. There's no other name by which men or women can be saved, but that in your name. God, I pray today over every person. In this building, whatever they're facing in their life, let them know that you will never leave them and never forsake them. Let them know that you are with them always. Even to the end of the earth. Let them know that they are more than conquerors through Him who loved them. Let them know that goodness and mercy shall follow them all the days of their life Let them know that greater is he that is within them than he that is within the world. Let them know, dear God, that you will bless their going out and their coming in. Let them know, dear God, that you are the joy of their salvation. Let them know the God to keep their mind stayed on you. Let them know the God that you're with them always. Reassure us today, God. Build up our faith today. We believe it and we count it done. The lives of your people. In Jesus' name. Amen. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course, by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comethenumber to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called Seeds of Encouragement. You can get them by way of iTunes from Podcasting or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.