Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tougan, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Lord. keep me. If you don't keep me, I will not be kept. If you don't keep me, I might fall on the wayside. If you don't keep me I might lose it. But the fact that you keep me, I know I can make it. The Bible says he will keep you in perfect peace if your mind is thing oh y'all gonna feel this thing today if you don't keep me I can't be careful but I'm glad that when I run out the lane and go in the ditch you're right there to keep me And we thank you, God, just for that. Let's bow today. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this opportunity just to share the good news of Jesus Christ. We thank you for your Holy Spirit. We come now and we decrease. Ask that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. But when this time is done, We'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We thank the Lord today for this opportunity just to share. Isn't it great to be able to come together for the sole purpose of being uplifted to the glory of God. I'm sorry that you can't find church. Church is church. I've been to many venues and I got favorite artists and I've been to concerts and I bought the album and the ticket and the t-shirt. But when you come into the house of the Lord, something happens There's a transformation that takes place that is spiritual and that builds us to the glory of God. Amen. I'm excited about that Thank God for the opportunity. Want to share from this particular passage the Gospel of Luke, the sixth chapter, verse number 38. Give and it will be given to you a good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over Will be poured into your lap. For with the measure you use, it will be measured to you. Amen. The gospel. I want to preach today from the monik title Danger This area is off limits. Danger, this area is off limits. If we're honest today, there are just some areas of our life that we consider to be off limits. Don't go there. Banned. Forbidden. out of bounds, restricted. And for starters, our bodies would be at the top of that list. I'm glad that it is God who made our bodies. There in the book of Genesis, the very first book of the Bible, it talks about how God did what? He breathed into us and gave us life. From the dust of the earth. And then if we look at 1 Corinthians and Paul talks about these bodies. Now I want you to picture in mind. You got your body, I got my body. Amen. It may not look as good as it used to look, but you got a body. I'm gonna wake you all up today. You got a body, you got a body. Paul says in this regard, he says that Your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit. That causes me to shake. You mean the power of God lives in this vessel? Amen. That keeps me from doing some wrong things, knowing that I'm carrying the Spirit of God with me. But yet when we talk about bodies and our bodies and my body, it's off-limits stuff. Amen. 1 Samuel talks about is not so much what man sees on the outer part, but it's what takes place on the inward person. That I my hair may not be right and my eyebrows might be off and my nose may not be straight, but God looks deeper than just the surface stuff. Aren't you glad about that? That God looks at our hearts. I'm glad he does. But besides our bodies, and this is all along in chapter 2, and so I'm not coming out of that field of you've been following the teachings. Okay, Reverend, I see I'm with you now. You're talking about bodies, but the other topic that is one that we keep off limits, it is our money. Amen, church. Besides our bodies, we consider money off limits. Don't go there. Stay in your lane, Reverend. Stay out of my wallet and my pocketbook. Leave my bankroll alone, my bucks, my dough, and my gravy. We don't talk often about money, but I stop by to tell you that Christ talks often about money. In fact, in the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, every four or five verses there was something in the text about money and giving. Of the parables he shared, that is, the earthly stories with heavenly meaning, there were a number of areas he talked about money. Jesus even said that is what it's more blessed to give than to receive. He says over in the book of 1 Corinthians by way of Paul that we ought to be what? Cheerful givers. You miss that. You ought to be laughing while you're giving You ought to be a hilarious giver. Why? Because of everything that God has done for us. Can I just be honest today? So often money is a taboo subject in the church. Yeah, folks said, nah, I won't come back. She talked talking about money. Well, amen. Jesus talked about this in the regard And it became one of these off-limit subjects. But we got to be able to follow the commands of Jesus and not just take some of the Bible, but all of the Bible Reverend, I don't have much. Didn't ask how much you have, but are you willing then to give it to the glory of God? Amen. And so I want to really unpack this passage as it helps us to bring within our purview an area that normally is And off limits don't go this subject. Can I have permission today to talk about your money that you work hard for? Your money that comes every month in your check Your money you got under the pillow and the mattress, your money you have in safe deposit box, your money you have in stocks and bonds. It's your money. But God makes it possible for us to have wealth Amen. Are y'all still not feeling me today? I'm not holding much in my pocket now, but I know that God makes a way for us to give. And so first of all, we're going to talk about this being a command. He says to his disciples and those who he says give. He didn't say think about it. It became a command. To give. It's an authoritative order that he gives his disciples and those who are following. He didn't uh beat around the bush. Uh he didn't ask them how much they had. He said to give It was a command. And he urged his followers to do this without looking for a free meal. There were people who were following Jesus just to say, I'm with Jesus. They were uh on the trail. They wanted to see the miracles. There were those who were fed with 5,000 with the bread and fish. But he says, you need to give unto the work of the Lord. Amen. He had already talked about the hungry and those who were hurting. And so now he directs them and says to them the importance of giving. Let me just tear a page out of my own book. Giving is one of those things that you have to trust God in. This might be more of a lecture today. That we have to trust God in what He's giving us to give it back. Our children have watched us give. And they've learned tithing by watching mom and dad tithe. But I recall some years back, I didn't always get this. A co-worker of mine knew I had a daughter going to college. She said, Reverend. Well, I don't know if I was even a reverend, then she said, brother, when my father uh sent me off to college, uh he never stopped tithing. That he continued to tithe. Because see sometimes we want to hold back from God. I say Lord you don't know my bill is due but when we begin to trust him uh he will make a way out of no way and she said to me that because I was thinking about pulling back. Can I be honest? I was like you know what I got a tuition bill But when I trusted God to continue to give, continue to tithe, I realized it was a command, and God has opened up the windows and torn us out of blessing. Amen? And Jesus gave. He wouldn't do anything or say anything that he did not do himself. Amen? It's found over in the gospel. of Matthew 7 and 27. And he's talking to his disciples. But so that we may not cause offense, may not cause any trouble, go to the lake. Throughout your lifeline and your line, take the first fish you catch. Open its mouth, and you will find a coin for drachma. Take it and give it to them for my taxes and yours. Jesus took time to see the importance of giving. And paying your taxes is a whole other deal. Uncle Sam will get you for that. And so Uncle Sam will make us pay But God offers the opportunity and gives a command to do what? To give unto the work of ministry But he would not tell you anything that he himself would not do. Let me just tell you, there's a joy in giving. And at first when you start giving, you start feeling a little funny, a little queasy. You count your dollars and your pennies, but I guarantee you when you begin to give to the work of the Lord, God will give you a piece with that, and you won't even think about it. See, that's one thing about it. I I'll tell a story my wife don't even know about this. I was at a hotel in West Virginia and I had a little hidden money. I don't have that no more honey. I was sitting on something. And I was like, I'm sitting on something. I'm on the road. And as I walked by, I saw a woman didn't look like she needed help. The Lord said, Give it to her. No, no, you know that's that's my that's my spill on money. He said, No, give it to her. I went back to the room, took up that money, it was a large amount of money, and I gave it to her I didn't give her a CD, I didn't get her name, I didn't tell her about Jesus, but I don't know how she was blessed. And so when you give, you can oftentimes try to rationalize in your mind, should I, should I not? Because you'll talk yourself right out of what? Giving And so there's situations like that where God has moved on you to give out of what you think you don't have to the glory of God. Amen? It is a command. But know that there's also compensation. He says, give and it will be given to you. That I won't leave you hanging. Amen? A good measure. How I'm going to give it. It's going to be pressed down. Running together, pouring over. And see, in that day, they would go to the wine press or to the grain press and they would squeeze and get all they could out of what they were buying. He says that if you give, that something will come back to you. That's not why we give, but the matter, the fact of the matter is that God will do what? He will keep his word. You say, Reverend, I didn't get no check in the mail, but your car didn't break down. I didn't get no, I didn't look for money and I didn't get any money, but it gives you a peace of mind He keeps stuff running and working that you may not know about. He says, you know what? I will take care of you. God cannot lie God cannot go back on his own word. He will do it. He says, man, you have so much in terms of substance, you'll be running over Amen. How many folks have ever been in that situation where you just feel, you know what, I got so much. Can I just give to the glory of God? These are areas that are off limits. Don't talk to me about my money. Who are you telling me? I'm telling you what the Word of God says, as it helps all of us to grow in grace, and it'll be poured in your lap. And those in that day had special robes on they had a little flap. And so it'll it'll run over and you'll find some places to put it. Amen? Oh, you haven't received that thing yet. Your blessing is on the way. This is not name it, claim it theology. I'm just saying that God said, by way of Christ, you give As I've commanded you, and I'll give it back to you. It'd be so much you won't be able to stand it. How many believe that today? Amen? I know there's much criticism today about you know preachers and what they drive and all the other stuff But when you give to God, you're not giving to a preacher, you're giving unto God. Amen? Oh, praise God, I'm all off script, but I'm just saying that once you trust Him in your giving, won't He do it? He will bless you as promised. You have so much you'll be giving stuff away. Take this. I don't want it anymore. Here. And not just anything. Here's some of my best. Amen. Give God what's off the top Amen. There's a word that talks about that in Malachi 3, 9 and 10. It says, you're under a curse, your whole nation, because you're doing what? You're robbing me. We're going to stuck God up, caught him in a back alley, and pulled a weapon on him. We're robbing God when we're not giving unto the work of the Lord. Amen? He says, bring the whole tithe into the storehouse, that there may be food in my house, food in the ministry, food in the work of God. He says, now test me. I dare you. A double dog dare you. Try me, test me, says the Lord Almighty, and see if I will not throw open the floodgates. or the windows of heaven and pour out so much blessing that there will not be room enough to store it. Compensation. God promises He'll do it Has he ever opened up the windows heaven for you when blessings were coming in such a magnificent way, and you know it was tied to the fact that you've given unto God? Well I feel good about talking about this because you know what? I can't talk it unless I'm living it. Amen. Bring me my tithe. It belongs to me and see if I won't bless you. But you know what? When we rob God You know, he knows that. But God will bless you. Won't he do it? Amen. Compensation, a command, and then this sense of acclaim. He says, you know what? He says, but with the measure you use, it will be measured under you. In other words, you give me a little bit, then you get a little bit back. Amen? Oh, we we know how to measure things, but just trust God in such a way that we're able to give to Him and to know that He will do what keep His word. You ever go on the Wheel Call and you have some tickets waiting and you want to claim and you showed up, you missed a big shot. Mr. Big Shot, yeah, or two tickets for Tutan, please. And they went through and found your name and you claimed them. Why? Because your name was on the list. Somebody left you something, and God has something in store for you. Amen? And you've got to believe that today, that God, I'm not going to worry about it. I've given what you've asked me to give. I've done it cheerfully. I know that you're going to bless me, but I'm not doing it for the blessing. Amen And oftentimes when you don't have much. See, see, let me just say this. We got a dollar or two, so I can give. Because it's not tight. It's in those tight moments when you don't have it, but you trust God in it. Won't He bless you? Let me say that again. You got a little extra. You don't mind? I said I got something extra. I can go ahead and, you know, I can give. But when God blesses you in such a way, He commands us to do what? To give on To the work of ministry. And as a result, we can be able to claim the blessings of God. Claim the joy and the peace of God. All because we've been what? Able to be obedient to Him. It's a topic that's off limits. I know it. Don't talk about money, but let me tell you, God will keep his promise. Every time he'll do it. 2 Peter 3 and 9. The Lord is not slow or slack in keeping his promise. If he said it, he's going to do it Amen. He will do it as some understand slowness. Instead, he's patient with us. He's more concerned about your soul than your money. Amen? He doesn't really need your money. He wants to make sure that you've got the right kind of heart and that my heart is right. And that my heart is set to do what? To help those who are in need. Amen? And more so to come to repentance. I'm waiting for you to do the right thing in your life. Money or no money. I like that about the Lord is that he's always keeping his word over and over and over again. It's off limits. Don't talk about my money. But Jesus does it, and he does it well. Some 2,000 years ago, there was a claim made. Jesus went to an old rugged cross. Now this really was off limits. Why? He was innocent. He went to a place that he really didn't deserve to go, but he went on our behalf. He said, I'm going to go and I'm going to share. Because the Bible says that what God so loved the world that he did what? Oh, come on, Bible class. He gave God gave. He gave his very best when he gave Jesus Christ to us. That if we believe in him, what we'll have life eternally. So God sets the standard for giving. He gave his very best. He looked at us and said, you know what? I see humankind. They're in bad shape. I'm also the prophet. They stole the prophet They stole him the messenger. So the prophetess. No, we don't want to hear that. He said, I'll send my best in the person of Jesus Christ, and he will give you his very best. Jesus went to that cross innocent, but he took the sins of the world upon him and he died for us, even though it was an off-limit place. He brought those of us who were off limits and brought us into what into fellowship. And I'm glad I can stand that they say, you know what? I'm saved and I'm sanctified and I'm filled with the Holy Ghost. Why? He took a fellow who was off limits. And brought me in. That doesn't get you excited today that he claimed me as his own. He claimed me to be a part of the Holy Family. Amen? And I gave nothing. But then I did give my heart. That's it. I gave my heart to Jesus. And in doing that, he saved my soul. How many folk have given their heart to Jesus? Amen? Give all that I am. Just to him. So some yours, Lord. Everything I'm not, everything I used to be Everything I want to be, I'm yours. And we open ourselves up to say, Lord, it's not just my body or my money, but I give myself to you. See, we'll hold on to a little bit of ourselves a moment. Come on, come on. How many just want to give themselves? I give myself away. I give who I am. Why? So that you can use me to your glory. I thank God today that he allows me to just be so open and for you to be so transparent that I can deal with giving myself to him. It's an off-limit conversation. Don't tell me about my body. I'm at the gym every day. I know what I'm doing. But is your body clean? Is it a place the Holy Spirit can reside in? Amen? Praise God. He made the body But sometimes to allow things to get in the, I'm not going to re-preach it, to get in the body, that does what? That contaminates our spirit Keep our lives clean. And you do it by way of the word of God. You keep reading the word of God, it'll clean you up. And then he says, give to those who need. That is my command. And there's compensation, you do it and see when I come back. And see when I keep my word. He will back his word up every time. Amen. That is the word of God today, off limits, but on point to the glory of God. Come on, stand today all over this place as we give God the praise. Face it. Amen. Is it well with your soul today? When peace like a reway with song I mean will grow for my life I'm not going to be. It is well. With my soul in well. As I come before you today. I want to encourage you by way of giving. I've heard so much verbiage about money. It's okay to talk about it if you buy a ticket to the club, a concert, or buy whatever you want to buy, your six-pack, nine-pack, whatever they sell. That's my money. When we talk about giving money on the God, it becomes a tablet issue. Devil, you a liar. It is the God That we serve who gives and commands us to give. And it's such a blessing when you give and to do it with the joy of the Lord. He will take care of you. I'm a witness today that He'll keep. you because of that. But I don't have much. That's how much you had. You know that didn't have much. He said, but I want you to do what? Follow my command. And to give. Today I want you to consider giving your heart to Jesus. Maybe you've come today and you give, but you've never given you. That is your soul. As we bow today, I want to introduce you to Jesus Christ. He came, he died, and he rose again with all power in his hands. The Bible says if you shall confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Today, open your hearts to Jesus. He's already given his best to us. All he's asking now is for us to give our life to him. Give your heart to him. It's in safekeeping. Father, I pray even now, there's a soul in this place today who has never genuinely Given all of themselves to you. Not some of them. Not a few areas of life. But there is many. We thank you, God, that you are Lord today in our lives I pray even now, God, for that soul that's not saved, that they may open their mouths and say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. I believe, God, that you sent your son Jesus Christ. I believe that he died. I believe that he rose again. And the Bible says, if you believe that, confess it. That you would be saved. As those hands are bowed today, if you know you're not saved, today you can be. On the spot, give your heart to him, he'll give you life eternally. All you have to do is say, Lord, I want to be saved today. As those eyes are closed, as those hands are raised, accept Him today. The end of the day that's our mission is to share Christ with others that they might understand and receive If you know you're saved today, give God a praise. Amen. Part of a song I was sending to Brother Emery. I I I just love this song about giving thanks. See, once you give God thanks to what you already have. It opens up opportunity to do more. So we just want to minister today about giving thanks unto God. Sometimes we grumble And got two loaves of bread on their arms. But give thanks. We thank the Lord for everything He's given us. Give thanks with a grateful heart Give thanks to the Holy One. Give thanks for in given Jesus. Chrise his thanks with a grief for Give thanks to the Holy One. Give thanks for his given Jesus Christ. His son and now the weak say I am strong. Let the poor see I am rich because of what the Lord has done for us. How many are thankful today? Thanks so much for listening I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's come the number twoharvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com. All you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes from Podcasting or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.