Good day, my friend. This is Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. So glad you could join us today On this Sunday, actually is Sunday, the 13th of November. And we want to let you know that we've been praying for you all week and God has given us a word out I believe is going to bless you. In fact, it's coming from the book of Isaiah, Isaiah 41 and 10. And here's our goals. Fear thou not, for I am with thee. Be not dismayed, for I am thy God. I will strengthen thee, yea, I will help thee, yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of thy righteousness. That's the word I think that we all need uh to be lifted by. And so today you'll be hearing a portion of the message shared this morning at Harvest Christian Ministries. The entire message is on Facebook. Like us on Harvest Christian Ministries. You'll get the entire message as we're able to go live today. This message is entitled, Don't Panic. God's Got This. Let's join it already in progress The fear of the unknown. The late President Franklin Delano Roosevelt said that there's nothing to fear but fear itself. Am I talking to a church that's ever found itself fearful? Maybe there's something you're going through right now that you're really afraid of. I know you're a big boy and big girl. But you are fearful about what you have found yourself. I love uh the passage over in first second Timothy one and seven. It says, For God has not given us a spirit of fear Let me say that again. But love, power, and a sound mind. So if you're in a place now that you think you're gonna panic And let me just say that the Word of God comes and says, Fear thy not, for I am with thee Be not dismayed, for I am thy God. I will strengthen thee. I will help thee. I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness. These are people who are going through the people of God and they are locked up and locked out and they're concerned about what their future holds. And so Isaiah writes this word to them, saying to them in the Old Testament writing, do not panic. Isaiah was a messenger of God. Isaiah was a prophet who would tell the people what God said. As we come today, don't you know this word comes to help us where we are today? Things that we might be going through, God is still on the throne. So I want to really look at this a little more. There's some things that I think will help us this morning as it relates to our life of panic First of all, remember that God is present. Remember that God is here right now. Fear thou not, for I am With thee. To be present is to be on the spot. And because we are God's people, we have nothing to fear God is Emmanuel, which means God is what? He's with us. Do you sense that right now that God is with you and whatever you're going through? You feel that peace that passeth all understanding. You know that God is in your space. Anyone ever been there this morning? Am I talking to a church that Reverend, I'm on you on my street now I was scared this morning when I got up. But since I came to church, I felt the songs of Zion coming about. I feel better now. Because I know that there's no need for me to panic because God is with me He is a present help in the time of trouble. God is live. God is real time, and we need a real time On time, God, people reminded that I am with you in the present. I'm with you right now. Isn't that good news? If God be for us, who can be against us? Let me just double check this thing one time. How many folks feel like you know what? God, I feel like you're with me Do you sense that today in your heart of hearts that God is right with you whatever you're going through? But God is also not just present, He's also personal. Be not dismayed for I am thy God. I am your God Have you embraced that? He's not just any kind of God. He's my God. Amen. And because of that, no need for me to be alarmed. I may as well just chill and be calm and not be in a frenzy and not be finicky and not be antsy because God, you are personal. The word says be anxious for nothing. But by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, make your request known unto God. And the peace of God that passeth all understanding should keep your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. My God, He is a personal God Amen. Aren't you glad about that today that you serve the kind of God who's not abstract, who's not out yonder, but a God who lives inside of you? Oh, you don't sound too excited about that today I'm talking about all the power you got in you. You got God with you. Don't make you walk up with your head high and say, you know what? I'm a child of God. I know that's right. That He is personal. Sometimes in our faith, my faith is personal. That's great. But is there a personal God involved in your faith? Am I helping you not to panic today? Amen. The folk have started to panic What now? God's got this. God knows exactly what you're going through. God knows what's around the next bin. How many know that God's got you? I'm glad he's got his arms around me and holding me and keeping me, so there's no need for me to worry. He's present. He's personal and he's also powerful. Oh, I like that. I will strengthen you Uh-huh. That that tells me that maybe uh uh I'm a little weak if you need to strengthen me. Amen. Paul says that when I'm weak He is strong, and the concerns of the world have robbed us of our joy. A panic just held you up in the back alley and asked for your joy Panic came to your job and said, Wait a minute now. I want your joy. Don't you let anybody take your joy? This joy that I have, the world didn't give it to me, the world can't take it away. Don't you be afraid So no, no, no, no. I serve a powerful God. And that means that we have experienced a power failure. That with all that we have been facing in our own individual lives and collectively, we kinda look weak and kind of act weak. And look kind of puny when in fact we are the children of God. My God, you ought to perk up and know you serve a powerful God Sometimes we play God's chart. Well, I guess we're gonna make it. No, you better make it. Why? Because the God that you serve is a powerful God. I'm glad about that today. He giveth power to the faint to those who have no might. He increased strength, even the youth shall faint, and the young men shall utterly fall, but they that wait upon the Lord shall do what? Renew their strength Run and not be ready. Walk and not think. He giveth power. He said, Come on, you want some power? I'll give it to you. And we've got to be in that kind of place today, to where we know that we serve a powerful how many folk feel powerful today I'm I'm doing a powerful survey that didn't sound like that was about 60 percent How many folk really feel that they got the power of the Lord working within them? Amen. Amen. Let me just double check. You know, polls will mess you up, won't they? How many folk realize that they really have God in their life Can I get 99%? Can somebody just shout thank you, God, for what you brought me through? Thank you that you are the power source in my life. Yes, he is. He's also practical. I will help thee. I don't know about you, but I I I won't turn down good health. You know, don't you realize that when you want to move and say, can you help me move? Folks say, Well what day you move in? That means they don't want to help you. Amen. Yeah, you you you may as well just go ahead and get a movement company. Folk, you good help is hard to find. Can I get an Amen? But he says I will help you. God who sits on high can relate to you and I. He's got this. I'm just stuck right there. How many know that God's got this? Whatever the this is in your experience. When I get on the street, just shout, he's got this. Are you in a financial crisis? Didn't God bring you through? He helped you. He's got this. Are you facing a family crisis in your life? Didn't God bring you through? He's got this. Are you facing a work crisis? Maybe you are the boss that getting on folk nerve or folk getting on your nerve, but didn't God come along and say I've got this Are you dealing with a health issue that God has healed you from? And now you can say, God, you got this? How many folk know that God has this every crisis you may go through, everything that you may face, and we all can be honest, I panic every now and then. That's just a reaction to panic for a moment until you realize who you're serving I I serve God today, so therefore I can get by. But God is also, and finally he is permanent. I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness. God's got this, don't panic, and we have to trust Him with our very lives. You remember the day when you got that new bicycle that you really couldn't actually ride so you had trainer wheels. And you were just big and bad in the neighborhood and folk were laughing at you in your training wheels. But one day you took them off. He said, All right, I'm on my own now. I got my training wheels off and you were a little wobbly from the beginning, but don't you know that even though as you went along your way that you felt that God was with you, that's what life experience is like That I'm on my bicycle for the first time, and I'm trying to make it, but I do know this: I can feel the presence and the hand of God. He's saying, I will uphold thee I'll hold your hand. I'll wipe your tears away. I'll give you joy divine. I'll give you peace. Don't panic. Don't you dare touch that pet panic button. Don't you dare throw it in the towel. God has brought you through too much to say, you know what? I'm scared. No, no, it's terrible. You just say, you know what? I'm a child of the High King today, and I believe in my heart of heart that God, you got this thing That's what my faith shows me and tells me today. Be not dismayed. Whatever betide, God will take care of you. Beneath this wings of love abide, God will take care of you. Abraham, I'm sending you on a mission. I don't know where I'm going, but I'll take care of you Moses, I'm down here at the Red Sea and and Think of my face, give me uh nasty looks and the armies behind me. I got you. Just hold up that rod. David says, I'm going to take on a big old giant. He got a reputation, old Goliath, but God will thank you. I got this. Give me a slingshot at five smooth stones. Amen Isaiah said, you know what? Is there one who will go for me? I guess, you know what, I'll go. I'm not all I could be. I'm a man of unclean lips, but if you tell me you got this, then I'll go. How many folks just want God to let you know that I will go? Mary says, I'm a teenage mother. The world on the street, there's something a little fishy happened, but God, I know that you've got me. And as a result of that came Jesus Christ Amen. Aren't you glad that even though that they were those who were talking that Jesus came to save us from all of our sins? And to wipe all of our sins away. He would go out and teach in the community, and then folk got a little nervous. They start panicking and tried to set him up And they did. But it was all a part of God's divine plan. Nothing happens without God knowing about it. My God, they They beat him. Yes, they did, and they hung him on a whole rugged cross. Yes, they and and the disciples they panicked. Only John hung out. They got fearful, and when he rose from the grave Couldn't even find those rascals. Some of us are like that. Uh-oh, no, I don't want no controversy. Don't you know that God will take care of you? And in a situation like that, I'm so glad that we serve that kind of Savior. I believe in that little song the kids used to say. He got the whole world In his hands. He got me and you, brother, in his hands. He's got me and you, sister, in his hands. Anyone believe that today that God's got you in his hands? And therefore put those hands together and let's give God a praise in this place. Come on, come on, let's praise Him. Why? Because I'm no longer fearful But now I can walk with my head up high and sing this little light of mine, I'm gonna let it shine. I can't panic Too many folk are depending on me to panic. Your kids are watching you. Don't you panic? Somebody's looking at you as a guy in the neighborhood or the gal on the junk. Don't you panic? Don't you get that fearful look, but you stand tall for Jesus. Don't panic God's got this. That is the word of God today is already best. Come on, stand all over this place and let's give God some praise. Yes, indeed. We serve a great God. How many folk feel some peace today? You were a little shaky when you came in. But now turn the news off and turn the good news on. That is Jesus the Christ. I'm so glad today. That I'm putting my focus on the Lord. Amen. Gotta turn your eyes toward Jesus. Applause Jesus Yeah, yeah. I obey the holder. It will not be great. Turn your eyes. Don't focus on man and what man is saying and what they are saying and what he is saying, but focus on the Lord Jesus Christ. He matters Let's take a moment today and We're not live anymore, but I'd like to keep live up long enough to get somebody saved over the Facebook, but nevertheless we'll get them next week. As we come today As you think about where you are in your relationship, when things happen in the world, if you're not anchored, you'll all but lose your mind. Because therefore you're avoid of any hope. But as believers, God will take care of us. And I caution all week now that that that that's not a cop-out. That's just the truth. That he took care of us before with President No. One. And two and three and four. And so really God is much bigger than that. Amen? So let's let's not lose our focus today. You may lose a few friends over this, keep on praying for 'em. You know, oh enemy, do whatever he can to try to cause discord. That's what he does. But you may have come today and you have never given your heart to Jesus Christ. You've never confessed him. Never said, Lord, I'm a sinner. I need for you to save me. That's as honest as I can get. Is that he said, if you shall confess with your mouth, Lord Jesus And believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Yeah, when I first heard that, I was like, come on, there's got to be more than that. I I grew up in the church. I was like, you mean if I just right now confess, say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner, and I want you to come into my heart and to save me, and I believe that you died and you rose again Yeah. It's all over again. I kind of renewed that thing as I understood it. It made a huge difference. I know without a shell of a doubt that I'm saved. As you bow your heads today, I want you to just think about where you are. Father, I come in the name of Jesus. If there's one today that's not sure about their eternal home Not sure about what's going to happen at the end of this life, let them know that you prepared a place for us that where you are will be also. Save that soul today And do it as only you can. You have the power to do it. We ask it in Jesus' name. Maybe you've come today and you desire to be a part But let me let me let me pause. Let me pause for a moment. Somebody might be in the valley of of interstation right now. You may be saying, Well, Reverend, you said one more thing. I I might have got that. Everybody who you see standing around you who are saved, we have to come to that saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. And everybody around you will say, you know what, since I gave my life to Jesus, man, life has been so much sweeter because of what I did and how he accepted me. Just take another moment. Father, I come in the name of Jesus. And that person who stands, who say, I'm not I'm not sure if this is gonna make a difference. I'm I'm not sure if this is really true. God touched that heart today and transformed that mind today. And unbeknownst to us, we may never know who got saved today, but you know because the angels in heaven are rejoicing we got another one. We got another one, we got another one Do it today, God we pray in Jesus' name. If you've come to be a part of this church today, the doors are always open. Amen. Praise God. I want to thank you so much for taking time to tune in to check out the word for today. Don't panic. God's got this. Also, you want to know, you can check out the entire message on Facebook Live. That is on the Facebook page we have called Harvest Christian Ministries. And we want you to check that out as well. And it was the first experience for us today to go live on Facebook. It won't be our last. Now to check us out, you can check out Harvest Christian Ministries, Seeds of Encouragement. There's things there that will just encourage your heart. Go to our website. It's www. com, the number two harvest. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries. Have a blessed day in the Lord.