Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. I'm excited about what God is going to do today in the lives of his people. So we come with open hearts and minds. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. And God, we thank you that you got us up this morning and started us on our way. And that's no small thing. There were so many who didn't get up this morning. Or they got up to tragedy or disappointing news. But God, you let us hear today. I pray in the name of Jesus that your word might take root in our hearts and that we'll give you all the praise and the glory. Bless your word in Jesus' name. Amen. We serve a great God today, and we're thankful to him. So good to see. So many of you in the house today, you pressed your weight. You might be counted as one in the number today. There's none like him. As we come this morning, you may take your seats as we move now to the Word of God. We're so grateful to be used of him to share good news. And there's a word that comes from 1 Corinthians 9, 24 through 27. It reads, do you not know that in a race all the runners run, but only one gets the prize? Run in such a way as to get the prize. Verse 25 says, everyone who competes in the games goes into strict training. They do it to get a crown that will not last. But we do it to get a crown that will last forever. Verse 26, therefore, I do not run like someone running aimlessly. I do not fight like a boxer beating the air. No, in verse 27, I strike a blow to my body and make it my slave so that after I have preached To others, I myself would not be disqualified for the prize. What a piece of meat that is And we thank God today we're going to preach from the Samonic title under the overall theme of Follow Me. And don't give up and don't give in. Don't give up and don't give in. There's an illustration in chapter one of our study books. that paints, I think, a real picture of four steps in completing a course of action It talks about having a desire, making a decision, having determination, and having discipline. It gives the example of someone who says, you know what, I want to spend time with the Lord. They have this desire. And so they get up at 6. 30 in the morning. What a great decision. The alarm has been set. And the alarm goes off, but then there's some determination. Will you get up and spend that time with the Lord? And then we all find ourselves, there has to be some discipline. To be disciplined is to practice self-control. And since we're in a season of football in America, I came across the quote from one of the most successful coaches of our time, Tom Landry. He said the job of a football coach is to make men do what they don't want to do in order to achieve what they've always wanted to be. We're not talking about little league or rec league. We're talking about professional football. And then there's Jim Rohn. He's not a football player. He's not a coach. But Jim Rohn is a motivational speaker and he says this about discipline. He says discipline is the bridge between goals and accomplishment. The bridge between goals and accomplishments. Just speaking the word discipline allows our minds to draw that means that this is not something someone can make you do, but we all strive as disciples to live a disciplined life. To get it done without someone having to tell you to do it and to chase after you, but I am going to be disciplined in what God has called me to do. In my time of study, just hearing that word and unpacking just that one word, I say, you got to go walk. Be disciplined I was out of town all week. But you brought your shoes with you, you set the alarm. Now get up in a new city and go for a walk. Discipline. In our text this morning, we find someone who is very well known in the Christian church, a one by the name of Paul. Paul has one of the great minds and has written the better part of what we call the New Testament, that is, from Matthew to Revelation. But Paul Spent time in prison. Paul spent time going about sharing the good news of Jesus Christ. God transformed his life. Paul was a disciplined person anyway in the world. Let me just drop this on you. In the world, we were very disciplined. Amen. And once we came on the Lord's side, we started slacking some of us. But we had a very, I mean, there's some of you in the house Who get to work 15 minutes early. You're disciplined. And you leave 15 minutes later. You have a disciplined life. You do all of your assignments and projects. You've won the awards at work. You are somebody, you're head of your neighborhood association, you are a disciplined person. But when it comes to the things of God, we're all challenged to be disciplined in our walk and in our talk for the Lord Jesus Christ. Paul would go about uh planting churches from place to place. And one of those places actually was in Greece. I recall uh some years ago being able to go to Athens and to spend some time in Corinth and we went through a lot of museums. I took pictures of things I didn't know what I was taking, but I said this they must be important And one of the areas that we actually went to was the Isthbian Games, the areas that they had what we call our Olympics. And you found all these artifacts. Because Paul was writing to a church that knew something about the games, people who trained, people who would run from time to time, and he was very much in tune about what they were going through. And what Paul would do. He would write a letter to the church, and we didn't have internet, so what would happen is, as one person would get the letter, and then they would go from community to community reading that letter We have the Bible in our hands today, but back then one person had to go around and says, I'm going to stop over and I'm going to read today to all those who have ears to hear what the Lord is saying But what I like about what Paul did is Paul didn't just write to be writing. He wrote to a people he was familiar with. In other words, he spent enough time in that area to know that, hey They like games. They like to compete. And so therefore, I'm going to talk their language. Now you say, Reverend, I'm not a sports fanatic at all. But as you learn something about a game, it'll give you a conversation at the airport, at the 7-Eleven, wherever you go, say, you know what? Great win last night. Now you may know nothing about football But oh yeah it was you see the and you may have no details but you can relate to someone I was in line coming back from Indiana on yesterday and I was trying to make small talk with a woman whose hair was partly purple And I assume she was a Ravens fan. I said, How you doing today? Go Raven. She said, No, I'm from New York. But I tried to make conversation based on something that looked like it might be Raven Connected And so as you go about, uh make sure that you connect with someone. So Reverend, I can tell them about a life I used to live. You can never discount anyone. Don't turn your lips up when somebody's coming out of a cut rate store. Why? You've been there. You know the taste. You know they have to affect some of us. And so therefore you can relate to someone. And so Paul writes to relate to the church. He writes and shares with them something they know about. Isn't it great when somebody's on your street not talking above you and saying, you know what? I can relate. Many of you have backgrounds uh that will connect you with someone and you find something in common and Paul found something in common with people he wrote to Love being in Corinth for that one time is not like Paul's Day. We had lunch in Corinth. They had a real deli there But just being in that location saying that here's someone who was able to connect with other persons. So as we look at our text today So talk about being aware of audiences. That's some things I want to unpack for you. It helps us to become stronger disciples and to be those who will follow and those who will lead. First thing is important is we gotta run our race. Verse 24. Do you know that in a race All runners run, but only one gets the prize. So run in such a way that you might do what? That you might get a prize. Now I'm not sure that Paul had running shoes. But he knew enough about the community to be able to share with them if you're going to run the race, run your race. Amen. How many of you ran track and field or attempted to back in the day? Uh-oh, we got a relay team in the house And you know how many of y'all went out and and maybe you wanted to run. Okay, how many of y'all walk? Maybe you're on the walking team. Amen. I see a hand back there. But Paul is saying you don't get in the race just to be getting in. If you're in a race, you want to win How many folk get into a race that this is about competition? And Paul says, I know your mindset. When you get in a race, you're not trying to come in second place. You want to get in first place. Why? You want to be committed. That takes discipline. And your race is your race You can't run the long distance, but boy, you are a sprinter. And so do what you do well. You may not talk to everybody in the airport now, but you have a certain way that you reach them to the glory of God. And Paul said, Now I baby I'm not a runner. I heard I heard Paul was a little short fella, didn't look like much, but he knew the language. He said if you go run, run your race Get in the game. Let's go. And we run not just for a trophy, but how many folk got a little trophy? in your house together and and and playing a rec league or playing ball, you got something that was a little small. You never got a trophy? You ever got a ribbon? Did you ever win anything? My God. So that means you've competed. You know what it means to be in the He says run your race. And know that only one person gets the prize. There was a big controversy recently about giving young people trophies when they didn't earn them. I mean they were lightened up the lines that they didn't don't give them a trophy. They didn't do anything Everybody's a winner. We all got a trophy. Well, Paul said, now you run a certain way in order to get what? The prize And so run your race and do it with great discipline. As believers in Jesus Christ, we're in a race. You may not feel like it, but we are running in a race of life and we're trying to get to a certain place that is being a disciplined disciple. Is it making sense this morning to you Sometime y'all get a little late back home. I said, Have it makes you let me let me rattle it. I'll bring ribbons on next week if you never got a ribbon before. Amen But the text has a way of connecting to our lives in such a way that Hall gets it. He knows that they get it. Why? He's speaking their language Everybody runs to get a price. And there's another part of the Bible I came across that I really like in the book of Hebrews. The writer says Wherefore, seeing we're also compassed with a great cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight and the sin which so easily besets us, and let us do what Run. The Bible is filled with with patience the race that is set before us. Looking on the Jesus, the author, and the finish of our faith. We're in a race. And to run effectively, you gotta drop some stuff. Amen? Oh, you're not carrying any stuff. There are some things that are weighing you down that prevent you from running the race you need to run for the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Might be an attitude, might be something in your life. It's slowing you up. You're in last place And you need to make some progress. And so the right of Hebrews says, I can lay aside every weight, and what? That sin that so easily traps you up and run your race. Don't give up. Keep running. But to do that, we've got to do what? Become a little lighter in what we're about. How many are set to run today? Have you signed up yet? And one thing about running is you get a little number to identify who you are. They don't know your name, they said number 079 Coming up in third place in the minute categories in which you run. And he's saying to them, you know about running. Now run your race and go for the prize. Don't say oh I'm just running to these debut. I'm not trying to win. Yes you are. And many of you are very competitive people. I still sometimes with parents My kids project is better than your kids project. Kid didn't do a thing. Parents are competing. Who has the best science project? Oh, some of y'all are guilty of that. And so we have a competitive nature But when it comes to doing the things of Christ, let's have that same gusto that I'm running. Old Strong says trying to make a hundred, ninety-nine and a half won't do. I don't know about you, but I'm not just running and say, well, I'm in the race. Now I want to win. Oh yes, you want to win? You're competitive. Run your race. But also. Adjust our focus. And Paul goes on in verse 25. Everyone who competes in the games goes in with strict training. They don't come in out of shape. Breathing heavy. No scripture. Barely made if you go run the race, you gotta have some Bible study and some prayer time and you know you you gotta have a lot of something. You can't go and say, well you know what Somebody will take your Bible and lay you out and take it because you're not prepared. And so adjust your focus so it's not just on you, but on what God has called you to do. Paul said you got to be in shape Now I'm looking at some of the young guys now they they laid back today. You're athletes. I can tell. What does it feel like on that first week back on the field On the court. You're winded, you're out of shape, and it takes some strict training. I know you were the man last year, or you were the woman last year. It's a new year. And so Paul says Adjust your focus in such a way you've got to train. He says, and those who train well, they do it with the idea that they will get a crown. Back to that small trophy of the ribbon you didn't get. There's something that happens, but what happened is they only got a little pine crown. It didn't look like much. I would imagine when the games go over that thing probably just disintegrated. But we work for a different kind of crown. That when we get to glory, we'll have a crown That has been earned by way of living the life that Jesus has called us to live. In heaven, there'll be an awards banquet. I didn't do anything. Well, you just did. But my God, I tried to reach somebody. I was at a soup kitchen. I'm not doing it to get glory, but there's a crown for you. And Paul's saying, you know what? The crown you getting that thing gonna wear out. Where's my trophy? I don't know. It's that mama's house. Where's my ribbon? It's in the box somewhere. But this crown that we have as disciplined disciples, these are crowns that will last forever. They will not tarnish, and we just need to stop being like, well, it don't matter. It does matter. I'm not living for the crown, but I believe in glory I will get a crown. Amen. And so adjust our focus to us, not just on us. But the focus is on the Lord Jesus Christ. It's exciting to win one for Jesus. Can I just testify for a moment? What does it mean to lead someone to Jesus Christ? Has it ever happened to you? I mean, you didn't say a lot, but somehow they said, I got this. And they gave their life to Jesus. Now you didn't save them, but you led them. That sounded like a crown moment. That I'm trying to live in such a way that we're having a conversation. Let me just backtrack that book. Anybody ever led somebody to Christ? Anybody ever done it? Ever said something to someone and said this, oh I get this. Let me do another poll on that. How many persons have ever led someone to Jesus? I mean let them say, you know what, let me tell you about the Lord Jesus Christ. He came in my life. I was a sinner. I was lost. I was in the streets. But God saved me. And look what He's done in my life. And you too can have everlasting life I challenge you today to take a moment and try and lead someone to Christ, not big talk, but big living. Amen. I'm not trying to put you on the spot, but it is a wonderful feeling when you have led somebody to Jesus. I'm struck right there. When you said, you know what It was something I said, or I gave them a Bible, or I gave them a word, and they said, hey, I get this. The lights on. Now they don't praise you, but they give God the praise Adjust your focus so it's not just about you. You can tell I'm getting excited. So I love to lead people to Christ. And you can plant a seed. And someone else made water. But God gets the increase. Adjust your focus. Talked about it earlier. Paul wrote to his understudied Timothy, said Timothy, I'm not as young as I used to be. But I have fought the good fight. I finished the race. I kept the faith. He says in verse 8. In 2 Timothy 4, 7 and 8. Now there is in store for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will award me on that day. And not only me, but also those who have longed for disappearing. Do you want a crown today? Do you expect a crown today? You don't expect a crown today. You don't expect that when you get to glory there'll be this banquet and award ceremony, and you'll take the crown and throw it right at the feet of Jesus, at least you'll have it. Amen. I don't want to confuse you on that, Reverend. I'm not in this for a crown. But you want one. I'm just trying to live my life. No, I'm trying to get to a place where there are many crowns, but this is a crown of righteousness. Amen? Don't just live and exist and say I want to do something that's valuable for the kingdom. Adjust your focus. Speak training. Then finally. Factor in change. Verse 26. Paul said, therefore I do not run like someone running aimlessly. I don't fight like a box of hidden air. He said, wait a minute. I can factor and change, but he uses again this metaphor of somebody running. If you've ever run in a race, you can't just go all over the place. You have a lane. Lane five. You stay in lane five the whole time. And so you're not just running to be running, but there's a purpose In your living, in your running, in your witnessing, he puts in boxing. He never knew L Lee, way long before L. Lee. He said, You can't box hidden air Then when a boxer is out, he's trying to hit you. He's not just swinging any kind of way. When you're running, you're not like kids running on when I was in Indiana over the weekend I watched the four-year-olds do flag football It was the funniest thing. Why? They were all over the line. And they was trying to get the tag. They were holding guy. And they were running out of bounds. I was like, that's not the rule. But there are four And they came back in and still got a touchdown. When you run in life, you're running to stay in the lane. You're not swinging at anything. You're swinging to land a punch Amen. Well y'all y'all never fought. You don't have a ribbon. Come on, church. Get with me today. Well I'm saying is that you have ever gotten into a fight in lunch? Oh yes you were. You were trying to hit somebody Or they may hit you. Well, there are two fighters in the house today. Some of y'all love to fight, even now. But Paul said, I'm painting this in such a way that you will know there's some change that takes place in you He says, I strike a blood in my body because I gotta make sure that Paul got his act together. Amen? I gotta make sure that I can't just preach to you and then live a different way. Can I say amen on that? I can't come on Sunday and say now you ought to do this if I'm not St. Tim. Check yourself. Amen. We're going to check ourselves in order to be an effective disciple. Check yourself. Factor and change. Make sure you're not just doing it, but people are watching you. No, we're not perfect, but the fact of the matter is we strive to do it. I was talking to a principal recently. I I love principals. Why? They know everybody's name. Teachers know everybody's name. I said, how do you guys do that? He said, well, she said, well, I just say the name all the time. Hi. Mention the name. I should learn that. I'm the worst I'll look and say now how you been? And I'll play it off. But I walked away from that scene. Wait a minute. You gotta keep saying the name. Keep saying the name. And when it comes to life, keep saying Jesus. There's power in the name. I'm gonna keep saying Jesus, Jesus, Jesus, Jesus. Being able to say Speak that name is so important. And Paul said, wait a minute, I gotta make sure that I'm in a place that I'm not just preaching to you, but I'm trying to live it. Amen? To make sure that I'm not disqualified, not thrown up the game. You don't watch football. Unsportsmanlike conduct. You outta here. Get him out of the gate. Get him out of the stadium, amen. If you don't live the kind of life of the disciple, you're disqualified. And so am I There's no salt in our testimony. Why? We've run across the lane. We've been swinging at air, but to be an effective disciple Factor in change from my oh I'm just getting excited about this. Why? Because I'm trying to live this life myself. I'm striving to make sure that I hit a target. Amen. I want to get one for Jesus Remember the late Pat Kelly who played baseball and for the Orioles, and Pat was passionate about a soul. Man have a watch, he said, bruh, I'm finna get one. He said, there's one. He'd be drenching saying there's the one, there's a one, is the one, there's a one. How many folks are finally get one? I can't save the whole school, but I'm gonna get one. Story is told of Rick Warren. His father was passing over and he was crossing over and kept saying, Rick, I want to get one more. He was going to glorious on the bed saying, I want one more. Have that kind of spirit today that you are run in such a way you can reach one for the Lord Jesus Christ. I want to bring your attention to this last passage. Philippians 3 13. Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended. Paul says, I'm not there yet. But this is one thing I do. Forgetting those things which are what? Behind that you keep bringing up and look forward to those things which are before, I press Toward the mark, there it is again, for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Making sure that we get in the game Don't give up and don't give in. That's the illustration I came across I thought was appropriate for this. Back in 92 there was the qualification for the Olympic Games in Beth and the Ajantas You may have seen it on TV. She was running. She had to have a certain time to win. And it was two hours and 45 minutes. And she was rolling. She got near the end. Fell down. And the fellows said, come on. You got to qualify. She fell, she got up, she started walking, and the clock was ticking She kept striving because she said, I got to win this race. I gotta get in, I gotta qualify for the Olympics. And there were persons in the crowd pulling for her. And folks are you trying to make something out of your life There'll be haters, but there'll be folk go pull it with you. Come on! You can do this. You can have a new life. You can live better for the Lord. And she kept running and was crawling and within ten seconds made it across the finish line. And I'm saying to you today that there's one who never gave up. Jesus never gave up. He kept walking toward Gilgoth. Had that cross on his shoulder. Why? He refused to give up. There are souls that need to be saved. I can't stop. There are people whose lives need to be transformed against them. He kept pressing his way all the way to the cross. What if he'd given up? What if he'd throw in the towel in? Our souls would be lost today. But he didn't. He kept striving and kept pushing He stood on that cross and gave his life. He died, but he rose again with all power in his hands And to me that sounds like a second wind. If you're a half a runner, you know that when you're tired, there's something called a second wind. You're running, and all of a sudden you realize, I'm not gonna make it Come on, I know you're cheering for me, but I'm not feeling this. And all of a sudden, there's this second burst of energy. That comes upon you, and you're able to finish the race. And so I say to you today: get in the race of life, knowing that Jesus has already paid the price for our salvation. And that gives me great joy today to know that I'm in the race. Are you going to leave this place today with your Nikes on and your new balance and say, I'm going to find one for Jesus But I want you to get this piece about being a disciplined disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. I believe that's possible today. No matter what level you're at. Keep striving. You signed up for the race. You came to church. You were in Bible study. I didn't make you come. And now that you're here. Get in the race and go for the prize. That is the word of God today. It's all ready. Blessed. Stand all over this place today. Don't give up. And don't give in. Stay in the race. Get to the finish line. It's just a hand. You're almost there. Don't stop now. Don't throw in the towel. Your best days are yet ahead. Just give me Jesus with a matter. Isn't that good news? Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. cometoharvest. org. That's come the number twoharvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com. All you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.