Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Amen. We need His spirit. As we come today, we're thankful to God. Let's bow all over this place and Father, we thank you. Thank you that you made a provision for us. That when we were lost in sin, that you sent your son Jesus Christ To die for us. And he rose with all power in his hands. As we come today, God, we pray that your word might reach out. Might touch someone, might save a soul, might encourage another. But when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name Amen. We serve a good God. One who is always available and at our side. There's a word today that comes from the Gospel of John. Gospel just simply means good news. John 3, 3 through 9 says We'll actually pick up at five. Let's see here. Jesus answered, Very truly I tell you, no one can enter the kingdom of God unless they are born of water and the Spirit. Flesh gives birth to flesh, but the spirit gives birth to spirit. You should not be surprised at my saying, you must be born again. The wind blows whenever it pleases. You hear its sound, but you cannot tell where it comes from or where it's going. So it is with every one born of the Spirit. Verse 9 How can this be? Nicodemus asked. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, Faith, it's not optional. Faith, it is not optional. Me and my wife have been blessed to witness the physical births of our three children. And even at that moment you say, wow, God is alive and well. People who have shaky faith, when they see a newborn come into the world, they begin to say, wait a minute, there's something to this that God is able to give life. But it was when we were able to witness their spiritual birth that really got us excited. Along the way, we had shared with them about the goodness of Jesus Christ, and more so, we had tried to model that faith. Let me back that up for a second. It's one thing to tell your children about Jesus. Another thing to live Jesus in front of them. They made a decision one by one. They gave their lives to Jesus one by one. They walked the aisle one by one. They went down into the liquid stream, and today I can report they are still following the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. This sense of being born again is a word that scares some people off. What does that mean? Are you a born-again Christian? Absolutely. That means that my life has been transformed from what it used to be. That I am born over and again by way of my faith. That's the best way to say that. Amen? As we look at where we are in our personal walk with the Lord Jesus Christ, we realize that this since the born again has gotten a bad rap. It's been associated with people who are fanatics. Oh, you are born again crazy, huh? You know, and people will do that, but I declare today that yes I am born again. Call me what you will or may. I am born again. Thanks be to God that he made the provision. That means I've got zeal. That means I've got some obsessive enthusiasm. Let me just get all excited for a moment. And so when you're born again, you don't have to go and beat folk up And beat them all over the head, but people again are watching your life. And so that is the best testimony and the best witness Is not so much what I say, but what I do. So let me just take a Holy Ghost poll. How many folk are born again believers? Amen. The Bible says, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation of everyone that believeth. So in our text today, we're going to really kind of go and look at this whole sense of uh being born again and how this cannot be optional, but it becomes an opportunity. So let's paint the scene. Nicodemus, who's high up in the Jewish council, he's somebody. He takes a moment and meets with Jesus at night. Makes a request. I'm sure he had seen him from afar. He'd watched him. He'd seen the miracles. He'd seen how he had touched lives. And so many theologians have debated, well, Nicodemus came at night because he was all shamefaced. No, I declare that he came because he got a one-on-one Isn't it great to get a one-on-one, to get an audience with the one who died for you, with the one who made a way for you? And so he comes up and he says, You know, I I know uh that you're somebody I've been checking you out. And I know that you got some special stuff. I know that you're from God. I can tell by the way you teach. And folk ought to be able to look at us and say, you know what? There's something different about you. Uh something peculiar about you. You you you you act a little strange. You're peculiar and that's because there's something working on the inside of our lives. Nicodemus is kind of beating around the bush He's kind of like, well, you know, and say, hey, you know, you you must be born again. And so he kinda got him out of left field and sometimes We come and we are stumbling and fumbling before the Lord when what's really on our agenda is one thing. I love the way the Lord takes the conversation over. You you meeting with me. And so therefore let me tell you that if there's some doubt that you must be born again. Nicodemus said, well, hold on now, I'm I'm a grown man. How is it that I can get back in my mother's womb that's not making much sense, but he's there, he's a part of the conversation And when Jesus says something, he's already driving the conversation. Amen? Does that make sense to you this morning that when you are in prayer sometimes And you go to pray, you've got your nine things you want to ask the Lord for, and you get down on your knees and you realize that He takes over. Holy Spirit said, no, I won't you pray about this today And that's what I like about the Spirit of God is that we don't know what we ought to pray for sometimes as we honor, as Paul talks about, but the Spirit doesn't know what It makes intercession for us. Sometimes you can only grumble and mumble, but the spirit, he who knows the mind of the spirit, will do what? That's what he tried to say, Daddy. Amen. So there he is meeting one-on-one with Jesus and the topic comes up about this being born again. He said, wait a minute, I don't get this Amen. That's a good place to unpack the passages today. And I love the Word of God because, first of all, I think it gives us an opportunity to really grow up Amen. So Jesus answers him. He says, now I'm telling you again, no one can enter the kingdom of God. No one can be a part of the kingdom of God. unless they are born of water and of spirit. That we know that there's the physical birth Amen. But then we grow up, but there's also a spiritual birth. Amen. And so oftentimes it's the spirit man and the spirit woman that we're praying God to build up. You're not just who you are. You're not just flesh and blood, but you are spirit. Amen. And so he says, let me break this down for you. He gives us illustrations and unless you can can figure this out, let me help you to understand that there's the physical birth And we all got a birthday, but there's also a day when you became one who gave your life to Jesus. For me, it was June 1965. Sitting on the front row at the Revival meeting at Springfield Baptist Church at night. Uh yeah, it was like Nicodemus All the women came around and prayed for me that night. And the pastor preached the word of God and I got up and gave my hand to him. Amen. Oh come on, you had a night, didn't you? You have a day? You remember the day when you gave your life to Jesus Christ? I'm going old school. Folks say what day? Was it a Sunday? Was it a Monday? Was it a Tuesday? A Wednesday or Thursday? It was a Friday night that I gave my life And so I've since grown up in the Lord. Put some childish things away. And that's what we do. When it comes to growth and being born again. He said, let me just break it down to you. You can't even work with this unless you've come to a place of understanding of how the kingdom is set up, how it works, how I've been sent. And it always would preach that one sermon. Repent for the kingdom of heaven. is at hand. Jesus had. He preached that thing every time. What are you going to preach about? Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. And that's a message that resonates with each of us, even in the here and now. And so he says, look at that. Flesh gives birth to flesh, but the spirit gives birth to the spirit. I know you're born on this day, but there comes a time when you're born again by way of the Lord Jesus. I'm glad he saved me. I'm glad I'm born again. There was a time when I would hear that, I was shaking my boots. That was a little too heavy for me. Say other stuff. Don't say, are you born again? Am I born again? Yeah. Even if I didn't know what it meant. But it sounded challenging, didn't it? Sounded kind of old school. Not uh have you getting no, are you born again And when I heard that, I ran from that, but there came a day when God brought me a front and center and says, here is how I'm transforming your life. And I'm not done with you yet. It's an ongoing process. You're not all that you will be, but God is working in you. Oh, I feel good today. And I just want to just, and I talk about it, I get excited about it. Amen. I'm not ashamed to say, yet I am born again because of the transformation that's taken place in my life. Not what I ought to be yet, but he's always at work. Let the demon say, wait a minute. I'm a big shot too, but you blowing my mind I'm heavy, I'm a teacher, but all of a sudden now I'm being challenged to grow up in him. I like what Peter writes to the church When it comes to growing up, over in 1 Peter 2 and 2 says, you know what? Like newborn babes crave or desire pure spiritual milk so that You may grow up in your salvation. Baba. Amen. Bible. Praise God. Look at that. That as you begin to grow up, you need to be nursing on that Bible. I'm not condoning you, I'm just saying that you want to get built up and grow up? Take time to read and ingest the Word of God. It might be a devotional, it might be a seed of encouragement, whatever that is, get it in you so that you might grow in the Lord. You ever see a baby go, you know what a baby is hungry? They let you know. They start screaming. And you ought to scream for that word. Lord, it's been a long day. I need Baba. I need Bible. Amen. Praise God. Begin to say that so that you might grow up in him. Nick of demons all of a sudden realize, oh God, I've gone from pre-K. to to to graduate school now because I'm meeting with he who's the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords Grow up. Opportunity. But not just that. You gotta gain some understanding. And Jesus says to them in verse 7, now you shouldn't be surprised at this. You big time, right? You professor Nicodemus. You doctor Nicodemus and you surprised by this, you gotta be born again. I love the way he repeats that. He's saying this is not an option It's not something you say, well, can I come in on a plan B? No. You must be born again. And he gives an example. So you know what? Now the wind blows whenever it gets ready. You hear it You can't see it. You can't tell where it is. And so if that's hard for you to understand, Nicodemus, what about this? You believe the wind is blowing, you can feel it, but you don't you can't see. And spirit works that way When the Spirit of God begins to work in your life, you'll feel something happen. It'll get you anywhere. I told the story some time ago. Me and a good friend of mine were on the job being professional. And we started talking about Jesus. And Jesus, by way of the Spirit, jumped in the car. Over near Urban Avenue and two grown men were crying in the car. Like, what happened? It ain't Sunday. I didn't hear a message, but the Spirit of God will just move on you and will allow you to say, wait a minute, I I think I understand this, what it means to live a spirit-filled life. I'm trying to gain some understanding of this and as I come every Sunday as I sit back and I look at the text and I'm saying God give me some understanding so I might be able to share with your people I'm not reading from something saying this is what I think the commentator said, but Lord, how does this resonate in my own life? That's some nicodemus in me. Amen I might have stood Jesus up though. I don't know. I don't know if I would have shown up, man. You know, when I was in the world, but no, I can I catch you next week, Jesus? Oh some of y'all would have done it too. But he was man enough And bold enough to meet Jesus because he realized that what he had was just in the books. But he needed to have a connection, and that connection came by way of Jesus Christ. It's not optional. You gotta be born again. That's it. There's no way around it. And he gives an example about the wind. But if we look further into our own lives You ought to have a moment that you can say, Lord, I know it's not just a good feeling, but I realize that the Spirit is moving in my life. Let me ask you a second. How many folk have ever felt the Spirit? Come on now, don't be ashamed. I mean you felt a little a little something and you may not have shouted, but it was like a whoo. You ever had that before Oh, y'all not feeling me this morning. Anybody ever felt the Spirit of God? You realize a little tingly? Like, oh, I think he just came through. And it's a great feeling. You feel very light Because what? Lord, you are present in my life. The Bible says what? That be filled with the Spirit. It's a command. Be ye filled. Amen. You buy gas, gotta fill it up. But know that you can always ask and he will feel you. Amen? Now over in 2 Peter, he weighs it on this. 3 and 18. It writes, people to thus, but grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ To him be glory both now and forever. Amen. You never stop learning about Jesus. You don't get to graduate. Because there's one thing you didn't know about the word or yourself. Uh-oh. Yeah, see, you learn yourself when you're in the presence of the Spirit I'm a mean somebody, I'm a tricky somebody, because when you're in the spirit of God, he'll do what? He'll reveal to you just who you are Can I get an Amen? Hallelujah. Come on, give God a praise right now. All right, I get that. That's that's my little new method now. Make sure you're with me. So gaining understanding, growing in grace. Growing in knowing him, growing in knowledge, getting you a good study Bible with the concordance in the back So if you have a farm at Google it, amen? So I ain't sure what that means. So I can understand it. And so there are so many tools now for us to grow and to learn how to follow Jesus. Can I get amen on that? I mean you got stuff now. You can get, you know, I get all kind of books, but sometimes it's not the book. That's right. It's Lord, be my teacher. Give me understanding, and that's what Nicodemus did. But finally, he had to grapple with uncertainty. With all that had been discussed, verse 9 says, he came back and said, How Can this be? I love his honesty. I'm gonna walk away. Thank you, Jesus. I got this thing now. I'm on my way. Praise the Lord. No, he didn't. He said, you know what? I'm still baffled. I'm still grappling with this uncertainty. I still don't get it. That's the honesty of being a believer. There's some stuff you won't get. Nicodemus didn't fake it. He says, don't get it You know, I mean that you know we we're still here but I'm I'm confused. I I don't get it. And there are things in life that you won't get There are things in life you won't understand. There are things along your journey that does not make sense to you, but you know what? You gotta grapple with it. Fight with that thing, wrestle with it. And that's what we do in life Is that as the conversation goes on, he's telling him more. But what I liked about this, I mean, how cool is this? Jesus is introducing Nicodemus to Jesus. Look at that. Other words, that's real discipleship. Let me tell you about me. You need me if you want to be born again. Not secondhand, but Jesus telling Nicodemus about Jesus, and he's with Jesus Yeah. Maybe y'all y'all didn't get that. That thing got me excited. I was like, wow. In other words, he was witnessing to him, uh he was leading him to Christ, and he was with Christ. Look at that. So so so what an opportunity to say, wait a minute. I'm leading you to me. Then I'm the one you need. I'm not giving you a second hand, not giving you a backup, uh but I'm giving you some of me. And that as you begin to grapple with I don't get this the uncertainty, he is still present with this rabian. Even when you grapple with what you don't know, just stay in the presence of Jesus. Stay there to come and be honest with Him I'm always amazed how we try to really fake God out. Fake the Lord out. You know, you know, I'll come, you know. He said, I know. I know what's already in your heart. Nicodemus, I know you wouldn't go get this when you first came here. But stay with me. Amen. He goes on to share with them a very popular text from that same chapter. For God so loved my daddy. So love the world that he sent me. I'm the one you need that you look at everywhere else we say, you know what? While we are talking, let me just drop this into your spirit, Nicodemus. I'm the one And I'm gonna die, but I'm gonna be uh uh I'm gonna get up out the grave. I mean, you think that got it even more confused But isn't that great to know that this was not an optional opportunity? And and as I think about that, I I get excited in my spirit that wow There's some stuff that I may grapple with that I may not get, but I was laughing because sometimes I got my own books laid out. I've been praying, and then I'll drive to the store And then the car he'll say, Hey, you thought about this? Oh, hey, I like that. Or I'm you know, heading to the landfill, you know, tired. He'll drop a nugget on you. Don't Don't try to tell the Lord where he can meet you. Don't don't say I'll meet you at 8 with my debaucher, with my coffee. He said, no, no, no, I'm gonna meet you later. I want to meet you in your meeting at work. I want to speak to you at a different time and place and you gotta be open to receive that. I was like, man, it's been a long week, got things to do. He said just drive down the street. And let me put something heavier. But I can't write it down, Lord. I've got to be texting and driving. I'll keep it. Then when you get to park somewhere, I'll bring it back up again. Isn't God good? There's some stuff He'll give you That will bless you. And so that's it. Faith is not optional. You know, I I I could have uh ended there and said, wow, that was pretty amazing. But what's really amazing is, breaking news, this just then, we don't hear from Nicodemus again. What happened? Did he just go off the scene? But maybe what so where's Nicodemus? And then we know that Jesus goes to the cross. He dies on that cross. And Joseph or Mayus comes and says, you know what? I'll take the body of Jesus. Can I have his body? And with him. Is Nicodemus. Oh man, that's like a movie. Nicodemus shows back up again, and there he is. With Joseph saying, We got it. And they begin to anoint the body of Jesus. Something happened from that nighttime experience to the time when he says, You know what? I'm taking a big rest I'm Mr. High Up, I'm somebody Mr. Big Stuff, but I'm hanging out because something happened in my life that night That I didn't mind putting my whole reputation on the line to be there with Jesus. Something tells me he got it. Something tells me he didn't just help to anoint the body of Jesus. That was a custom, but that on the third day morning Jesus got up with all power. Can't you see? Can't you see Nicodemus? The confused ones say, you know what? I got this now. In life, there's some things that you'll get, but he shows back up again. God is not done with you yet. You may not get it now, but you keep hanging in with the Lord. Keep praying and fasting and And keep looking to the hills which come to your help, this will be made clear. That's all how you finish. And he pops back up further down in the gospel of John. I thought that was a big deal. You think so? Like, uh uh, you account it Nicodemus off. How can he not get it? And he shows up again and is able to take part I'm so glad today the Lord continues to rise up in my experience, to rise up in me. I'm glad about that. I can get that close to him. Song said, I'm thine, O Lord. I've heard thy voice. And it told thy love for me. I long to rise in the arm of the faith and be closer, drawn it, draw me nearer. I mean how near was Nicodemus? He was real close. He was real and to the precious sign. Draw me nearer. Do you want to be drawn nearer today? Are you born again? Do you want to be born again? I just stopped by to let you know I've got some information for you. That's the word of God today. It's already blessed, but I want to let you know. That even today you can become born again. Stand all over this place today. That's the word. I'm not going to add anything to it. It's blessed me, it's helped me. I pray it will help you today. But then I posed the question again as Jesus posed to Nicodemus. And that question was, you got to be born again. Take a moment in your own life and say, Am I born again? I just come by the offer Christ to you, amen. Come on, stay with us. Best thing going yet? Come on, stay with us. Offer Christ. Oh my goodness, he would give me when you like a body to come. Now let's say it again. That's the offer today. We offer Christ to you. We offer Christ to you. Oh my brother, we offer life to you. Oh my sister. He will give you breath. Yes, he will. Like a band and me over to rules. just repeat what's already in the text and I'll pose the question to you. Have you been born again? And your response can be yes. Or it may be I'm not sure. It may be kind of sorta. I don't want you. leave this place today without having answered that question. And to know it without a shadow of a doubt, yes, I am born again. And with Nicodemus, it was kind of seamless. He never said it, but why else would you stay connected to a Christ if you didn't have some kind of experience? As you bow your heads today, I want to raise that question. Have you been? Born again? Have you been transformed? Has your life and your faith been made anew since you spent time with Jesus? Father, I come in the name of Jesus while those heads above today. If there is one In the crowd, one who has never openly confessed to you that Lord, I am a sinner in need of a savior. You said in your word that if you believe That God sent his son, Jesus Christ. If you believe within your level of understanding that Christ died for you and that he rose again, the Bible says if you can get that In your heart, in your mind, in your soul, in your spirit, in your emotions, you shall be saved. Father, I pray in the name of Jesus. For that one soul That came today and met you and accepted you as their personal savior. As those heads remain bowed today. If you're not sure, I want to pray for you right where you're. are today. Why those head to bow today? It's the most serious time of the worship experience. It's the most serious time. Why those head the bow today. If you're not sure, I don't want you to leave this place or this building unsure. Just raise your hands while those heads above today. I want to pray with you. If you're here, you're not sure about your salvation, you're not sure whether you're born again, and there's some nicodemus in you, I want to pray with you. Don't be ashamed today. The most important thing you can ever do in your life is to give your life to Jesus. Is there one today who knows not the Savior? Is there one today who has never been able to declare with certainty? Indeed, I am born again. It's not about your hand. Your hand may be held down, but Father, I pray in the name of Jesus, if you come today and you don't know, you can get to know him today. Your life can be brand new right now. I just need a moment. Let that just simmer. Not my words, but the Spirit of God is moving. He's touching your heart today. He's reminding you today that he's available for you. He'll do it today. He'll do it today. In Jesus' name. Praise God. Somebody give God a praise today. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired Of course by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.