Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress Amen. Lamb of God. As we come today, we are thankful for the Lamb. Who shed his blood for the remission of sins on our behalf? That's good news today Let us bow. Heavenly Father has become in this moment It is always our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. God, I thank you for your divine word. I pray it might find root in the hearts And the minds of your people. And when it's all said and done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We serve a mighty God. We want to certainly share today our passage from the Gospel of Mark, the first chapter, verses 9, 10, and 11. And it reads, at that time Jesus came from Nazareth in Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan. Just as Jesus was coming up out of the water, he saw heaven being torn open and the Spirit descending on him like a dove. Verse 11, and the voice came from heaven, you are my son, whom I love, with you I am well pleased. I want to preach today from the Samonic title. Faith in 3D. Faith in 3D. When we say something is in 3D, what we're saying essentially is that it has dimensions. Whether it's width, whether it's length, whether it is depth. Three-dimensional display displays a certain kind of picture you wouldn't see normal. I almost got some of those glasses, but I didn't But even in this theater, you'll notice that as you leave today or as you come in, there's some movies that are shown using 3D. This morning, I want to take a closer look at our faith and to see it with that kind of eye and with that kind of mindset as we focus on what we call the Trinity. This is one of the most important doctrines and beliefs of the Christian. Many things that distinguish us from other faiths, but we believe that God the Father God the Son and God the Holy Spirit are one. We serve a triune God. Now, that's not three separate gods. But they work together as a unit and we call that the Godhead. Let me rewind that for a second. you will find that within your faith, that what sets you apart from other faiths is that you, even though you may not be able to explain it, You believe, I believe that God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit make up the Godhead. Amen. And they're three distinct beings. Amen. And so as we come today, I want to be able to Help you to see the Trinity in 3D. Alright? So we get to learn more about the Trinity from really what is a baptismal service. that takes place there at the Jordan River. So Jesus, who was born and raised in Nazareth, comes down for a baptismal service, of course, that's not an ordinary baptismal service because He's the center of all the attention. Can you imagine John who would go out and say, repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand John would take people down to the Jordan River and baptize them, but today he has a special assignment. He is going to baptize Jesus. Think he's a bit nervous about that? In fact, he even brings it up. He says, no, I shouldn't be, I shouldn't be baptizing you. You are Jesus But Jesus does this in order to show us that he can relate to us. Amen? He is sinless, but he is showing us the importance and displaying that kind of faith within the church. I like what it says in the book of Hebrews. We don't have a king who's so high and mighty that he can't relate to us. Aren't you glad you serve that kind of God? That nobody else may not know. What you're going through. Nobody else can feel you, but God can feel you. Nobody else understands your pain. Nobody understands what you've been facing. But God understands exactly what you're going through. And so Jesus Christ his son comes and he allows himself to be baptized in order to show the importance of this particular faith and truth. I like that And we're not talking about a sprinkle. Amen? Jesus went under. And that is what we believe in terms of immersion. There's a sprinkle, and then there's going under. Well, Jesus went under the water. Can you see him coming up out the water? But on that day, he was baptized there by John the Baptist. And this morning I want to look at a couple different areas that I think will help us to understand the Trinity better and also to give us some real perspective about what's going on. Amen? So we're really going to talk about the perspective of 3D faith, the power associated with that, and also the permission we find that God gives near the end of this particular passage. And that's great to talk about today. So you with me? Amen. I I I want to mix you with such an important piece of what we believe. I don't want you to walk out and say, well, I got some of that But I want you to understand that that is really a key part of the Christian faith. And you won't find the word Trinity in the Bible. Because it is what we believe, but it is displayed within the text today. So the passage that we found is a passage that really is able to show the Trinity as we see it. First of all, there's perspective Just as Jesus was coming up out of the water, he saw heaven being torn open. It's a baptismal service. Jesus has been baptized and he comes up out of the water after John has baptized him and he's able then to see things in a different light. It's the start of his ministry. But he comes up out of the water And the Bible says that he is able to see with a different eye than what we would see. I remember getting baptized, the year was 1965, it was June, and I was scared to death. I got saved on a Friday night and next Sunday we were at the pool. I was all wrapped up tightly. I came up out of the water, but I didn't see heaven. I saw my mom and daddy. And I was glad to get out of the water. And you have a similar experience. Some of you have not been baptized yet. We're signing up. As you understand your faith, the importance of going in the liquid stream, but he comes up And he sees what we can't see with the natural eye. Jesus sees heaven opened. Isn't that great? And let me just place for you and paint the scene for you. Jesus is there at the Jordan River. We'll also see that God is on the scene and the Holy Spirit is there as well. I'm trying to be elementary, but I want you to see it And this is one of the few places where we find God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit all in one place. In 3D. Isn't that amazing? That we see them right there. So he comes up out of the water and he's focused on heaven. Amen. Knowing that one day he'll return there and be at the right hand of his father. But because he's holy man and holy God, he's saying, I can do this too. But what I see you may not see. I came out that water back in 65. I didn't see much. But as God has grown me and grown you, now we have the eye of faith. There's some things that we see now we didn't see in our 20s. Didn't see in our 30s or 40s or 50s. Amen to God be the glory. But God has given us new perspective. Aren't you glad that God changes your prescription every now and then? That things that you used to see that now you see them in a new light. I do. Never wore glasses until some time ago, but now I'm I can see better now But he comes up out and there's a perspective that he has and he sees heaven. And God is trying to show us some things today in our own lives. If we will but focus on him and him alone. I love another passage over in 1 Peter 3 and 12. It says, he writes, for the eyes of the Lord, he is eyes. are on the righteous, and his ears are attentive to their prayer. But the face of the Lord is against those who do evil. Jesus is watching. Jesus is looking. Jesus has a perspective. And as we grow in faith, we'll get a new look at life. A new look at circumstances. The thing that used to make you mad and upset, you've got a fresh, can I just say you got fresh eyes now? How many have fresh eyes? But you've changed now because of what God has done in your life by way of Jesus Christ. We see things a little different now. Our perspective has changed to God be the glory. But not just that, there's this sense of power. It says in verse 10, just as Jesus was coming up out of the water, He saw heaven being torn apart or open and the spirit, mark that, the spirit descending on him like a dove. Okay, so who comes in the scene now? Holy Spirit. Come on, class. Yeah, I want you to see it. Jesus got baptized. He came out of the water. And he's looking toward heaven. And what happens? Descends on him like Praise God. And a dove represents the Spirit of God. It didn't say that a dove showed up. It said like a dove. And we got to be careful. So when he said the dove showed up, no, it didn't. It said it was like a dove. And there are things that God would use as a likeness to help us. Amen. Every time you see a dove, and I see doves when I go walking, I say, that's a dove right there. And I think automatically of the Holy Spirit. Amen. I know a blue jack from a robin of a dove. They're a dove And I think of this passage when I see that, but there's power that comes by way of the Holy Spirit. And so we see that in our faith. is that if we want power, we've got to have the Spirit of God operating in us. And so when we begin the journey of faith and accept Christ as our personal Savior, the Bible says we're then filled with what? The Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit. Our bodies are the temple of the Holy Ghost. And so the power of God lives within us. Wonder why you so powerful and you think God that was great. It's the Spirit of God leading and guiding you, uh leading you into righteousness. But and it comes upon Jesus and land on him. The spirit was on the spot. The spirit was on the location. Aren't you glad that wherever you go, you take the spirit of God with you? And there's some places you used to go. You don't go anymore, right? Take the spirit of God. He's not feeling comfortable because you take him someplace. Now I meant the ball game. You can take them to the ballgame. Amen. And folks wonder what's wrong with you. I got the Spirit of God on me. It has landed on me. Y'all missed that, didn't you? Uh-huh. Yeah, I said, well I'm glad he said the the game. No, the club. The liquor store. The lorry line. Wherever you want to go, you're taking the Spirit of God with you Where it's on you. You don't even look right in that place. That wasn't in the manuscript, but the Holy Spirit gave me that to help us today. Amen And you're walking around with all of this power because you've got the Spirit of God living in its dynamite. Amen. And the Spirit will always make you shout. You can be laid back with a half a tear or no tear and still have the filling of the Holy Spirit in your life. And there's Jesus at the water. Wet, drenched, looking toward heaven, and since the surfing is going on over my shoulder. It's like a dove Praise God. I'm glad the Spirit of God drives my life. I'm glad the Spirit of God convicts me uh when nobody else is looking at saying you know you're wrong. You never done that before, have you? When he said, no, no, no. It didn't feel right. The what? The Spirit of God. Another passage we find in the book of Acts 1 and 8. Well Jesus promises his disciples, but you will receive what? Power when The Holy Spirit comes on you and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, in Baltimore. In Maryland and in all Judea and Samaria and the ends of the earth. This power is to be carried and to be shared to the glory of God. I want you to know how powerful you are. Holy Spirit won't let me go on this. I'm trying to move on. He said, No, talk about me some more. Amen. Because I'm feeling right now. Don't you feel powerful today? Don't you feel the Spirit of God? Working in your life today, it gives you peace that passes all understanding. It's something about the power of God. We've got power by way of the Holy Spirit. Praise God today. You can't talk about the Spirit and He not tapping you on the shoulder. He'll do that. And there's a sense of peace and joy and love that comes as a result. It'll make you smile. Amen. Praise God. So we're talking about having the perspective that Christ had at the time of what we thought was a one-of-the-mill baptismal service, and it goes from that to the power of God, which is awesome. But then finally There is permission. And so we've what now? We've had Jesus, and he's on the scene, and the Holy Spirit is there, and all of a sudden the loudspeaker goes up. Verse eleven, and a voice from heaven, you are my son. Whom I love, with you I am well pleased. And so we put them all together in 3D Jesus, Holy Spirit, and God the Father, speaks and said, That's my boy. That's my child. That's my follower, and I'm proud of you. I don't know about you now. Didn't you feel good when your parents said, I'm proud of you? It was a compliment. It was something that they gave you permission to succeed. And oftentimes we don't encourage people in that way I'm proud of you. Good job. Where to go? It's not just for sports. Amen? Now you can scream for somebody you don't even know say girl run but when you go to school tell the children you go and you run Tell your grandchildren and your neighbors, you go for it, and make something out of yourself. He says, you know what? You've got permission to succeed. You are my son. My God, I feel accepted now. I I know I'm I'm Jim Tutin's son, but in the spirit realm, I'm the son of the High King. My last name is Tudan, but really I'm a son of the high king. Aren't you filled with the spirit of the point that you feel accepted? In God. I'm trying to help you today. That if you heard that, being blasted from glory, say, hey! I'm proud of you. Amen. Don't it give you some motivation that Lord I can make this journey because God has accepted me And God has shown his love toward me. And so Jesus comes out the water, and there is the voice of God. God still speaks. Well Reverend, I hadn't heard him lately. Put your ears on. He speaks by way of his word. You're reading the Word of God, you'll find that that written word has a way of getting in you. God will speak by way of His Holy Spirit. I'm not comfortable. God is trying to tell me something. He speaks through circumstances. I know you're mad about it, you don't like it, but through it all, God has spoken to you because otherwise we wouldn't hear it. We're big and dab until we find ourselves in a place. He said, God, I hear you now. God is speaking. He'll use other people to speak I listen to them. They all know what we're talking about. Well, look, whoa, whoa. Here hear everybody out. The guy on the corner might have a word for you. Amen. The person in the shelter might have some wisdom for you. Don't count anyone out. God can use anybody, but God still speaks. I'm glad he still speaks today because sometimes I don't always hear right. But he speaks to me and he speaks to you, and that's great news today. Amen. And I'm glad that he gives me permission to go out and to do the work of the Lord. Wherever I go, I'm thinking about Jesus alone in my mind, but I got the Spirit of God working on me. I'm saying, alright, I'm on my way. And that he gives you permission to do the work of ministry. Jesus said to his disciples, there in what we call Matthew 28, the Great Commission and 19, he says to the disciples. Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, doing what? Baptizing them in the name of the Father. And the Son, and the Holy Spirit. There it is again. There is God in 3D. God in three persons. I need power. Thanks for the Holy Spirit. I need the word. Jesus tells us right there, I come that you might have life and have it more abundantly. Amen. And so I want you to see that all that's working in your life today. Don't you feel more powerful now that all this is at work today, that God sits high, but there at the right hand of the Father we find Jesus Christ making an intercession for the saints. I've been there, I know what they're going through, and every now and then you'll sense the Spirit of God moving in your they're working. My God, you living life in three days. Everything is at work today. I feel the power of God, but also I can know that He sits and He pleads my case before His Father. Faith in 3D. I did a little research and I found out that the first 3D movie ever shown was in 1922. They're at the Ambassador Hotel in New York. And the name of that movie was called The Power of Love Well nobody remembers what it was about, but I love the title. I said I don't know what they were wearing, if they had glasses back then, but it was 3D, it was new, but the power of love got a hold of me And that's what we come, and that's what we try to live and model, is the power of love. And that's why God sent his only begotten Son, Jesus Christ. It was all because of love. Aren't you glad about that today? That there he is on that cross, Jesus Christ, piercing him in the side. They've got a brow, has thorns on his head. And he's saying, Father, Father, why have you forsaken me? Jesus talking to his father. And he says, into your hands I commit my spirit. I'm putting it in a good place. I want you to see that you may have just been one-dimensional in your faith You focus on one aspect of the Godhead. My God, take advantage of this week and say, God, I know you got me covered on every side. I know that you're with me. And he went to that cross and he died, but he rose again with all power in his hands. And check this out. It was God who raised Jesus from the dead. And it says the same spirit that he raised Christ from the dead with, he can raise you up to. Amen. I'm just trying to help you see this thing is keep you can't get away. You can't get around this that even they're at the gravesite, that they were still in operation. And today my word to you is rise up. Amen. Rise up from where you are today Rise up with the hope of the Lord today. Rise up to say I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. Don't sit back, but rise up with a new faith today. Why? Because I got a real perspective now on who my God is. And so now I have the kind of hope that can only come by way of God. That makes me excited today to know that I have a God who's with me all the time. And that I can always pray in the name of Jesus. Folk get mad about that. Don't you mention Jesus' name? Just say God And we're okay. Now I'm saying Jesus. If he let me stay here long enough, I'll feel the Holy Ghost moving as well And so they all operate together, and today, as a believer, we can set our affections on things above. Not all things on the earth, but what we have risen together with him. Once you stand together today, because you have risen to that place And say, my faith is in a three D God. That is the Word of God today. It is already blessed. Well I finally caught that I said man that's just powerful that everybody's working on my behalf. It's a team effort God has torn the shots. Jesus takes the play in. And the Holy Ghost runs it back all the way in my life. And what I like about this is You can come just as you are. That's what the song says. That you'll be accepted Qui buttant fession. Ameny Come with me, come and live forever. And third dog Today you cannot fix yourself up. I need more time and then when I get it together, I'll be ready. You can't do it He'll take you just the way you are. All your shortcomings. All your challenges. That's the way he receives us. Not like the world receives us. So the Bible declares. Today that if you believe that God sent his son Jesus, if you believe that he died And rose again by way of the Spirit of God. The Bible says, thou shalt be saved. There it is again. In 3D. God the Father sends his son. He's buried in a borrowed Tomb, but he is up out the grave by way of the power of the Holy Spirit. Can't get away from it. You're in 3D all day. But today I want to say to you, I want to offer you Christ. He'll save your soul today. He'll make you whole. He'll work on your behalf. He'll change your life around. You'll have hope and joy divine. As you bow your heads today, I want to offer Christ to you. Saints of old would say it like this: Have you been converted? Convert it from what? From the old life to the new life. In other words, has to have been a change in your life. Today, if you're willing, God can change your life. For the good. If you believe today that God sent his son, that he died and rose again, the Bible says you believe that in your heart and trust that. You shall be saved. If you're not sure today whether you're saved, keep those eyes closed I want you to picture this. A rescue in progress that you are thinking Not able to get out of your current situation. And all of a sudden, the rescue team comes. There's God the Father. There's God the Son And God the Holy Spirit. Only if you want to be rescued. They won't force you. They'll ask you, would you like to live this new life? And your answer has to be, yes, Lord, I do. Today you can receive them in your heart That is the message that's been preached down through the ages of this Jesus. I pray today you might receive him and might share and speak that word. Amen. Amen. That's good news today. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired. Of course by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org That's comthenumber twoharvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes from Podcasting or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.