Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. During this time, God, I pray that you might allow me to decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. In Jesus' name. Amen. Praise God. There's a word from the Lord today, and I am sharing from The book of Romans, but I'm using a little different translation than we normally use. I'm using Eugene Peterson's The Message Translation Sometimes a different read can make a word look clearer for you, amen. So Romans 7 and 20 through 25, it reads, My decisions, such as they are, don't Result in action. Something has gone wrong deep within me and gets the better of me every time. It happens so regularly that it's predictable. The moment I decide to do good Sin is there to trip me up. I truly delight in God's commands. Verse 23, but it's pretty obvious that not all of me joins in that delight. Parts of me covertly rebel. And just when I least expect it, they take charge. I've tried everything and nothing helps. I'm at the end of my rope. Is there no one who can do anything for me? Isn't that the real question? And then verse 25, the answer, thank God, is that Jesus Christ can and does. He acted to set things right in this life of contradictions where I want to serve God with all my heart and mind. But I'm pulled by the influence of sin to do something totally different. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, I'm My Own Worst Enemy. I'm my own worst enemy. In the year of 400 BC, Chinese general and military strategist Sun Zhu said something that's become very popular now in our culture. They are simple but powerful words. And they read, keep your friends close and your enemies closer. Keep your friends close and your enemies closer. Now before you start drawing up your list of enemies, can I tell you that your name may be at the top of that list? In other words, you may be your own worst enemy. None of us want to think that way. We would rather have someone else be the subject and the cause of our discomfort and our pain. In our grief. But the person that may be causing us the worst damage is the person we see in the mirror every day. We've been taught in society to pretend, to fake it, to look the part, to be a pretender of sorts, but when it comes to the Word of God in this life We are called to keep it real. I love the young folks. Are you keeping it real? I'm keeping it real. And that's important today. This is true for the life of the Christians because sometimes we are the worst violators of pretending that we're something that we're not. Can I get to amens? I know you're saved and you're sanctified and you're filled with the Holy Ghost and you have all of the outside uh look to you, but perhaps you're that person If there's one scripture that I always keep at the forefront of my mind, it's Romans 3 and 23. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Romans 3. 23. Could it be a memory verse for you this week Before you start judging, all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. The person who wrote this is the person who's at the center of our text this morning, one by the name of Paul. And Paul will help us to see how it's possible to become our own worst enemy and at the same time how to tear that label away. Paul was a rascal. His name used to be Saul. S-A-U-L. In that role, he would hunt down Christians and turn them in for a bounty. But one day something got a hold of him and someone changed his life and Paul turned his life around. My God, this installed in all of us. If we just check our history, uh folk may have called us something else back in the day that would fit who we were and what we were doing. But isn't it great that God can change and transform a life in such a way that when folks see you they say you're a who? Let me check my high school yearbook and see if you're the same person I remember from school God has that kind of transforming power that he used. And so Paul, one who wrote the better part of what we call the New Testament, that is from uh Matthew to Revelation, Paul helps us by sharing his struggle. Paul is truthful. Paul is transparent. Paul puts it out on the table. Paul lets it all hang out. And when somebody else is doing that, my God, it helps us to say, Well, I can get real as well. And keep this in mind, Paul writes a letter to the church at Rome. It's an open letter For all to read. If he was in modern times, Paul would have posted his struggle on Facebook. If it was modern times, Paul would have treated out a nothing but a rascal. But by the grace of God there go I And so we'll help today by seeing someone who seemingly has all together and does not mind sharing his issue. He lets us see that no matter how hard you try, how hard you try to be in your own strength, that God has a standard for you and I, and oftentimes it's a bar we have to reach Can I talk about sin today? Sin is something that's real in the life of the believer. Amen? We can't do it in our own strength I like what this theologian said, and I know him, Dr. Michael J. Gorman. He's a New Testament scholar, my former dean at St. Mary's Seminary and University in Baltimore. He shares this insight from Romans 7. From his book called Reading Paul. Dr. Gorman says our situation is like that of an addict. And sin is a drug of choice. Or better said, our master. That we are addicted does not excuse our behavior, but it does suggest in no uncertain terms that we cannot cure ourselves. Sin. You've tried to beat it. Sin, you've tried to frame it in such a way, but oftentimes when sin is present in our life We can blame other folk, but the truth of the matter is sometimes we can become our own worst enemy. As I unpack this text today, it is one that uh helps me know this that when I bring you something on Sundays, it's not warmed over, it's something I've wrestled with all week Something I put in the crock pot and let simmer. Something I reflected on and said, okay, how can you talk about this? What do you know about this? Uh how can you share it in such a way that it might help the people? But first To help you. Amen. As we look at how do we get away and get around of becoming our own worst enemy, we've got to first of all know that there's a dilemma that we face We gotta deal with our own dilemma. A dilemma is trying to choose the best of two pretty bad alternatives. It's almost like uh the what the best of two evils. I'm trying to find the best here, but we find ourselves in a real dilemma in life and in living And so Paul says, really, I'm having a hard time. I'm struggling. Something has gone wrong in me. I got an issue. And every time I try to do what's right, I keep messing up. I can relate to that. Amen? Every time I I would do good. Every time I want to be a good temptin, there's always something that comes about that knocks on our door, that gets our attention. Let me just pull you a little bit. Has that been your story? Oh, I want an honest church today. I mean There's something you're struggling with, and every now and then, you do your best, but you know that sin is knocking on your door. And so Paul does not stay silent. He deals with this sin dilemma. We can laugh 'cause we know what that thing is. And that issue is. But it is uh really something where we're struggling all the time I'm a believer. I love the Lord Jesus Christ, but there's this flesh issue going on, and so therefore I've got a battle with me. Yeah. Uh-huh. Not the devil made me do it. But sometimes I'm the one that steps on me. I'm the one that stumbles on me. I can't blame you and we do that all if they had not called me. If if I had not got that text, if I had not seen that TV program, I would have been alright. But God gives us free will today. It's your thing. Do what you want to do. Now some of y'all went way back on me then. Now I told you I was a DJ back in the days. Now it was the Isaac brothers. Amen. I'm not gonna sing the rest of it, but you know what? It's your thing Whatever your thing is, you do what you want to do, and I do what I want to do, and yet we can blame other folk, but we have a deliverer that we're dealing with, and Paul said, look here It's my issue too. It happens regularly. It's predictable. I know if I do A, B will happen. And then still take place. Amen. Has it ever happened in your life today? Oh let me just come on, keep being transparent then. I used to plan stuff on Monday for Friday. I would plan sin. I knew I was gonna mess up Friday, but I would all week long plan that. And you too. But isn't it great that God gives you the strength now to make a choice and that yet we can trust him and know that he'll do what? He will bring us. I I'm amazed that with all God can do. He won't make us do it. He gives us choice. God just make me behave. Make me be good. No, no, no, no. I want you to deal with your own dilemma because of what you know about me. I like what it says in Hebrews 4 and 15. Say, for we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities. He understands. But was within all points tempted like we are, but yet without sin Now he understands what you're going through. He understands what I'm facing as it relates to having a life where sin is always present, but There's a dilemma that we deal with, and we can be real with ourselves. I know what that thing is. And therefore, I'm preparing my mind, I'm preparing my soul, I'm preparing my heart. That when I see the flag go up, I'll know I've got a choice. I can either deal with it, enjoy it, and then ask for forgiveness. Uh oh, come here, Paul. Paul said, you know, can we continue in sin? Uh-uh, that the grace may abound. No. That we can't say, oh, let me keep this thing real today. We can't say, I'm gonna mess up, but God you'll forgive me. How many have done that? Don't don't you don't have to raise your hand. But you said and I've said, okay, I just want to get on the edges of it. I'm not going to get fools in. But there's no category, but I know that if I mess up Because you're such a gracious God, you'll forgive me. And it doesn't work that way. Is that once you know and you've experienced Christ, you know, you will be chastened by way of what I call a Holy Ghost whooping. Ever got a beating when you knew you were doing something wrong? I I know it's a new day now. We don't beat kids anymore, but you knew you had a dilemma going on, and the Lord, I could stay right there all day, but I'm gonna move on. I I really could Dealing with our dilemmas, but also making a decision. Paul said, No, I really delight in God's commands. I really follow his laws. But it's pretty obvious that not all of me want to join in. A part of me say, yeah, you go for it. Other part of me is saying that you know That's your song. You know that's your thing. You know that's where you gotta go. But we gotta tell the devil to get behind you. Amen. And sometimes we'll just automatically know that there's a decision to make. We're at the crossroads. Should I or should I not? Amen. I love that about the Word of God. Is that we have a choice to make, and because we can all be transparent, uh, what are you going to do? It got you last week. You missed the mark. It's coming back again. All it takes is a a a sign. something that will remind you of where you used to be and it comes back to your remembrance by way of our minds. That's the battlefield really. If you can think about it long enough, if you ain't careful, you'll do it. Nobody will have to lure you, but you have this mind and let the mind be in you that was also in Christ Jesus. That's not always our case But to make a decision in life about what to do. I didn't always do it right. The old Tim gets up every morning. There's the new Tim, safe, sanctified, and there's the old Tim You know that two people operating, right? There's the old you who you know well. And there's the new you All dressed up, giving God the praise, the Bible under the arm. And so what you got to do is to crucify the old person Tell him, Tim, I know you old Tim with the afro, but you're not coming back up. I'm gonna crucify you daily. I gotta take you out so the new Tim, this new creature, can keep rising up. Are you with me this morning? There's the old you And a new you. An old nature and a new nature. Oh yes it is. And if you just start debating and trying to compromise with the old you, you get in trouble. So tell me old you time out I'm done. I'm making a decision to do what? To walk in the ways of the Lord. Thank you, Paul. That I can be honest and open with the writers about what I'm sharing, about what I can do as it relates to the Lord. Amen? And here's what I like about this word. There's another word that comes from Galatians 5 and 17 It says, for the flesh desires what is contrary to the spirit, and the spirit what is contrary to the flesh. They are in conflict with each other so that you are not to do whatever you want. There's a battle going on. Anybody been in a battle lately? I mean a a knockdown drag out between what you used to do and where God is calling you. Well y'all must sound like y'all know about that. It's a real fight going on. When I would do good, evil is always firm. I gotta make a decision, who am I gonna follow today? Amen. I should have told them a piece of my mind, but I I'm gonna hold my tongue and let the Lord fight My but the old me would uh the old me what out what now out but but but but this allow you And so oftentimes we're our own worst enemy. Why? Because we give into the flesh. Oh, yes, we do. But I'm glad today that I've made a decision in this day To give God the praise and to follow his commands. Oh my God, I'm helping me today. Amen? And don't you know the old man, the old woman will come to church too? Say, where are you going today? Can I go with you? And even in the midst of the preachment, the devil is busy while you're in church. Oh. Saying as soon as you get out Fold your bulletin up and go and do your thing now. Amen. But tell the devil today he's a liar and the truth is not in him. Oh my god, I feel good in my soul today about that. Dealing with our dilemma, making a decision, but I'm so glad there's good news in the text, amen. Is that we can expect deliverance Verse 24 says, I've tried everything. Paul said nothing helps. I'm at the end of my rope. Y'all listen to get me, but there's one who can take care of this issue. Amen? And the answer, thank God, is that Jesus Christ can and he does it. Aren't you glad today that wasn't the end of the story? Aren't you glad today that the Lord will deliver you from those things that seek to hold you back if you want to follow? I mean I'm talking about being really delivered. He's delivered me from some things that I'm so glad about today Why? Because things were working in my life. Keep trailing me and keep showing up and don't want it to show up, but it comes about. In your life, there are things that are lurking behind you. Trying to shake them off. But they keep following you, and there are sin issues. But thank God for Jesus. Paul said, now I may mess up, but I can I I know someone who can make a difference, and that person is Jesus Christ our Lord Does that get you excited today that when you would say, you know what, I have no hope at all, I'm glad today he comes along and provides for me a way to escape. Amen? Because the truth of the matter is we all sin. I like that text that says over what, if we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, 1 John, and the truth is not in us. My my daddy always said that. I didn't know it was scripture until later. He said, You are a liar and the truth is not in you. I'm saying, but I didn't realize he was quoting scripture. He wasn't a deacon, he wasn't a big church-going man, but that was scripture. But if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. My God You're off the hook. Aren't you glad about that today? That the Lord will deliver you from those things that seek to hold you back, seek to hold you down. There is the good news of the text because of that today. You know, as I read the paper not long ago, I see uh a story that appeared of a man in North Carolina who had been in prison almost forty years, accused of murder. You've seen these kind of stories. And he is allowed to walk out because there was some mix-up in the evidence. And he walks away. And they asked him, man, how how did you make it? He said, I I knew somehow I was going to get out. Now he didn't say praise the Lord. I fasted and prayed. He just said, No, I just knew that something was going to happen. And it did. He said, but it took some patience But he was a free man. And don't you know the Lord wants to free you today? Just this past week, and I was talking to one of our parishioners. I went to prison. For five hours this week to do a story. And there's something about going into prison. Why? There's one button, lock. And that won't close the other door opens, lock. And then you have police all around you in case the prisoners there would do something wrong. But there were guys there who were trying to get their education. And so we spent four hours in a prison. Locked up. Amen. But I knew I could leave. And when I walked out of that door, I said, Well, we're out of prison. All the barbed wire and all the security. But you know what? There was a time in my life when I was locked up by sin. Oh yeah. And try to throw the key away in my life. Why? Because I was enjoying the journey. But today you can be free from your sins If you want to be free. Anybody want to be free today? So I'm tired of sin beating me up. I'm tired of sin wearing me up. I'm tired of sin controlling my life And oftentimes, rather than blame someone, I'm my own worst enemy. Why? Because I give it every time to sin. You want to be free today? You can't be free. Someone that says, praise the Lord, I'm free. No longer bound, no more chains holding me, soulless vesting. That's the blessing. Praise the Lord. Hallelujah. I'm free. Don't you feel the change coming off today? My God, I'm free to walk and to talk and to tell others about Jesus. I'm free. Won't get locked up for that. You can might try to shut me down, but I'm free To spread the good news of Jesus Christ. I'm free to tell somebody what the Lord has done for me. I'm free to pray and to praise. The amen. I can bow with my food and pray as long as I want to. Why? It's my food, and I'm serving our heavenly Father who takes good care of me. Amen? And I don't mind praising him. And for praising, it doesn't always have to be loud. You just praise him with what God has done for you. Amen. How many folk know you got something to praise God for today? What he's brought you through He's brought you to some places you didn't think you were going to make it. And that's why I'm free to praise him. He's given me that freedom to love and to live. To love my neighbor as myself. And to live a life that pleases him. My God, I feel better today having been real with my journey. Say, wow. They're talking about spin in church today. And how we all have a dilemma. And make a decision about which way we're going to go, but know you can be delivered today. My God, this helped me today. It can help you. Don't continue the blame game. It's always somebody else's fault. Somebody else did something wrong and therefore you were the recipient of a hard time or hard way to go. Have you ever thought about turning the mirror on yourself? You know what? Could it be me? Could I be the one that's calling all the habit, all the confusion? Could it be me? Take a good look at yourself today as I am and say, Lord, I thank you. For coming and for dying and for going to that cross. I'm a free man today. That is the word of God. It's already blessed. Amen? Come on, give God a praise today. As you stand all over this place, I am my own worst. Enemy. Sin, get away from me. Sin, I have conquered you by way of the Lord Jesus Christ. And that time may have come for you It may be your time to say, I'm going to declare that I am free. Amen. I'm free from the bondage of sins. Paul's an old wretched man am I I'm not what I should be. Maybe you've come to the day and you say, I'm gonna wait one more Sunday. I'm gonna wait one more month. Today is the day of salvation. We come today to let you know the Lord Jesus Christ loves you. That happened already before you were born. He already knew who you would be. And he died just for you. As you bow your heads today, I want to really be real with you about this gospel. Father, I pray in the name of Jesus. If there's one in this place who knows you not, let them know that now is the time. We don't know what tomorrow holds. We don't know what the next hour or the next minute holds. But I thank you in the name of Jesus. That you have washed me from all of my sins and given me a new lease on life as you've done for so many others here. But there might be one who's not caught that yet. That if I confess with my mouth the Lord Jesus, And believe in my heart that God has raised him from the dead. The Bible says you shall be saved. Thank God today he gives us that opportunity. And I don't want to leave this place as a man of God, as a preacher, as a pastor, as a leader, without putting it out there and saying, perhaps you don't know him. Perhaps you've never signed on the dotted line. Perhaps you've never been real about your faith. Today you can do it. Amen. That's the first step By getting past this being your own worst enemy. Why? The enemy will seek to hold you down. The enemy will seek to tell you, oh, there's no need for that. The enemy will tell you you're okay just the way you are. That's right. But the enemy is a liar He's the father of lies, but today I present Christ to you in the best way I know how. And I pray as you bow those heads. If you don't know him today, you can begin to whisper this unto him. Dear God, I am a sinner I'm in need of a savior. And God why? I cannot see you with the naked eye. The Bible says that God is a spirit And those who worship him must do it in spirit and in truth, for the Father seeketh such. But I believe you sent your son, Jesus Christ. I believe in Christmas. I believe you came as a babe wrapped in swaddling. I believe that. So I believe you were set, but I also believe that you went to that cross. And that he died for me. That's why I believe in Egypt. Oh yes, I love the bunny and I love the basket, but I know that you died, but you rose again with all power in your hands. If I believe that, that you were sinned and that you died and that you rose again, the Bible says with that, with that confession, that you'll be saved. That's it. That's the manuscript today. And so take 30 seconds where you are today for all those heads above. And ask yourself the question: Am I saved? And wrestle with that thing for a good 30 seconds. Am I saying? Am I saying? And then answer yourself Either yes I am, or no I'm not sure, but today I want to be, today you can be saved and have a new life in Christ today. Wow has remained power. If you're here today and you know that you're not saved but you want to be, I want to just throw some extra prayers your way right where you are Nobody's business yours or the Lord's. Raise your hand today. I want to just pray for you all today. I want to just pray for you where you are today. You know that you're not saved, but you're struggling with it. struggling with it, trying to make sense of it, I want to pray with you today, the Lord Jesus Christ might save you from your sins. Praise ye the Lord. Now you say, well, thank God he's done. I'm off the hook. But the Holy Ghost is not off the hook. He'll bother you all day long. Everywhere you go, he'll bother you. So you know you didn't do the right thing. And so unbeknownst to the pastor of the church, he'll get you. And thank God he got me one day. Hey! Got me one day. With my slick self, my on the edge itself, my faking itself, my not he got me one day. I'm glad he got me. Hey, I'm glad he got me today. Otherwise I think what if He hadn't got me. I would have been in that prison. What if he hadn't got me? I would have been out at the slippery champion. What if he hadn't got me? Anybody want to be gotten today, Caught? I'm glad today he got me. He got me. He got me. He got me. And I'm glad about that today. Give joy to my heart. Thank God for Jesus. It could have been the other way. Somebody don't know about the other way. But that's it. I I I I I can't I can't let when I think about what he's done Man, I want to jump for joy. And Lord, thank you that you saved my soul. As you're here today, perhaps you want to become a part of this fellowship call harvest. The doors are open for you to join and to make a real commitment. It's like dating. It's okay then only want to be seen with me in certain places, but I want to go public with you. Amen. You ever had a girlfriend and you just figured out wait wait we ain't we ain't going to the movie together. Folks might see us And sometime we do the Lord that way. So I'm just gonna go to that church and I don't I don't want to get real with it. Today we can become public and say, I want to join this church today. And so we open the doors for you today to say, you know what? I'm in. Pastor giving you a little break every day. You don't you don't have to have to jump if you don't want to. No, no, you need to come on and be public today. Amen. Come on, look for the Lord that if you know you want to join this fellowship and just be real today Amen. I'll push you. Alright, we'll catch it next Sunday. Let's give God a praise today. Let's keep God using our bed today for the glory of God. Amen. Oh, this is the day the Lord has made. Aren't you glad to be free today? Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you It's www. com2harvest. org. That's come the number to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.