Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. We thank the Lord for another opportunity to Get to the main course. Amen? Always a main course. Come today. Just bow your heads where we are today. Father, we thank you And we thank you for this assignment to share the good news of Jesus. To let someone know that all hope is not lost. I pray for now that I might decrease and that you might increase. God save someone today. Encourage another, but when this time is done We'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We want to share today from 1 Samuel 16, verses 6 and 7. Verse 6 read, When they arrived, Samuel took one look at Eliap and thought, Surely this is the Lord's anointed. Verse 7, but the Lord said to Samuel, don't judge by his appearance or height, for I have rejected him. The Lord doesn't see things the way you see them. People judge by outward appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart. That by itself would get you excited. I want to share from the Simonic title, I See Your Potential I see your potential. Was the Greek philosopher Plato who said that beauty is in the eye of the beholder? But the world disagrees with that. You must have other things going on beyond that to be accepted by the world standards. The world will overlook your intellect and your emotional side, and they'll overlook your spiritual side only because they want you to be something that maybe you don't want to be But I'm glad the potential means that you're not all that you will be yet, but my God, you're on your way. The culture believes that beauty matters and so much money is spent just trying to look good. Now don't get me wrong. I want to look my best every day. And we spend a lot of time and a lot of money trying to fix up the outside. Here's my point. Just with women alone. $7 billion just on the kinds of things that make you as beautiful as you are. Now, brothers don't laugh. The latest results showed that men were pulling close behind. Trying to be groomed, trying to give the appearance that I really care about myself But it's not just the money, but the time. I did a survey from USA Today and the Today Show and AOL says that men spend four and a half hours just trying to make themselves look better I don't think I spend that much time. I'm usually running tie hanging off, but by noon's time I get it together. Amen? Women, six point four hours. Just making sure you got it all together. I'm letting you know you look marvelous now before you look at me funny. You look marvelous today Praise God, but the group that's really leading the pack is that team of yours at the house. They spend 7. 7 hours just trying to look good. And Hollywood tells us what beauty is. They paint the picture, but I'm glad today that God looks beyond that. In fact, I like how God lays it out. And we look at what he sees. He sees our potential. Aren't you glad about that today? He sees the deeper part of us. So today we're going to look through the lenses of just a few areas of thought, inspection. Rejection and connection. So if we start today, we really are talking about Samuel. Samuel is sent by God to go and to find the next king. What an assignment. That I'm sending you out as a servant to go and find the next person who will lead the people of Israel. And he sends them to a specific place. I want you to go to Jesse's house. Made because Jesse had eight boys. And so he goes to Jesse's house, but he goes And he shares with them, he says, I'm just coming to do a sacrifice, but while I'm here, I want to look your boys over and see which ones could make a king. And God had spoken to him already. See, from the time he was a boy, Samuel was all about serving God. Let me just drop this in on parents. Trail a child up in the way that they should go. When they're old, they will not depart from it. Let me say it again. We may lose our minds, but if you give us a spiritual foundation, aren't you a witness that at some point Your child will come around right now. You may be budding hands with them. But keep speaking Christ in their lives. Keep leading by example. Amen? I contend that they model us sometimes. So if you hear yourself in your children, it's because you model that. Amen? So he goes down, he's on assignment, and you know how assignments, so educators know that you send somebody out, and I want you to do this, this, and this. And so that's what Samuel does He goes to Jesse. He knows that Jesse has sons, not sure of the number, and so he begins to bring these sons out one by one. So first of all, there's an inspection When they arrived at the place, Samuel took one look at Eliah and thought, surely this is the Lord's anointed. He was so sure, said, man, this guy's handsome. He must be the one. But my parents always told me everything that glitters is not gold. That it takes an inspection to look things over and to look people over because what appears to be one thing may not be that Some of y'all are big football fans and you know that, man, you look good in practice, and you might be the man. You look great. uh you know on tape but once you get on the field for a live football game or a basketball game that's when the rubber really hits the road And so even though he had the appearance that Samuel says, perhaps he is the one He brought his oldest son out first to say check him out. But then God pulls him to the side and I said, hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on. He's he's he's not the one I I know what what he looks like, but he's not the one. But you know, in our own lives, it's great to know that we're under inspection Some years ago they don't do it now. That's why so many bad cars on the road. You used to have a inspection station. They do uh you know now they do certain things in Maryland, but we had to get, you know, are the tires right Is the blanket working? All these things to get a little sticker when you're in Florida so your car can get on the road. And in life you'll find yourself sometimes being inspected. God looks at the best in you, but an inspection is okay. It's okay to have God to look over your life and to check you out. If you see anything that shouldn't be, take it out and strengthen me. I'm not all that Anybody hope me today that you're not all of that and say I'm subject to being inspected by God? That maybe what I think is for me now really is not for me. God has a way of knowing all that takes place in your life. Like what he says over in the book of Jeremiah 1 and 5. Here's how he knows everything. He said, you know what? Before I form you, in the womb I knew you. Before you were born, I set you apart. I appointed you as a prophet to the nations. He already knew about you. I know you thought you were the best thing to come on the scene But God knew you beforehand. No crystal ball, but he had done that kind of work that as he's created you, he knew what you would become before you were born. Does that get you excited? That now you ask kids what's your career choice? Man, God already told me Already knew that there was something in you, and as educators, you're always saying, No, there's more in you. Let me pull something out of you because you see what you see their real potential. That's great news. But not just inspection, but there comes a time when there's rejection. And so, but the Lord said to Samuel, don't judge his appearance A height, for I've rejected him. I I know he's on GQ on the cover. I I know he made Men's Health magazine On the cover of Ebony Magazine, but he's just not the one. And no matter how a person looks, you may not be the one for that time. Even though the world says, you know, he's tall, handsome, good looking. I only made the 5'11. Can't grow anymore. But God looks At the person, and this sense of rejection may be hard to swallow. To know that I've been rejected To know that I'm not the one, to know that I've been kicked to the curb, that I'm not, for this season, the person that God has called. Have you ever been rejected before? It's a hurt deep down. In fact, let me give a promo. Next Sunday, I'm talking about rejection. So, Pastor DeLone, we're talking about the deeper part of what does it mean to be rejected in life. But I think that even when you're rejected and when God may hold something up, he opens another door that's better. I know that's a fact. That you were so broke down and upset because the door closed and you felt bad you were rejected with God. Hey I got something better for you. Just know that I've got you in my care that even though this good looking first son should have been the one God said, no Samuel, not him, but he's tall. Not him, but he's built. Not him. He went to Harvard. Not him. And that's the way the Lord works. I've been rejected in my own life only to bounce back to do better. I'm glad about that. I'm glad sometimes God did reject me because I thought I knew what was best for me and it wasn't best Because God knows what we stand in need of, and as he looks out, he sees potential that the world cannot see. I feel like giving a shout-out to the young people I know the classes might be hard this year, but let me tell you something. God knows that you can do it. And God sees what's in you beyond the natural eye. Talking to someone who I think I might have made honor roll one time, maybe perhaps that summer I think, I remember, I recall But nevertheless, God comes on the back end and says, You go into college? Yeah, yeah, okay, that was a good time. And you're gonna go and get another, yeah, and I guess, and so God sees even at your age Don't stop. Say, well, no, no. Go to community college. They got classes. Oh, I'm starting some trouble now. You need a course this year, amen. To be able to see what God has in store for you Open John 1 and 1, he knows about rejection. Jesus says, you know what? He came to that which was his own, but his own did not receive him. Yet to all who did receive him, to those who believe in his name, he gave them what? The roadmap for life. That's good news today that even though I've been rejected, I'm not done. Do you feel that today in your spirit? And it may have been this week, it may have been this month, it may have been this year that you felt that somebody or the system rejected you, only to know that God would do what? He said, I see much more in you than you can see. I can get excited just on that. You mean that's much there's more in me than what you say? And that is the good news of this text Inspection, rejection, don't feel right, but finally there is a connection And here's the meat. The Lord doesn't see things the way you see them. We think that if you don't see it, it can't be seen. People judge by your outward appearance. Look at what he's wearing. Look at the where hair is fixed. Oh, we can be some hard folks sometimes. Whispering and victim. Oh yes, we do. Amen. Church spoke too. But the Lord looks at the heart. He sees the deeper part of us He sees what we can become. And the heart means he sees the emotional part of us. He sees the intellect of us. And I'm glad he keeps watching over me. I'm glad he says, Tim, there's more in you. You're not washed up. You're not done. But I see that there's some things that you can become. I don't know about you. I got a birthday this week. I'll just talk a little bit. I'm not done. Amen. Man, that's the most stuff in me. I'm excited about what God has for me. And the question you is, do you think that you're done? Oh, you didn't sound too good with that. Is there more in you? All the gifts God has given you? All the talents He's given you? My God, he's just waiting for you to accept it. He says, because don't worry about what they're saying. Tell them to touch your hand. But know that I will guide you by my strength. I will guide you by my spirit. And I'm getting can I just get excited today? I'm just talking to me today That no matter what you've been doing, God sees more in you. I love this passage Philippians 4 and 13. Man, that's that this is my passage. Amen. I can do all things through Christ who gives me strength. Anybody feel that way today But no matter what I'm going through, there's nothing I can't achieve. I believe it today. God is able to look at the situation. And so when they look over the seven, Samuel says, Okay, they're bad, but is there any other I'm looking at you have any more sons? Well we got David. I mean he's a ruddy fella. He's out with the sheep. He ain't about much. Go get him He goes and gets the least and brings a man. And what happens? Seman gets the oil and pours it on him. And man, it flows. He is the one. The Spirit of God came upon him. It was evident he would become what? The next king of Israel. I'm glad what God does in the lives of people. He's poured some things over your life. The Spirit of God has vested on you, and all of a sudden you've been counted out, but God has this eye on you. And as good as man is, as judges and kings, God always has a plan B. He said, you know what, they're still not getting it. So I'm going to send my best in Jesus Christ. He goes to a small town and finds Mary, someone who may not have had any potential. And say, I know other folk want to bear the Christ child, but I pick you here in the ghetto to say that you will bear, now that's potential, my son Jesus Christ. Isn't that something? That he chooses who will be the one. Folk would have counted Mary out. No, she comes from the wrong family. No, she don't have her degree No, she still no no but God says I see something in her and what does he do? He brings forth Christ potential He's born not in a major hospital, but he's born in a state. Now country folks say it was a trough. That's what the cows ate from. And there he was, born in a manger, but God knew the potential that was there for his only begotten son. He lives in Nazareth, beginst this, preached the good news of his father, but he's homeless. Foxes have holes and birds have nests, but the Son of Man is nowhere to lay his head. Here is a homeless person, but because God chose him, and because God is his father, guess what? There is some potential. My God, I hope you get this thing today. If you don't get anything else, that there's so much in you that God wants to use. And so he sends him to the cross. But before that, Jesus goes out and picks up a rag tag band of brothers, fishermen, rough-necked, tax collectors, liars, cheaters, and he says, you know what? I see their potential. And he picks these guys and sends them out. Names like Peter and John and James, like Thomas and Jude, and names like like Tim Find a country fellow like me with a speech impediment from a small town didn't know what class we were from, but God said I see something in you, and aren't you glad about that today? That God sees something in you that the world may have counted you out and you say, You know what? I know that my Redeemer lives. He dies on that cross and he gets up on the third day morning with all power in his hand. My that's giving me some potential today. I know I can make it and you can make it. Why? Because of what is in you. My God, I feel good today with that. There's so much You haven't even begun to tap all that God has in store. I want a testimony next week. Reverend, you were right. You were right, man. Let me tell you what happened this week, what God has done. He will do it But not so much what he sees in me, but I want to close by saying is what he's done for me. Oh Lord. He didn't just see something, but he did something. When he went to that cross, he did something He died for me. He showed that he loved me and he's forgiven me. He saw my potential. And he sees your potential. And you are carrier now of that kind of good news Your staff, your family. Just all we can say, yeah, I see something in you. Your children, yeah, I see. Oh, oh no, you got more in you Your co-workers. No, there's more I see the potential in you. I know I know what's in the outline. But if you look deeper, you will see the real me. Aren't you glad about that today? I see your potential. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. Let's give God a praise today in this house. Amen. I can do anything. We stand today all over this place. I want to have us to sing a little bit of a song as we certainly support our educators today. That God is so good and he's so worthy to be praised. So we come to encourage each other. Tell the person next to you, I see your potential. I see so y'all been doing a lot and I see your potential, I see something in you. Amen. And we need each other today, amen. Come on, sing with us today There's hope in these lyrics. I need you You need me. Come on, stand together. We all are part of God. Stand with me How great we're all Something I mean, we You've come the day and you've never heard about this Jesus or know what he can do for you, I just come by to say to you, he sees your potential. It's rooted in your confession and believing that God sent him and that he died, but that he rose again and now sits at the right hand of the Father, making intercession for the saints. The Bible says if you believed that he died and rose again, you would be saved today. I pray that if you've not developed a relationship with Jesus Christ, today can be that day I can't tell you how many times God has brought me through because of my faith and because what I believed in, when I didn't even believe in myself, he believed in me. As you bow those heads today, if you know that you're not saved. He can save you today, even right now. Right where you stand. Whisper that prayer, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner, but I'm in need of a savior. Save my soul today. Just that. By you out of the ring can make a difference. Amen. If you notice you're saved today, give God a praise. Amen. If you're still struggling today, I'll be more than glad to talk with you about His power. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes from Podcasting or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.