I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen. Whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website. I really do believe that God has a special message just for you. A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries or a worship experience already in progress. How many know that to be true today? Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. And sometimes we don't see But faith is the substance of things hoped for. And the evidence of things not seen. By faith, the elders obtained a good report. Let's bow today. Father, we thank you for who you are. We thank you that even in this preaching moment, May you stand up and may I sit down. May your word go forth. May it hit its target. Might a life be saved? Might someone be encouraged. But when this time is done, we'll be so careful. To give your name the praise and the glory. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. It's okay to celebrate. There's never a time you can turn celebration off. Whenever the Spirit of God hits you, feel free to say thank you, Jesus. Feel free to say, Lord, I love you. Feel free to do that even today. There's a worship of the Lord that comes from Psalm 135, and we'll take a couple of verses. Verse number five: I know that the Lord is great, that our Lord is greater than all gods. Verse 6, the Lord does whatever pleases him in the heavens and on the earth, in the seas, and all their depths. He makes clouds rise from the ends of the earth. He sends lightning with the rain and brings out the wind. from his storehouses. I want to preach today from the Samonic title. It's God's Prerogative. It's God's prerogative. During the Civil War back in the eighteen sixties, our president, Abraham Lincoln, was invited to a prayer breakfast with ministers Lincoln was not one who was very religious on the outside, but history tells us he had a very deep faith. At one point, one minister said, Mr. President Uh let us pray that God is on our side. Lincoln's response showed greater insight. He Said to the ministers, No, gentlemen, let us pray that we are on God's side. He reminded them what we've been reminded of that God is not uh some tool that God is not uh remote control that God does not move uh when we want him to move and how we want him to move That God is real and he sits high, he looks low. But to put a 2016 bit on that story, we must never forget that when it comes to the power of God, it's God's prerogative. A prerogative is an exclusive and special right. It is exercised by virtue of rank and power. And some of you all who are a certain age heard that song and said, that's Bobby Brown. It's my prerogative, but no, it's God's prerogative to do what He wants to do. God, who made the heavens and the earth. God I'm talking about God. Amen I know sometimes uh your workplace and where you live and where you go say tone it down, but how many folk believe in God today? I believe that God is real God with a a big G. Amen. Praise God. As we look even today, uh this title of the sermon really uh came out of a conversation on Friday. So often I will uh begin to land the plane from work on Friday And I'll just pick a random person sometimes. Hey, how are you doing? Reverend, what are you preaching? And I may have my word together, and then I'll pose a question to someone in the marketplace. And the response from this person caused me to get one word, one doctrine that stood with me, and that was the doctrine of sovereignty. That God is sovereign. That God is about everything. It's a biblical teaching when you say God is sovereign, that God rules. That God is in control, that nothing happens without God's direction And God's permission, I was no more good as I drove home. I put in Darrell Coley's sovereign The Lord my God is sovereign. He can do whatever he wants to do, how he wants to do it, when oh you're not feeling me today. When he wants to I said, you know what And I said, My God is sovereign. God doesn't work on some things, but all things He is all inclusive. And the sovereignty of God means that God has the right to govern all things. He does it without exception. Now I want you to just for a moment think about This picture of God. God is a spirit. Those who worship Him must do it in spirit and in truth, for the Father seeketh such. But to think that the God that you serve is sovereign. I want to talk about this sense of sovereignty tied into God's prerogative. And so we'll drop our anchor along the coastline of Psalm 135. It really is no more than a hymn. It is what is called a sacred song or a poem. That's what a psalm really is. It is about really lifting up God. So really in this text, in the first few verses, what happens is that it is an opportunity for the priest To give God some praise. You know I like this text that's talking about giving God praise. And so really, it really holds, as Charles Spurgeon said, the great theologian, from other texts. But the bottom line, it forms a mosaic that says we have to give God his honor and his due. That's a small thing, it seems, but you know what? God deserves all the praise. Can I just get excited for a moment? Can I leave the manuscript? God deserves all the honor. God deserves everything because he's God. And and when you serve a God who is so big A God who's so large and a God who's sovereign and to know that he is your father, that gives me some excitement. Amen? That the God I serve is alive and well. And so in the sixth verse It really jumped out at me. I said, you know what? I kind of like this. The Lord does whatever Uh whatsoever whatsoever he pleased. I said right now, oh God is back That the God that we serve really has the first word and the last word. And when I begin to look at this one verse, it says, in the heavens on the earth, in the seas, in the depth, I walked away saying, God is your prerogative. Whatever you want to do. But you know, God is not a God who sits on a bully pulpit. It does not make us do anything. One day we'll do the free will of God. But he doesn't twist your arm. But God is so large He is so sovereign that gets me excited. And so really that speaks really to a couple of things for me that God is omniscient. God's omnipotent God's omnipresent. And so I start thinking about just how large he is, I didn't say was, in the present tense, then I want to talk more about this God who really does what he wants to do. Amen. Are you okay with that? Omnipotent. He's omnipotent. That means that he has unlimited power. That God is Almighty. Omni itself means all. It means he's not subject to any physical limitations You can't box God in. He's not a man. God has power over the wind. He has power over the rain. He has power over gravity. I thank God for the scientist, but there's no mind like the mind of God. And the old saints and the saints of the Bible said, Let's ask uh and seek the mind of God. God, what do you think about what I'm about to do? God, how do you feel about my decision I've already cooked up for the last few weeks? God, because you're all powerful, I want to check in at the greatest power source there is a God who's omnipotent Ah, are you getting excited yet? A God who is all powerful. His power is limitless. And the fact that I'm in that community of faith gives me great hope. Think for a moment. Put your finger on a time when you experience an all-power for God. Knock your socks off. Called it a God moment, but you knew it was God. You felt the power of God working in your circumstance. You felt it working in your situation. So you know that's God. That is God at work, a God who is all powerful, a God moment Don't you know that God is here even right now? Where he is, irreverend, he's in my heart. I brought some God in with me. Amen. And when you come, I've said before, when you walk into a place, the atmosphere ought to change. Because a God-fearing person just walked in It's not your swagger. It's not who you think you are, but effectively I got God living inside of me. Oh Lord, thank you. You found this temple to live in. He is all powerful, omnipotent. Here, right now You spoke him when you came in. He was in the song. He was in the prayer. He was in that hug. He was in the conversation. He's in your dilemma. God is all powerful. And then in the book of Revelation, 19 and 6, John writes, he said, then I heard what sounded like a great multitude. Like the roar of rising waters and like loud peals of thunder shouting, Hallelujah, with an exclamation mark. And so really in the heavens, right now they're giving God praise. You may have lost a loved one. They've gone to the glory. They're saying hallelujah. They're giving God praise. They're serving this all-powerful God. It is God's prerogative. But not only that, God who's omniscient. The Lord does whatever he pleases and what pleases him, but let's look at this. God has all knowledge. Now, I know you know a few things. God knows everything. He's the only one that knows everything. God established the gifted and talented program. Right? He's the model just for that. Nothing is hidden, nothing is overlooked, nothing escapes his notice. God never learns any oh Lord. He can't learn anything because he knows everything. Amen. I mean, I know some of us are know it all. Why aren't you glad you serve a God who knows everything? He knew you would get up this morning. He knew that he would never be surprised. Everything we're now learning, God has already known. And that's why theology is the study of God. Amen? Psychology, study of the mind. Theology, the study of who God is. That blows me away. To think that before I think it, that God has already seen the text of what is in my mind And before I speak it, God has already heard it. And God has already filtered it. And one may ask, why don't God stop me? That's where free will comes in. Never had something planned, you say, I'm gonna do this regardless, I don't care what, and then God said, Wait a minute. Because he already knows. Even in our prayer time, uh we're asked to go and to suck with the Lord. When you come to prayer, you're not telling God anything new. That's not something he doesn't know. He already knew before your circumstance that you would come to him for counsel. He already knew what you would ask He already knows what the outcome will be. He already knows the next move. He's a God of the Mississippi. He knows everything. I don't know if you like that or not, but I like that kind of God that even when I had something I just had to say. And then I ran it by God. And God said, now you don't want to say that. And there are other things that you really need to say, that you'll ask God's blessings for, He is that kind of God. All-knowing. And you know, David mentions him in another psalm that I really like. He says, you have searched me, Psalm 139. Lord, and you know me. You know when I sit and when I rise, you perceive my thoughts afar That lets me know I gotta be real careful what I say. Real careful about what I think. Why? He already knows it Isn't it great to serve a God who's like that and who already has everything in check? He does it because he's God. He does it because it's a prerogative. He is omnipotent, he is omniscient, and he's also omnipresent. That same verse keeps saying, and I'm just using it as a platform, whatever pleases him. Does that sound theologically selfish? It shouldn't, because God can do that. And no one else can Omnipresent means that God is present everywhere at the same time. He's in Baltimore, he's also in Florida. He's at my house and yours too. He's on the other side of the world and on some of these other planets that they're trying to find. So there's no place you can go that God is not already there. Does that blow your mind? When you try and sneak, thinking that God He's already been there before you think you want to probably kind of sort of maybe happen chance to get there, he is already there. There's no place where God is not. He has no physical qualities, he can occupy space. He's here right now. Don't look too quick. But God is not only next to you, but God lives in you. And he does it because he wants to. If that's the case, then he's here. The Bible says God is a spirit. But look in this. You know, you and I know we have no right to say God not now. God come back later. God, I know you don't know about this. God, hold on. We are carriers of the Lord Jesus Christ And that's not to convict you, but it convicts me. If I already know that God is everywhere, it helps my walk as a believer to try and do right. I I said it's God's prerogative. And the word ought to convict us. It ought to shape us. It ought not tickle our ears for the think that before you walk out the door, he's already there. When you get home, your alarm is on, but God has held it down. You get to work, he's already there before your assignment is given to you. I'm talking about a God who is omnipresent. It was revealed in Baltimore just recently that police have been using a super secret spy plane. To ride over your neighborhood and take pictures. Now you ought not to be surprised. That's nothing new. We're already under God's surveillance right now. God has been tracking you. God has been following you. God has gone ahead of you. And in fact, the phone that you carry allows the government to find you anyway. But I'm glad that I got a Holy Ghost tracker in my heart that wherever I go, God goes with me. Walk with me, Lord. While I'm on my pilgrim journey, I want the Lord to walk with me. I like what the wisdom writer in Proverbs says. 15 and 3. The eyes of the Lord are in every place. Watching the evil and the good. I'm just trying to help me today. That will make me do right. And think right. And treat folk right. And live the kind of life. Because I realize that he's sovereign. And because he's sovereign, there's no hiding There's no escaping. That's all right. I don't mind being on the watch. What about you? Don't you need some correction every now and then in your life? Amen. And he's the kind of God who will pull us off. He'll do this. And you say it's not right. They shouldn't have that God. I could. He says it's my prerogative. I don't understand why. It's my prerogative. I think it's not it's my prerogative. And so let God be God. Amen. God is recording right now because he's everywhere. I'm glad he found me. I tried to hide, but he found me. I didn't know I was lost, but he found me. I was in a world of sin, but he found me. I'm glad today that he sent his only begotten son, Jesus Christ, to die for me. See I thought I was I'm just talking about me. Thought I was really slick And thought that God saw some things but not others. I thought maybe I wasn't as bad as the next person, so therefore I wasn't that bad But I'm glad one day he tapped me on my shoulders. You know what? Come to Jesus right now. Aren't you glad about that today? I am. I'm glad that we serve the kind of God that sent his son to die for us. I love that old hymn, he touched me. And oh what joy has filled my soul. Something happened. And now I know. He touched me. and made me whole. Can I ask you a question? Has he touched you? Has he touched your attitude? He has to go beneath some of our lives and had to dig up some places that were real entrenched, and he had to put us on the right track, and I'm glad he did that today. You know, in preaching there's something called celebration. That's when the preacher leads the script and allows the Holy Spirit just to work on his own life And that's when the preacher said, You know what? I'll just tell you my story about what he's done for me. I may look like I got it together, but there was one day I was not together But I'm glad that the God who is sovereign said it's my prerogative. I'm gonna save too. Aren't you glad about today that he took time to save you? And I'm not all that I could be, but thank God for the blood of Jesus Christ. It will never lose its power. I'm glad today he found a wretch like me and straped me out and put me on the right path. That is why I can celebrate. Why are you so happy? He makes me happy. Why there's so much joy? This joy that I have, the world didn't give it to me. Why you so laid back It's the peace of God that passes all understanding. And so I come to celebrate today. I'm happy because of what God has done in my own life. I'm happy. I sing because I'm happy. I sing because I'm free. I'm sing because God has made a way out of no way. And I'm glad it's his prerogative to be a God. Who is sovereign? When I sat with that young lady and she said, Well, uh sound mean like he's sovereign. I was trying to set her up a little bit like what's so what do you think? And sovereignty of God hit me in the face. And it reminded me, as I remind you, He's all powerful. He knows everything and he's everywhere. That's the word of God today. It's already blessed. Come on, stand today. Who wouldn't trust a God like that? A God who says, I'll do it. Cause I want to. I don't need your permission. I don't need for you to give me a sound, but I am God. Come to Jesus. Come to Jesus Oh shake here you need another little Come to Jesus, come to Jesus He will pay you thank you. He will pay you. He will pay you. Just now, just now he will save you, he will save you Only trust him. Only trust him. Only trust him. Only trust him. Only draft him, only tracking. Based on the word of God, based on that preach method, it reminds us that nothing is hidden Nothing is sacred in your life unless you give it to Him. And so therefore, uh that just hold my message That he's able to save you, why? He already knows that you're not saved. He already knows that you want to give your heart to him. You just haven't got it yet. And because he's an all-knowing God He's waiting for you to catch up on what he's already spoken. See before I got saved, he'd already determined That June 15th, 1965, I'd give my life to Jesus. I I was still playing with you know Batman and looking for the prize in the crack exact box. And and being a bad boy, but he'll already say, you know what? On this day, you don't see it yet, but you're gonna confess me on on this day. And so if you've not given your life to him It's only you just haven't caught up. So if you bow your heads today, everything's on the table. Give your heart to Jesus. He's already done the heavy lifting on the cross. He's just waiting for you to walk into your destiny. Based on that, Father, I pray in the name of Jesus because you know all things that you will touch that heart and they might catch a glimpse of what you have in store for them And your word says you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Today, if you don't know him, You can find him and receive him. He's already touched you. And made you whole. Let's say that again. Let's let the Spirit of God move. Has He done it for you today? Any witnesses in the house today? Has he done it? Oh, Stopping Absolutely Something. Hey. What what is the something in your experience? Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comethenumber to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.