I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen, whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website. I really do believe that God has a special message just for you. A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries for a worship experience already in progress. Let's bow all over this place today. Heavenly Father, we come in the name of Jesus. God, we thank you for this moment of proclamation. We thank you for your word that it is yet powerful. I pray even now that as we share your word, that we might decrease. And that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. But when this time is done, may we give your name all the praise and all the glory it deserves. It is in the strong name of Jesus we pray. Amen and amen. For he alone is word. Ah, let's say one more time. Oh come, let us adore him. Oh God. How many came to adore him today? Amen. You may take your seats. In this place. We're thankful today to be able to come and to share the best news there is to share. And that is the news of Jesus Christ. We're going to share from the Gospel of Matthew there in the first chapter, verses 18 through 21. This is how the birth of Jesus, the Messiah, came about His mother Mary was pledged to be married to Joseph. But before they came together, she was found to be pregnant through the Holy Spirit. Because Joseph, her husband, was faithful to the law and yet did not want to expose her to public disgrace, he had in mind to divorce her quietly. But after he had considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife. Because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, and it is simply, it's a king. Amen. Modern medical technology has advanced to the point now where we can find out uh the sex of the child before the child is ever born. I think it really takes the process to another level. You already know it's a boy. You already know it's a girl. It's not perfect, but it gives you an idea in advance. But this is nothing new to our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, because he came as a king. And yet God shared with the prophets, even with Jeremiah, he says, while you were in your mother's womb, I already knew you. I already appointed you. I already had plans for you. The Bible says there in Psalms that God knows our very thoughts. He knows our uprisings and our downsides and our thoughts from afar off. And God so loved us that he sent his only begotten Son in the person of Jesus Christ Talking about a forecast, a long-range forecast, Isaiah said there in the book of Isaiah, he said, You know what? For unto us a child is born. And his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor. Prince of peace, mighty God. Already, some 600 years in advance, he already knew that a king was on the way Aren't you glad today that you know the King, the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords? Amen. There's no real guesswork except that God knows all that we go through. He knows all that we're about So much so during this time it was the prayer and hope of every Hebrew woman that they might bear the Messiah. They were hoping that they would be the one, but God had a plan already in place Aren't you glad that God has a plan for your life? That you may not have it all figured out yet. That's all right. If you told me that I would be in Baltimore, I would say you're wrong. That's not my plan If you had told me that I'd be preaching, I said, man, you must have lost your mind. If you'd told me I would have started the trick, I said, oh, you got the wrong one. And you find yourself today. here in the house of God because God knew ahead of time what would happen in your life. You sound excited about that? He already knew And he still knows what is in place for us. That's the kind of God that we serve. One who's never caught off guard, but one who knows everything. And so this morning we're going to talk even today about how in the midst of what we're going through that God can still surprise us. How many love surprises? Not many. Depending on what it is. He will also stretch us. And God will also support us. The God that we serve will surprise us. He will stretch us, and he will also support us in all that we're going through In the text today is one by the name of Joseph. He did not make the biblical headlines. Joseph was not a Bible superstar. He was one who minded his own business. He was one who was a lowly carpenter. He was one who lived there in Galilee. He was one who had a plan. But he was the kind of person that God used. He said in his word, in the fullness of time, I will send my son. In the fullness of time, God will do some things in your life. See, your time is not always his time And there's some things you've been waiting on to happen in your life, and as far as you're concerned, the five-year plan has run out. But it's not God's timing. Now, I don't say you don't have to try or to make a plan, but know that God can change your plans whenever he gets ready. And it's for our good. The Bible says in Romans 8. 28, and we know that all things do want work together for good, for those who love God, for those who are called according to his purpose. Joseph, there he is, one who will be the adoptive father, one who would be the one to come alongside. And God chose him to be the Father. Let's look at this text and just begin to unpack it. He will surprise us. And this is how the birth came about, as Matthew writes, as he explains what happened during this time, that he had already made plans, that is, Joseph, to marry. Now, keep in mind that in the Jewish culture, you didn't just say, uh, I'll take your hand and let's go out on a few dates and then we're going to get married. But this was a long process lasting a couple of years to get to a certain point to where it would be an official ceremony. So they've already made plans. Can I make it modern? Maybe they've sent out invitations already. Maybe they've sent out save the day, but all of a sudden now there's a surprise. Now nobody likes surprises when they change our plan. And nobody likes to be confused when God comes in and says, guess what? There's a new plan on the table. And so he comes in and he's able to share with Joseph. That guess what? Your wife to be is pregnant. Now y'all didn't seem too shocked about that. Yeah, you said, okay, right. No. The lady you're going to marry is already expected. See sometimes we lose uh the the meaning of this text and just go right on over it But can you imagine getting that kind of well guys? Can you get magic getting that kind of news? Let me talk to the fellows this morning. Just want to inform you that surprise You're gonna be a father already, even though you have not married. Some young adult minds that nothing has happened. Amen. Just keeping this thing real this morning. Didn't touch her, but she's pregnant, and it's by way of who? The Holy Ghost. Alright. That is a surprise. But God's plans are not our plans. His thoughts are not our thoughts. In fact, his thoughts are higher than our thoughts, but God always has a plan. Jeremiah says, I know the plans that I have for you. I'm glad that God has a plan in my life. I get excited when it plays out to his glory, but I gotta tell you That there have been some surprises that have come along in my own experience that have left me saying, Oh my God What about you? Oh maybe life has been just like this for you never a bump in the road, never a challenge. Every day is Sunday. That's not my story That all of a sudden something happens that you have no control over, God will every now and then surprise us. And surprises are not all bad. And before they even got married, just want you to know that here is the new plan. Here is the new proposal for your life. And just staying open to that. Staying open to the God can come in at any moment and surprise us. But it wasn't just the surprise, but there was more that God wanted to share with him. Now I like Joseph. He was being very practical. Joseph was being stretched. It says in verse 19, because Joseph, her husband, technically, was faithful to the law. He was a righteous dude. He was a just man who wanted to do what the right thing. The law said, if you found this out, you really have the right to do what? To stone her, but that's not what He did. You ever been stretched before? I mean emotionally stretched? Mentally stretched? Spiritually stretched to the point to where you say, God, I need your help in my life to understand what I'm going through. He did not want to disgrace her. He said, here's the way out for me. That while I don't get it I think if I just quietly kind of pulled this together, got the divorce papers together, got them to her, now I still love her. I'm being stretched, I'm confused, it don't make sense, but he is the one that God comes to. See, God knows what you can handle. Some of you say, No, I can't tell you, you would have lost your mind. But God came to a Joseph because he knew that a Joseph had what it would take to process this thing. And there's some things that we struggle processing, but we're stretched. Never been in the same place at the same job with the same task. You go to the same restaurant, take the same coffee. You never change up the same car. You're just a regular kind of person. But when God stretches you There's growth that comes about in your being stretched to the glory of God. And so there we find him with some options. And the option is that I'm not going to throw her under the bus. But rather, I am going to do what I believe is best. Stretching does not feel good. It takes us out of our comfort zone. But realize that we're not dealing with any ordinary dick. We're dealing with a king And so this is all the king's business. He who is the king of kings says, Here is my divine plan just for you. And don't you know that God, I just can't say it enough, that God has a plan for your life. If this song makes the record of skipping, it's skipping. Some of y'all too young for that. You ever had the record skip? Y'all got CDs now and then and iPads. But I mean you ever had the record to skip? Some of y'all just told y'all the age You put a nickel on there and try to hold it in the dust. Amen. But over and over again, God has a plan for your life. And so Joseph, while he did not know how it would play out, he said, okay. I'm available to be stretched. And that's what happened in his life. But it wasn't just that. Know that God will support us in all that we're going through. After he considered this He laid down. Life of it got so tough for you that you know what? I can't let me just go take myself a nap. He laid down and the angel of the Lord came to him in a dream. Some years ago I was in seminary, and one of my papers was on dreams and visions. It was a night class, and my professor declared that I had dreams because I would nod off. He said, Reverend, what did God tell you? And I said, I was tired. But in doing my research paper, I call home and talk with Miss Nettie Haynes. One of the elderly members of the community. I said, Miss Haynes, this is Tim Tootin. I'm doing a paper from a seminary class. I said, do you believe that God speaks in dreams and visions? She said, Well, yes, he does. And that's the way God got his message over then and even now. Now we've had some bad dreams that they had nothing to do with the Lord. But every now and then you will get a dream, you'll awake from that dream, but God still, I believe, speaks in a variety of ways, and dreams are not off limits. Now you watched a bad movie last night, your dream might be a little different. But you're reading the word and you lay down, God can yet speak, and so he lets them know that there's some support. Don't be afraid to take Mary home as your wife because what is taking place is bigger than you. And don't you know some things that you are going through they're bigger than you? Things that you're facing, they're larger than you. Things that you're facing and going through in life are gigantic. But to know that God is with me, to know that God supports me, it makes all the difference. I don't always make the right choice, and neither do you. But to know that God is there to wrap around and support decisions we make, He comes to Him and begins to share that what is conceived In her is from the Holy Spirit. And the Holy Spirit is a person. The Holy Spirit is real, but this still boggles our modern mind. Let's tell the way you're looking at me. This boggles our mind to think that God can do this. Yes, he can. Why couldn't he do this? Is anything too hard for God? Is anything off limits for God? Not at all. So there should be no surprise that God can come in in this kind of way And to let Joseph know in a dream, hey look at this. He says, She will give birth to a son. A king. Uh-huh. And you are to give him the name Jesus. Well, I'm I'm glad to be involved. Even though you can understand this, there's a role for you. That you will get to say his name is not Joe Junior, his name shall be called I'm getting excited just about that. Shall be called Jesus Amen. And if you look at the culture, this was really kind of a common name. Jesus, which in the Hebrew is Joshua. But there's something about that name that it is given, and that Joseph is the one to say, wait a minute, I'm the one assigned to do the naming. And here's what gets me really excited. That this king who comes, this boy, this king, is one who will do what? Will save I don't know about you, but I'm excited and thankful to God that all have sinned and come short of the glory. That's why He sent His Son Why? Because he saw humanity that was already falling apart. He saw the sins of the world and said, I may send a prophet, but they won't listen They'll stoned the prophet, but here's the support. Because you are going to be going through it, because you have sinned, I'm sending my son, the king, to do what To save you from your sins. Anybody ever been saved from their sins? Oh, I got sinned from none many, but the fact that I've been saved That's old school, new school stuff. No, I have can I just testify? I am saved. I'm saved. Now what does that mean? That means I've accepted Christ into my heart. That means he can wash all of my sins. Anybody saved in the house today? I'm talking about yes I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Now everybody clap. Let me back that thing up for a second. How many folk are saved today and know it? Amen. And while you may not proclaim it publicly, it's something that takes place on the inside. That's why I'm sending a king. That's my support system for this society. And he is still saving. He's never stopped saving. I mean the rascal in me and the rascal in you did not want to be saved. Anybody didn't want to be saved? Oh, yes, you were enjoying the world so much, you said, Well, you know what? Not now. Let me have my fun. Not not yet. But don't you know he comes into your life and your experience and he will save you from all of your sin? That's why he came. Amen. He came for that reason. And that's why he is the king. That that's why he's the king of kings. And the Lord of Lords. And with the real king, you got a crown. But think about this king didn't have some lofty place, but this king actually put on a crown of thorns. This king was beaten and this king was talked about and and this king was scandalized and this king had to go to an old rocket cross. I'm talking about the king Is still a king, and he goes to the cross and he dies for my sins and for yours. But I'm glad today that he is yet in the kingdom. He's yet sitting at the right hand of the Father. He went from the crib, amen, all the way to the cross. And he did it just for you. Do you receive that thing today? I want you to feel that thing. You mean he did it just for me? That it becomes individual and it blows my mind. You know my background and you still save me? Yes. Can I still call you the King of Kings? Yes. All because of the divine arrangement and the plan that God has laid out just for us. And so when you got kings, you gotta crown them. Amen? And the Bible says, in that great getting up morning, we'll get the opportunity to take our little crowns. Then earned a crown or two for your good works and a crown or two on this end and you get to heaven. How many folk want to go to heaven? Amen. And when you get to heaven, you'll be judged, but there'll be a little crown that you'll take, but it's not for you. You would take that crown and do what? You will lay it at the feet of Jesus. Song says, crown him with many crowns All held the power of Jesus' name. Let angels prostrate for. Crown him Lord of Lords. And to crown him King of Kings. And because he is my king, I've got hope for my tomorrow. And because he's my king, there's nothing I can't get through And because he's my king, I know that joy will be mine, and because he's my king, I know that peace will come and pass. Anybody glad to say I know it's a king. I already know what he's doing. And don't you know there's a king in you? I know you don't look like much, neither do I, but my God, there's a king inside of you. Don't you know that you are a king's kid? Don't you know he lives in you? Don't you know he reigns in you? My God, you are royalty. What the Bible says we are royal priesthood, a peculiar people. Let me back it up again Let me just go back to the same record. You are a king's kid. And the king lives in you. Is that all right today? If you know that the king lives in you, just start giving the king praise and giving him honor Come on, let's stand over this place today and say thank you for being the king of kings and the lord of lords. That truly, every one of my surprises, he's still king. Even though I'm being stretched beyond what I understand, he's still king. Even though I don't quite get it, I know he supports me. I know he'll be a fence around me. Why It's a king. There's no doubt. Can you say it's a king? I believe today that I am a king's chair. My God, I feel better. Knowing that. I'm not putting my nose up, excuse me. Yeah, I I I'm a king. And whenever you go in the mall, excuse me. I'm a king's kid. You don't know who my daddy is. You don't know the royalty I come from. And so therefore I can walk with a kingdom attitude and have a king spirit today. That is the word of God today. It's already blessed. Anybody feel good about that today? Amen. Stand today and let's give God all the praise In all the glory. Come over to the King today. Come to Jesus. That gets me excited. Maybe in life you've not always had the top spot. You were the last one called and never picked. But my God, this thing balances out When you've got the Lord Jesus Christ living in your heart, come to Jesus. Come to Jesus. Come to Jesus. Come to Jesus. Come to Gome to G Only trust him. Only trust Can't trust the world. Only trust him. Only trust him. Just now. Just now only trust him, only trust him, just he's able He how do they know it today? He is he able today? Just now He saved us. He will save you. He will save you. Has he done it today? He will save. He will save you just now, just now he will say you will say. Can we just talk for a moment? I come this way every Sunday for one purpose. And that is to share. The message of Jesus Christ. I can't tell you how excited I am to be used of God in this way. And it gets in my spirit that maybe one person will come today who knows not the Savior. Now there are people around you. Who don't understand what it means to be safe. There are people on your job who don't have a clue of what faith is. There are people down the street from you who have never heard the life-saving message of Jesus Christ on your campus. And you have an opportunity to let them know that the Lord Jesus Christ is good. That no matter what I'm facing Man, that's it. That's what makes the difference. And so I come this way not to keep playing the tape But to take the opportunity that maybe you've not come to a place in life that you understand what it means to be saved. And this season that we're in is the acting season. That God so loved the world With all its broken pieces, the world with its unjust self, the world with its sometimes, but he sends his son Who makes the difference? And so today, maybe you've come and you've never confessed Christ. Today can be your day. What do I mean by that? The Bible says in Romans 10, 9 and 10, that if you shall confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus. And then believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. The Bible says that you will be saved. It's not what I think. Or the person next to you think, but then if I say in my heart, Lord Jesus, I am a sinner. I have fallen short. And I want you to come into my life. It's supernatural the way it happens. That I can just speak it right now and say, Lord Jesus, I am a sinner. I want to be saved. Come into my life. And He'll do it absolutely. And if you believe that God sent his son, and you believe that he died, and you believe that he rose again, and you are able to put that into who you are. Into your DNA, into your mind, into your heart, the Bible says life eternal will be yours. I don't know about you. I I realize every time I get up That you know what? It's just a sneeze. When I look back and I watch my grandkids, and I see my kids raising their kids, I say, you know what? You're getting older. And I pray you're getting wiser. But take this moment. Don't leave this place if there's any doubt in your heart today. Let's bow our heads Heavenly Father, there's power in your word, and there's power in your name. And we thank you that you are our King. And that when you sit The Prince of Peace in the person of Jesus Christ. Yeah, it surprised us. And yeah, it kind of stretched us. But God, we thank you for a support system. And that's what salvation is. It ensures us life eternal. If you're here today, if you've never opened your mouth, And confess Christ. Today you can do it. I feel so strong about this in my heart that I I just want to I want everybody to be saved. I want everybody to know that Jesus. Jesus that you and I know. I want everybody to get it. Maybe not in the same way. Maybe I'm not a shout or a screamer, but I want you to get it Don't leave this building. So you know what? I understand now that Jesus died for me. Today, God. Touch that heart. And that mind for a time such as this. If you've thought about this right now, here's what you can do. It might be a whisper. May not be a loudspeaker, but to say, Lord Jesus, I am a setter. That's confession. I've messed up. I've messed up again. I know it's wrong. Saying things I shouldn't say and doing things I shouldn't do. Going places I shouldn't go, but right now I am. I confess. I am a sinner. But I want you to save me. And you do that, God, for you said, if I just confess all of my sins unto you. And believe in my heart that Christ died And that he rose again, you said, I would be saved. And God, you can't lie. And so save that soul today in this place. Do you receive that word today? In your heart. I just always believe that even if I don't know, don't need to know that somebody got saved. That at least one got saved, it's all worth the journey. One of those remain bound today. If you're here today, you know you've never given your life to Jesus and you want further prayer in that area. I want to pray with you right where you are today. Just raise your hand if you know that you're not saved, but you want to be saved. Or maybe you made that decision on the spot today. Praise God. That tells me that, Reverend, for the 15th time, I got it Well, praise God. You know that you are saved today. Come on, give God some praise. Amen. That's it. There's nothing else more important than giving your life to Jesus. Nothing. Nothing. Nothing. Nothing. Nothing more important. And said, you know what? I'm gonna save somebody And I'm glad about it. Amen? Come on, get fella praise today in this place. Maybe you've come today and you desire to be a part of Harvest Christian ministries. The doors are always open. You're always welcome. But my thing is, are you saved? Keep on coming back after about 2. 9 visits reclaimed anyway. Don't tell nobody I said there. Well, okay, 2. 1. But isn't God good? Isn't it great to know that you can walk them all and say, you know what? I know they got a song going on, but I know the real reason for this season. Walk for the Lord today, or you see us one of our deacons after service. There's a joy in my heart today. We could come together. I pray you are helped in some way by this message. Be sure to follow Harvest Christian Ministries on radio, CD, podcast, or over our new website. It's comeetoharvest. org. That's ComeToharvest, C-O-M-E, the number two, and harvest. org. Take time to experience the website and all that we have to offer as a ministry. In the meantime, pray that God will continue to allow us to reach a community for Christ for the cause of the kingdom. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten. Have a great day in the Lord.