Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Yes, God. He's real and he's real in my soul. Is he real in your soul today? All the things that are so fake in our society. I'm glad To say that my God, who I serve, is real. Thank God for the hymns of the church. My God, they really take you back. Remind you of the old saints. All that they went through and all that God is yet delivering us from. Let's bow today Heavenly Father, we come and we thank you for your many blessings. We thank you for the opportunity to stand before your people, to declare word. What thus saith the Lord. We know dear God that in the society we live in, we need a word. It is our prayer today that I might decrease and that you might increase. God save someone today, encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory. In Jesus' name. Man, that takes me back to the old, the old church. Amen. Yeah, my God is real. There's a word from the Lord today. We want to certainly share it with you. uh this morning from the book of Hebrews there in the fourth chapter uh verses 14 through 16 and it reads therefore Since we have a great high priest who has ascended into heaven, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold firmly to the faith we profess. Verse 15, for we do not have a high priest who is unable to empathize with our weaknesses. But we have one who has been tempted in every way just as we are, yet he did not sin. Verse 16, let us approach God's throne of grace with confidence, so that we may receive mercy And find grace to help us in our time of need. I want to preach today from the Samonic title. Very simply, it's not what you know. It's who you know. It's not what you know, it's who you know. It's a it's an old adage, a traditional thing of sorts And beneath the surface, it seems to suggest that to get ahead in life that it's more than just your skill set. It's more than just your training. Do you know someone who may be was promoted over you that wasn't because they knew the job? Uh maybe you were promoted because you knew somebody in high places and along the way. Come on, testify. You learned your job and you were able to say, Well, I know somebody. in high places. You know, there is a a saying within the business world, the importance of networking. uh the importance of being in the right place at the right time. I'm certainly here to testify that uh God has put me in some places that I didn't even think I should be. Uh but look at that. That's the favor of God And I knew them, but I really uh came to understand it was God who opened that door for me. Amen And I'm here to pray that you came this morning because of what you know, but it's who you know. I and I've invited you, it's not because of me that you come, but I want to introduce you and to talk about our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. It's good to be in the note. I don't know people from Forbes magazine, but but I know Jesus. Let me back that up for a minute. You may not know a lot of people. But as long as you know Jesus Christ in the pardon of your sins, you're making the right type of connection But y'all still didn't get that. I know you got your list of five top people that you know and you rub shoulders with, but if you don't know Jesus Christ in the pardon of your sins, you're not really connected. Amen. And you know, in doing so, I want to talk about Christ from the standpoint of He being uh our priest. uh Christ as a participant in our daily walk in our lives and Christ as our pathway. Not what I know, but who I know. You know, scholars say the book of Hebrews was written to, first of all, a group that believed in the Lord Jesus Christ. Another group, they were unbelievers, but they at least accepted Christ intellectually They mind-wise, and there were others who did not believe, but they were just attracted to Jesus, but they outright rejected him. Believers, unbelievers who were faking it, other believers who could care less. So this letter is written to encourage the church at large. All the scholarship talks about who wrote this book. Some debate about who wrote it and some debate about who received it. Not as clear-cut as the epistles, but never mind that. Isn't it great to get a word from the Lord And so what was written then is good for us even on today. Well, you know, how do you know that you know Jesus? I remember some years ago, someone asked me, said, Do you know Jesus? And I paused. I was in my late teens, and I said, Well, I'd go to church. Said, do you know Jesus? I said, man, I my mother's on the choir. And I serve uh actually in the Sunday school. Do you know Jesus? Man, I pray every now and then, but I could not really grasp that question till some time later. And he wanted to know: do you know Jesus? I confess I've got a lot of Facebook friends and most of them I don't know. Over four thousand. I was at a place not long ago and I got said, You my friend. I said, Well praise God. I didn't know who that person was and they may have liked something I did. And so sometimes we think we know people, but we don't know them. Amen. Uh we pretend we know them. We pretend uh that that's my cousin's uncle's uh relatives neighbors brother-in-law's uh uncle And so what I want to get at is the importance of not just what we think we know, but who do we know when it comes to Christ Jesus. Who he is and what he does. Is that a fair enough question to ask today that with all that we're facing as a people to really Hone in on how do I know Jesus and how do I see Jesus? Uh sometime It says that I'm not seeing him with the naked eye. But you know the Bible says that God is a spirit. And those who worship him must do it in spirit and in truth for the Father's sake. Oh, you got an imagination. That while you have never come face to face with God, how many believe that he exists? Uh by way of his spirit, that he lives in the heart of the belief. That's what faith is. It's not being able to see it. But to believe it. And all that we stand on as Christians is that God so loved the world that he sent his only Son Jesus Christ who died for us but who rose again. Can I just go to Sunday school this morning? I'd never like to assume that you have it. And so that's how I know I'm a believer. I believe that God sent his son. I got children in the head today. Amen. God sent his son, Jesus. As a babe wrapped in swallowing clothes and lying in a manger. We like Christmas. But then he died and rose again on the third day. Can you say Easter? I'm not talking down here, am I? I'm just trying to help us to understand what we believe and why we believe. And so we talk about Christ as being a priest. Verse 14, therefore, since we have a great high priest who has ascended into heaven, Jesus the Son of God. It tell you right there in the text. Let us hold firmly to the faith that we possess. You know, in the biblical days, the high priest was the one who would go in and take the sins of the people into the Holy of Holies. And once a year. He would sacrifice a bull and to take that blood inside and to sprinkle it, one person so chosen, to do what? To speak for all the people. If he wasn't right, something would happen. He would have to come back out, or he may not come out. But that was having a priest to go in on behalf of the people. Even now within the Jewish faith, there's Yom Kippur, which is this day of atonement. And during that time, those of the Jewish faith They will fast and pray and spend time in the synagogue. But let me tell you, there's no need now to have anyone to go in on your behalf. Because Jesus Christ is the sacrifice. Amen. No need for a lamb, no need for a goat, no need for a dove that he went to the cross and became a living sacrifice, and therefore he is the great high priest. Amen. There's none greater than him, that I know him as the great high priest. Who has ascended into heaven, that's where he is now, at the right hand of God, Jesus, the Son of God, and because of that Our knowing this, let us grip and hold on to that we believe. Hold tightly. Aren't you glad that you've got someone who is in high places? I told you earlier it's not what you know, it's who you know. And that Jesus Christ, even now, is speaking on our behalf. He is the great high priest. Come on, say it together. Oh, look at that. And so when you see that, yeah, there may have been a priest, but there's none like him. And so aren't you glad you're connected to the great high priest? So in doing so, he writes this letter that is the author who is unknown, some said it was Paul, but he reminds us. As to who we know. I like what Paul says in Romans. He says, so then faith comes by hearing. And hearing by the word of God, how can we hold firmly to the faith we profess unless we know it? My faith is what I believe about Jesus. Amen. Faith is the substance of things hoped for, evidence of things not seen. In other words, it's not a grabbing in the straw. But our faith is what we has anybody ever prayed for something and you just kept on believing God, God, I'm trusting you. God, I believe you're doing. God, I'm hanging in there. God, it's rough. And you saw it come to pass. That's faith. Even though you could not put your hand on it, the great high priest was working on your behalf. Isn't that good news today? Amen. Amen. Amen. I want you to get this thing that I've got somebody who's really high. And he's the great high priest. He's Jesus, and I know it. Amen. Don't know much, but I know that. I was at a camp this week and it was about uh math. One of my tough areas. I just said, you know what? I just resigned to not wanting to learn math. I just didn't try. I couldn't remember the formula from the next day. But I know Jesus. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. But he comes as this priest, but also we know him as a participant. First 15 says, we do not have a high priest who is unable to empathize with our weaknesses. He fills you. He knows what you're going through. Ever had folks say, do you feel me? Now I don't feel you. But he feels us. He's not so big and so bad that he can't come down to relate to us right where we are. in our weak moments. And we all have weak moments. But he's a participant. I understand what you're going through. But we have one who has been tempted in every way, just as we are, yet without sin. You know that may be hard to grasp. That yeah, Jesus never sinned. I don't care what Hollywood said. I don't care all those mixed-up stories that you see on the silver screen. He was without sin. And so therefore he was tempted by the devil himself, but he's someone who can say, I'm with you. If you're going through, I'm going through. Having a rough day, I'm with you Builds the polling up, I got ya. Situation going on in my home, I feel ya. Body is wrecked with pain, I got you. And so we serve someone who takes part in what we're going through. I don't want a kind of God who's like on the sideline and coming on the fourth quarter. I want a God who's with me every step of the way. Old song says, walk with me, Lord. While I'm on my pilgrim journey, I want Jesus to walk with me. He gets in it. He gets down where you are and works it out on your behalf. He gets his hands dirty, so to speak. Okay, do you in here? I'm with you. He was tempted, but without sin. He takes part in what we are going through as a participant. I like that. Aren't you glad you serve that kind of God? You know what I mean? Yeah, we we all got like in a circle of people. And they'll say, you know what? Hey, we're together. Well the two or three together be in the midst, but when the rubber hits the road in the midnight hour you can call on the high priest. One who says, I know exactly what you're facing. I know exactly what you're going through, for I'm Jesus Christ, yet without sin. I love the song that says, yield not to temptation for yielding is sin. He never yielded But he still understands what sin is about. That's why he died. To take away the sins of the world. I'm just dealing with 101 today. I like 101 preaching. Amen. I like basic elementary pre-K stuff. That he's a participant, he's a priest, and I like what this says about sin. The Bible talks about it. It says God made him who knew no sin To be sin. Ooh, ooh, ooh. He who knew no sin became sin on our behalf. So that in him we might have what? The righteousness of God. The the yellow word, he makes you look good. Amen. None of us are all that, but my God, through the blood of Jesus Christ, you look like you're an outstanding and upstanding citizen, and folk know you, the new church you, but thank God for Jesus that he knew what you needed. He knew what medication. Amen. The other week I I was forced to go to the doctor. I didn't want to go. And brothers would be like, no, I ain't going. But I finally went. And said, my wife said, give me a Z-pack. I got them little pills and I took them like I was supposed to, and I'm better I'm healed now. Don't you know that God is already in there? That He's already taken everything on your behalf? Participants? He's one who's the priest, but finally there's this pathway. Verse 16 says, now because of all of that Because he's the high priest, because he feels me, because of that, that gives me access. I love these pronouns, let us Then approach God, throne of grace, with confidence so that we pronounce may receive mercy and find grace to help us. in our time of need, that there's this pathway, there's this route, this course that gets us to the place of Christ. I was riding a few weeks ago with a young man on the job. He's younger. He's like Mr. Tooton. I said, call me that man. We were heading out to a location. I was like, well, just check the left and right. He said, but the the GPS they're saying I was like, man, don't worry about that. I've been traveling these roads for a long time, dog. Just go over here, man. Go ahead. And he went that way, and it was a major backup I was like, all right. Uh that may have been the the quickest way or the fast uh the fast y'all feel me? But it wasn't the right way I confess my sins unto him and now but I see may it work. Whatever your thing say. We'll go that way. Amen. And the Holy Ghost is that GPS that guides us and gives us access to the throne of grace To where God sits. Amen. So that what that we might receive mercy and find grace Mercy is God not punishing us for what we deserve. Yeah, you you just got off. Amen. And grace is Him blessing you In spite of the fact that you messed up. Isn't that great? Aren't you glad you have grace And mercy. And the fact that I can come and not need anybody to give me permission, but I can go right boldly into the throne room of God for myself. Amen I got permission to have access to him, and so I'm coming with confidence and believing that God, if I come to you, you're gonna make a way out of nowhere. Anybody bold like that? I mean I'm talking about bold. I know I know I know I know I'm talking bold Lord I'm coming right now. I gotta come up in here. I'm having a rough time. And you ain't trying to be shy, right? I'm coming to him in this bold way. There's a pathway for me to get there. And knowing that once I get into his presence, my God, there's fullness of anybody ever been hanging out with the Lord? I'm talking about you slowed your role And you sat down for a moment and you felt God speaking to you and ministering to you, and you you turned the TV off and you turned off your phone and you had a little talk with Jesus. That's having access to God. That's being able to get into his presence. There was a day I didn't want to get in his presence So I wasn't right. Amen. Even now I've got to ask permission. Lord, can I come into your presence? The fact that you come, he already knows what you need. He desires to fellowship with you. He desires to sup with you right on the spot. Thank God for grace. Ephesians 4 and 7 says, but to each one of us, grace has been given as Christ has apportioned it. Aren't you glad today you've got grace? Aren't you glad today that it's not what you know? And you are smart somebody? But who do you know? What I know is he's always with me. Who I know is he who makes the way. What I know is he'll bless me in spite of me. Who I know his name is Jesus. What I know is he'll heal me from what's going on in my body, in my mind, and my spirit. Who is Jesus I know he'll deliver me, that's what I know, but I know he'll keep me in perfect peace if my mind is stayed on him. What I know, he'll lead me through seen and unseen dangers. Who I know, he's the one I'm following. What I know is he will make a way out of no way. I know that, but who I know is the Lord all by himself. The Lord who's mighty in battle. What do I know? I know, I know, I know I can make it if I keep on pressing. How I know? It's because who I know? His name is Jesus He's the one who died for me. He's the one who gave his life for me. He's the one who got up on the throne. I know that On the third day morning with all power in his hand. Won't he do it? Didn't he get up for you? And so there's a difference between what I know and who I know I don't know much about history. Come on, you temptation folk. But I know you'll make it away. I may not be versed in that area, but God will provide He will guide you into all truth. It's not what I know you degree earning Head of the class, gifted and talented, high IQ, smarty pants self, but Is who I know. I know the one that can save me from all sin. I know the one that can keep my mind stay on him. So don't let what you know Messed up who you know. You got a little knowledge, but knowledge by itself won't work unless I apply that word The word of God is for reproof and correction that we might what? Be able to learn. So I know you know somebody, but make sure you know Jesus. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. Come on, stand today. That with everything that you've been through, God is good And the folk realize that you know what I got a I got a high priest me. Who knows my issues and then still opens the gate up and let me in. Isn't that something? In spite of what he knows, he says, come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I'll give you rest. We bless God today. And we thank Him today. And what I love about him, he'll take you just like you are. No need to fix up, brush up, put on that other mask, a hell of all the way. He knows you. And just come exactly like you are. Come and sleep, come with me, come and live for ever Just as you are in the spirit cause. Comment sleep I'd never like me. I believe that it is someone who's reckless. Giving the life to Jesus. You're so close. Almost there. You go out with the idea of what would that mean to surrender to him. God reminded me that you're you're you're that close. Don't let what you think you know block you from getting to know who you need to know. Spirit of God is just gotta be right there. You close. I don't know that close is not is not good enough. Almost today I want to say to you, speaking to you today, just surrender your life to Jesus. Open your heart today and say, Lord Jesus, I this is it. This is the day that I want to give my life fully to you. I don't want any barrier to hold me back. I don't want my flesh, my knowledge to get in the way of knowing you. You know why? I'll keep rationalizing. I did it. If I did that What will they think if I did that? If I did that, how must I live? And what must I get up? You you you're going back and forth with this thing, and you got it's what you you know. But it's really about who you know. I know a man from Galilee. If you ascend, you'll set your oh, do you know him? Today, as you come. And for the preacher, this is the most important time of the worship experience. You know why? The word of God has been planted. Into the garden of your soul. And so I look now for God to have his word not return void. One planet One watereth, but God gives the increase. Some folk have been watered over and over again. Too much water. Just come on and say, Lord, I surrender. As you bow your hands today Make up in your mind that Lord Jesus, I want to give my life to you today. I don't want to wait another Sunday, another day. I'm so close to confessing you as Savior I know I'm talking to somebody today. I I don't it's not a guess. I I I know it. There's somebody today in this place who's so close. So close, but but but what they know is getting in the way. Father, I pray it's not for that soul. The Bible says what you have to do is to confess with your own mouth. But I believe that God sent Jesus to die for me. I believe he rose on the third day morning with all power in his hand. I'm going to get that into who I am. And the Bible says if you confess it, you'll be saved. Today while those heads above. If I'm on your street, it that appealed to you where you are today. I beg of thee, give your life to Jesus. There's no better time than now to receive him as Lord and as Savior. While those heads are bowed today, you're there. I want to pray with you. Raise your hand where you are today in this place. There's somebody in this place today who has never Fully confess Christ. Your toe was in the water. But all of you are not in. Some of you still out. Save today, God. By your power divine. Do it today, God, as only you can. We declare it in the name of Jesus. Somebody give God a praise today, amen? A few Sundays ago We called the name of, was it William Bailey Jr. Is he here today? We called his name out. We prayed for him. This card said He wanted to join the church. Is he here today? William? Bailey? Okay. We still pray for him. I'll say yes. Lord yes. To your will let you know. I say yes If you want to join the church today, come on down and become a part of Harvest Christian ministries. When the Spirit speaks to me with my whole heart. And my answer. You're here today. You desire to be a part of this fellowship. Come on, walk with the Lord today. Come on, become a part of this family. Amen. Somebody give God a praise today. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they are really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes from Podcasting or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.