Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Let's bow today. Heavenly Father, we come and we we trust you. Thank you that you would put your word in our hearts And we would not claim it as our own. So bless your word today, God, that someone might be saved. That someone might be uplifted when it's all said and done, that you might get all the glory and the praise in Jesus' name. Amen. There's a word from the Lord this morning that comes from the Gospel of Matthew, the seventh chapter, verses 13 and 14. It says, enter through the narrow gate, for wide is the gate, and broad is the road that leads to destruction. And many enter through it. But small is the gate, and narrow the road that leads to life, and only a few find it. What a priest are they from the Semonic title? It's on you. It's on you. You walked into this building this morning out of your own free will. There were other places you could have gone this morning. But you made the choice to stop by harvest Christian ministries. I don't have a crystal ball, so I can't pinpoint why you came to church today. But I believe you had a reason for coming Every choice that we make, we make in life for some reason. There's a why factor Our decisions are based upon what seems good for us at the moment. We do some things out of our intense desire. We do other things with no awareness of where it may go, but that desire, that hunger, that longing has to be there or we wouldn't choose to do What we do. Is this making sense? According to theologian R. C. Stroll, this line of thinking I just described is the very essence of something that we call Free will. That is to choose based on our own desires. We all make choices. I made a choice to preach this particular passage this morning There were other options, but this settled in my spirit. I took a risk. I picked this scripture and this sermon, praying that it might hit home and that it might change and encourage you. Now that said, you'll make the choice this morning whether you want to listen to the word, whether you want to apply the word to your life. It's on you. And it's on you is kind of a new type of term, slang, phrase of sorts. It really means that it's your responsibility. And by responsibility, I mean you doing what you feel is right for you, and God has given you that free will. That really is a great doctrine of the faith. That yes, I made a decision this morning. Now contrary to what you may have heard, God would not strong arm you. God will not push you. God will not trick you. God will not force you. Now just wrap your mind around that. You mean I got all this freedom? And some of you are over 18, 19 or 20, and you know what it means to be your own man. Got your own bills. Got your own car insurance. You know what it means to be your own woman. Got your own crib. God just talked seven days. And we made choices to do the things that we felt were right for us. That's a part of growing up. But once you put on big boy pants and big girl pants and skirts and the like, it's a great responsibility in this thing called life. But God allows us, gives us free will. May that thing really help me because You know, sometimes we'll check in with Big Mama, we'll check in with our friends, we'll check in with 20 people and get 20 opinions. But at the end of the day, what do you sense God is saying just to you? I want to suggest this morning that by following the will of God, we get to see an example of how to make a righteous decision. And righteousness means right living. Amen. That as we look today, we think about this sense of two gates, two destinations, and two And two groups. Two gates, two destinations, and two groups. Let's unpack these couple of passages. Enter through the narrow gate, for wide is the gate, and broad is the road that leads to destruction, and many will enter through it. Jesus has kind of a twin metaphor. He paints a picture, he gives an image, he speaks to a community who's familiar with gates to cities. and gates to the temple, and he has a way of painting life in such a way, he'll take our surroundings to make plain the scripture. Once you'd like to save that comedy God, if he was here in the flesh right now, uh you might hear a Facebook message. He may talk about what it means in the Facebook Live world, but based on what's around you, Jesus takes what is familiar and speaks a word. And that makes it relevant to all of us. And so we know that what he has in mind, he says very simply, enter through the narrow gate. I'm not making you, I'm just putting it out there. And there's also a a wide gate, you make the call. He didn't say if I were you, I'd try to the sm the narrow gate, but he lays it out for you to decide. Does that blow you away? Wait a minute, I thought God made me do stuff I thought he's strong one, but twisted my arm. No, God says, now here it is, followers, here it is, Pharisees, you religious leaders. I want you to hear this One gate leads to life. That's the gate and the road that leads to heaven and eternal life. Amen. The other gate is a wide gate and folk are packed in there. Me and my wife like to fly when we do, she loves getting the TSA pre-flight. She gets mad if she don't get it. That means we don't have to go in the long line, we just right on up. Little TSA flight, show them your card, you come right on through the round the back way, and you have to keep your shoes on. That's the narrow gate. Now the wide gate may be you're around 15 loops trying to get through the airport. Everybody is in that line. But Jesus, that was Pastor Tudin's analogy, about why God lays things out for us and says there are two gates, two choices. What gate, what direction are you going to take the controls? or in your hand. That's a scary thing, isn't it? That you in charge. For the moment. What do you think? I don't know if that's still hidden you yet, but you you're kidding? Yeah. He puts it back on you. Yeah. What what do you think? Which gate you gonna check out? There are two of them, not you you pick it You decide what to do. Like what Joshua says in the book of Joshua, he says, you know You all that can look funny today, but I got a choice. And I'll just paraphrase this. He says, now I don't know what you're gonna do, but me and my folk, we're gonna serve the Lord. He decides that that's the way he wants to go. And you've got to decide, I've got to decide what lane to pick. What gate should I go through? And he just throws it out there. There's a narrow one, there's a wide one. You be the judge. Man, you didn't know you had that much power, did you? That you could think about that But let me just say this. I don't want you to leave free willing rather than say whatever you want to do, it's your thing. Make sure you're being led by the Spirit of God. Amen. And the fact they had Jesus in their presence to help make their decision. Look at that. He was with them while they decided which way to go. And when you make a choice, know he's in your midst to help you and to give you peace with what you're about to do in your own walk. Has it ever happened to you? You were pulling your hair out. And some say, you know what? Just ask the Lord, what do you think? And he gave you some guidance, but you still pulled the lever. Amen? Oh, praise God. Two gates But there's also two destinations. Again, there's a contrast. He lays out the options Which gate will you take? Because depending on what gate you take is where you end up. Uh-oh. So the narrow gate will take you to a place called heaven. I want that gate. That's gate of me. Excuse me. Let me get myself through this gate so I can get on my way to heaven. But there's also that wide gate where everybody is. Yay. You know, it's the broad way. I believe broad way came from there. On Broadway. You want Broadway? There's a Broadway. Everybody and their mama in that line. You gotta be careful when everybody is doing it. Be careful when everybody's in that gate. You have to make sure you got the right destination. No. I can't call a reference hotel because that would be in trouble. But if you want the five star or the no star That where I'm going, the fire star the streets of paper go. Amen. The no star, it's a little hot there That's the seven-day forecast. That's the eternal forecast. You make a choice today on which way you want to go. I thought about this Reverend, I'm saved and sanctified and filled with the Holy Spirit. Why is this for me? But in living the righteous life, you still make a choice. Amen. That that if you're gonna pick one or the other, make sure that you are clear on what your destination is when it comes to where I'm going. My God, I like that. This place that we live, this place that we go, and know that your reservations are already taken care of. Ever been to a place and they didn't have your name? And you say, wait a minute, I know. I made my reservations. And I know I put my name in. You know, when you get to the gate Of heaven, you will have the past work, you will have a life of living to share, but know which way you are going. Like what Jesus says in the Gospels, he says, now in fact, I've already gone ahead of you. I'm already there. If I go and prepare a place for you, I will come back and take you to be with me that where you are or where I am, you will be also. Are you feeling some comfort now? Did you pick the right gate? I praise God you did. Because in doing so, you're on the right track. Two gates Two destinations and two groups of people. And Jesus is saying be on the lookout There's a certain group that you may be hanging with, and they're going the wrong way. I never understood my mother Pressing that issue. Be careful who you hang with. Did your mama say that? And your daddy? I'm saying, what's the big deal? I know who I am. I'm my own little man. But he said, but you gotta be careful with who you hang out with. And so don't get caught with the group. Who got all kind of space, the broad group, everybody's in the house. If you were in that kind of group, think about should I be here Think about is this glorifying God? Think about is this something that will please him? You have to be careful in what group you get in. Folk hanging out at the wild group. Anywhere in the world. Throw your hands in the air. Wave like you just don't care. But the narrow group they may call you geek, or square, or Mr. Bible, or Mrs. Holy Ghost, or Miss You Think You're All That, Miss Bible Freak, but you walk on in the straight gate. And that option is there. It's on you as to what you want to choose. Will you identify with the narrow gatefolk or the wide gate folk? Amen. Just being careful of that. But you know, the word always has something to say. I'm gonna go back to John again. He says, if there's any mistaken about the real way, he said, look at it. Tell him I say, I am. The way. I am the truth, I am the life, and no one comes to the Father except through me. There's no shortcut to heaven. Can I confess this morning? I want to get arrested. Hope that the time has run out, but back in the day, we broke the law. Me and something my buddies. I said, oh what did the reverend do? All we did was get in the game without paying. And the way it worked was, is one man would get in. And once he was in, he would say, Hold the gate up, you just roll on. And making sure that you're with the right crowd. Now I knew something could happen. But I did it. And I'm glad today that the Lord has saved me. Oh y'all didn't really feel that thing. Some of y'all done broke the law And went under some place you shouldn't have gotten in and didn't have no ID and your stuff was shaky and you used a meal pass that wasn't yours and went, oh, hallelujah But doing the the right thing, making the right choice, it's on you. God has given you free will today. But are you free? Free to make Jesus your choice. It's on you. One day it was on me. I used to look the part and act as if I was going to the straight gate. You follow me on Sunday, I'm on my way to the straight gate But on my Mondays, I was in the wide of the Broadway. On my Tuesdays, that's where I hung out. On my Wednesdays, you'd find me at the Some of y'all were there there there too But blessed be to God that along the way I woke you up this morning, I've chosen the right way. I've decided now to make Jesus my choice I wanted folks to think I was heading to the narrow gate. It'll be someplace you look in the park, but really you were in the wrong line. But Jesus says, I'm just laying it out You make the choice today. But one day I I got in the right lane. And I love the hymn writer because sometimes the hymn writer writes your story. What a wonderful change in my life has been wrong. Since Jesus came into my heart, I have light in my soul, for which long I have sought Since Jesus came into my heart. Since Jesus came into my heart. Floods of joy, O my soul, like a sea bill o roll. Since Jesus, since I made the right choice. Since I realized it was on me. And I'm glad today I serve a risen Savior who's in the world today, and his name is Jesus And fact of the matter if you have to snatch me out of the wrong line and put me in the right line, but it's all on you. That you are facing a major life and soul decision. Make sure that you know the Lord will help you, but you have the free will to make the commission. I'm grateful for that today. If you've ever been in the Broadway, you just about to lose your mind. But once you get on the Lord's side, oh how sweet it is to know that I'm where I'm supposed to be. And I'm glad that he has given me the mind to make a decision. Did you realize today is on you? You blamed everybody else for your predicament. You said if you had not told me, I would have gone the other way. But it's on you. At the end, he won't ask what the other folks say. He'll say What did you do? Amen. And everybody who says, Lord, Lord, will not enter the kingdom of God. That's a hard word right there. But I I was praising God every Sunday. Depart from me, you workers of iniquity. Get in that straight gate and plant yourself where God has put you. It's on you. And it's on you. It's on you. It's on you. It's on you. And it's on me. That is the word of God today. It is all ready, blessed. I'm glad that Jesus is that way. Let's stand today all over this place. I'm glad that he has given me his spirit That when I make a decision, I'm basing it on what he's put in my heart. And my heart simply means my set of emotions. Who I am, who God has made me. Do you feel free today? Amen How many folks are just satisfied with the Lord today? I'm satisfied with him. I'm glad he saved me. Glad he's kept me. Other folk will let you down. Leave you hanging. Forgive me, Jesus. Straight Jake Narrowgate, Broadway. You choose the day Don't satisfy, don't satisfy with my name, my faith. He means more to me anything anything that this world Don't say this bird To satisfy with my My fellow He means too much more to me Um satisfied. With the way that he cared for me. I'll serve the phone. And how he makes the way. When it seems I'm not all that I should be. Come on and quite making What makes him so very special? It's the fact that he gave his only life to me. Yeah What more What more? What more can I say? Help me say I'm so fair to fight. So that is so bad with my savero. He means, he means so much more to me. Any thing, ain't it, ain't it, anything? Well, we're all I'm so satisfied. I'm satisfied. I'm too satisfying. With the Much more to me. Amen. As we come today. How satisfied are you that we get these customer satisfaction surveys? You buy something else, what do you think? Yeah. Give us a two-star? Three star? When you've experienced Christ for yourself You walk away not just satisfied but fulfilled as you come to the if you've not experienced that. I want to tell you about a savior Who guarantees life eternal? I really believe that today. As we come today, as you bow your heads all over this place, maybe you've come and You've been dissatisfied with the world. They've been the world knocking you around double crossing you and scandalizing your name. But at the end of the day, you can go back to the Lord. In spite of it, I'm satisfied with you. And I thank you. Father, I come even now. There's one in this place who's never made the choice. Lord to make you Savior today it's on them. I can't make them do it. The neighbor can't make them do it The family can make them do it. It has to be a straight gate, wide gate, broad path, way today receive Jesus. The Bible says you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. And the Bible says Thou shalt be saved. If you're here today and you're not saved, while those heads are bow today, just raise your hand. I want to pray with you right where you are today. Make the choice today Check yes on the box today. Make Christ your all in all today. You don't know him today. If you don't know him today, I don't know your circumstances. Circumstance. I don't know where you are in your faith. But if you open your mouth and say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner and I want to be saved. The Bible says, under that kind of professional faith, that He'll come in. I know I tried it. I played church, but when I said Lord Jesus come in, he came in. I gave him full control of my life. But I asked Look at that. It was on me to ask. If you confess. Now we thank you even now. Thank you, Father. Maybe you're here today and you desire to be a part of this fellowship. The doors are always open. At Harvest Christian Ministries for you. Someone said this morning, Harvest, the Hugging Church. I like that. Don't get a hug all week, come to harvest. We'll hug you with the hug of the Holy Spirit. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comethenumber to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement. You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.