Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. All things work for a good. So sometimes we can't see how they could. Struggles that break our hearts in two sometimes blind us to the truth. Our father knows what's best for us. His wavers are not arrow. So when your pathway grows dim. And you just can't see. Remember you never alone. God is too wise to be mistaken. God is Too good to be unkind. So when you don't understand, when you don't see his plan, when you can't trace his hand. Trust his house He sees a master plan He holds the future in his hands, so don't live as those who have no hope. All our hope is found in here within a quitting. He sees the first and the last and like a tapestry He's weaving you at me to someday he just look here God is too wise to be mistaken. God is too good To be unkind so when you don't understand when you don't say it's planned. When you can't trust his hand, trust his heart, he alone is faithful and True. He alone knows what is best for God is too wise to be mistaken. God is too good To be unkind, so when you don't understand, when you don't see his plan, when that translates his hand Triple when you tone under When you don't see his plan, when you can't trace his hand Amen. When you can't see, still trust. The Bible says faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. Let's pray today. As we move into this time of preaching. Father, we thank you. That we trust you. The Bible says to trust in you with all of our hearts. And to lean not to our own understanding in all of our ways, acknowledge you, and that you would direct our paths. So even in this time of proclamation Direct our path. May your Holy Spirit take over and move this servant to the heart you would want to touch. Save someone today. Encourage another. In Jesus' name. Amen. Somebody give God a praise today. Amen There's a passage before us today, a series of scripture passages from the book of Habakkuk, and there in the second chapter. Chapter 1 to 3. It reads, I will stand at my watch and station myself on the ramparts. I will look to see what he will say to me and what answer I am to give to this complaint. Then the Lord replied, Write down the revelation and make it plain on tablets so that a herald may run with it. Verse 3, for the revelation awaits an appointed time. It speaks of the end and will not prove false. Though it linger, wait for it, it will certainly come and will not delay. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, It's On the Way. It's on the way. I do a lot of business over the internet. Uh usually it's to get a book or to get some audio equipment uh that will help my presentation or my ministry and from the time I make the order uh there's an email that comes and lets me know that the order has been received, they've hit my credit card and that it's in the process. And so over the next few days I'll look and be able to track the package. I'll know if it's coming from, you know, Illinois, uh know what time it leaves, and they'll scan it I know by the time it gets to the next city, the date and the time. But what really excites me about being online is when it says it's on the way. That lets me know that it won't be long. Uh it's the around 8 o'clock that they'll be coming to your house. And sure enough, if you've ordered from the internet, the man shows up or the woman shows up about that time and rings your doorbell. That you have a gift. Oftentimes me and the wife wonder who ordered what. You can't even hide anything, amen. If I try to get something in it, you can't bring it in the back door. It comes to the front door and it lets you know arrived. Hopefully in great condition, but I get excited just knowing that it's left one facility and gotten to another facility and really it's on the way If you think about the life of the believer, it really comes to this. I prayed God, I've petitioned you, and yet nothing seems to be happening. He's saying it's on the way. Now how many believe today that you prayed some things and prayed for some situations and prayed for some people and prayed for some places and prayed for some things and all of a sudden you get bottlenecks that I don't know if it's going to happen. But let me just tell you the day that don't give up, don't throw the towel in. I declare today in your presence it is on the way. Aren't you glad today about that? That God, I'm getting weary, that God is getting tough. God, I wonder if you hear me I've changed the prayer around. I've given it different versions. I prayed it in the morning. I prayed it at noonday. I prayed it in the evening. But do you hear me? He's saying it's on the way Isn't that great news today? In our text, we talk about the prophet Habakkuk. He is one who certainly, his very name means embrace. His very name means wrestle. And he had a complaint. God, I don't get while your people are being persecuted by the Babylonians. And I got a complaint I don't I don't get it. And we're honest today. We're the same way. And we won't say it. But we get mad at God sometimes. Can I get amen? You won't speak it and you you won't question it, but you have an issue with God because you've prayed something and you think a situation should be the other way around and And and God I just uh you know, I'm I'm frustrated and God, I'm I'm upset and God because okay, I got that. I can handle that But just know that in my time and in the right season, you will get what I have already promised for you, even if you don't know it fully. See, we have to know everything. We're the nobi generation, which you mean I can't I can Google it and find out. Well there's some stuff you can't Google. You can't Google God when God gets ready, he'll send it. And you just say, you know what? I'm at the door. It's about to come. It's on the way. And that gets me excited. Some things that you've forgotten about, that you've prayed about, and God reassures you they're on the way. Amen. Habak is one who writes this. He's one who goes before God. He's a prophet. And God uses him to speak to the people. And so first and foremost, in this text, there's the importance of being able to be watching, that God causes us to watch. Amen? Says, I will stand at my watch and station myself on the ramparts, that is the tower. I will look to see what he will say to me and what answer I'm to give to his testimony. I like the boldness of Habakkuk. He didn't come in weak. Say, God, can you talk to me? I don't get this. I don't understand why we've been doing well and suddenly you got us in a situation it don't seem to make sense God, I've been on this job for so long. I had no raise and getting persecuted. God, I've been in this relationship for two. I mean, in your own situation, and and so he comes boldly. But he's standing at the tower. And he's a watchman, or at least he talks about being a watchman, someone who gets a perspective of what's going on. But you've got to get to a place in God where you are just there open to watch for him. Anybody ever put you on a watch that can you just look out for me, Doc? Now not talking about a robbery or anything. Don't be the lookout man. I mean be the lookout man, lookout woman, but somebody said, you know what, can you just watch for me? They're gonna be driving a green Chevrolet, you know, with a white top, and you're like watching. Oh if somebody's to pick you up someplace, you're watching for that description. And Habakkuh had already shared, but he was in a position where he really didn't want to watch. God, I'm up here, and as a watchman, I've got to be able to sense what you're saying to me to share with the people And let me just tell you, this role of a prophet was not an easy one. Because you would really bring it. You had you couldn't sugarcoat it. You couldn't say, Well, you know, no, you had to hit it. God said you're messing up And God says, unless you do better, his wrath comes upon you. That I hear people say now they're modern, I'm a prophet, Doc. Well, a prophet is one that God uses to deliver a word that's a tough word. Amen. But you gotta say exactly what God tells you. And sometimes uh you come before God's people and you gotta share what God gives you. And that's why I came today and said, don't be discouraged That what you've been praying for, there's a reason why God has not given it to you just yet. But you just got to keep believing in faith, it is coming. He says, I I want to hear from you, God I won't know what you're talking about. I want you to talk to me. I want you to give me an explanation. And that's bold spirit. Amen? How many folk are bold and they'll say, God, you know what? I'm just going to ask it. Amen? Not gonna run it by my friends, and I'm gonna run it by my uh you know what do you think? But God I'm gonna be bold enough in my secret closet to ask for some some stuff that I know that's That's wow and may seem crazy to the world. Has anybody ever done that? I mean, I'm talking about some bold stuff. I mean, not name it, claim it theology, but God I'm asking for some bold things Let me just go ahead and and declare this today. I'm asking God for a building for Harvest Christian ministries. I don't know where you're gonna have it, uh but I'm believing it. I believe it's on the way. Uh so I done spoke it now, I done let it out. Uh uh I dunno I don't I don't put it out there now and I just believe God's gonna do it But even as we look at the word, there are other passages that relate to what I'm saying. Psalms 34 and 8 says, Taste and see that the Lord is good Taste and see. When you start watching, it becomes a moment that God transforms you. Something happens in your moment of watching and waiting for Him to respond Oh, taste and see. Ah, there we go. That the Lord is good. Blessed is the one who takes refuge in him. There are some benefits just to being in God's presence. How many just want to say, I'm just on watch? I'm just gonna hang out. I I may not say a whole lot, but I'm gonna hang out and be the person that you can say, you know what, I'll watch for the Lord Oh I thank God today. I'm encouraged by that kind of word that I didn't say a single word. I just watched. Some of y'all go to the mall and do that. Your people watch it, don't you? You just watch. Back and forth. And God calls us to watch and in the presence of the Lord to know that there's something that happens with you. You walk away from that saying, God, you're good. Would you say God is good? That no matter where you find yourself right now, uh, oh taste and see, mmm, isn't he good? I thank God for that today. So Habakkuk shares that. Is he and God just talking? He goes to the tower. He's anticipating God's going to do something. But not just that, there's also a time of writing. Amen He's called to write. He says, okay, God responding. He says, you know, I will do what? I will allow you to write down what I've given you. That you know what? Put it on the tablet Write it down. Make it plain. And so he has him to write what he's getting. You know what I like by God? He didn't say he's an answer. He says here's something you gotta do. Write the revelation That while you are in this position of hearing from me, I need for you to take note. Put it on your tablet. I know we got tablets now. We call them that. But they're not tablets like the old tablets were, amen. I'm talking about where you had to get it and scratch it in and admit something in Hebrew and then that person would get it and take that tablet and put it some other place and then the other person looked to the next city. This is all ancient now. Here's the tablet And would carry it from place to place. But God is saying, you got to just write something. Just do what I tell you. Well, God, you didn't give my answer. No, write this. And at some time we want to get to the answer before we do what God has told us to do. I like that. I said hold on now. Why don't you just answer? No, no. Write. Write this down. Put it on the tablet, and then make sure there's somebody who's gonna run with it. There's a herald that once it gets in you, uh then you ought to run with it. They think ought to be on fire. That you give me something good, and I want to run and tell somebody else. Amen It's so good to me. I want you to know it. And so when we can write things down, we're also able to leave it for another generation. I thank God for the word of God because it is just that it is written so that we might have access to it. And so God's word declares those things that will deliver us Those things that will cause us to wait, those things that will cause us to be encouraged. Why? It's still on the way. But before I get to what God has for me, He gives me another assignment. Does it make sense? In the midst Before I get to three, he said, wait a minute. Now write this out as I'm giving it to you. It may not be your answer, but do this now. We've got to follow the order in which God gives it to us You gotta write it. There's another passage that talks about, I love this passage a little bit in 2 Timothy. It talks about this whole sense of that all scripture is given by inspiration of God It's God breed that's useful for teaching. We like that. But for rebuking and for correcting And for training in righteousness. So what? The servant of God may be thoroughly equipped for every good works. God has breathed on man for man to write it And so you have in your hands all of the promises of God. From Genesis to Revelation, there's hope There's encouragement. There's things that will allow you to say, God, I can how many folk know that in every book of the Bible there's something for you? I declare right now if you just open it up, you'll find something that will bless your soul. Even if you can't pronounce it, even if you can't get through all the the and the thou, there's something in there that will bless you. He said just write it. So God grays on this word And his word is able to transform us. And even in our time of saying, it's on the way, I'm watching, but I'm also doing something with my time. I'm writing it if nothing but on my heart today. There's some things that I've put in my own spirit man and spirit woman that will help me to get to the next level. Amen. I like that. Are you writing anything today? Are you taking good notes? Amen. I mean life notes. Now let me just tell you a little thing. When I was in college and my first lecture class, And I wasn't trying to be cute or anything, but the person missed it said, Tutan, give me your notes. I said, man, you don't want my notes. Why? I said, because you wouldn't understand them My handwriting was and is so bad, and this is before tablets came along. I said if you can read it, Doctor, you can have it. But those notes made the difference when test time came along. You had written something, oh, and you go back on it God, you brought me through. God, you brought me through this situation. And so there are notes. We need notes. He said, take note, Habakkuk. Write this down and somebody will be able to read what great things got. Have you looked in grandmama's Bible and you saw a note or something? Oh, change colors or something. I love the journal And in those journals, God has done some great things in your life. Are you still anticipating it's on the way? You haven't given up, have you? You're not discouraged, are you? Amen. So watching, writing, and of course, waiting. Amen. So no matter what the screen says, there's also a third scripture. That's what late night will do to you. But nevertheless, you got your own Bible. Don't worry about this. It's been acting crazy all day. To God be the glory. Give thee behind me, PowerPoint. Amen. I know you know it's a pastor, you didn't have the right scripture, yes it is, it's in your Bible. Amen? But this sense of waiting And knowing that God will come along in the midst of your waiting and make a difference. Amen? It says, for the revelation awaits an appointed time. It speaks of the end and will not be false. Though it linger, wait for it. It will certainly come. Are you telling me I got to wait some more? Are you telling me that it's not here yet? Isn't there a timetable? I'm I'm still are there some things you still waiting for? But in the midst of your asking and your waiting, has God not been good in the middle? Has He not made a way for you in the middle of your waiting for something to happen? See, sometimes we miss the blessing in the middle. I'm tired of waiting, but I'm being blessed. I was gonna come right now, but I'm being blessed. I can't, it's been a whole year, but I'm God's giving the glory. It's been two years, but I'm still being blessed. And when you think about the goodness of Jesus and all he's done for you, you don't mind waiting. Say, woman, I'm going to wait on the Lord. Amen And that's what I like about this is that God didn't give a direct answer. He didn't give a microwave, you got it now. He said, hold on Watch for a while. I want you to write this down and then wait on top of that. You've got to be kidding me, God. But in my season of waiting, I'm thankful what God is going to do in my waiting. He says that I ain't gonna tell you when. Scholars say it was twenty years later. Before he got the answer. But he still waited. There's a blessing in waiting. There's a blessing in knowing that it is on the way. Another passage I like, Bible talks about, wait on the Lord. David says, I know about waiting, and be of good courage And he will strengthen thine heart. Wait, I say on the Lord. My God, if you get nothing else, they say, Well, Pastor, there's nothing wrong with waiting. Other folk will make you think they got theirs overnight. That's not true. I'd be afraid of something that comes just overnight like that. Huh? If God's got it for you, he can do that. But oftentimes he really wants to develop us and to grow us to his glory Ouch! I know it may hurt, I may you be you may be struggling, but in the midst of it, just knowing that that little thing saying it'll be here soon. It's been shipped It's out for delivery. It's in the truck. They're in your neighborhood. It'll be there by eight. It's on and sometime it'll come early. And all of a sudden, ding dong, there's the doorbell, your blessing has arrived. And sometimes it's not what you want. Wrong house, wrong information, wrong size, but nevertheless it's here. Isn't God good? And there's so many folk who waited for the Lord Noah waited many, many years. God said, Bill of Ark. Folks say, Noah, you crazy. It's gonna rain. Okay. But God came in God's time Abraham, wait. Why are you sitting me? Just wait, wait, wait. You're going to be the father of many nations. I told you, trust me. And when you say God says trust me, he will keep his word God cannot lie, amen. Moses, wait, wait. I did some bad stuff. Ran, accused of some justice. You caught me on the backside of a mountain in a burning bush, and I'm an old man. And you still telling me to go ahead and tell Pharaoh to do what? And God will use you wherever you are for this season. Amen? Hannah waited for a long time. I prayed for a son. And God, I'm gonna give them to me. But I'm still praying. They're picking at me, they say I'm drunk and crazy, but I'm still praying. And folk have talked about you. I don't know why you keep praying, but God will deliver. And God will show up. Isaiah said, They that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They'll run and not be weary and walk and they will not fail. How anybody want to wait today, knowing that your blessing is on the way? Job says, you know what? It's looking mighty rough. I got some funny friends coming by, but all of my appointed days, I'm gonna wait. I'm gonna wait on the Lord to see what the end is gonna be. Job says, you know what I I told my brothers I had this dream and thought I was crazy. They put me in a ditch and sold me into slavery. I was in prison, but I end up helping them out. That God says it's on the way. Won't God do it today? Jesus says, you know what? Wait. That the Lord is not slack concerning his promises. As men count slackness, but he's what? Long suffering, not willing that any should perish. When he coming back? When he gets ready. But in the meantime, there's some souls that need to be saved. He's waiting for this society to change. It's almost a complaint that her back of her head. God is not fair God, is something wrong? God, why now? God, when? And God is saying, it's on the way. He went to that cross. And died just for you and for me. Then he went to be with his father. And folks of old would say, you know, time is is winding up. They used to scare me, man, when I wasn't living right. So you better mind, young man. What you doing? I said, Well, what if God come tonight? Oh, some of y'all know I wasn't right. I'm glad he gave me time. Aren't you glad today he didn't catch you in your sin, didn't catch you with your work undone? I am I had some restless nights and don't let them find me this way. And God has been faithful. No man knows the day nor the hour when the Son met. Just be ready and know that what really is important is to know that he's on the way back to claim his children That is the word of God today's already blessed. Come on, give God a praise today. Come on, stand today. It's on the way. It's on the way. It's on the way. Prayer makes a difference God is so good. That's why we can say, yes, Lord. It don't feel right, but yes, I'm waiting. I'm a little frustrated, but I'm waiting. Gus, I gotcha. I got you back. It's getting to an undress near you. Yes Lord Say yesterday Yes Lord from the bottom of my heart to the death Complete My soul come on fella keep meaning today. A real yes. Yes, Lord. Yes, Lord. Yes, Lord. From the bottom. From the bottom of my head. Even if we come today, it's one of those areas of Preaching. Now you don't want to be on this. All you gotta do, man, is just pray and walk around two times and order my prayer cloth And that's it. It's just that easy. Now God can do what he wants to do, acting of a prayer cloth or anything else that might be Abercadaza But what I do know is that when God does it, you know it's Him. See, it's not this counterfeit stuff. I mean the devil's a busy rascal too. He said, Oh, that's it. You better inspect that thing and make sure it's of God. The Bible says, test the spirits and make sure they're of God. If someone declares that God has died, has risen again, that's of the Lord. But be very careful in your conversations and says, oh yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm with you. And you'll be led down the wrong path. And it's some crazy stuff. But just know today that God makes his blessings authentic. And they're lasting. And they'll change your life. Amen? Aren't you glad today God has changed your life for the better? As you come today, I want to offer Christ to you. So what what does that mean? Yeah I do, because that is the meat of our sharing. Is that God, is there someone in our midst who has never given the light to you? And how do I know that's important? Because I've been on the other side. Why don't that preacher just stop now? I'm feeling uncomfortable. It don't take all that. I'm gonna look wheezy. I don't want to hear that. And when you've been on the other side of that, and somebody keeps preaching Christ to you, it starts getting in. And so I don't want to assume that everybody who came is saved. I don't want to assume that. And the message has as much power now as it had 2,000 years ago when he went to that cross and shed his blood. And died but rose again. And the Bible declares this: Romans 10, 9 and 10. That thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus. And believe in your heart that is who you are, that God has raised them from the dead, that shall be saved. You know what? I believe this salvation message I believe the gospel. I believe in the miracles of God. I believe in healing. I believe in deliverance. I believe in a God that can give you joy. We've been made into it for night with joy. I believe that. I believe it. And so as you come today, as you bow your heads, I want to share Christ with you. Just in case you don't know him. Just in case there's some doubt about what this all means, it means taking your life. God giving you this free will to say, God, I accept you. And I want you into my life. I believe you're going to change me for the better. So God for that heart that's still struggling. For that mind that's put up so many excuses as to why it's just church stuff. God, I pray even now in the name of Jesus, you might penetrate that heart today and save that person as only you can Do it today, God. By your power. Save by your power divine. I thank you, God. This day, why those head remain bowed? If you're not sure today about your salvation, not sure? Raise your hand. I want to pray with you right where you are today. As those head remain bowed, if you're not sure. That you really know Jesus. I'm not sure that if He came back, that you'd be prepared to go back with Him. I believe there's a place called Heaven, a prepared place for prepared people. You're not sure today, though in this moment pass. God said you're here for a reason today. So yeah, you thought it was focus focus. But he says, I'm waiting on you to give your life to me. That's why I came. And that's why I died. Fellows can remain bowed to you. If you know it today, I just sense the Spirit of God is moving in this place today, I. I just sense that He's moving in this place today He's touching the heart right now. I just sense that somebody's in the struggling in a place where they've been to church and they've done all the church stuff, but they're not sure about salvation They've all the church badges and contests and plays, but they still don't know Jesus. God, I pray but now in the name of Jesus that He might receive you. They might open their hearts and confess to them, God, I'm a sinner. I'm a sinner. Save me from my sins. And God will do that right now on the spot. He'll do it right now. If you would move, it's like a game of checkers almost. You move, I move He's already moved. So what are you gonna do? He's waiting for you to make a decision in this place right now. God, I I want to be saved. I'm I'm I'm having some doubts, but save me By your power divine. Ask him right now, save, save me, save me. If you're not sure, just whisper to him, God save me. He'll save you. He'll save you right now. Thank you, Lord. Thank you, Lord. Thank you, Lord. Doesn't get better praise today. As we come by. Don't you know how much I love you and how much I think about you and when I'm sitting Late at night thinking about God is there a word for the people that that they might be blessed. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's cumthenumber twoharvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.