Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvard's Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. There's a word today that comes from the Gospel of Mark 4, 14 through 20. 14 says, the former sows the word. Some people are like seed along the path where the word is sown. As soon as they hear it, Satan comes and takes away the word that was sown in them. Others, like seeds sown on rocky places, hear the word and at once receive it with joy. But since they have no root, they last only a short time. When trouble or persecution comes, because of the word, they quickly fall away. Verse 18. Still others, like seeds sown among thorns, hear the word, but the worries of this life, the deceitfulness of wealth and the desires for other things come in and choke the word, making it unfruitful. Thank God for verse 20. Others like seeds sown on good soil Hear the word, accept it, and produce a crop, some 30, some 60, some a hundred times what was sold. I want to preach today. From the Samonic title, very simple. It is time for a breakthrough. It's time for a breakthrough. Those who are experts in the field of horticulture will tell you that the fall is a great time to plant. In fact, they say that that's the time you want to plant your trees. That's the time you want to get everything into the ground. It's during the fall season. In fact, I'm told that even the ground is warmer, you have less uh things happening by way of pests and bugs, you can actually plant and make something happen. Now I talk only as a novice because that's not an area that I know anything about. I'm hardly a green thumb. My father loved to farm. He knew it well. He did it well. He brought in a harvest. He had a passion for planting and seeing the harvest come forth. Some years ago when I moved to Washington, D. C. , somebody sent me a plant. And they said, Tim, this is the kind you can't kill. I said, Oh really? Guess what? I killed that bad boy. It turned out that it was setting there. I I thought that meant you do nothing to it. I put no water on the plant The poor plant uh went to its death early, and I learned along the way. I've been a success though planting spiritual seeds, that is, planting the word of God That's the blessing is you can plant within the hearts of people a truth that will keep them through seen and unseen dangers That makes all the difference. When I say the Word of God, I'm talking about the Bible. That is the Word that was written by man, but inspired by God. So when folks say your old man wrote that book, he sure did. But he was inspired by the Spirit of God, who told him what to write So anytime I get a chance to share the good news of Jesus Christ, I keep my stories to a minimum and I try and share with them what thus saith the word of the Lord. Amen. Don't that go a long way if you get somebody a half of scripture and not your testimony all the time? But giving them something that will nourish them along their journey I want to suggest this morning that a mind, body, and spirit open to the Word of God has the potential to experience a spiritual breakthrough. A breakthrough is when something happens all of a sudden. You ever have a breakthrough when things were tight, things were troublesome in your life, and all of a sudden a breakthrough came? And whatever that looks like for you, it was something that allowed you to move from point A to point B. But I like what Jesus does in this text. He actually is the son of a carpenter, but he lives in a farming community, and so he takes time to look at those things that are around him. In other words, he sees a lot of farming taking place. He sees the farmers going out with a handful of seeds and scattering the seeds. He paints a picture. I love that about the Bible. It's really like a movie reel that as you begin to read the Bible, there are pictures that are painted. Can't you see the former going out? Hoping to get a crop, takes a handful of seeds, throws those seeds out. So Jesus takes this and says, you know what? Let me explain to you a truth using this method. It's called a parable. A parable is an earthly story with a heavenly meaning. In other words, I can tell you an example, but you will catch this in a moment. And you know what we love to tell stories, to make things plain to our children, make things plain to our colleagues. You can best paint it. So Jesus goes about and he's sharing what he sees Now, early on in the book of Mark, he actually explains this to his disciples, but they don't get it I love Jesus. He'll back it up and say, wait a minute, you didn't get this? Let me really break it down for you. He was trying to use just the lingo from being a farmer, but then they didn't seem to get it. So he said, wait a minute, let me break it down even more. I'm gonna apply it to your life. And that's what the Word of God really does. It's about applying what you've heard to your own life. How does this look on me? How does this fit within my life experience? And everything may not be for you, but there are things in the text That will help you along your journey. I want you to put your minds out on right now. I want you to see a farmer with a handful of seeds You see it? You catch that? And he takes these seeds and he runs back and throws them out hoping that something will catch. And so that's what we're gonna do when we talk about a breakthrough with things happening in the life of the believer. First of all, this word uh represents uh the sea. And the farmer, we're talking about Christ Himself being the farmer, and of course the soil is your heart. That is your emotion, that uh you who you are as a person. And so really we talk about the word being removed, the word being resisted The word restricted and the word received. We're going to break these down. I want you to keep in mind. See. Keep in mind a farmer. Keep in mind your heart being the place where the seed is being placed. Amen? So we look at this. Word removed Verse 15 says, some people are like seed. Not everybody, some people, along the path where the word is sown, but as soon as they hear it, Satan, that rascal, That devil comes and takes away the word that was sown in them. You will get a text today, and by the time you leave this building and get to your car, if you're not careful Satan will hijack you and take the word that you've just heard and say, oh, you ain't heard nothing. By the time you get home, what was the word? I don't know Don't allow the devil to take your word. Somebody cuts you out in traffic, somebody gives you a bad phone call or text, and all of a sudden everything that you thought you had, it's been removed Amen. It's like throwing out seeds and the birds come along and pick it. The path is so hard It's been worn out. So as you get the word of God today, don't let the enemy take your word. Amen You know that? He he will try to keep you from growing. He'll try to get keep you from getting your breakthrough. Make sure you say somebody you better hold that word. Say, Reverend, I got a half a scripture. I'm gonna hold this. It's about my getting a breakthrough in life, and Christ talks about that. Satan comes and takes it away, and all of a sudden nothing happens. They have a planet something and you pick the wrong ground and before you can get back in the house good. Nothing comes up If you want to grow in the things of Christ, make sure you guard that word with your life. That's Satan's job He's supposed to make you tell us forget it or have amnesia or claim the preacher didn't preach about anything. I don't know what he talked about today. You know, and uh uh right there, he just stole it. You ought to follow a heavenly report and say, I'm coming to get my seed. I got a word, but somewhere between church and home and the store, I can't tell you what was shared today. Amen We're talking about what? Jesus planting seeds. He is the sower. The seed is the word of God. Amen. And your heart is the sword. I keep backing that thing up, make sure y'all don't forget that. Amen. But you know what? There comes a time when you have to do what? Hide the word. Psalm 119. Says, I have hidden your word in my heart that I will not feel against you. You gotta take this away a minute. Hold on, hold on. Where's the word say? I don't know. I'm hiding it You gotta hide things that are precious to you, and when it comes to the Word of God, keep it tight. You may need to eat up that thing later. You know what? I've got a half a verse, but I need to be able to make it along my journey. Make sure you hide That word, that passage, that scripture, that truth in your heart, it will help you in those times of challenge that you will not stand again. Anybody want to get some word in the middle of the day Y'all looking like y'all don't want no word today. Anybody hungry for a word today? Make sure that you protect the word because somebody is trying to take your word Trying to remove it from you, trying to stick you up outside. Give me what you what you got, what you're working with. Tell them that I'm gonna hold on to this word. The word resistance. Verse 16. Others like seeds sown or rocky places. Hear the word And once they receive it with joy, they step high five. You know, yes, Lord, I got a word today. But since they have no root, they last only a short time. And so when trouble, persecution, backbiting, making me mad, talking about my family, all that comes because of the word, they quickly it falls away. So you left out of here with a good word. You was excited, you were joyful, and then somebody got next to you, and somebody made you mad, and persecution came your way, and trauma came your way, and all of a sudden, you know, that word was resisted. You follow me today? That while you got it, you're not like the last person, you got some word in you. And yet you had joy when you got it. But you know challenges of life Will try and rob you of your joy, this joy that I have, the world didn't give it to me, and the world can't take it away. The joy of the Lord is my strength Weeping may endure for a night with joy comfort. I got some joy when I get that word in me. You want to say, you know what? I got some word in me. I don't care what happens. I'm gonna hold on that you know what? That life may throw me some curves I may get a moment where I'm down and out, but you know what? I'm gonna hold my word. I'm not gonna allow the things of life to resist what God has given me to build me up to the glory of God. I'm still joyful. Amen. Hallelujah. The joy. Bible says we'll be in Romans So then, faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. I heard some word. It built up my faith. Now I've got a hope. I believe I can make it. But every now and then I've got to make sure that there's not this whole fight going on between my word and my trouble. We all have trouble. In this world you shall have trouble. But be of good cheer. I've overcome the world. Stuff's gonna come your way. But I dare you to say, you know what? I'm gonna hold on And resist the devil. What? He will flee if you do what? You resist him. I got my word. That's it. And it gives me faith. And it gives me hope. All that comes out of the Bible. Jesus was trying to make a point. See I I I noticed I talked to you all that you could get this because you're all farmers. You understand this. Make sure you throw it out there and it gets into rocky places and there's no root going on, nothing's coming up. You can keep on digging and planting, nothing's gonna happen. Amen? So we move on then. Word resistant, word removed. Word restricted. Verse 18. Still others. You haven't found yourself in this text yet, have you? He said, no, Reverend, I'm waiting for the last one. That's me. Like seeds sown among thorns, they hear the word But the worries of life, the seekfulness of wealth, desires for other things come in and choke the word, making it unfruitful. You know if you ever go into a a briar patch And you go in and all of a sudden it starts sticking you. Well that's what the the world will do. It would try and choke off the word that's in you They again distract you so that way you figure I got something. But no. The thorns of life, those things that will be around you and will try and choke the word out of y'all. Some of y'all watch wrestling You've seen them chokeholes. And that's what the world will do. It'll put you in a chokehold to try and do what? To take your word from you. But you gotta resist. Amen And you have to be saying, you know what, I'm not going to let you take my word. That I'm going to hold on to a truth that God has given me today that will help me along my journey. But when you look at the thorny places, nothing can grow when you're more focused on other things. More focused on uh you know what people have, more focused on the world stuff, more focused on uh you know uh trying to uh and might be some Jones is in here Keeping up with the Joneses. That's an old saying. Amen. I saw two Joneses wave their hands in the back. I didn't mean it personally. But this whole sense of knowing that trying to get it all Trying to be what the more you can't be in the world and often you you've got to choose today, huh? You can't have one foot in the world and then one foot in in in the Lord. So it comes to this sense of restriction. Make sure that you keep some distance between our kids so you can have good things. But don't let this overpower your word. You need a breakthrough. Something is growing in your life, and therefore you're saying, Lord, I need your assistance in this area. This word will help you out. The Bible says in Psalm 119, 105, Thy word is the lamp unto my feet. a light unto my path, that when times get rough, when it gets dark, and the hills are hard to climb, I know that the word of God will guide me along my way. I just need a half a scripture. That's all I need. You know, I've got opinions. I I I looked, you know, you hope you didn't call Mother Rose. Your horoscope don't have it. The Word of God has it. Your best friend may not have it, but everything you need is in the Word. Everything you need to get through, there's nothing that you're facing that the word does not talk about. You want to break through? Stay in that word and say I'm not gonna let no foreign, no demon from hell, nobody take what belongs to me. My God, I may not be a big scholar, may not know the whole book, but give me something to hold on to. The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? Amen. Let me hold on to something The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. Let me hold on to something. Give me a word to hold on to that when the thorny places happen, that it'll still take root deep down in my heart today. Has it taken root yet in you? Has it connected? Do you see something coming up a little bit? That's because you've dedicated yourself to stay in the Word. I want a breakthrough. Got hijacked outside church and took my word and I kept moving all of a sudden, you know, got some rough places and lost my joy and then as soon as I got some more word, the thorns and came to choke my word out me and and people on my last nerve and things that will try to make you frustrate. They ain't nothing but the devil want to frustrate you and say, you know what you can't make it. Oh yes you can You're more than a conqueror to him who loved you. But finally, we all find ourselves in this word receive. Oh God, is there some good news today? Breven, you pay that thing so bad that I'm afraid to lose the word. If your heart is ready to receive, you got some good soil. Others in verse 20, like seeds sown on good soil, hear the word. Accept it and produce a crop. I declare if you start getting into the word, somebody will notice something happening in your life. You ain't got much Look something glory and look, oh you done changed on me. Why? Because I know that I've received the word of God in my heart. I remember when I first got that thing in my heart Folks, do you look different? No, I don't. So you act you to act a little different. Now why? I got some word deep down in my heart. I want to stick in you, amen. Your heart is good soil. Come on, plant in me. And that's what happens in this last part. That as a result of you being open to the word of God, I don't want to say it all But I'll take something with me from today's message. And I'm gonna protect it along the way. I'm gonna make sure that nobody takes it away, I'm gonna recite it, I'm gonna take it like like war room, put it in my closet, I'm gonna put it on my dashboard, I'm gonna Text it to myself, I'm gonna put it on Facebook, I'm gonna tweet it. What am I gonna do to make sure that word stays in me? That's how you get a breakthrough. And here's the evidence When you know that that word is taking root, some stuff will happen. There'll be some fruit in your life. Some 30. Some 60, some 100 times, what was sown, when you know you're walking with the Lord, somebody will be affected by your life Amen. You came to me 10 years ago and talking that religious stuff and all of a sudden now, man, something caught on me. And that lets you know that you gotta go ahead and live that kind of life A word life. Amen. A breakthrough life. Amen. I'm glad today that Jesus went to that cross. It was a breakthrough. When he went there on that old rugged cross Gave his life for you and for me. It was a breakthrough. Amen. And I'm glad that he went in that tomb, but he rose on the third day morning with all power in his hand. I'm glad today that I got a break. Anybody feel like you've grown that much since service started? You were just a little old disorder. Now you've come out of the ground. Oh my god, you're getting to be full bloom now. Why? The word is working on you And working in you. There's something about getting it in you. I got a Bible. Yeah, yeah, just take take one passage. And chew on that thing. Amen? And that's what cows would do. My dad had cows too. We had cows. We had cows, milk cows. And we would watch old Bestie would go out there and she'd graze and the grass would be gone but she would still be chewing. And and cows have a way of holding back some stuff that they'll still there's no grass, there's no feed, but they still children. You ought to have a word in you that when times come along, you're still chewing. You ought to have a word in you that when the life gets rough You still chewing. What you doing? I got the word in me, so therefore I can keep on, yeah, I can try to make it, but I got a scripture that I've got in my heart that I can keep on chewing on and meditating on and thanking God for along the way I sense a breakthrough. My God, you've grown since this service. Amen. Aren't you glad that he breaks this thing down for us and say, let me come out, farmer, let me show you some examples and he's doing it in your life as well. It's time for a breakthrough. You've been getting robbed too long. I remember going to church and coming out and couldn't tell you anything the preacher said. I could tell you church stories, but what do you preach about? You got me. Before I even left the church, I didn't have it But today get this word in you. It makes you an effective disciple. I got something. It's working on the inside. And it's showing on the outside. Oh, what a change in my life. How many folks see something? Ha ha is any is anything coming up in your li your life? I I think I see a so uh something coming up. I I I think I see some pro progress. It it you see what I see? It ain't much But I see enough. And then over time, as I keep getting that word, I'll I'll start growing I I'll become a full plant that can you put uh in the house and before long I'll grow even more to the glory of God. I'll become a full tree. And then I'll just keep giving God the praise and keep giving him the glory. Why? I got enough to say. You know what? I gotta break through. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. How many folk want a breakthrough today? Don't you let nobody take your word? Don't you let the thorns clog you up? Don't let hard ground and hard-headed people block your way, but allow your heart today to be the kind of soil. That something will be planted and will take root. Stand today. Let's give God a praise. That is the word today. Amen. Don't just listen. James 122. But you must do the word. Amen. I got it. I'm gonna do something with it. I'm gonna be a doer of the word of God. Come as you are today. God wants to use your life. He wants to plant Into who you are. That's the good news. Come and come with me come and live. Just as you are the spirit No need to fix up. Come and be com read. That's it. String border to the living water and I just thought by the day With a bag full of thieves. Scriptures. I want to just take them today and just do what? Throw them out. To you. I pray God has prepared your heart in such a way that it won't fall on hard ground or on stony ground or in the briar patch. That it might find Fruit in your heart today. That is my prayer and my desire for you. As you come today, I want to offer Christ to you, our Redeemer. And our Lord. The text spokes for itself. Once that word gets in you, you start growing, but you gotta first receive it. As you bow your hands today, I want to pray with you. Heavenly Father, if there's one in this place today whose heart is yet hard I pray in the name of Jesus that you might begin to cultivate that heart. Loosen the soil of their minds and their spirit. That your word might go in. And might take root. The Bible says: if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Open your heart today. Allow the Word of God to live in you and that you might grow thereby. If you come this way today, while those heads remain bowed, and you don't know the Lord Jesus Christ in the pardon of your sins. I want to pray with you while those hands remain bowed today. Raise your hand if you're not sure what it means to be saved. What does it mean to have salvation? I want to pray with you. If you're here today and you're not sure what that means, I'll just stop by. With a bag full of word to toss out that it might take room. Think about it for about 15 seconds. Am I saved. Do I know this Christ who taught in parables, who taught in real language? And then I decide, do I want to accept him into my heart and to receive him? He never forces his way in. Open your heart today if that is your situation. Praise God. Let's give God a praise today. Amen. Amen. The Lord is good. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. comtoharvest. org. That's come the number twoharvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.