Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. How many believe that God is awesome? How many folk we believe that the God that we Serve is not just okay, not just alright, but also. You serve that kind of God Who looks out for you, who keeps you through any situation. I mean young folk use that. That's awesome But we think about God also ought to be a word that becomes a part of our vocabulary. Let's pray today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. And there are not enough words to describe who you are to us. In fact, it may depend on our situation. On Monday you were awesome. On Tuesday you were terrific. On Wednesday you were wonderful On Thursday, we could not make it without you. And we come today to say we love you. As we stand today, God, may we decrease And might you increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. But when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We bless the Lord today. There's a word I want to share in your hearing that comes from the Gospel of Matthew. I always say that gospel means good news, and Matthew was just one of the writers who took part in following Jesus and then recording and writing what he observed. There in the 14th verse it says you are the light of the world A town built on a hill cannot be hidden. Neither do light people light a lamp and put it under a bowl. Instead, they put it on a stand, and it gives light to everyone in the house. In the same way, let your light shine before others. That they may see your good deeds and glorify your Father in heaven. I want to share today from the Samonic title, Let It Shine. Amen. Let it shine. Our history books tells us that Thomas Edison, an American inventor and businessman, developed many devices that influenced our life. Edison is credited with making the phonograph. Some of y'all know at a certain age that's a record player. Amen. You may still have some 45s and some albums in your closet, but you can credit Thomas Edison. He also dabbled in uh something called the motion picture camera. It transformed the life of those of us that now we can use a video camera or our very phones become supplement documents, sometimes good and sometimes bad. But perhaps the thing he's most known for, that is Thomas Edison, is his invention of the electric light bulb. It was issued a patent in January of 1880. And no matter what water you use now, you can go by and just flip the switch. Now some of y'all remember the day that wasn't the case. Am I talking old fashioned today? Maybe you never you always had light. Uh some of the seniors think, well come on Reverend. I remember the day when there was no light. You had to figure up a kerosene lamp. Uh y'all Google that you'll find that amen. But this new invention uh called the electric light bulb uh didn't really impress my father He was old school and believed that you would turn the lights off in the house. He wanted to make sure that if there was a light left on, as far as he was concerned, it was costing him money He will go through and just hit him. Left and right. And and there's some some gym in me. Anybody in that room? I'll go right on through and turn it off if nobody's in there. But you know, nowadays we've moved to something called LED lighting. I'm using some of that today. It is energy efficient It saves us from having to spend a lot of money. And we're told that it's environmentally friendly. We also have times and we'll just put our timer on Uh that it'll come on at a certain time and it'll go off at a certain time. You know, but this source of light didn't just start with Edison or anyone else, but I'm glad that a long, long time ago At the very beginning that God really set the course for light. Amen. Genesis 1 and 3. God said Let there be light. And he flipped the switch. Amen. It wasn't long before he would send light into a dark world when he sent his darling son, Jesus Christ. To come to a dark, dark place, and Jesus declared, John 8 and 12, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will never walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. So really when it comes to this sense of light, it's not something that we see physically, but each of us has a connection with him. Did you know that today? I'm not sure what your wattage is, but you as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, you carry a light with you. But I'm mighty afraid that the light of Jesus Christ may have dimmed some. Maybe we've become too energy efficient to the point that we don't let our light shine Amen. And I want to suggest this morning that as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, we're the children of light. And there's an obligation to let your light shine. There's value in that. Amen. It's about a visibility. It's also about a vocation. Let's talk about the value of light. The Bible says in verse 14, you are the light of the world. Jesus tells his followers, he sees something that they cannot see. He declares to them, I'm telling you who you are. You are the light of the world. And don't you know he's still saying that to you and to me? That you have value. There's something in you that can change the world, that can change a generation. Just flip the switch. There's value in who you are. You're not limited by space. You're not limited by circumstances, but you're the light of the world. I mean, so everywhere you go, the light of Jesus goes with you. In the Greek it's called cosmos, which means all created order of things. But you know, your world may be your home. Let your light shine in your home. Your world might be your community and they need someone to share the light. And not someone to fuss, not someone to complain, but someone who's willing to say, you know, I am a Christian. I don't mind sharing my testimony are not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And so that becomes your world. You've heard the phrase, I'm in my own world. Well in that own world, be sure to shine your light in that world so someone might see what's happening. Amen. Oh, somebody give God a praise today. My God, you You got two or three switches and a backup breaker and a generator, but let your light shine even today On the job, in the home. And you know, I like what uh Peter says. He says, But you are a chosen generation. But the last part of that said, you know what? He called you out of darkness. into his marvelous life. Oh, that gets your attention now. Oh, you mean I was in the darkness? Yes, and I was too But God did something by way of Christ that drugged you, pulled you, rescued you out of darkness. Now say y'all don't want to say amen today on that. What I'm trying to say is there was a time that we got accustomed to darkness. You ever go into a place and you walk in, it's real dark at first, and then once you're in there for a while, you start to see things because your eyes adjust to the darkness And so therefore you don't really feel like you're really in the darkness, but you glad the Lord led some of you all out, invited you out, gave you a pass out. But can I testify? He drugged me out. Go get Tim Tutin and bring him out of that dark place. I didn't voluntarily come. How many of y'all surrender said? I'm ready to go, Lord. No, you didn't Something had to happen in your life that pulled you out of that mess you were in, but God is good. He sees your value He sees your worth. And that's why your light can shine. But also there's a sense of visibility. Amen. And so it says in the or the 14th verse, a town built on a hill cannot be hidden, neither do people light a lamp and put it under a bowl. Instead, they put it on its stand and give light to everyone in the house. I love how Jesus does. He gives illustrations. That's why he's the master teacher. He said, do you follow me? He gives examples. He says, now let me show you that if you got a city Say Baltimore. You know before you get to Baltimore that you come into a big city. Some countries, oh Lord, the big lights of the city But if you drive into a city anywhere in America or overseas and this is a big city, you will know. Why? There's light You've been on those back roads all night, but finally you come into the big time to the city. He says, you know, a town cannot be hidden. If you got light in you, you can't hide it. Folk know you got something going on in there. Amen. And sometimes we try to hide it to fit in. Oh yes we do. I'm not a church boy. You you have folk pull you out. I've said this before. Let's say, what you doing here? You a Christian. Why you up in here? And you all shame faced it and knowing you shouldn't have been there. But in God good, even in that, your light still was able to shine. And you know, it talks about also a lamp And I back to my my grandma lamp. This was not talking about the one you get from the major stores, but this lamp you can't just cover it over with a bowl, but you must put it on a stand So everyone can see that where you are, there ought to be light around your desk at work. Ought to be light in your community. If everything else is dark, your house ought to have a light. And that is your building the person who you are. That's great news today. And so there's so many benefits by having this light operate in us Being visible. I believe it's generated by the word of God. I believe you put some word in you, you won't even mean to, but read the scripture I was talking to One of the deacons is moist, man. I got a little stubborn in me. But it was evident that he had spent some time with the Lord because there was a light on, because he got the word in him. And when you start putting the word in you, just read a passage as you had the word. And when you get in, folks will cut the eye at you in a good way, like, good morning. Did you change your hair? No. You look different. When you put the word of God in you, it's about being visible to a dying world. You represent the Lord Jesus Christ. Love it. Psalm 119-105 says this is your word is a lamp to my feet, a light to my path. Value, visibility, but finally, let's talk about it being our vocation. In other words, it's your job to share the good news of Jesus. And so Jesus wraps up by saying, Now, in the same way, he's saying, like I just told you a minute or two ago, that let your light shine before others That they may see your good deeds and glorify your Father in heaven. Uh-huh. That he says this is not optional. It's a order, a command. If the light is in you, you'll let it shine. Amen. And that should be a part of your job description. Who do you work for? Jesus What's your job? I shine my light every day. How long you've been there? Oh, I got saved back in 65. How long you been my light been on that long And you must have a dim moment every now and then, but it is your job and my job as a believer to let your light shine. You don't get to choose in the day it ain't gonna shine today. I had a bad day. Somebody got on my nerve and I no no no no. He's saying let your life Uh the light I put in you shine so that somebody who's having a bad day might pass you in the lunchroom. Someone having a down moment might see you at the coffee counter and say, you know what? Thank you for that kind word, but more so That smile you gave me, anybody want to smile in the house today? That lets me know that your light is on. That's the good news, so that folks might see your good works. Not pat you on the back. Oh, thank you so much. You recognize my good word. But no one I want to say to God be the glory, to glorify my Father in heaven Thanks for the thumbs up and the smile and the compliment, but I'm gonna give it to God. Amen. Isn't that good news today? That every chance I get outfits not me, it is the Lord who I serve He even said himself, he says, I must work the works of him that sent me while it is day. Because the night comes when no one can work. Depending on what time zone you're in, you get dark early now. Whatever you want to do, you gotta get it done before it becomes nighttime. That is the new but you know as I think about and wrap this thing up today. We now have an assignment. What is it, Reverend? It's to go out and to let it shine, meaning the light of the Lord. David saw that light and declared, The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the thrift of my life, and whom shall I be afraid? Moses saw the light. It came in the form of a burning bush On the backside of a mountain, watching his father-lost sheep, and all of a sudden a bush caught on fire. It caught his attention, and then the bush talked to him and said, You know what? Those ground you stand on is holy ground. Take your shoes off. The apostle Paul, that mean rascal, was out there chastising Christians Chasing him down, and then one day he was heading to Damascus to do another deed. Let me just pause there. Sometimes the Lord gets you in the midst of you doing another bad deed That was the Holy Ghost moment that I was that I was doing the mess up and he stopped me. He knocked him off his beast with a light and blinded him And said, you know what? Why do you persecute me, Paul? And Paul wrote the better part of the New Testament. My God, he had something to say. But you know, one day I saw the light. In fact, there was a nightlight in June of nineteen sixty-five there at the Springfield Baptist Church as I sat there And the saints of God were praying for me. That night, I saw the light. Aren't you glad today? I don't know what night or what day he gave you the light, but on that night I got that thing, but what really impressed me and what really blessed my heart was what the saints were saying that night. Shine on me. Let the light from the lighthouse shine on. It was, I mean, they sing it the old fashioned way. And so yesterday as I was driving along and that word came to me, I put it into the music apple there and I put it on and I heard him sing. And you know what? It reminded me of 1965. And when I heard that song shine on me, I got excited in my car. I started to move in the car. I started to remember what God had brought me through and brought me from. And after I got out the car, I was still saying, shine on me Left the light from the lighthouse. Anybody want that light to shine on you? The light of Jesus Christ, I can report that Jesus came and that light was persecuted That light was put in a dark, dark place. But that light got up on the third day morning with all power in his hands. And I'm glad about that today because even when I think about what we may be going through, these may seem like dark times But I declare today you ought to turn your light on and say this little light of mine, I'm gonna let it shine All in my home, I'm gonna let it shine. All in the streets, I'm gonna let it shine. Everywhere I go, I'm gonna take the Lord with me and allow my light to shine Aren't you glad today that even that light is coming back one day? He's gonna break through and call those who've been faithful I'm glad about that today. Are you glad to the fact that he's coming back one day? He said he would. He's gonna crack the sky. Other folk are gonna be in their devil, man. And you're gonna say, I'm a child of the light. I'm glad about that today. Are you glad that he saved your soul one day? Are you glad that he's made you whole? I'm glad about that today. I I I want to close with this this song I love the hymns of the church. Sing the wondrous love of Jesus. Sing His mercy and His grace. In the mansion, bright and blessed, he'll prepare for us a place. When we all get to heaven. What a day of rejoicing that will be. When we all see Jesus, we will sing and shout the victory. Let your light shine. That's the word of God today. Come on, stand today. All over this place. I'm glad about that. It don't take much. Just turn your light on. Why you all trying to hide your light and trying to be somewhere else today? But as you go, somebody needs a lighthouse Christian. A Christian who don't mind saying, I love the Lord. He heard my cry. Somebody who don't mind say, yeah, that's me. A child of the light. Anybody come today that Know that God has made a way for you, that He's done that. On the mainland? Almost like there. That's my song too. I was gonna make it another one. I'm gonna let it shine. Oh, let it shine. Let it shine. Let it shine. Shine. This look like. This look I don't hear this morning. Oh Lord, I'm gonna let I'm saying it's the right of my will. I'm gonna let it shine. This little light of mine, I'm gonna let it shine, let it shine, let it shine Let it shine. Let me just say this to you. Not everybody is a is a big talker and say, well, Reverend, I'm I don't talk like you And I may not be able to win one the way you win them at the restaurant, but God has given you something within. That as you commit to living the saved life, the folk will come up to you and patch you on your shoulders and say, Thank you. Thank you for what? For your life. Yeah, yeah, you you you don't even know it. But when you walked to the office, there was some light over you. And so let's commit today as believers to walk in the light. That beautiful light. The light that the Lord has put within us. That's how today I want to offer Christ to you here in this place and of course those who are joining us. Otherwise, I want to let you know That Jesus Christ is still the light of the world. Let's bow Father. We come in the name of Jesus. Maybe there's someone here today who has never got their light pack They've been going around and searching and fumbling and stumbling. But we remind them today that you sent your Son Jesus Christ, the light, to die for us. He rose on the third day morning with all power in his hands. God, we thank you for that. And you said that we believe that That you died and that you rose. That we would be saved. So save someone today, God, who Standing in that place. Nothing's working out for them. Everything seems gloom and doom. But God flipped the switch today That they may see you high and lifted up, as Isaiah said, and your train fill the temple. As we come today, while that head is bowed and those eyes are closed. If you're here today and you don't know Jesus Open your heart today and let him in. Let him light you up today. In those areas of life that we've hidden for so long. He'll shine light on them and show you just who you are And where there are areas of improvement. God, we thank you today. Save that soul today as all as you can. Oh, save that soul today, God. Save that backslidden Chris Christian God who may have kind of stepped out for a while. They're still saved, but they need to come back in fellowship with you. Do it today, God. You did it for us. You can do it for them. We thank you and we declare it all in Jesus' name. Somebody give God a praise today. Amen. Amen. Come on, give God a better praise than that. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. comtoharvest. org. That's come the number twoharvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.