I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen. Whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website, I really do believe that God has a special message just for you A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries Well worship experience already in progress. Yeah, yeah. Title. Hallelujah. Somebody ought to see. Men today. And thank you, Jesus. There's a word from the Lord today that comes from the Gospel of Luke there in the fifteenth chapter, beginning at verse number 17. It reads, when he came to his senses, he said, How many of my father's hired servants have food to spare? And here I am standing and starving whether to death. I will set out and go back to my father and say to him, Father, I've sinned against heaven and against you I am no longer worthy to be called your son. Make me like one of your hired servants. Verse twenty, so he got up and went to his father's house. But while he was a long way off, His father saw him and was filled with compassion for him. He ran to his son, threw his arms around him, and kissed him. The son said to him, Father, I've sinned against heaven and against you. I am no longer worthy to be called your son. But the father said to his servants, quick, bring the best robe and put it on him. Put a ring on his finger and sandals on his feet. Verse number 23 says, bring the fattened calf and kill it. Let's have a feast and celebrate. For this son of mine was dead and is alive again. He was lost and is found. So they begin to celebrate. I want to preach today from the Samonic title Lost Lives Matter, Part 3 Lost Lives Matter Part 3. Psychologist Dr. Art Markman says this about confession. He says when you do something wrong, there are two typical reactions that pull in opposite directions. On the one hand, you want to hide what you've done. If nobody finds out, you leave it the way it is. On the other hand, you might just want to confess what you have done wrong. Markman says this gets to the point of letting everything out in the open and moving ahead. If we're honest this morning, church, there's something that each of us can confess. And do I have a praying church this morning? Long enough and think about it. What is it that I can confess to the Lord? Something that I have done. Or said, or thought. The biblical character of David is one that we say is after God's own heart. Why? He did not mind confessing his sins. Did not mind fessing up. I want to just say that for a second. You know, nobody knows our business except the Lord. But when you know you've fallen short, when I know I've fallen short Uh why not go ahead and say, Lord, I'm sorry. I'm glad about the fact that because he died And because he shed his blood, we have forgiveness of sin. Don't believe any theology that says, you know what, you've sinned, that's it, you're done. That's not the kind of God I serve. I serve a God who's forgiving, a God who will pick me up when I'm down, a God who will clean me up, a God who will change my path. a God who will heal my body, a God who will guide me along the way. I'm glad to serve that kind of God. You know, in past weeks we've talked about uh the lost sheep and the shepherd who's excited about finding that sheep. Talks about the woman who lost that very valuable coin. She cleans the house until she finds it. But today I want to talk about a lost person. Jesus spoke in parables. By now you've got a theologians one-on-one class. Anybody ask you what a parable is? Say a parable is an earthly story with a heavenly meaning. And Jesus had those around him who were criticizing him for hanging out with sinners. Isn't that something? I mean, he would have hung out with me and would have hung out with you But we tell the story of a father with two sons. If you've been to two Sunday school lessons, you know how the story ends, but you never know what the text will do. And what happens is, is the one son, the youngest son says, Father, I want everything that's due me, and I want to leave. He wanted his inheritance, the money that was due him, but thank God he had an inheritance. My Lord, we look at what we are able to leave our children, and sometimes it's not very much But he had an inheritance, a something to go to. And he was at the age that he figured he was a man. Felt like he was a grown. Some of you country folk would say it's at a point when you start to smell yourself. And so he takes the money, takes the inheritance, goes into the world, and he's partying down. Having a great time. Slapping five. Everybody loves you when you got something. My God, you got friends from everywhere. Wanna ride in your new car? Want to drink what you drink in the amen church? Want to hang out with you. Why? Because you have something to offer materially And there are people now who still want to be in your space for all of the wrong reasons. Not because of who you are, but perhaps what you have. But it's not long before he falls on hard times. Not not long before the money runs out. Not long before situation changes. No, life situation will change. You may not always be on the mountaintop, but there come a season in your own life Well it will be rough. And the hill oh no never been there. And the hills are hard to climb. I mean have a place to where you're really struggling, and while you may have had something, now he finds himself with no friends. Uh no so-called friends. And he is at a point he's hit rock bottom. Ever been there? Know what rock bottom feels like? Know what rock bottom looks like? Know how to paint a rock bottom picture? He finds himself with nothing. Had something, but now he goes to a job feeding the hogs. That's a messy job. If you've ever gone by an area where hogs hang out, it smells It's yucky, but he needed a job. Sure didn't pay much. He probably never worked a day in his life. He had money He finds himself in a tough place. This young man is lost. But for a moment, you become that young man. For a moment you become that person who has made some tough lost decisions and you are there All alone. He says, if I can just get back to my daddy, I would be more than willing to be a hard servant. If I can just get back home, if I can uh go back and make things right, have you ever found yourself in that kind of situation? I know you have, to where you you were big and bad But the bottom fell out. Things started to go a different way, and now you decide that maybe Daddy was right. Maybe mama knew what she was talking about. Maybe there's someone in my life who can say, you know what? Times will get rough. And so while he came from a good family While he was somebody, this young man was lost. But there's something that he does that helps us today within this text. And the first thing is he's able to confess to himself. And that's that's a good thing. To confess to yourself, to talk to yourself and say, you know, when I came to my senses, he had pretty much lost his mind. And now He says, I don't mind being a hired servant. I don't mind coming back and just working for my daddy. Why? I'm about to starve to death. I know our kids say now I'm starving. Man, you don't know what starving is. You know, get you a bowl of cereal. There's something in the house, Steve. My dad would always say, I'm starving. Where you going? I'm going to the to the burger joint. No, no, no, man. There's food right here. There's always something. Oh some of y'all eating leftovers now He found himself in a famine, and there was a famine in the land. Nobody, and yet he was there eating what the hogs were eating. He confessed to himself. Now there'll be a time in life when you talk to yourself. Nothing wrong with that. Folk might call you a little strange, but but there's some genius in talking to yourself. Folk might call you crazy because you have a conversation, or none of y'all have been there. Ever had a conversation with your I do it all the time. Alright, Tim. You know, and he came to his senses Had a conversation with himself, and began to write a speech that I am going to give this to my father because I have wronged him. I don't mind working for him. I don't deserve to come back as a son. What a place to be in. He figured that he had messed up so bad that the best he could get would to be hired a servant. But you know, there comes a place in life. That we have to realize. And nobody can tell you this. You've got to come to your own senses. Am I talking to a church that's ever had, I mean, you know, we had it all together. We had it all laid out. We had our five-year plan together And then something came along and changed all of that, and you found yourself in the midnight hours and well you know you won't tell nobody else, but you blew it. I messed up. I could have made a better choice. But there again, it's you talking to you And so he had to first come to a place to talk and to sort out what was going on in his own mind. My God, even now there's some things in your life that you've played over and over again, like a broken record, just over and over and over again. But once you put Christ In it, there's a change that takes place. And so all this boy is showing us is us. All this boy is showing us that I am lost where I am. But it takes time to have a conversation. Lord, I need to get back home. Isn't it great to be able to go back home? You left and you were big and bad and left your neighborhood and thought you were all that a bag of chips, but now you find yourself in a place. And so he's lost, but not just lost and confessing to himself. He confessed to his thoughts. That takes something to admit that you've blown it. We're so prideful we'll never say I'm sorry. Now things went sour. No, I'll have a bad business deal. We'll never say I blew it. I'm lost. And so he gets up. And goes to his father, but while he was on the way, his father sees him. Now think about first-century Palestine. Fathers did not run after sons. Other words, you messed up, you made your bed, so be it. But this father, theologian suggests, kept going and looking for that boy every day. I kept wondering, when is my lost son coming home? My God, somebody's waiting for you To fess up. Somebody's waiting for you to make it right. Somebody's waiting for you to say, I blew it. Someone's waiting for you to say, I'm sorry, I made a mistake Don't let pride, my God will say right there, don't let pride so hold you that you cannot be man enough and woman enough to say I was sorry. Look at that. The Holy Ghost says stay right there. Don't be so into you that you can't say, I am sorry, I blew it. Now not a text. Not an email, uh not an Instagram, not I left a message on their voice machine Not I told my cousin to tell them that I'm sorry, but no, go directly to the person This boy said, I'm going home and I'm going to confess to my father, the one that I left. Helping me right there. I just wanna I want to stay there for a moment. There's someone that you need to go to. The Bible says to confess your faults to one another. That you might receive this sense of healing. And I detect that somebody, when they leave here, needs to confess. needs to to drop by, needs to say, listen, I I know it's been twenty, eleven years But I've come today because I want to confess not just to the Lord. I want to say to you I'm sorry. I'm trying to move on from this, but I I sense the Lord saying, hang in there a little while longer. There's someone in your life that you've been disgruntled with And you may say thank you, Jesus, but you've not gone to gone to them and confess. Daddy, I'm sorry. And men in that day didn't run up to boys. But this daddy ran, he saw his boy. He hugged this boy. He kissed this boy. And the Lord wants to hug you and kiss you and welcome you back into the fold once you confess unto him. The late preaching theologian William Augustus Jones said in a sermon called Lost and Found, he said, You know what? When that daddy saw that boy He saw some of him in the boy. That boy's got my my DNA. That boy's got my chromosomes. And so what he saw in the boy was some of him. And what you see in that person, it may be a family member. I'm trying to leave it alone. But they're stubborn like you. And so therefore, you've been all bad. And so that, therefore. Some of them They just like you. But daddy says, look at him. I'm letting all hang out. I can't run fast My feet bad, heart not that great, but my boy is coming home. And when you look out on your own life, the father say to you, that's my child Hard-headed, sometimes, wishy-washy, but I come and I love you. Won't he do it? And hug you, he confessed To his father. And Daddy said, I don't want to hear no speech. I done wrote it out, Daddy. I done rehearsed this. He already knows what you've done wrong. Just say I'm sorry. Confessing to himself. Confessing to his father. But finally, I believe that dad makes a case to connect He said, you know what? Transformation is taking place here. I need to take what's happened and what's going to happen and connect and merge the two. Go get my boy the best. Get him a nice roll. Get him a ring. Uh go out and get that cab we've been fattening up and make let's have a celebration. I want the best. My son, who was once lost Has been found. He was dead, but he's now alive. And when you see that boy And this character. See some of you in that person. That a celebration is taking place. One takes place in heaven. Every time a soul comes to Christ, there's a celebration. And so Danny had let bygones be bygones. He wanted to say, let's enjoy the moment. I'm not waiting until July at the family reunion. I'm not waiting to somebody's birthday. What you doing? I'm having a celebration because God has broken some chains in my relationship. And so therefore, a party at my place tonight. I know it's Tuesday, but every now and then you've got to break the rules and make the connection about what God is already doing. You know, this world of electronic media has transformed us. Last check, there were more people with devices than there were people. Something like seven billion and if I check your purse I'd find a phone. If I check your pocket, I'd find a phone I checked your car that might be a tablet, but being able to have something that connects you with someone else But have you ever found yourself in a situation where you have a dropout? You're talking to someone, all of a sudden the phone stops, and you got an attitude, which you mean, can you hear me now? And you're trying to connect with that person, but there's no connection. And when it comes to our faith That don't give up, but find a way to connect with heaven. You get another spot and you've already talked five minutes and realize the person didn't say anything back because they went on the line Oh, y'all have done that before. Your long conversation, I didn't hear a word, I lost you. And you may have found yourself today saying, I've lost you. But Jesus can and will make the difference. There was a connection there on the cross that Jesus was able to contact heaven and say, Father, Forgive them, for they know not what they do. There was a connection. Father, I'm following your plan, and yet the flesh in me is Struggling, he says, but there's a connection. And don't you know that Jesus is on the main line? Tell him what you want. If you need more power, Come clean and tell him what you want. You need more joy, tell him what you want. You need more peace. Tell him what you want. He is on the main line. All you got to do is to pick up the phone and say, Father, I want to come to you and say I am sorry for my wrongdoings. I didn't realize it, but I'm already lost. And that's what the cross was all about. Was a Jesus who went, who died, who rose again. Lost lives matter to him. It would have been easier to say, Reverend, I I got the coin, yeah, I'm I can feel that man, and I can go with the cheap story But I want to make it personal to you that you are lost and you may or may not realize it. As I end this preachment, I may have shared this story, but it meant so much to me, I'll share it again. The story of the little boy who was lost and didn't know he was lost. The little boy who left home and went to the corner store. Everybody in town was looking for him. Where is he? Nobody knew where he'd gotten off to. Every now and then you will wonder Leave your safe place. Leave your Christian teachings. Leave the things you were taught as a youth. And you'll be lost. But won't realize it. But somebody is always looking out for you. That young man you know was me. I didn't know I was lost, and the lady at the store says, I know you lost, you don't know it. Put me in their car And drove me back to the neighborhood. In the words of Miss Lily Glass, he said, Timothy, I remember the day that the car turned the corner And we saw the top of your head. There was a celebration. He who was lost, who didn't know it, has been found. Today, will you be found? Heaven has put a search party out for you to bring you home. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. Come on, stand all over this place today. We serve a great God. And know without a fact that I want to make things well. With my soul. I want to break the barriers. I want to get to a place in life where I can be honest with the Lord He's on the main line. Like a river. Can it my way? With sorrows. Thou has gone to the state. Give it well. If it will. With my God, can you set the date? It is well with my soul. Only in my home give it well. I want to make my case today. Our faith lives can be of such where we can find the Lord, receive Him. Get baptized. Everybody saying, praise Jesus. When there comes a place in life, we all lose our way. And can't find our way back. Yes or you year has left us. I got a good heart. I'm a good person. But I need to be in fellowship. I need to renew my faith in Christ. I want to let you know that the road is open. There's no toll. Just come on in. As you come today, That first call was a call of I've never received Christ as my Savior. Therefore, I don't know what it means To be saved. It means that Christ has forgiven you for all your sins. That Lord helps us and say, you know what? I'm going to confess it. I'm going to say it. And today You can say, Lord, I've sinned against you. Lord, I'm a sinner and I need to be saved. And the Bible says, at that point of confession That when we speak it and then believe it in our hearts, the Lord will come in and save us. Yeah, when I heard that, I was like, there's gotta be more It can't be that direct. There has to be more information I gotta get my life together. Give me a month. Let me stop doing what I'm doing. But no. That's it. If I Confess it with my mouth that God, I believe you spent Jesus. I believe He died. I believe He rose again. With that confession The Bible, which I believe, says thou wilt be saved. As you bow your heads today. That may be your playstyle. Is that you've never confessed it. You've thought it. You've talked about it with others. But you've never taken a moment In your pick pin state, in your down moment, in your lost moment. Say, Lord, I confess to you. Today you can do that. Right now. Whisper that prayer not to me, but to the Lord. And He will hear you and save your soul. Can you hear the day that's your desire? That's my hope. Do it today. And the Lord will save you on the spot. Right now. Father, do it now, I pray. In the name of Jesus. Save that soul. Save that soul today. Save that soul today. And then there's the second call. The one where We've got one leg in and one leg out. One day we're Christian, the next day we're deep in the world. One side of the face of the other. But guess what? The Father is looking for you. The father's waiting to see that daughter or that son come home. He can't wait to hug your neck. Can't wait to kiss you, can't wait to get the ring and the roll and the best meal for you Only if you go home. You may have come today and said, Reverend, I want to go back home. I want to get back in fellowship with He who has saved me. Today you can do that as you bow those heads. Father, I pray in the name of Jesus for that backslidden saint who thought there was no way back home. God show them that by way of confession. They too can come home. I thank you, God, for what you're doing in this place right now. I thank you for the chains of being broken. I thank you right now, God That we've stumped out the devil because we've given hope the truth of the gospel. You can go home. Your father is waiting for you He's got something plan. Thank you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD. But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you It's www. com2harvest. org. That's come the number to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called Seeds of Encouragement. You can get them by way of iTunes from Podcasting or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.