I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen. Whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website. I really do believe that God has a special message just for you A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries for a worship experience already in progress. Amen. How many are available today to God just by his beck and call? Use me, Lord. To your glory. We thank the Lord today just for another opportunity to be used. As we bow today all over this place, Heavenly Father, we thank you that you would choose us. The word says, you chose us. We did not choose you. But God, we thank you that you've been with us, that you've guided us. And today it is our prayer that you might have your way in this place. We ask it all in the name of Jesus. Amen. Thank the Lord today just for another chance. How many folk are glad that God didn't quit on you? When you think about that and how you're still standing and still moving and having your being It is nothing short of a miracle that you are still here. There's a word from the Lord today I want to share that comes from the gospel of Luke. There in the ninth chapter, verses 57 through 62, it reads, And it came to pass that as they went in the way, a certain man said unto him, Lord, I will follow thee. Whithosoever thy goest. And Jesus said unto him, Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man hath known not where to lay his head. And he said unto another, follow me. But he said, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father. Jesus said unto him, let the dead bury their dead, but go thou and preach the kingdom of God. Verse 61, and another also said, Lord, I will follow thee, but let me first go bid farewell. To them which are at home at my house. And then verse 62 says, and Jesus said unto him No man having put his hand to the plow and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God. I want to preach to leave from the Samonic title very simply, No More Excuses. No more excuses. A news radio drama about honesty in America talked about the kinds of excuses that we make. There are at least three types of excuses. Now I'm not saying this. They're saying this. The first is outright denial. Rejection, any involvement. My hands are clean. The next is it's not my fault. Person looks around and finds someone else to blame. And the third form of excuse, if I'm on your toes, say ouch, I did it, but That approach is one that's common. In this instance, the person blames circumstances Yeah. They blame shortcomings. It's not my fault. And you may have shared one of those this week. You may have picked one this morning that you added to your excuse list. Let me back up. We may have added to our excuse list. Amen? An excuse is explaining when something has gone wrong. It's trying to find an alibi. uh trying to form some kind of a an apology and so often we want to get some slack. We want a pass. Let me just ask a harvest pole. Anyone made an excuse this week? Amen. I love the honest church, and maybe it was legitimate. Maybe you really could not make it to the party. You could not get there. Something came up at the last minute. I was going to come to the four o'clock service, but something came up. Y'all know I love y'all. And something may have come up. Well, I didn't start by this morning to pick on you or to pick at you, but really to talk about how Jesus is not one with a high tolerance for excuses. In the text today, and I love how Luke paints the picture of people that Jesus run into. He's on the road, in the way, and he comes across three people. The first person actually approaches Christ. You know, I will follow you wherever you go. Count me in, put my name on the roll. And then he realizes that he would not have a room at the Hilton. He won't have the corner room at the Holiday Inn. He won't be able to go To the Marriott, and therefore all of a sudden he's not interested in following Jesus. And Jesus says to the man, Fox have holes. Birds of the air have nests, but I don't have any place to live. So if you're coming for the accommodations, I'm sorry. And Jesus then approaches another person along the way and he says, Would you like to follow me? Isn't he a kind Savior? He'll just ask you. You want to follow me? He said, Well, I would, but I gotta go back and bury my father. It is customary to do that. Except his father had not passed. And Jesus said, let the dead bury the dead. But I like how he will not beg us to serve. See ya, don't want to be ya. That's my version and interpretation. And then there's a third person Who says, I would love to follow you, Jesus, but I gotta get back home because I hear they're throwing me a going-away party. Got the balloons, the banner. Now as soon as I go back, then I'll return and follow you. Well, it doesn't happen. Jesus, I think, by now has got it fell up. Don't you love a real Savior? We paint him as, you know, he's loving Kind, but Jesus had a way of responding to people and what excuses they gave him. And that's exactly what happened. He was one, I would say, who was very selective. And Jesus said to this man, as I was Reading all the text this morning, I realized that what he said in this passage was to this particular person. He said to this man, but I think it has implications for all three. Implications for anyone who might be reading this particular passage. He says, No one. Jesus did not play favors. Now he will give you favor. We like to say, oh, I got the favor of God upon me. Hallelujah. But he does not play favorites, but he will give you his approval. I want you to find yourself today in the text. Can you put on your Spiritual imaginations, I want you to join the dusty roads of Palestine. I want you to be in the crowd. I want you to hear how Jesus responds. He says no one. He is very particular. But what I like about the Lord, he always sees our potential. He didn't call you because you had it together. He didn't call me because my credentials were of such that I said, you know what, I deserve to follow you. I deserve a big position. No. He says, I'll pick you. I scared the story often. I was an okay athlete. I didn't start. There's some folk who were good athletes. They started, got the you know, championships. I was the second string guy Anybody in the house second string? They kind of called you in. Oh, some of y'all play second string. If they called in, say somebody hurt Call Tutans. Lord forgive me, not that the player would get hurt, but he might mess up. And make the coach mad that he will look down and say, anybody, I'll just get another look what I'm ready. But God sees our potential, and so when he chooses us He is making sure he wants to do something in our lives. He is one who is particular one who selected. I think it's an honor to be able to serve the Lord. It's an honor to be able to not wear a title, but to be in the family of God. When you've been in the world long enough and you know you got a little street cred, but to come on the Lord's side, you are in a family of God. And the fact that God will use you, whatever your gift might be, to the glory, it's a big deal. I'm so glad today that God is not building your talents And your degrees and who you know. But he said, I can make something out of you. Aren't you glad he can look at you and you know what? You might make something, and the day you're sitting in church full of gifts Sitting in church today knowing that God will use you to his glory. He is very selective. But they turned Jesus down. Can you imagine someone saying, no? That's alright. And we've done that. We've been in the shoes of those three brothers who just said, Well, nah, I'm alright. Until he had to pull us in. Had to stir the water a little bit, then we came in. But I like the fact that when he picked someone, he took time. Luke 12, 16, 13, and when it was day, he called unto him his disciples, and of them he chose twelve. Which means there were other people who could have qualified to be disciples, but he chose only twelve. Aren't you glad to be chosen today and to be selected to be on the Lord's side? Oh, you don't sound too excited. I mean it's a big deal to be on the Lord's program. To be used of the master. And it's a certain kind of thinking. This may sound like church thinking, but the fact that God made you and formed you and then chooses to use you. To spread his news, I think, is awesome. Amen. That's right. He says, no one, not anyone will follow me. But I've got certain rules, I've got certain agendas that I follow. Aren't you glad you serve a selective savior? There was a time in my own life I was glad he didn't pick me. I would have been a wreck. And so you and you would have been one. You just weren't ready. But then he didn't wait around and let you get ready because we we never get ready. Lord give me a give me a minute, let me stop doing this and then I'll be ready. But the Lord will use you just as you are. Very selective. But not just that. He had a certain perspective as he looked at those he would choose to follow him. No man having put his hand to the plow. You all know how country I am. And you've heard my story of how my dad was a farmer. He had a real plow. No tractor. A real push plow. And he would get out there, he would push in the hot sun, and I'm thinking, what's the big deal until the food came in? To that squash came in, to those green beans and acre peas and greens and tomatoes and I'm making you hungry. Okra Horn came in. Then I realized that he was one who kept his hand to the plow And Jesus has a certain kind of perspective about what he sees in us. Now some of y'all in the back, I know that's the Anderson family. In the back, I got on glasses, I can make y'all out. 'Cause I got the progressive lens. If I came closer, I'd get a better view. There are four Andersons in the house today. Don't y'all look back yet, but there's a certain perspective. Uh now I still know the Anderson's. Praise the Lord But Jesus sees us with a certain type of eye that he knows whether or not We're one who will keep our hands on the plow. We always want the Lord to find us at our best, don't we? Anybody take a picture? No, no, no. That's not my best side. I never understood that. That take a picture, but what what what is your best angle? But Jesus sees us just the way we are. Oh, is it the left side? No, the right side. But he sees us with this holy eye And sees that we're fit for service, he says no one who has half their hands on the plow and then takes them off, and then sometimes you're on the plow and sometimes you're not. He's very particular about that And we know that God, by way of Christ, looks for the best. Aren't you glad he sees you just the way you are? I am. We can be wishy washy. There's a there's a Monday us. And there's a Saturday us. Not the same people. There's a Sunday us. Praise Jesus. But don't catch us on hump day. We're different on payday. Amen. But God has this type of way of seeing us, and he sees things that no one else sees. I love that passage where uh uh looking for someone to be king and they go down and Samuel said let me get my my best son he's handsome boy look good he you know he smelled good he he lot he got it going on But he was looking for what he thought was the best looking son, the fine brother. But Christ said, No, by way of God, I'm looking for Little David. But the Lord said to Samuel, I know you give me the best, but look not on his countenance or on the height of his stature. Because I've refused it. For the Lord seeth not as man seeth, for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart. Aren't you glad today that God has a certain perspective that you can spend all day in the mirror? Order all the best products possible, but know that God looks at a deeper place in us. A place the world may not see, a place that those around us may not acknowledge But I'm glad today that makes you feel good about who you are. He sees all your sides. He sees your best side. He made you. He formed you from the dust of the earth. And so it takes time to say, you know what That's a on-again, off again plow brother. He'll be on the plow sometimes. Other times he'll take a break. He used this language because of the farmer community. And they could relate to what he means about keeping your hand on the plow. If not, your role is crooked. Yeah. Keep looking around, all of a sudden you don't have a straight row. He has a certain perspective. He is selected. But finally, as you look at this particular passage, that he has a directive. The kind of person I'm looking for is one that will stay on the plow and one that is fit for the kingdom, someone that I can use. A directive is an official authorization, a specific order, an eating. I'm looking for a particular person. Aren't you glad he's choosing? Aren't you glad he just don't sell for like what have I got left? He wants the best in you. He wants the best out of you. And so often we have given the world so much Giving them my best years, giving them my everything, and the world will just double cross to you. But my, isn't it sweet to be on the Lord's side? He looks at those he wants. You know, that means that there are folk who are not fit. That means they just don't make the cut. That means that they are people who might be defective. When I say this, I mean that they might be broken or flawed by choice. Let me just fix that right. I don't want to be used. So therefore I'll just do just enough. I'll do it you remember you folks gave me a job to do? And you figure because it was your chore, if I did it bad this time, they won't ask me again? I messed the dishes up. So therefore I don't have to do it anymore. Oh yes, you will. Now you're gonna do it right. Some of y'all know about y'all got dishwashers now. Y'all know about kitchen patrol when you have to really work that thing and somebody dried and and you ain't have no special stuff But you know, there is a time when he sees that there is a broken, a flawed place in your life. Aren't you glad he's a fixer? I'm glad today he is one who will fix you. That's a very popular term nowadays. I need a fixer. This TV show called Scandal Some of y'all seen that. Olivia Pope will fix that thing. If it's a mess Olivia will will find a way in Missy Washington to to kind of work that thing so that it's cleaned up There's another show comes on Showtime called Ray Donovan. Ray the same way. Ray said, you in trouble, call me. For celebrities, he fix it. And what they end up doing is they end up burying the truth. Look at that. And the enemy wants you to just bury who you are. Don't you know they try to bury the truth one day? When they put Jesus in that tomb, thinking they fixed him, and and Olivia Pope or nobody else can help. He says, you know what? That I give my life. You don't take my life. I'm I'm doing this voluntarily, and I'll go down to the ground, but I will arise again with all power in my hand. That scalar thing got y'all awake. Back up on that for a minute. I've not seen a full episode, but I know enough. Amen. I told you the story how I met Fritz at the White House and didn't know who he was. Everybody like he I don't know him. Once I found out, oh give me, can we do a selfie? Like I knew him. But the Lord is always looking to transform who we are. So that we're usable for service. Bible says that when it comes to the truth of the Lord, that what you will know the truth about who you are. And that very truth will do what? It will set you free. No more excuses. There's a story that's told of A young man who stayed in trouble. Good boy, but hard-headed. Acted up in school and acted up at home and came from a loving family. Daddy took him to church, read the Bible, all the things you do. For your children. But the boy was bad. He kept getting into trouble And then one day at home he takes a baseball upstairs that son, don't don't, you know, you don't break something. Sure enough As boys can be, he breaks the window. Now this is an old story because Dad comes upstairs with his belt. And I don't call social services. Uh you know, I I've been under the belt before and some of you have too. And you're the better, I think, because of that. But the father comes and instead of him taking his belt off to say to the boy, you're about to get it. He changes the scenario and says to his son, Here is the belt I want you To strike me seven times. What? Are you sure they died? I mean, hit me hard now. I want you to take out the belt that I've given you, and I want you to hit me seven times as hard as you can If someone starts crying, I can't do that, Dad. I mean, you're my father. Why am I punishing you? Why am I beating you? But I'll just follow what you ask me to do. Harder, son, you're not hitting me hard enough. Seven times, hit me And when it was all said and done, he says, the example I'm trying to give you is that Jesus paid it all. That as I'm taking this, that God selected Christ to take on the sins of the world. He was beaten just for us. He died just for us. And this boy says, wait a minute now. I I don't know who did what. I can't say the boy ended up being perfect after that, but he understood that the roles weren't reversed. And that with all that we do, that Jesus Christ think about him on that cross, taking it for you. For all the wrong that you have done, he's taking all the licks and all the abuse just for you. Well that really gets rid of all the excuses. Jesus did pay it all. And all to him, our sin has left a crimson stain. He washed me wife As no. Because of what you've done, I have no excuse but to get in life. But to get in formation and to follow just who you are And so I have no excuse as to why I cannot follow Jesus. Somebody said, I decided to follow Jesus No turning back, no turning back, though no one join me, still I'll follow. I've run out of excuses As to why I can't live holy. I've run out of excuses as to why I can't stop doing what I'm doing. I've run out of excuses as to why I can't give my life fully to Jesus. I've run out of excuses to why I'm gonna wait later and then give my life. Give me a moment, I'm still young, I hadn't hadn't been out there long enough yet Well, you know, I was wronged. You don't know my we have excuses as to why we won't follow him. Aren't you glad the Lord says, I'm still waiting? I don't want to hear your excuses. I just want your heart. I just want a yes. Amen. Aren't you glad today that he takes time with us and say, you know what? I I believe he says, uh talk to to to to to to the hand the hand that It was nail scar. Talk to the hand that was bleating. Talk to the hand that was stretched wide just for you. And so the next time I said, well, you know, let me let me pray about it. Let me get back with you after the summer. I'm a fall person. I'll start on Monday. Monday's my best day. The devil is a liar. Today. Fully commit your life to Jesus Christ. No more No more excuses. From the pulpit to the pupils. Tim? But I'll be Lord. No more. Help me up, I'll just shut you down when you get your excuse ready about making you tell them many. You ain't heard me out. I've heard it before. No more excuses. That is the word of God today is already blessed. Amen. I'm not ready yet though. I'm not prepared yet. Get my stuff together. Then I'll come. I check the maybe stow box. I check the I'll get back with you later box. He wants a yesterday. Yes, Lord. How many have the yes for the Lord today? From the bottom to the depths of my soul. It's la Um How many got a yes today? Yes, Lord. Come on, stay in to him, yes Lord, from the bottom of my heart, yeah, to the depths of my heart. Oh yes Lord My soul. My soul. I want to put you on the spot today. Why? Because I came. Today, think about an area of life. But you've just been giving the Lord the not now, not me, I will, but not yet. Oh you've stepped on to him But today is the day for you, say, Lord, I run out of excuses I have no more. And so therefore, I come to you. First, to give my life to you. I want to get saved, but I'll do it on the fourth Sunday because that's my best Sunday, even though I'm going to be out of town that Sunday Uh I think kind of sorta. But maybe in July. Yeah, the first Sunday of July will be better for me. But the Lord is long suffering, not willing that any should perish. We don't have next Friday. We don't know if we have The next moment. So, right now, if you've come today, I want you to just put a yes in your mouth and in your spirit. If you've never given your life to Jesus Christ, today is the day. It's just three letters. Y E S. Yes. I invite you in. Let's bow to the all over this place. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. We thank you. As we read your word today, some may thought you were a little hard, a little rough on the boys. They had business. They really wanted to go with you, but they had stuff going on. But God, you were not. Feeling the excuses for that day. And today, you still want to yes. I pray right now if there's some person in this building who has never confessed You never said yes to you. Never said yes, Lord, I believe you died. Yes, Lord, I believe you rose. Yes, Lord, I believe that you're the Son of God Yes, I confess that with my mouth and believe it in my heart. The Bible says that kind of confession, that kind of yes, will allow you to be saved, to have life eternal. Take thirty seconds right now. Have a little talk with yourself. Ask yourself, self by time. That other voice, that small, still voice. That says, you know it's time. I pray in the name of Jesus that you might touch that heart today. Do it, Lord. Do it today in the life of that person. I pray. You might save that soul. I pray they might be bold enough to say, you know what, I'm ready. I'm ready to proclaim that Jesus Christ is my Lord and my Savior. We thank you, God. We put it out there. Thank you, Lord. We make the offer today on your behalf as your representative. Save that soul today. Now you've thought that over And your yes may have come in a sour of prayer. It may have come in a moment of truth for you today. It may have moved you so much to reverent. I'm just ready to give my life. I'm ready now To go to the water too. I want to get baptized. How soon can we do it? Let's do this. Today, all that can happen in this one place. No rules, no excuses. Today, if God has moved on your heart today. You feel led of the Lord to not just give them your heart but say, Lord, I want to be baptized. I want to be a part of this fellowship. Today, walk for the Lord. The invitation is for you today. Maybe this to connect with a new fellowship, maybe it is to make a commitment. Today, as some of the I'm on your street. The word is on your street Jesus is in your neighborhood. Knocking on I know we hate door to door. He knocking on the door of your heart saying, I ain't gonna force my way in. I'm just knocking. Anybody home? Are you ready to commit to me? If that is you today, the doors open for the church. Come on to the Lord today. Come on, walk for the Lord today. Come on, give your heart to him today. I know you're out there. I used to hide too. Maybe if I stand a certain way he won't see me. It wasn't the preacher. It was the Holy Ghost that nudged me and said, You better walk. You better give your life to me. I was gone. What if I just look a different way? And look like I'm saved. Like my delay. I've declared the Word of God today. I pray it finds you well on all fronts, both for salvation. Both for an opportunity to be baptized as a reflection of your faith. Both to join this fellowship or to renew your faith today. All those are on the table. Thanks so much for listening I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's come the number twoharvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com. All you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.