Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Let all of the people See amen. Bible says, Amen. That means so it is That means I agree with that. Amen. How many folks know what amen means? Let all the people say amen. Oh, you can say that. Anybody want to say amen today? We thank the Lord today for Being able to share in this place. And we say amen. Let's take a moment even now to bow our heads all over this place. Heavenly Father, we come today and we agree. It's an amen that you sent your son Jesus. Amen. He died on a cross. Amen. He rose from the grave with all power in his hands. Amen. Amen. We pray, even as we come today, God, that your word might go forth, that someone might be helped to the glory of God. In Jesus' name. Amen. I say amen a lot. Yeah. That means so it is. I'm with you. Amen. Say you go ahead now. Oh mean me, that means okay, I got you. I'm with you. Amen. The Word of God today comes from the book of Galatians 2 and 20. And it reads, I have been crucified with Christ. And I no longer live, but Christ lives in me. The life I now live in the body, I live by faith in the Son of God. Who loved me and gave himself for me. I want to preach today from the Samonic title very simply: One Life to Live. One life to live. For forty-five years, television viewers made sure that their midday menu included a soap opera by the same name. Some of y'all just got holy on me. An imaginary town called Landview. In that town was some folk who did not put Jesus first. Amen. Tension caused by three main families, the uppercut uh Lord family the powerful Buchanan family, and the feisty Kramer family. Amen? It was simply called One Life to Live. From a soap opera to the real world as the family of God, I want to say today that we have Just one life to live. One chance to get it right. One chance to do that which will please our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. In our text this morning, it is the Apostle Paul, someone who has written the better part of those 27 chapters of the New Testament. Paul is one who pins a letter to the church at Galatia. That's in modern-day Turkey. And he shares with them some concerns. Here's what Paul would do. Paul would go to different places and he would start a church, get some individuals together, get it going, and then move on to the next town. During my visit some years ago to Corinth, I said Paul was a bad somebody. Why? Those folk believed in Zeus. Aphrodite, but Paul stood strong and declared the good news of Jesus Christ and moved on. And when he would leave one town, if something was going on, somebody would contact Paul. They didn't text him, they just said, Paul, here's a letter. Here is what's happening at the church at Galatia. There were some conversations taking place that people were being misled to believe that Salvation came by way of the law of Moses. Justification means that you can't earn your salvation. It is by grace. You can't do enough goody to shoe things to earn salvation, but Christ does it by going to the cross. He justifies us by faith. But there are those who were talking other language. You gotta be careful when folks start talking crazy stuff. You say wait a minute, let me let me go check my my my concordance. Let me go check Let me go call somebody because and I have some members of the church. They'll hit and say, Pastor, I'm gonna hit you on Facebook. This sounds crazy. Give me some clarification. I'll text back. And here's what I think it says But always be armed to defend your faith. So Paul found out some real tricky stuff was going on. And so that way he writes back to them and say, let me help you to understand what's taking place. My God, you'd work to the slang go down trying to earn your salvation. There are some faiths that even right now believe that if they knock on a few doors, if they hand you a few magazines, if they stop you a few, oh y'all are not feeling me today That if they do enough of that, they can earn salvation and a way into heaven by works. Works won't do it. You might be a bad somebody, but it is what you believe that saves you. It is your faith that makes you whole. That's incredible because with all that we've done, you mean if I just believe that God sent his son and died for me, that it's by my faith I am saved? Yes. Not by some formula that man makes up. Amen? Always be wary that Paul says, I'm writing because I've heard the news. It's been on the hotline. And he talks about this one life to live as it relates to an individual, more specifically, a personal relationship. A connection by way of a partnership with the Christ that we serve, one that is very precious and one that is very practical. That's what I like about Jesus. We complicate sometimes our faith. If you would just open your heart and say, Jesus, help me. Jesus save me from all of my sins. You're on the right path But you ever have somebody try to make something sound together go and jump two hoops and turn around and take the Bible, put it on your head, and then put it on the side. No. It's what you believe that allows you to have the only life to live. Listen back to this passage. Paul, out of all people, was someone who lived the transformed life. Paul's MO was he was a bad somebody, smart, but he was one that would go from place to place and hunt down Christians For a payment. He hated Christians so much he's like, I got some, I just found some. Just let me know. Pay me up. I'll bring them to you. And he would say, you know what? Some of them died because of what I did And that's some stuff that we've done that we're ashamed of in our own lives. Things that offended correctly. Am I all by myself this morning Some stuff you've done in your life that you hope nobody ever finds out, but the Lord has forgiven you for it. Now you can move on singing hallelujah anyhow Paul is a poster boy of a transformed life. He can take a rascal like Paul and change him to use him to the glory of God. I dare you to go to your high school reunion. They'll say you doing what? You preaching where? You a deacon where? You singing whose choir? That's the transformed life. Folk may have known you back then, but now you are a new creature in Christ. And Paul becomes that person that says, You know what? I know what I used to be, but now I can do it to the glory of God. He's able then to talk about how personal this is. He says, I have been crucified. Talking about me. Crucified from the old Paul to the new Paul. You know there are two natures, don't you? There's the OU. And then there's the new you. And every morning the old you gets up and say, You remember when, don't you? And you've got to crucify the old man or old woman and say, No. I'm somebody else now. I'm not the person you think I used to be. He says, I am crucified. I didn't go to the cross, but I have crucified the old nature What an honest house this morning because sometimes I think in church we are so religious that we've not done anything. Maybe one or two of you ought to do anything wrong. But when you crucify the old life There's a new life. He says, you know what? To help you all understand, I, Paul, have been crucified with Christ. That that the fact that we're talking about the resurrection this morning is right on point. I could have told you the story about how they came to the grave and the tomb was rolled away, but I'm talking about day-to-day living stuff. That I want to leave here knowing I've got just one life to live and I want to live it right and to the glory of God. He makes it personal. I, Paul Am crucifying the old man, I'm identifying with Christ. And you know, there's something about identifying with people We identify with groups, we identify with individuals, but to say that I am a Christian and I'm not ashamed to be a Christian and I'll wear the banner wherever I go Now that said, there are some places where you are not welcome as a Christian. There's some countries that the very fact that you said I'm a Christian could get your life taken away But he stands and says, this is personal for me. It is a journey for me individually that I can declare today without a shadow of a doubt, I'm a Christian. There was a time when I would beat around the bush. Can I testify today? You're a Christian? Oh yeah, I'm kind of sorta. You're a Christian? I go to church every Sunday You're a Christian, man. My mama sang in the choir. You're a Christian. I helped out Miss Johnson making ice cream on annual day. No, you're a Christian. And you heard this very one day I was working a summer job at the Botec Center and a dude cornered me. So you saved I gave my same story. He wouldn't buy that. Every day he was like, Man, won't you leave me alone? Why? Because something was happening. I knew I didn't know the Savior and the part of my sins. And when people snap back at you, they don't already know him. But Paul says, I am being real personal with this. Here is the life I've chosen to live. And I can't go back. I don't know what to do in the world, but God has delivered each of us. And Paul writes to the Philippian church early on where he says, For me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. They were saying, Paul, we want you to hang around. He said, you know what? I want to hang around with y'all and just keep telling you the gold news. But you know what? I'm all right. If you call me today, Paul says I can go ahead. Because to live with Christ, you know, to die is gain. And so all I'm trying to say as you wrap your minds around this preachment today is choose one life. Don't become a double agent. That sometimes you appraise him and sometimes you won't. Sometimes you'll do right and sometimes you won't. And so the Bible says, either be hot or cold. If you're lukewarm, I will speed you out of my mind. I'm just helping the church today. And so make a decision today that I'm going to live one life. I know they say cats got nine lives, but you got one. Will you choose today to make that life worth living by following the Lord Jesus Christ? Not just that, there's this sort of partnership. I'm crucified with Christ. You may say, now, Paul, you're not Jesus. How are you gonna put yourself up there with Jesus? He says, you know what? It talks about how I work on Christ's behalf. That you are identified as a Christian. Maybe the palm is still in your card. Maybe your tag says smile Jesus loves you. Maybe there's a Bible on your desk at work. Maybe your Facebook page has something about faith in it. But you're doing what? You're saying I'm partnering with Jesus Any folk in partnership with Jesus? Did you know whose team you're on and who you represent? I sold insurance years ago and I had to talk about to sell a policy. I talked that company up I said, we got the best insurance you're ever going to get anywhere. I don't care who you insert, but you need to buy my policy because I had to eat. And so I represent that company well And when you represent Jesus, don't be ashamed to represent him. Say, I come as a Christian today, and I've got just my one life to live. It is the life that is connected with Jesus I'm in partnership. I am an ambassador. I represent Jesus. Isn't that something? Folk know who you used to represent. You have you got a label on you, but to think that now that you come and you represent the Lord Jesus Christ, Paul said, I know y'all know who I used to be. And folk will remind you, I know who you used to be, but I'm a new creature in Christ. Anybody today know what that feels like to put the old life away and pick up this new life? Well I want you to go sleep on me today, y'all. Y'all was making Easter egg last night. Come on now, come on, come on, come on I'm talking about what it feels like to say, you know what? I'm really a new person because of who I know and because who I represent. Who do you represent today? That was a talk back moment. Who do you represent today? Oh y'all still look quiet. Who do you represent today? If I want to back you in the alley and say, who do you represent? Oh Lord help me, Jesus. Who do you represent today? Don't be ashamed. I represent the Lord Jesus Christ. And so the Bible says to let your light so shine before men and women that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. I don't need a bullhorn. I'm a Christian. Just live right And folk will think you'll look strange. They think you'll look different. And then you tell them it is because of my relationship and my partnership with the Lord Jesus Christ. 2 Corinthians 5 and 20. And Paul reminds us, so we are Christ's ambassadors. God is making his appeal through us. We speak for Christ. We plead. Come back to God. Now God don't really need any of us Don't need a microphone. Don't need a cross. He could come right on down. He said, but he chooses us today. The Bible says you didn't choose me. I picked you And that you would do what? Go forth and share the good news of Jesus Christ. I got a sign-up sheet right now. How many folks say I don't mind today saying I'm not a where you been, church And it's Easter time. Amen. And let folk know that it's not about the Easter bunny. Don't get it twisted. It's about Jesus who came and died and who rose again I'm connected. I'm an ambassador. I'm the mouthpiece for Jesus. I'm not putting too much on you there. I don't want to do all that. Why not? Why not represent him? Why not say this is what my life is all about today? It is to be in partnership. It's also a precious relationship. He says, because I no longer live, but Christ lives in me. The life I now live in the body, I live by the faith of God. That's a a big old piece of meat And what it really means is, is that I cherish my relationship. This must become an inside job. Because the old me is always trying to rise up. But the fact that I can die to self. You ever die to self that it really wasn't about you? It was about him and your ego didn't get in the way. It's a precious moment that he talks about. I no longer live, but Christ lives in me. How's that possible? How are you gonna get in me? He does it by way of his Holy Spirit. As you open your heart to Jesus, you give him permission to come in. We talked a few days ago about he comes and knocks on the door of your house, your body, and says, Can I come in? He won't break in. He won't force himself in. You must let him in. How many folk know if somebody was coming that you didn't know and you had a room in the house that wasn't quite right? You know the room where you put everything? But somebody comes over and just put it in there. We do that with Jesus that I heard to me. He already knows If you allow him to come into your life, it is a precious moment because he does what? He does interior decorating. So you you got too much in that area. And you uh huh. Let me move that over there. That goes better on the wall of your life. And when you allow him in, you give him permission to come in. That amazes me that he gives you free will. He won't strong arm you up against the wall coming in. No, he won't. He gets your permission. Did you know that? That he won't force his way on you. Sometimes believers are saying, you better get this message He said, No, no, no, no, I'm gonna I'm gonna send somebody by to see you. It's up to you and up to me to do what? To receive him into our life. Not a pressure tactic But if you really want to have some real living and really have life of value, let him into your heart. Make a room for him. Come on in, Jesus. I got to still clean up, but you welcome. I got some habits I'm still working on, but you welcome. I don't always watch the right thing on TV, but you're welcome. I don't always come on church, but I still welcome you in to this vessel. The Bible says very clearly over 1 Corinthians, do you not know that your bodies are temples of the Holy Spirit who is in you? Whom you receive from God. You are not your own. You were bought at a price. Therefore, honor God with your bodies. Honor him with your eyes, and your ears, and your lips. You know, we let Christ in. Uh we take the Spirit of God wherever we go. That's right. So wherever you go, he's hanging out with you. The Bible says don't grieve the Holy Spirit. Don't don't have it and say, Oh my God, you taking me here again Am I doing this again? Oh, I'm going down a deep water this morning now, folks. I'm talking about this whole sense of allowing him in to your body. And once you would confess him as Jesus. Then what? The Holy Spirit will then take up residence in your life. The Spirit of God. It's precious There's a partnership that takes place. It's personal. But finally, it is practical. The life I now live is really tied to my faith. That I might not be able to explain it all, but I know that something great has happened in my life. Aren't you glad you're not the person you used to be? I mean maybe it's just me putting my stuff out here every Sunday. But I'm so glad I'm not the person I used to be. And I was one of these cool brothers. But I was really fooling the Lord like I just said, oh he's such a nice I was the guy that folks brought home. He's a nice young man. Oh, I know I wake you all up this morning. I say, I was the guy next door. Hiya, good to meet you. I had all the charm, but I was a rascal But thank God for Jesus that he changed my life around and changed yours. That you now are trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ. Not trusting in your old abilities. Some of the guys know used to ball. I ran to a guy the other day. I said, man, we used to ball together back in the day. I can't do half court now You know, I'll hold you for a while. But the fact of the matter is that now I put my trust not in my jump shot, but I put my trust in him. I'm almost done. It is a practical faith. Amen. The fact that we trust in Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior. Don't trust in our own abilities. Don't trust in other folks who say I got you, I got your back. Be careful when they gotta tell you, I you know I got your back and I love you. Watch out Smile on your face all the time. Oh y'all remember the backstabbers, old Jays now. But as it comes down to our faith, Romans ten seventeen says, Then faith cometh by hearing And hearing by the Word of God. The more you hear the Word, the more you ingest the Word. It puts you on a path of one life to live. You know, long before the days of automobile warranties and 100,000 mile guarantees on cars, years ago, a man bought a Rolls-Royce. It was a nice car. And he took that car to the south of France and had a problem with it. He got word back to the company and says, My car broke down. It is a Rolls Royce. They flew someone to his location And the person got there, they diagnosed that the roads had broken down, and the guy flew back to the factory, got the part, came back to the south of France, and fixed the man's car. He was on the road, thanked him, and then some time passed, and he said, wait a minute, I never got a bill I can't figure out why I didn't get a bill for the repair work that was done. Now some of us say, well, thank you, Jesus. We've been shouting, hallelujah. Thank you, Lord. They forgot, I forgot. Some of y'all ain't always been saved He wrote the company a letter saying, you know, y'all fixed my car. I didn't get a bill. I'm I'm well able to pay the price. And they wrote back and says, I'm sorry, we have no record of you and no record of no car being fixed. That is justification of faith. That means that you may have been someone else in your past, but God is so fixed, he said, You did what now? That means that you've been justified. That means that through all that you've done, that He writes it off. Isn't that good news today? With all that I've done, he says, Oh, the slate has been clean. What you mean? But you know it was a seventy-nine. Oh, I don't forget all about that. Because it's a new you. Aren't you glad he didn't hold on to that kind of stuff? The world will. He said, I'll take it and I'll throw it into the sea of forgetness. That I have this new life This new life that all of my past and my wrong you might bring it up, he says, that's why I sent Jesus. That's why he died. And that's why he rose again that you might have this one life to live. Don't leave out of here with with two lives. The old you and the sometime you. The lying you and the cheating you, but betray them today and try Jesus. Those songs say try Jesus for he's alright. I tried him and he is alright. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. I've got one life to live. Come on, let's stand and give God a praise today. For too long. I had many lives. But when I met Jesus, I picked the right one. The one that would allow me to stand boldly. The one that would allow me to be blessed. Just process that for a moment. The Bible says in the book of James that a double-minded person is unstable in all of their ways. Just like a boat out with no control. But today, you can have control by way of him. How many choose one life today? Amen. And that life is in Jesus Christ, our Lord. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.