Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Amen. How many believe that today? You see, healing is not always Something is hurting me physically. Healing can be emotional healing. Spiritual healing. Our choir reminds us that wherever you find yourself hurting, the God that we serve, He's able. Now do you believe that today? Is there a testimony? Has anybody here ever been healed? Things you've been going through and God has provided for you. Amen. He's a healer. I see hands still up. Praise God. Is there another witness in the house today? God has healed you at your deepest place. And you knew it was Him You knew it was nobody but him. Let's bow today. Father, we thank you for this preaching moment and we glorify you. Your word has power. Your work can change situations. Your work can save. As we stand today, we stand to proclaim this good news. But I pray even now that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today, encourage another, and when this time is done We'll be so careful to give your name the praise in Jesus' name. Amen. Don't we serve a good God today? Yes, we do. Yes, we do I want to bring your attention to the Gospel of Matthew. As I always say to you, the gospel simply means the good news. And Matthew is just a writer. Who proclaims what he witnessed during his time of following Jesus. The sixth chapter, verses five through eight. Let's read together. And when you pray, do not be like the hypocrites. For they love to pray standing in the synagogues and on the street corners to be seen by others. Truly I tell you, they have received their reward in full. Verse number six, but when you pray, go into your room, close the door, and pray to your father who is unseen. Then your father, who sees what is done in secret, will reward you. Number seven, and when you pray, do not keep on babbling like pagans, for they think they will be heard because of their many words. Do not be like them, for your father knows what you need before you ask him. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, very simply, Personal Prayer in Private Places. Personal prayer in private places. The story is told of a father who goes into town with his son, his young son, to run some errands. And while they're in town, it's lunchtime, so he and his son head over to the local diner, and the father picks him up, sits him on the stool, and together they're having some bonding time. The waiter comes by, they make their order, and when the food shows up, the father says to his son, let's pray over our meal, but let's pray a silent prayer. And so they began to pray this silent prayer. The father got done pretty quickly. Looked over at his son. He was still praying. He looked again. The little boy was still praying. He said, son, what were you praying about? He said, I don't know. It was a silent prayer. All to say that when it comes to personal prayer in private places, that prayer may very well be a silent prayer. Amen? In the text today, Jesus, who knows a lot about prayer, takes time to teach his disciples in that sixth chapter. He begins talking about giving to the needy. I said earlier, that's always something that when God blessed us, we can bless others. But he says to them, when you give, don't make a big deal about it. Don't let Pope look a here, here's what I've given, but do it in private Do it in secret. He had just finished what's called the Sermon on the Mount. He had been sharing with them, and I love that picture of Jesus who takes time to sit with his disciples and to explain to them the very word of God. You know, he had to pray. There were so many people after him. There were so many people who were trying to discredit him that Jesus had a prayer life. The Bible talks about he would get up early in the morning, like some of you all did, and go to a quiet place And spend time praying to his Father in heaven. Let me say that again. That Jesus gives the example of what it means to pray I don't know about you. If Jesus prays, well I can pray. And he took time to go to a private place. Yeah, he was very personal about this. He would go to a place and take time to connect with his father And so the text really takes us through that. I want you to imagine and put on your mind's eye to see Jesus taking time to teach his disciples. Isn't that good news today that the Jesus with all that he has to do, with all the appointments he has With all those who are falling behind him trying to talk him down, he realizes that in order to be effective, he's got to pray. I don't know about you, but to be effective, I need to pray. Now some of y'all remember M. C. Hammer. If not, go to YouTube. He says we got to pray. Just oh y'all remember them big baggy pants Just to make it today. How many folks here today every now and then realize that for you to mix your day, you've got to pray? Amen. And even if you're so busy getting out of the door, by the time you hit your destination, you wish you would have prayed. Because things will come your way. Challenges will be on your path, but it's so important to take time to have that personal prayer with the Lord. I like that. The fact that I can just right where I am with all of our technology, right where you sit, you can say, Lord, I need you And you can connect to he who sits high and looks low. And so really I want to suggest today that we can create personal prayers. Even if those prayers may be a few words or may be silent. So today I want to really talk about three areas of prayer. What is your motif in prayer? Why do you pray? How do you pray? And then what's your method? How do you go about it? We all pray differently, don't we? We all have a different approach. And then to realize that moment in prayer when you sense that God is doing something. Let me ask you a question. Have you ever experienced answered prayer? I'm serious. I mean, you prayed and then God showed up in your situation, and you realized, you know what? That was that prayer I prayed yesteryear that I've forgotten about and God came along and can I take another poll? Let me do it again. How many folk have ever had God to answer your prayer. Not a general prayer, but specifically for you. Well that sounds like about 40%. Let me try one more time How many folk know without a shadow of a doubt, you cried out to God, you tugged that God, you begged God, you cried before Him, and as a result God answered your prayer. Oh, that's talking about 90% now. Amen. And that's the good news. But he teaches them about prayer. What about the motive? Why do we do what we do? And when you pray, do not be like the hypocrites. I like what jihad to the point. He comes out slugging. Hypocrites are showboats Hypocrites are folk who say, look at me. Hypocrites are those who really want to be at center stage. He says, but when you pray, you don't have to do all that Don't try to impress me. I'm gone all by myself. And right there, he says, someone who is a play actor. How many of you folks like theater? You like TV, that's play acting, amen. That's not really real. And he says to them, When you pray, look out for your motive. Why do you do what you do? Is it to be seen? And we all lack a pat on the back. Oh yes, you do. Uh good job, encouragement, but why do you do what you do when it comes to praying? They love to pray in public They love to be the loudmouth. They love to go on the street corner just to be heard. Why do you pray and how do you pray becomes the question. I must ask myself that same question. What is my motive for prayer? Is it when I need something that I go to prayer? When things are going well, do I just say, Lord, I'll get to you when I get time? Or can I get two witnesses? When the pressure is on The first thing is, Lord, help me get through. But when things are going well, you're on the mountaintop. I'm just talking to a praying church. You say, Well, God, I'll I I I missed you. My bad. I'll catch you in a couple of days. But when you're going through You find yourself praying often. Amen? And so what is it? Are you trying to get cozy with God? I'm always amazed by that. We try to fool him, like, you know, here I am. He already knows what your motive is. He knows what you're going through. He knows what you're facing. But as you come, he says, don't be. Like them. They want to be seen by others. They want to get an applause. They want somebody to say, you go. You did a great job. Amen. That's not to say that we can't do public prayer. That be the case. You can get me. Reverend, you prayed this morning Well you were you showbowden? No. That was a spillover from my own personal prayer life. I wasn't really talking to you. It was me and my father having a conversation and you were eavesdropping. Amen? Praise God. That's what public prayer is all about. But they've already got the reward. They've got the certificate already by praying loud and long to a place that might be recognized is anything but personal. I like open first John 5 and 14. It says This is the confidence we have in approaching God, that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. I don't know anybody who prays and say, God, I hope you hear me. We pray believing that God will hear our prayer. There again, I'm pushing you. When you pray, you're praying with the expectation that you know what? I need for you to help me out right now. It may just be, Lord, help me, but that is what we see in this passage as Jesus takes time to tell them The importance of personal prayer, but more so in a private place. So what about the the method Yeah, how how should you pray? But when you pray, go into your room, close the door And pray to your father who is unseen, then your father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. I never judge people's prayers. You know, I used to think in the old days, man, if a deacon or somebody started whining, that's got to be a powerful prayer. Why? It's loud. And and and they you know, it's gotta be as if God can't hear. But it's not how you pray But God says when it comes to this personal prayer that find yourself a room. It may not be a literal room, but find yourself a quiet place And then close the door. Now for some of you all that might be the bathroom. Well, there's some bathroom prayers in here. Amen. Yes, you do. That may be your only quiet place in the house I'm in the bathroom and I'm praying to my father who is unseen. And that's what faith does is finding a method that works for you. He's just suggesting you steal away. He's suggesting you close your office door. He's suggesting you find a place when your roommate is at class and say, you know what? I got the room now. Let me take a moment just to cry out to my father and to do it In private. You know, I've got a room or two in my house where I can go, but oftentimes I may just park on the parking lot. And my truck cab becomes my room. Anybody got that kind of room? You own the understanding, say, you know what? I need a minute. Let me pull over and get a coffee. But I need a moment to be with God And for me, that is my secret place. And for me, it's where I can connect to God. Don't let somebody tell you that the way you are praying is wrong. And folks say this only got to be on Sunday. My God, God forbid I wait till Sunday. I might forget. But prayer is daily. Prayer is pausing. Prayer is pushing. Prayer is power. Do you have a room? Have you identified some place that you can go and spend time with your father? I like that movie that came out not long ago. It was called The War Room. Mother had a room in her house and she would write prayers, or some of y'all got some of those rooms, write prayers on the wall, and then go through and see how God has answered it I prayed for this Lord, and you answered it. I was all worked up about it, but you answered it. The bills were due. You made a way. You blessed and kept me in such a special way. In no way are we saying you can't pray in public, but find yourself a quiet place. Go to the park, take a walk, and just spend time with the Father in heaven. Amen? And you'll find that things will be so much clearer, that life will be so much enjoyable after you've guided it off. You know, prayer's not you telling God about what's happening with you. Don't you know what God already knows? You're not informing him of your dilemma, but when you come to prayer, it is a chance to sup with him, a chance to communicate with him. Hope in Galatians, Paul writes for the church at Galatia, he says, let us not become weary in doing good. Amen. For at the proper time, you reap a harvest if you faith not. How many know that prayer is hard work? I mean prayer is not that easy, is it? No, it isn't. Because it's not just, Lord, thank you and bye. It's like Lord look at me Search my heart. Get me right. And now as I come before you, it may be the ask for nothing. It may be a prayer of thanksgiving. God, I want to thank you for all you've done. How many pray that kind of prayer? Don't need anything. You've been mighty good to me. I just come to thank you Thank you for what you've done. And my method is is to find that quiet place. Turn the radio off for a minute. You've heard my story about Bessie, my old Buick. Radio never worked. I never tried to get it fixed. It was my prayer call. I have to sing and pray in that car, and you will find yourself identifying your secret place. There is a motive in praying. Make sure yours is pure. There's a method in praying, but there's also a moment in prayer. And Jesus says it. And when you pray. Can I just stop right there? Not if. And when you pray. When you take time to pray, don't keep on babbling like the pagans That's folk who are praying to sometimes a whole different God, for they think they will be heard because of their many words. A very brief period of time. A moment to get you through that mini crisis. When your back is up against the wall, how many folks say I just need a moment? Excuse me. Can I take a break for a moment? On your break in the lunchroom, I need a moment just to whisper a prayer unto my God. He said now as for these pagans, these folks they they think of everybody, Baal and thinking Zeus and you name them, they're thinking, and they got a lot of words. It don't take a lot of words It don't take a long dissertation, but you need a moment with the Lord. Amen. Now you don't got to be up there all day. I always say to my family, it's time to pray for Thanksgiving. Everybody's hungry. So why are you giving a prayer that lasts fifteen minutes? I'm just saying, God is great, God is good. Lord, we thank you for this food. Amen. And you ready to eat? Praise God. And it has just as much power than your long Drawn out prayer, and Jesus observed and said, Don't be like them. Their prayers alone And they're empty, and they're worthless, and they're useless, but know that every word counts. No need for flowery stresses. Father, we come for you who sit high in the heavens. God, no one knows like you. I love that kind of prayer. Love to hear it. The mind is Lord help me. Help me to hold out until my time has come. Amen. That's good. You know, I like what Pastor the Evangelist Robert Cook said. He says we all have one routine prayer in our system. And once we get rid of that, we can't really start to pray. Until you replace your everyday same old, same old, like a broken record prayer, and add in some Lord, I just want to bless you today Lord, I just want to pray just for the children. And so when you come with the same rehearsed prayer, is it power? Absolutely. But you don't need to try to impress God Amen. But come to him just like you are. Many words. And then that very next verse says, do not be like them. For your father knows what you need even before you ask him. Isn't that great news? That you serve someone who already knows what you need? You know, early African converts in Christianity were earnest and regular about their prayer. So much so, they would make a path to their prayer place. Tear down weeds, thick it, and they would find a place to go to to pray. And that was their regular prayer place. But they knew when somebody had not been praying. Why? It had grown up. There was no path. And they would say, hey Have you been praying lately? The grass is starting to grow. Don't let your life be one that you gotta find your way back to God. You better make a path, but also take time to bend your knees. I've heard it said that I got some knee allergy. Amen. That is, I know how to get on my knees and pray unto my Father who's in heaven. Jesus prayed in the garden. Of Gethsemane. He took time to be alone and to open himself up to prayer. I love that song that says, I come to the Garden alone. While the dew is still on the roses. And the voice I hear falling on my ear, the Son of God discloses. And he walks with me. And he talks with me and he tells me I am his own. And the joy we share as we tarry there, none other has ever known. Jesus prayed on that cross. He prayed for those thieves who were guilty. He prayed for his enemies. Father, forgive them, for they know not what they're doing. Today, make your prayer personal. Make it one you'll say, Lord, this is Tim. And I come before you today, and I got an issue. I've got a problem. I've got something I want to talk to you about. The song said it. Just a little talk with Jesus. Makes it right. I I I declare today that you can find that private place that you can say, Lord, I need time with you. I don't need a lot of words. I just need time. There's no skeleton. You prayed for nine minutes, you get the choice blessings. It's where your heart is. It's your intent when you pray, believing that the Lord will come along and make a way. When was the last time you prayed? When was the last time you you slowed your roles, so to speak? Said, God, I just need to pray. And you'll feel the push and the nudge in your spirit, man or woman. It's time to pray Pull your car over at a restaurant. Pull into the restaurant parking lot. And take a moment and say, Lord, I didn't give a chance to thank you today. But I thank you for everything you've done. I thank you for dying, but I thank you for getting up out of that grave on the third day with all power in your hands. Personal prayers in private places. That is the word of God today. It is already come on stand today all over this place. Take time today to pray. Take time to utter unto He who can make a difference. It's your intent. I want to pray because I've seen it work before. I know what answer prayer looks like. And now folks will say, oh no, you're not praying right. You didn't put that word And that was bad grammar. And there was no subject verb agreement. But my God, grandma and grandpa just said, Lord. L-A-W-D. Come on, see about me. And some of us are making it on L A W D prayer. Amen. Won't he do it? Has he done it in your life today? Come to Jesus. He's inviting you. He's waiting in your closet for you to open the door and to pray before him. He's available today. He wants to hear your prayer today. He's waiting on you. Come to Jesus. Come to Jesus. Come to Jesus, just now just now Come to Jesus, come to Jesus Only trust him. Only trust him. Only trust him Only try Only trust him, only trust him just he's able. How many know it today? To do exceedingly more than you can think of I really love this one. He will save. Oh yes, he will. He will stay from all your sins. He will stay. Not later. Just now, just now he will save you. He will save you. Let's go today all over this place. I want to make my case. Listen, I I used to know a little bit about prayer because faith with the best of them. Only when there was a crisis did I pray. Yeah, I get around to it. But man, when trouble shows up, you drop those knees and you remember what mom and daddy taught you. Let me just say to you today that even when you can't get a word out The Bible says that the Spirit maketh intercession for you with groaning. So sometimes you may be in such a deep place that you may only have a groan or a grunt Don't you know that God can interpret what you're going through? He don't really need your words because he knows your heart. And today as I come before you, allow him in today. Let him take inventory of your life today. Father, I come even now. And for that person who may have never opened their heart to you, that is opened themselves up to you, this is their hour The Bible says if you just confess it with your mouth and believe in your heart that God sent Jesus and that he died, but that he rose again. The Bible says because of that If you take that in and believe it, by faith, you'll be saved. And I say to you today, if that's not the decision you've made, you can do it right now Let's take 30 seconds for you to do a little house cleaning in your own life. Wait a minute. Do I already know this Savior? Do I know this prayer teaching Jesus? This healing Jesus, the one who died for me. Do I know this Jesus? And when you determine in your heart that I know him, the Bible gives you eternal security. While you're thinking about it today, I have no power, no one to save anybody in this place. It's something you have to do. But I want to present Christ to you anyway. Take a moment, even now, if you're not sure. Praise God. If you're sure and very sure, give God a praise today. Amen. Amen. Praise the Lord. Amen. It's been a great day in the Lord today. Pray you've been blessed. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. comtoharvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called speeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.