I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen. Whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website. I really do believe that God has a special message just for you A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries or worship experience already in progress. Amen. What a word of encouragement. Let's bow our heads all over this place today. Father, we thank you that we can trust you. Your word says to trust in the Lord with all of our hearts. And to lean not to our own understanding, but in all thy ways acknowledge you, and that you would direct our paths. As we come today, God, we're not worthy to stand before your people. That's why we ask that we might decrease and that you might increase. May the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart Be acceptable in thy sight. O Lord, our strength and our Redeemer. Amen. This is the day the Lord has made. We can rejoice And be glad in this day. I don't know about you, but some mornings I get up, I'm not quite sure what day it is. Anyone with me? I don't care what the alarm says. I'm not sure if it's Monday or Tuesday, but uh we know that God is a God who's faithful. He's the maker of the day. There's a word that we've been Kind of digesting for the last few weeks. It comes from 1 Chronicles 4. And we've been in verse number 10. His heart reads, Jabez cried out to the God of Israel, Oh, that you would bless me And enlarge my territory. Let your hand be with me and keep me from harm so that I will be free. From pain, and God granted his request. I want to continue and wrap up today with the final part of our preachment, pray big part four. There's a story printed in the popular Our Daily Bread magazine that tells and gives the account of at least One early American Indian tribe and how they trained their young braids on the night of the boy's thirteenth birthday after learning how to hunt and to scout and to fish, he was put to one final test. He was placed in a dense forest for the entire night. Up until then, he had been familiar with his surroundings, had that security of the family and the tribe, but on this night. He was blindfolded and taken several miles away. And then when he took off the blindfold at some point during the night, he was in the middle of a thick, deep forest. He was terrified. Can you imagine 13 years old? Every time there was a twig that fell, he thought it was an animal coming to devour him And what seemed like eternity finally came to a close at dawn. He woke, looked around and saw the flowers and the trees and the outline of the path which they'd taken him. And then to his utter astonishment He beheld the figure of a man standing just a feet away from him. Armed with bow and arrow. It was his father. He'd been there all night long. I stopped by to tell you this morning that the Lord our God will keep his promise. He will take care of you. He will be with you. He will not go back on his word. The Bible says that God is not human. God is of a man that he should lie. Not a man or human that he should change his mind. He said he would be with us always even unto the end of the earth. How God has kept his word, how God has been consistent. And so for the last month we've been talking about a fellow by the name of Jabez Someone who prayed what we thought was a very simple prayer, but yet powerful. In fact, you've been praying that prayer. It's worth repeating. God bless me indeed. Enlarge my territory. Keep your hand on me and keep me away from harm and evil. And you know the end of the passage. The Bible says God granted him his request. Like you, I have evidence just from this past month of how the Lord has kept me. Uh maybe he just opened my eyes, how he has enlarged my territory, how he has kept his hand, aren't you glad his hands upon you? And so also to think that he also keeps us from Harm. And this morning we unpack the latter portion of this passage. And it's right there. It talks about how he keeps His hands on me, but it says, also keep me from harm that I will be free from pain. I thought about that passage this week. Other translations have said, keep me from evil. Uh don't let uh evil hurt me. You know, evil is alive and well. They're evil people. The evil places, the evil things, if we're not careful, evil tries to connect itself to us I believe that J. Best had a legitimate concern. Keep in mind, his name meant pain. He had to live with the fact and say, hey pain, what's happening? That is what his mother named him because she bore him in pain I don't believe that he's asking in this passage for an exemption. I don't believe he's asking for a pass. I don't believe he's asking for a hookup. I believe Jabez just wants to have some assurance that the Lord is with him. Isn't that something? To know that God, I'm just checking in. I believe you, I believe your word, but I need for you to be with me. Amen Have you ever been on the receiving end of pain? Physical pain, emotional pain, psychological pain, spiritual pain? You just want some relief. I believe that Jabez is able to look at God from three perspectives. And we'll unpack each one today. To see him as protector, to see him as uh perfector to see him as director. Amen. So let's take uh the first portion of this today. Moving a little slow on me today, but amen. This word protector came out even during the morning prayer. And it was just something that stood out for me in this text. The word protector in the Greek is the word palasol. It means a military guard. And in the case of those shepherds, they were there vigilant, watching the sheep. They would give their lives for the sheep. Jesus called himself the Good Shepherd. I am the Good Shepherd. My father is the husbandman or the wine dresser. But that's what God does. Have you turned to God as your protector? Have you asked Him to watch over you? Have you asked Him to be along your side? He says, keep me from evil. He acknowledges that evil does exist. All you have to do is turn the news on. And you see the evil that's taking place in our land. Day in and day out. But God is yet on the throne. I'm not one of these people who believe that all hope is lost. As a matter of fact, I say God is still on the throne. Amen. But the fact that Jabez, I believe, sees him as a protector, he sees him like the Secret Service. Amen. Secret Service, if you ever watch anybody of notoriety in government, there's a Secret Service. And they're right there. Just making sure you don't do anything crazy Making sure Eva Folker kept at bay the Secret Service. Some years ago, I covered uh then President Clinton over in Howard County and uh they said, Tim, I need you to be on at noon I say, well now, if I go in school, I can't come back out. What do you mean? I see the Secret Service won't let you go back and forth. Either you in or you out And uh well over I was trying to mix them all talk. How y'all doing today? They're the secret service. There's no conversation and God is like that God is our secret service, but there's no secret what God can do. What He's done for others, He will do, He will protect you Jabez comes to the right source to say, I I need you to cover me. I need you to make sure that no evil comes upon me. That's a prayer. We get stuck on the enlarge my territory part. I'm saying Lord, there's some crazy stuff going on. I need for you to be with me, Lord, be offense around me every day Aren't you glad today I was talking with a member today and somebody about ran off the road? Crazy folk. But God will be a protector. I like what the prophet Isaiah says, so in Isaiah 54 and 17. He says, No weapon. Formed against thee shall prosper, and every tongue that shall rise against thee in judgment shall condemn. Yeah, yeah. Folk already started some stuff with you, but it won't go through. It'll fall apart, and you may never know uh the trick, you may never know the plot, you may never know the behind the curtains. Aren't you glad that God takes care of you? Hallelujah. I'm glad. I have no better sense than thinking you keeping yourself. There's angels all around you, protecting you from seen and unseen dangers. Everywhere you go, Philosophy, why you look so cool? I got the secret service with me. I got the Spirit of God residing in me. He is a protector. Protector. But I kept thinking about this text. He's also a perfecter. Uh-huh. He still says, keep me from harm so that I will be free from pain. A perfector is a person who completes or makes something Right and perfect. And JPEG realized that God was really the only one who could do that. I mean, I might be able to have you for a minute But I might fall down on the job. I may nod on you. I may get caught in traffic. And you never know. But when you have God, He's always making things right. In life. When things are falling apart, he comes along as the fixer. He says, Keep me from harm. That is physical injury, mental damage, hurt. Abuse, mischief, violence, wrong, misfortune, wickedness, all of these things, and I can lay the list out, but God says, I got this. I am the perfector. I got you covered. I can make what looks wrong right. Aren't you glad you serve that kind of God that no matter what you're facing say, ah, it's crooked, but I can fix it. You crooked, but I can fix you. And I'm glad that one day he came along and got a crooked Tim and said, Boy, you need some straightening out. And I'm glad today he is still. Straightening some of y'all from the country. You know what that meant? Didn't you? Aren't you glad that God still straightens you out so you can walk before Him? I'm glad about that today. I've always heard the saying that practice makes perfect. Uh-uh Practice leads to improvement. Don't you buy the world slogan? You won't be perfect. There's only one who's perfect. And he sits high and he looks low. I'm glad about that today. Have you made some things right in your life? I don't want to go out here all by myself. I'm getting in deep water now. What about you? Has he made some things right in your life? You realize folk were after you, folk were running you down. Lord, do you have me? And in the process of him taking care of you, he straightened you out He would say, Lord, get him. He said, I'm gonna get you first. Are you glad? And he takes and changes your attitude, changes your outlook. He is the perfector. J Bear said, I got this. He said, I'm just coming to you. I'm going to end the prayer. He didn't put that first. He saved the best for last that in all that I have. I'm gonna bless somebody. Your hand is on me. My coast has been in law, but it's from evil folk. And I need for you to be with me. There again, the prophet Isaiah speaks on this. Isaiah 45 and 2 says, I will go before you And will level the mountains, I will break down gates of bronze, and cut through bars of iron. God is bad, ain't He? I'll make the crooked places straight. I'll make the rough places smooth. All because I'm the fixer, I am the protector. I could just stay right there that I'm just I'm the one who's making this thing right. I'm the one who's really dressing you up. I'm the one who will uh lead you. Uh I'm the one that yet do I walk through the valley of the shadow of death. I will feel what no evil for thou whip me thy rod, and thy stealth that comfort me, thou preparest the table, in the presence of you know the twenty-third Psalms. I thank God that He is a perfecter and a protector, but there there's something else. He's also a director in charge. A director is a person who manages an organized group of people or an organization or the lack thereof. One who is setting things in order. It's not just some big title. God really is on high saying He knows when to bring up this and knows when to bring God is like okay I got this. And with your life in mind, I love having the musicians here. I'm making somebody play the wrong note, but God is the one who keeps everything in balance. He's the one that keeps everything in line. There's no one like him. It was a request that Jabez made, and God answered his friend. Do you know what answer prayer feels like? Do you know what answer prayer looks like? Has he ever answered your prayer? I mean I don't want to know what you prayed for, but I mean have you seen the evidence that God That was you. And once you know what answer prayer looks like, sometimes we forget to go back and say, Lord, thank you. Have you ever prayed for something for God to pray for? Then God answered, oh yeah, I did pray for that last month. You done forgot it, but you put it out there. But God is able to manage all of that I've come to realize that God is just one prayer away. There are times I need to call him on the spot. There are times that they just speak his name. I can't wait to get to my prayer closet. You've heard me say, Reverend, pray for me on Sunday. Man, it's Monday. You expect me to remember to pray for you on Sunday? You got a minute? And right there, I can do a flash prayer on the scene, didn't have to do it, I'm gonna go to Brother Russ, and just throw a flex trail on him Mm-hmm. That's it. You ain't hear me say Lord I come and I'm down here. I just prayed for. Miss Stephanie, just one up. Flesh prayer. You've heard my story. I'll tell it again. I was at the preakness many, many years ago. They gave me the assignment to go cover the preakness And I was sitting there looking at all the people. And uh that's the big horse race of the day, but folk were getting lit up. Y'all know what I mean. Don't act like you ain't never been to some of y'all so good in two shoes Or maybe one or two of y'all. I would look at the people. I would say, Uh-oh. They wobbling, I would say, in the name of Jesus. I was just doing flex prayers all over preekness. Look at them and go I just got you. Uh-huh. Yeah. And so you can pray on the spot. I came from a Quaker theologian who wrote a book about disciplines. He talked about flesh prayer. I've never forgotten that. Have you ever shown up And had God show up in your experience, then you know that He is the one that takes care of you. So I want to end with that, the fact that God will keep His word. The Bible says that he says, I need for you just to cover me. I just need for you to look over me, Lord. You know, I get excited when I realize that God sent his only begotten Son, Jesus, to die for my sins. That still blows me away. I say it every Sunday. That's a cause for celebration, it really is. And because he sent Jesus, I can pray in the name of Jesus. I'm talking about a name that's like no other name This old song we used to sing down home. Say Jesus is on the main line. Tell him what you want. Isn't that good? If you want an answer, tell him what you want. You want a blessing? Tell him what you want. You need a comforter? Tell him what you want. You need a deliverer? Tell him what you want. You need forgiveness? Tell him what you want. You need guidance? Tell him what you want. You need a hiding Call them up and tell them what you want. You need joy, tell them what you want. You need love, tell them what you want. You need opportunity, tell them what you want. You need power, tell them what you want. You need Restorations, tell him what you want. He's salvation, tell him what you want Jesus is on the main line. Tell him what you want. Jabez was not shy. J. Bez didn't beat around the bush, but Jabez got right to the issue. I'm glad he's on the main line. But I'm also glad that he's the way and the truth and the life. And no one comes to the Father except by him. J Best, thank you, man. You helped us out for four weeks with your little prayer. It's blessed our lives in such a way that we can go on now and run on and see what the end is going to be. I'm the better because of that kind of prayer. I'm more encouraged because of that kind of prayer. I can make it because I've taken the prayer and I've made it my own. Have you done that today? How many folk have taken that prayer for a test drive? How many folks say, you know, I'm gonna try this thing. I know, I know it's I can memorize it. How many folk have really, I'm talking to you, church, how many tried this thing Some will pray it, but I'm not Jabez, but put your name in the blank. And see, won't God do it? Did He do it for you? Did He make a way for you? Did He guide your path? Did He give you the sunshine in the midst of a dark sunshine? Did He do it? And then I just believe that when it was all said and done, the Bible didn't say it. I believe that Jabez got excited. I can't see how you pray that kind of prayer, have God answer the prayers, okay. I believe Jabez shouted I believe Jabez gave God the praise. I believe Jabez said, Lord, I thank you for everything you do. I just imagine he could not walk away and say, okay, you did That all of that and he didn't give God a praise? How many believe that Jabez poly? He probably gave God some praise And therefore you come today and come on and give God some praise. He's done all of that for you. He's blessed you indeed. He's enlarged your territory. He's kept his hand upon you. He's kept you from evil. And you can say, well, thank no Every time I think about the goodness of Jesus and all that he's done for me, my soul cries out, Hallelujah! I thank God for saving me. I thank God for keeping me. I thank God for holding me. Why? Because he's done great and marvelous things in my life today. I can't help but shout. I can't help but say thank you. I can't help but to give him praise I just imagine old J Bez looking over, because yeah man, you got it right. There wasn't enough space to print it. But when I got my blessing, I didn't go back. I just said right where I am I bless you. As I stand, I bless you. With all that's in me, I said everything but have breath, praise ye the Lord. I want some big brown Don't bring me no small stuff. I want big prayer. Hey, hey, hey, hey. Thank you, Lord That is the word of God. And it's already blessed Hey come on, let's give God some praise today. Everything you asked for, everything you prayed for, everything you cried about, God Have done it many years ago. At Christmas. I want this and this and this Cabbage Pats doll and that with the silk hair. And I remember behind the scenes. But the joy was when the oldest daughter said, I got everything I asked for. Man, it is okay. God, I got everything. I ask for. You saved my soul. I got everything I asked for. God you made me whole. I got everything I asked for. God given me a peace that passeth all understanding. I I I I got everything. I asked for you gave me joy. I got everything I asked for. We gotta be grateful when God comes along and blesses us and says, Lord As we come today, I just feel the Spirit of God. I'm about to get happy. Hey! Did I realize how good God is? I can celebrate just that. Give me Jesus. I don't want no warmed over Latest thing, I want Jesus. Do you want Jesus? Give me Jesus. That's my prayer today. In the morning. Yeah, yeah. In the morning. In the morning Who do you want? Or say it like you mean it. All this world is Ever been lonely all by yourself? No friends. In that way, you won't be a little That's who I want. And the final analysis. Oh, where I come to die. Let's say it together. Give me all this world Give me give me decisions Give me Give me all that world give me to me. I don't want to interrupt the flow. When the fire of the Holy Ghost is moving, the Bible says don't quench the spirit. It's in the small, still voice that God speaks. He doesn't come in the storm. The tornado he comes quietly He that hath an ear. Let them hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches. God is speaking right now He's granting some request right now. That request for you might be, Lord, save my soul. That request might be, I want a new start in life. That request might be a broken relationship. Might be a tough job situation, it might be an illness, but God is in the midst of granting your request even now. We believe that in the eye of faith. Let's go back to the salvation piece. The Bible says, if thou confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus And believe in thine heart that God hath raised them from the dead, the Bible says, Thou shalt be saved. I don't take salvation for granted. Why? Because all of my good stuff, all my goody to shoe, righteousness, the Bible says they're like filthy rags. You mean that yeah that that's the stuff we bring before you is like I'm not impressed. What I'm impressed with, Jesus says, is when you give your heart to me I'm impressed when you say, I believe that you died, I believe that you rose again, I believe that you returned. That that's what impresses the Lord And so it's heads above today. If you've never opened your mouth and said, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. I need to be saved. I believe that you were sent By God. I believe that you died. I believe that you rose. And the Bible says if you can get that peace. Into the fabric of who you are. If you confess it, the Bible says, Thy will be saved. Take 30 seconds and just process that Maybe it's you today. I pray you've heard his call in Jesus' name. Amen. Somebody give God a praise today. Hallelujah It's been a good day. Yeah. As we leave this place and we move from this preacher man I want to challenge you today to not just see it as any old prayer, but embrace it. Pray it and believe it. And testimonies will just roll through this place The Bible says we defeat the enemy by the blood of the Lamb and the testimony of the saints. Some folks you ought to just tell you ought to just tell some stuff Some of y'all holding stuff on the job. Tell it. Let folk know say that's a nice guy. God did it. I said thank you. Hallelujah. It was up. So God did the glory. Don't don't hold there and say, well, I'm I'm ashamed. No, don't be ashamed to say what God has done for you. Amen. First of all, they got a new job. Praise the Lord. Another new job. Praise the Lord. That's two people right here today that since this God has enlarged that territory. Amen. He's done it for you too. You just being quiet about it Let somebody know. Take your seats for a moment, please. Maybe you've come and you desire to be a part of this ministry called Harvest. The doors are always open for you Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD. But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you It's www. comtoharvest. org. That's come the number to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called speeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.