I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen. Whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website. I really do believe that God has a special message just for you. A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries Well worship experience already in progress. Praise God. Don't you love the hymns of the church? My God, they go back so many years Saints and Wolves sang them and got them through. And those same songs can deliver us. Just knowing that somebody touched me. And it was the hand of the Lord. I'm so glad about that today. As we come, let us bow. Heavenly Father, we come before you. It is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. It is your word For such a time as this, I pray in the name of Jesus that for every person who walked in this building that they may sense your presence today I call upon your Holy Spirit right now to take my words, change them, that they might become your words. And when it's all said and done, we'll be so glad to give your name the praise and the glory. It is in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. Amen. This is a good day. And a good time to be alive, isn't it? I don't know about you. I'm glad to be in the number. One more time Those things that when I roll this morning, I have no doubt. I've been a little groggy. But thank God for Jesus that you have made it another day, and for that we are so thankful. There's a word from the Lord today that comes from the book of First Chronicles. For, and we'll just take verse 10 today. Jabez cried out to the God of Israel, Oh, that you would bless me and enlarge my territory Let your hand be with me and keep me from harm so that I will be free from pain and God grant it. his request. I want to continue with our series from the Samonic title, simply Pray Big Part three. Pray big part three. Have you ever experienced a time in your life that you sensed that God was really with you? That the God of The universe was in your space that the God who we call Almighty was really close to you and with you, the God who's all powerful, the God who knows everything is with you. Some persons call it the God moment, but it is a unusual yet free moment to know that The God who I can't see, but who I trust is with me. If you're honest, during your most stressful hour, God has been with you. Through your storm of life, God has been with you. I get this feeling right now that as I stand before you, that God is with me. Household, whenever I stand to preach his word, even though I was up late, even though I've been thinking all week and praying about this text Even though I rose this morning, when I stand, I say, God, be with me. Take my time of study, take my time of praying and do something with it. Aren't you glad today you have a call on God? I mean to help you. I mean God is not anti-work God is not anti-project. God is not anti-parenting. God help me. And when you call on him, he has proven time and time again that he will show up. I like what the gospel writer Matthew shared when he talked about how the angel of the Lord came to John. He said, John I know that you're about to get married, but your fiance is expecting. Well, you know the story. Well, yeah. That she's gonna bear a son, and his name shall be called Emmanuel, God with us. And when you give your life to God and confess Jesus as your Savior, His Spirit resides in you, God takes up residence. in your heart. Do you sense today, I know I sound redundant. Do you sense that God is really with you? It is a it's a unique place when you realize that he who is all powerful Takes up and takes time with you. It blows me away. For the past two weeks we've been talking about Jabez. Got to meet him and to know his story and always amazed how Ezra, the writer of this text, just drops it. You're reading along all of a sudden, by the way, here's a man named Jabez. And he talks about how Jabez takes time to pray unto the Lord. Bless me indeed. Enlarge my territory. And this morning we want to highlight another piece of this passage. Let your hand be with me. Let your hand be with me. Use your imagination. Did you know God had a hand? The Bible talks about his left hand, his right hand. I believe God is ambidextrous. He can use both. And the Bible is filled with all kinds of physical references to help us to understand or to paint this portrait of the God that we serve. And let me get heavy on you, that we'll use this time to talk about a God whose hand is steady, who's strong, and then our place in surrendering. But there's this big word. that we come across that helps to describe this anthropomorpheism. I got it, didn't I? Spit that thing out. What that means is that in the meaning of the Greek anthropos meaning man, morphy means form. That means that we really can paint this picture or help us understand God we're giving me of the hand of the Lord. The eyes of the Lord, the ears of the Lord. Now, you know, that helps us to get closer. Does it help you to get closer? And you're describing this kind of God. But Japez says, let your hand Be with me. He needed to have this hand of God to guide him And I like that today. I like to do kind of a rump or room. I like that our kids are in today because I want them to get it. That God has a has a big old hand He's got the whole world in his hands. Oh y'all, y'all sing that song. The little bitty baby in his hands. Me and you, sister, in his hands. I want you to just see this big old hand. That God has the ability to guide us by his hand. I like that. I I don't know I I like the Bible in that way that yeah, that if you get nothing else today, God got a hand. And God has a hand in what you're doing. God has a hand in what you're experiencing, and that's good news. Let's begin to unpack this and talk about uh the steady hand of God. Jabaz could trust the hand of God because this hand was steady. It wasn't shaky. It was firmly fixed in his life. It was a hand that supported, a hand that balanced. Amen? Not moving. That's often described as you and I that uh we're kind of shaky sometimes Aren't we? Yes we are. Well a little shaky, but aren't you glad that as Jabez prayed, let your hand guide me? He didn't want anybody, but he wanted a hand that would not in a tough moment start shaking. He he he wanted a steady hand. And that's what God does in our life. He allows us to be able to hold to his hand. I love that song Time is filled with swift transition. Hold to his hand. Oh, you saying it? God's unchanging hands. Build your hopes on things eternal. Hold to God's unchanging, not elbow, but hand. And so when we look at this text, I'm reminded of this past week I was riding with someone and as we drove in their car, it was obviously a high-tech vehicle, which I do not have Which my wife would love to have. But as we're driving along with these new cars, it will let you know if you are out of the lane. Amen? I'm gonna ride with y'all. And you know how you talk to somebody and they're talking and say they're on the line. Well this thing makes the noise. How many y'all got cars like that? Can I go with a ride with y'all? It's after nineteen fifty. But the thing kept going making us what what what is that? This is that's that's there in place in case you get out the lane. And what God hands stuff up in case we get out of Oh I every now and then I'll find myself get out of the way and I can. Well get me back in. Amen? And so I think that's why Jay Bez says, Let your hand be with me. That just in case in the midst of your blessing me, uh I happen to step and cross the line, you'll say, hey Aren't you glad you serve that kind of God? And when I saw that I got explained, oh man, that that's why I believe He says this. I want not my brother's hand. I want your hand, God. I need your presence in my life. And that's good for me. It is a reminder to me that I need to get it together. Aren't you glad before a God who keeps you in check? That what nobody else is saying, no, no. Stay in your lane. That's what the young people say now. You don't need to go there. Stay in your lane. And so that's good. I I like that that we as believers, have you found yourself today in that kind of predicament? I'm just doing a whole poll. Uh do you find every now and then in your own life, uh in certain situations that you get out of hand? And that the hand of God is there for the purpose to come alongside and to keep us straight. I like that Because without that, we'd be going in the direction that we're really doing something. And yet, Jabez helps us in that Lumlow prayer. He makes that request, let your hand be with me. His hand is pressing. Like over in the book of Psalm, David writes in Psalm 16 to 11, he says, Thou wilt show me the path of life. Deep writings, in thy presence is fullness of joy at thy Right hand, there are pleasures forevermore. Just realizing that all of your help comes from the Lord and realizing that in his presence That's not actually what I think J. Bez desired. That this hand really admit that I need you with me. I've been blessed. I've got territory, but without you being a part of it, it's nothing. All of your successes, all of your high places, that if God is not there To steady that thing, man, we'll be out of whack. Can I preach this morning? I mean, really, that with everything that you've accomplished, you say, Oh, I got this. But if you ain't careful, the alarm will go off. But he s steadies it. He knew about that steady. But also, I think he also desired a a strong hand. Jabez knew who he was dealing with. He had no doubts of what God could do, and he wanted a God who could lift his burdens. See the world try to paint a weak God. We got a strong God. A God who's bigger than any situation, a God who's mighty, who's mighty in battle. He wanted somebody with a strong hand. The old text would say that God is a heavy load sharer. I like that. He'll share your heavy load. His hand is not strong. You're going through something. I got this. I got it. Why? Because I am God And my hand is not just steady, it's strong. And don't you want someone if they're lifting you up? Come on, brothers. You know, if you gotta move something, give me a guy with a steady hand And a strong and otherwise I'm gonna carry most of the load. Ever move with somebody so I got it. And they got all the small boxes. And you like I need steady and strong. Amen? And I learned early on that uh as a as a man that when you greet another man Dutin's my name. Washington. That a good strong whip. And and that's the way we we teach our boys. Be strong. Uh look look a person in the eye, it gives a good first impression. And for our women. Same difference. I laughed at guys. I said man uh the women handshake is tighter than yours. You know, we we kill about uh I'm not picking on anybody, but I I expect, unless your hand it hurt, that you give me a grip Amen. And so this strong hand, but even when it comes to our daily relationship, that's the way that we have this first impression. And this strong hand of God is so important that we can say, you know what, God, we know that your hand is powerful. We know your hand will guide us, but we know that your hand is strong. Yeah, that when you say something, you mean something. Amen? And so I I think about that and I just paint that picture that that that when I shake a hand I got a friend of mine that we try at least once a week to see who has the hardest, strongest grip. Well we both over fifty. And when he gets me, I'll start making him laugh. So he'll loosen the grip on my hand. But that's just the way we greet each other. We greet each other that way. We just say, what's up? And get up in there. Amen? And so uh Am I right? Have you noticed that that when you meet people that, you know, I mean I know we got all the stuff about cleaning your hands off and all that, you know, but you gotta shake somebody's hand Amen. So I believe that Jabez was moving in that direction as he talks about this strong, I believe a strong hand of God. one that is powerful, one that is steady, one that keeps us in line. So even though as you as you're blessing me, as I'm praying, keep a grip on me. Amen. Parents of old would just grab you from the back of your collar. Some of y'all know about that. You wouldn't even know it. You would just feel a strong hand and tug From Yokoh, because they have to have it they need a strong hand. And so we need that in our lives, even as we're being blessed, that we don't let the blessing overtake us in such a way that we don't need this hand of God. Isaiah the prophet writes in the 8th chapter, 11th verse, that this is what the Lord says to me with his strong hand. Upon me, warning me not to follow the way of this people. Isaiah don't fool with them. And so God had to say, you know what, you know what I mean? You hear me? And sometimes we need that strong hand of God We don't want a little pity pat. We need a God who's gonna jack us up and be strong with us and help to build us. Amen? Don't y'all report me the social services. I've been talking about folk getting roughed up. I ain't saying beat nobody up, I just say you gotta be firm. And I serve a firm God. Amen. I'm for a God who's firm. Yeah, yeah, I need to be strong with you because I know your path. I made you. You need a strong pull. And thank God for Jesus, he was not a slow. He had to pull me up Ever pulled you up? And you felt like, uh oh, that was God. I knew that grip. I knew what it meant. It changed my heart, it changed my mind. It was the strong hand Thank you, J. Bez. Man, I like this little piece right here. Steady, strong, and there comes a time when you've got to surrender. To surrender is to cease resistance to an enemy or an opponent and to submit to their authority. to give control or use of something to someone else. And I believe that what Jabez was really saying was, I can't make it without you. I believe he was saying that if I want your hand involved, that I'm going to use my hand that you've given me to just let you handle it. Surrender. Hands up. Surrender. And isn't that a good feeling and a good place to be that you know I surrender all to you that with everything I have By way of blessing, and we could take the prayer of JBS and Rumble. Let's say, oh, he loves blessing my territory. But there comes a time that you know who's a part of that, who may surrender Just for a moment, if you can, raise those hands. As an act of surrender. That I I'm I'm I'm throwing in the towel. The white flag as being waved. I you can do better with what you've given me than I can do with it. And so therefore, here. See? Nothing in my hands. Amen. Yeah it did. Unless you've been working out. Y'all kinda felt that didn't you? That's what surrender do. It'll burn a little bit. Amen? And so he talks about this sovereign God. Who can do anything? But I just believe that when it comes to surrender, it is to voluntarily say, Lord, I give my life to you. I ran long and ran hard and played pretend, but one day on a back alley in life, God said, all right. Had to put him up. He took me into custody, booked me, changed my life. I came out of that situation of that person. Have you ever been ordered to hold your hands up in any situation? I'm talking about physically, but spiritually. I mean not one hand, but both hands. That means I'm not holding anything, I'm just holding my hands to you. And surrender is so important. There's some stuff that we have that we're holding on to. It's not doing us any good. It's not doing anybody else any good. And it's a blessing, but we're holding too tight to it We can't hold things too tight or people too tight. But he realized, I believe, and I love about this text. I was saying last Sunday there's not much commentary on this text Not some scholarship about what you have looking at things now what what what did you really mean, Jabez? I want his hand Involved in my affairs. And so he, I believe, surrenders unto God everything that he has, everything that he will get. Let the Lord know that you're ready to turn yourself in. You a fugitive from justice. You've been tracked down, and now you've come to raise your hands in surrender. Didn't that feel good a moment ago when you said, Oh, thank you. Well, go ahead and do it again then. Come on, raise those hands one more time. Don't you feel a sense of free freedom? Ooh, the fact I can lift my hands. I like what the psalmist says. Keep them up, wrong. We'll put them down, yeah. Psalm 134 and 2. Lift up your hands in the sanctuary and praise the Lord. Now you've done it. Come on, praise him as a result. Amen. That is so key. Y'all still holding him up. You got a situation on your job and roll out. I need a break. Go out of the room. Excuse me. And you may need that sometimes in a place where you might find yourself in a corner. Hallelujah. Open my hands up, keep my mouth shut. Just go raise them. Go raise them to the Lord in the sanctuary. And wherever that sanctuary may be Thank you, J. Bez. You know, that's what the cross was all about. That the Lord surrendered himself. They bring him in. He that was his plan all alone. I'm gonna go to the cross and surrender surrender myself. And in the surrendered state, they drove nails in his hands. A surrender state. They they pierced him in the side in this surrendered state. And because he surrendered, we can surrender. Because he died, we have life everlasting. All because of Those hands. I'm so glad about that that they pierced the men the hands. Amen. I love that song for the Barnes says, Precious Lord Take my hand. Lead me on and let me stand. I am tired I am weak. I am worn through the storm, through the night Lead me on to the light. Take my hand, precious Lord, and lead me on the light. Aren't you glad that the Lord is your light? In your salvation, whom shall you fear the Lord of the strength of your life and whom shall you be afraid? The light. He's not just my light, he's my all-in-all He's not just my light, he's my battle axe in the time of battle. He's just not my light, he's my company keeper and my comforter He's not just my light. He is my everlasting father. He's not just my life. He's my friend. He's not just my life. He's God all by himself. He's not just my life It sees our and lift her up He is not just my life, he is an independent God. Answers to nobody. That's why I love him. He's the lily of the valley He's the bright and the morning star. He's a fence around me. All of these pictures we paint because of the hand of God. Aren't you glad today that his hand is strong? His hand is steady? And he's the God who surrenders. Come on, bless the Lord today. That is the word of God. It is already. But come on, stand today with those hands all raised. Ah. Thank you, Lord. I can lift up my eyes to the hills, from which cometh my help. All of my help cometh from you. Hey, that feels good, don't it? Hey, some of y'all just let something go, then you Search me Lord. If you find anything that shouldn't be, take it out and strengthen me. I want to be right. I want to be whole. Yeah, that gives them To search with your hands up. Hallelujah. I I just want to appeal to you. Put your hope and your trust in God. That was all that easy for me to say. I didn't come out the womb this way. I you know I I kind of knew a little bit of this, but didn't really, you know, kind of mama's God. But there came a point in my life and in yours, and you said, you know what I gotta get right with God. That stomach's too crazy. I've tried everything else. I've done everything else. You know, we won't do it all in the world. You won't do it all. And it's time to come in. Look at that. This is a word for the unsaved, but also the backslidden. That it's time for you to come on in. By now, you ought to be tired, worn out, world beating you all up. Come on in His plan is so much better. His platform is peace. He'll turn your life around. If you come today and you don't know Jesus Christ, in the pardon of your sins. The Bible says that you confess with your mouth, the Lord Jesus. Let us say it. And believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. The Bible says That qualifies you if you believe it, process it, speak it, that you shall be saved. Can I confess that as a church boy, I knew enough stuff to keep the Holy Rollers of me. I was like, yeah, I went to Springfield Baptist Church and my mother was in the choir. I mean enough stuff to say back off me. I ain't ready But there came a day when I had to get real with this thing when I was at the bottom. I said, you know what? God is real. And when I begin to process that and begin to open my heart to him, man, don't it feel good to know that he loves you and that you're saved in the pardon of your sins? Let's bow today. Father, I come in the name of Jesus. If there's one today who's contemplating, scratching their heads, say I don't want to do this, I don't want to, I don't want to dive all the way in, can I just put my foot In this, he wants all of you. He wants you to come and surrender your life into him. For that person today, God, in the sound of my voice, I pray in the name of Jesus you might move on that heart. As only you can and save that soul. Heaven rejoices whenever there's one who confesses Christ as Lord. Do it today, God, we pray by the power of the Holy Spirit. For a God who's ever-present, be with that person today, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. If you're here today and know that, give your heart to Jesus. If you're here today and you want to walk for the Lord and recommit your life to the body of Christ, the doors are also open. If you want to be a part of this fellowship, there's no membership fee. You just come on with an open heart, and the Lord Jesus Christ will welcome you into this place. If I've missed some of the above, God is He's He's alive and well. Some folk are losing hope, you know. Some folks, oh I don't know. I I know How the story is gonna end? What about you? I know how it's gonna end, don't you? That beyond whatever's happening on the landscape now of politics Amen. Thank God got this. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comethenumber to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.