I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen. Whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website. I really do believe that God has a special message just for you A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries Or worship experience already in progress. Amen. Bless the Lord O my soul, and all that is within me, I will bless his holy name. There is power in his name. There is deliverance in his name. As we come today, let us bow. Father, we thank you for the preaching moment. I pray even now that you might touch the hearts of your people. That's what your word will do. It is for correction, for reproof, that the man in the woman of God might be thoroughly furnished on the good works. Now I pray that I might decrease and that you might increase. Save a soul today. Encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. This is the day the Lord has made, and we come today looking for some good news. Amen. I'm so glad that the Word of God is good news. In fact, the gospel is itself good news. Everybody came for some good news today. We need some good news. So we turn even now to our passage for the morning there in 1 Chronicles 4, 9, and 10. It reads, Jabez was more honorable than his brothers His mother had named him Jabez, saying, I gave birth to him in pain. Verse number 10, Jabez cried out to the God of Israel, Oh, that you would bless me. and enlarge my territory. Let your hand be with me and keep me from harm so that I will be free from pain And God granted his request. I want to continue today with our theme from the Samonic title Pray Big Part 2. Pray big part two. I want you to meet uh billionaire Stan Krunke. He's a sports magnate. He owns the Denver Broncos, I'm sorry, the Nuggets, sounds like football. He owns the LA Rams, a number of hockey teams, and he just purchased one of the largest pieces of property anywhere. 535,000 acre ranch in Texas. It's the largest ranch with one fence. His agent said it would take an entire day just to get around that ranch. Here's some perspective. It is so big until LA And New York can fit in this one place. It is half the size of Rhode Island. Now, I'm not sure whether uh Stan Crunkey prayed the prayer of Jabez or not. What I do know is that He leads the nation in owning the most territory. But you officially met Jabez a few Sundays ago as someone who prayed this powerful prayer. And it's recorded in the Bible. It's just 29 words. That is the length of the prayer. And we'll pick up eight, nine, and ten of that prayer, mainly enlarge my territory. Enlarge my border. Extend where I am. You know, if you read this particular chapter, you'll find uh different tribes mentioned by name, and then all of a sudden out of nowhere, uh Ezra, who writes this book, drops in the prayer of Jabez. Now, just looking at this, you would say, wow, uh, you know, I I want to be like J pass. I mean, he he prayed. And let's face it, it's already a foregone conclusion that God answers the prayer. So I'm not like, uh-oh, wait for next week. No. If you keep reading that particular passage, you know that God granted him his request. You know, it's been debated whether or not J-Bez was just being greedy. Uh the J Bez could have asked for less. Uh why did Jabez want more land? Why did he want uh more influence? But it happened. And however you look at this, Don't be afraid to pray that kind of prayer. I'm very cognizant of the name and claimant theology of our age. Jump two times, grab the handkerchief from the pastor, and turn around and you will get this big blessing. That will not work. Uh you see on television you order uh the prayer cloth, or some of y'all know about old Roberts. Some of y'all ordered the prayer cloth too? Yes you did. But you don't need to do that because you can come before God and ask him just for yourself. And that's what's good about what we see in the text today. And this morning we're going to talk about Jabez. Main a little bit about him as someone who is credible uh someone who is available and someone who is responsible. Those are all good traits to have. And and there again, it's no secret, uh we'll keep going in this text, but God did what? He granted him his request. God answered his prayer. God heard him from heaven and was able to respond. But first of all, it says he was more honorable. He was a credible person, someone that could be trusted. You may say, Reverend, I've already got my enlarged territory, but maybe I'm a little shaky. I mean, can God trust you with more? Can God trust you with the cult that's been enlarged? I begin to toss about that this week. There's not much scholarship on this text. What I mean is not a lot of commentary on what this means, and so therefore you go to the main commentary, which is the Holy Spirit. And I'm saying Why would you put this kind of answer in the lap of a Jabez? Verse 9 says he was someone who was more honorable than his brethren. He had that kind of trait. Are you the kind of person who is honorable? Someone who can be trusted with more? Sometimes we ask for more, but we can't handle more. Amen? Maybe right now you've already got your territory, uh and maybe you can't handle what you have. But Japaz has proven to be someone who is credible someone that God considers trustworthy, and God is not in the business of giving to those who don't deserve it. You know I'm right. He really checks out our background. He really checks out, can you handle what I'm going to do? Now I don't know about you. Can I testify? There were just times I couldn't handle some things at some stages in my life. I would not be able to manage certain things at a certain season. And so now God has brought you into a different season. You're more mature now, or you're stronger in the faith. But before you just ask blindly, God give me this. Knowing you could not handle what he had for you, but now God has shaped you in such a way that you're a credible person. Got some credibility. Got a credential or two of someone who won't get the big head, someone who won't be too greedy, someone who says, God, I thank you. And you know what? Right now, you're already in your territory. We're waiting. I'm waiting to see when he enlarges my coast. I'm checking the mailbox every day. I want to see how I'm gonna be enlarged. Did you know you already own enlarged territory now? Ever thought about that? That you already have gotten your increase Oh you didn't hear me today on that. I mean I'm I I'm looking, but did you know that already uh that he's granted your request already you are walking on holy ground even now You know, I can say that this I'm I'm not worthy of what God has given me. And I don't mean material things. I'm not worthy of what God has set before me. What a great responsibility. But God saw something in me, He sees something in you to say, you know what? I can trust you with this. Now you're ready to step out. Now you're prepared. You have the right mindset. I mean, don't get me wrong. I believe in big blessings, whatever you want to call big blessings, but I'm glad he's enlarged me with peace. He's giving me a little wisdom now. Amen. Let me confess this. My grandsons are in town. And that's a whole different hat. So I I had a little talk with them on yesterday and there was a little little things going on and it was a pop pop secret. So pop pop called court, held court, and I worked it out so smoothly. Now the old me would have been a parent. I might have reacted a different way. But now in a new season, I've learned how to reason. I've learned how to understand. And so God is putting you in a place as He grows you, as He matures you, to where you have the kind of credibility you can handle a larger territory. Amen? Folks may be amazed at what you're doing. They're amazed at what God has done in your life. They're amazed to see you where you are today. It's only because of what God has done I mean you ought to look at yourself and say, God, thank you. And folk may ask you, how did you do this? Was there a formula? Is there a five-day course? Is there a webinar I can watch? No. God has been faithful to me. God has found me worthy. And therefore I can be trusted for what God has for me. So I'm not ready for my increase yet. But God has shaped you in such a way. I like what Paul writes over in the book of Philippians. 2 and 13 he says, for it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. God does it because God wants to do it. Can't make God do anything in you. But when God does it, he'll do it well, won't he? I mean when he does something in your life You'll be sitting so my God, is this me? Yes, you because God has done a great and marvelous thing in your life, and therefore you're looking for a larger coast and you're already in it In your here and now. I've just been mulling over this this week and thinking, do I have the qualifications to be someone that can be trusted with larger territory? Not just being credible, also being available, and we move on to that tenth verse where he says, enlarge my territory. He doesn't beat around the bush. He's saying, I'm available. And so it's evident, because he's mentioning this text that he must have been hanging around. Somebody must have either eavesdropped on Jabez Somebody must have gotten word that J. Benz had prayed this prayer. The writer says, why don't we put it right here? But obviously, he was available to pray the prayer. We can get so busy we don't have time to pray. Nobody here, you always have time to pray. Nobody here, you always have time to say, I'm gonna get right down right now and pray to God Our society is of such we run, we're busy, but he finds himself, I believe he had to be in the right position, to which God could hear him Amen. I don't know his whole story. The writer only gave us a little bit. Some theologians say that Jabez was somebody who was well known in the community. Some say he had a whole town named after him. All I know is the brother must have been available to be used, available to pray, bold enough to utter that kind of prayer. How bold are you today? I know you're a bold somebody in things of the world, but how bold are you in presence? Lord, here I am. And I don't mind asking for great and marvelous things. It's okay, but he must have been somewhere in the neighborhood. I've not always been available. In fact, I thank God the search party had to come find me. I had a Sunday school verse or two under my belt. Well I wasn't trying to come to God. Not like that. Do I have a witness? I mean, were you really ready to come in? You weren't ready to come in really, were you? Well maybe you're different than me. But the stretch part that came out is okay. I'm gonna find you I'm going to bless you. I'm going to enlarge your coast. It's my idea. God finds us when we're available to be used by Him. You can run, but you can't hide. Isn't that something? God chasing you down for a blessing? God running after you say, I want to bless you. God looking the the places you hang out saying I'm looking for you I can use you to my glory I I see your gifts I see what you bring I know what you're made of He was available to be Are you available today Or are you too busy? Are you in the right place at the right time that God can bless you? I mean this sounds like something. I'm talking about here and now stuff. I'm talking, am I In a place that God can stop and hear you and know that here I am, use me to your glory. How many have ever said that Don't be afraid to say that. I was like, no, no, I don't ask that because he might really want to use me. Huh? But I'm saying now, use me, Lord, to your glory. I'm available. I know I may have shortcomings, and you may have shortcomings, but in order to live this enlarged life He finds you if you're not too busy. He finds you if you're not tied up. He finds you if you got a moment for him He finds you if you're not surfing the internet. He finds you if you're not watching your favorite soap. He finds you if you're not at your favorite club. He finds you if you're not I'm just saying He was available to be used. Praying that big prayer And Jesus will always approach persons and say, hey, you want to follow me? I love what he says over in the Gospel of Mark 1:17, 18. He says to the guys on the seashore, hey, come follow me. How simple is that? Hey you! Come follow me and I will send you out to fish for people I know you got a rock or two. I know you've caught a few fish, but let me let me help you to go out and to really uh go out and win souls. At once they left their nets and followed him. The question is, are you available to be used by God today? Or do you want the blessing but not the commitment? Yeah, I I I want along the coast, but What is that gonna co cost me? Yeah, yeah, I I yeah, I I read the J Best book and I know the prayer, but what what the what is that gonna mean on Monday What what would it mean? How much do I have to to to commit myself? Jabez just happened to be there. So much so he makes the text. He shows up as an example of what can happen. Where are you right now? Are you in a place in your own life that you feel that you're ready to commit to the work of the Lord? I'm not doing a poll, I'm just kind of asking. Where are you today? Yeah? Anybody in their right mind? Yeah, I want a blessing. Are you crazy? I sure do. I want to live large. But but but what is that gonna require of me? Ah, what what's the trade-off? If I decide that I'm gonna accept all of this bigness that you have for me, we make a commitment. So you are credible? You're available and finally you are responsible. Uh-oh. That's sometimes we we can you handle it? Okay, I I I I got the bigger coast. Thank thank you Lord, but uh uh uh that means an obligation now. I've I've taken what you've given me and And so I've got to kind of walk into this thing. And so he grants the request. And let me just say this. In scholarship and preaching and unpacking text, nothing there says what Jabez did. Nothing tells us that Jabez got it. Well he did get it, but what happened after he got it The writer leaves us hanging on the 10th verse. And you don't hear from Jabez anymore. Look, what where's Jabez? But I just believe that God puts this before him because he is someone who is responsible, someone who can handle it. I learned a long time ago that it's not about how much I have to give, but it's my willingness to give of what God has given me. About two weeks ago I was with my photographer over on York Road in in the city and when I got out of the car a gentleman came up to me and I knew then the line. He he wanted something And I didn't have any cash because I don't cover cash much anymore. We got cards. He said, How you doing, man? I'm I said, man, are you hungry? Yeah. I said, well good. Come on over here. We walked over He ordered something from the menu. He received it. And we walked out. And as we were heading to another store, because the fact is that maybe he needs more I said, Lord, I can buy it for you, brother. I don't have any money to give you. But as we walked toward the next store, another man was there who was begging. Can you help me out? And the man I helped helped that man by giving all the change he had in his pocket. I said, uh, isn't that something? So in other words, I may have had a little something, something, but I gave to someone who had nothing, who gave to someone who had nothing, and so therefore, you gotta pay it for it. Amen And so I just believed in my own heart that J Best I I'm gonna break a piece off of you I'm gonna break some off for you. And some of us are so stingy, we sitting on stuff that we could be giving to someone. Oh no. And guess what? Can you be trusted? Are you responsible that once God has blessed you, you can say, you know what? I can get another one Just take that. Don't worry about it. I got you covered. Don't pay me back. Don't no, but God has used you and so you then will go and bless somebody else It's not what you have. It's what your heart is telling you about doing. God right now has already enlarged your coast, and so what are you going to do? Right now, you're holding on to something that you know someone else needs. Oh yes it is. I have no crystal ball. I don't know Sister Rose. But there's something materially and something of substance that you're holding back. Somebody on your job needs that word of encouragement, but you won't give it to them. Or you're the happiest guy on the job, but you keep your little happiness in your little happy corner. But someone is saying you have be responsible and share. Look what the gospel of Luke says when Christ speaks out Luke 6:38. He says, Give, and it will be given to you. A good measure. Press down, shake it together, running over, will be poured into your lap, for with the measure you use, it will be measured to you. Some big old words that mean, I dare you to give I dare you to take your enlarged coast and begin to share it with someone else. Amen. Will you do that today? Will you look within your heart and say, you know what? I got too much of this. My coast have been enlarged, my territory has been extended, so much so I have something to give someone else. The story is told of Madam C. J. Walker, someone who didn't have much, but gave much. Came from humble beginnings and is believed to be the first African-American self-made millionaire. She made her fortune by coming up with products for African-American hair, for women. And she did that well and amassed a great fortune. She once said, I had to make my own living and my own opportunity, but I made it Don't sit down. Don't wait for the opportunities to come. Get up and make them walker pay her dues. I know someone who paid it all. Any guesses who that might be? It was Jesus who paid it all. And all to him I owe, sin is left a crimson stain. He has washed me white earth and snow. Now, if Jabez was here, he would testify to the goodness of the Lord. If Adam was there, he would say, Man, I was the first creation. If Abraham was there, he would say, I'm a friend of God. If Daniel was here, he would say he delivered me from the lion's den. If David was there, he would say, You know what? The Lord Is my shepherd. If Ezekiel was here, he would say, He's a wheel in the middle of a wheel. If Ezekiel was here, he would say, You know what? I walked with God and was no more. If Jeremiah would say, Jeremiah would say, Man, his word is like fire shut up in my bones. But since I can't reach any of them, I tried to get a hold of them, they're gone. But I can reach Jesus. He can testify. He went to the cross and said, Father, I stretch my hands to thee. Know of the help I know if thou withdraw thyself from thee, or whether shall I go? That's the result of big prayer. Large prayer. I'm a person who is already walking in and on my larger territory. Can't be like, bless me this week And that's what the Holy Ghost said. Wait a minute. Don't tell them about that. They don't read that passage. They know that God grants things. He did it. He answered. And so now then what what do you do with what you're holding? What do you do with what you've been given? It is to give. Jabez, thank you. I don't believe he walked away saying, ah, that's mine. He realized and trusted a God who gave great and marvelous things. Will you do it today? Can you be counted on as the kind of person who says, you know what, I don't mind cutting off a little piece of my territory I won't even miss it. And I'm doing it with the Spirit of God today. That is the word of God. It is already blessed. Amen? Come on, stand today. As you stand in your larger place. It's time not to say, you know what? That's my territory. It belongs to me. I'm going in and get those things that God has given to me. Let us bow today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. And we thank you for enlarged thinking. We've been thinking too small. We've been putting ourselves in the corner. But I thank you, God, that you did a great and marvelous thing when you sent your son Jesus Christ to die for us. It is our prayer today that there's one in this place. Who knows not the Savior. Maybe the enemy has stole your joy. He's taken your peace. Taking things from you that had the old you really filling up. Today, know the Lord Jesus Christ can change your life on the spot. You've never said, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. Save me. Come into my heart. He can do that right now. And what we know is that Jabez had a relationship with God. He wasn't someone just showed up and said, let me just try Aberkhabba, but no, he he he knew God. And today you can get to know the God of our salvation. Just for a moment today, think about it today. I wouldn't even think about, have I given my heart to Jesus? If he came back today, would I go back with him? Think about that today. It's not to scare you, it's to inform you that there's a place called heaven. There's a home prepared for us. Today speak it and say, Lord, I need you to come into my heart today I want you to save me. The Bible says you believe that God sent Jesus. If you believe that he died, if you believe that he rose again, the Bible says, thou shalt be saved. Do it today, God, in the life of someone in this place. While those heads remain bowed today, if you don't know Jesus, you can receive him right now. I'm not kidding. You can get it right now. I mean right at this moment. Your life can change forever just by speaking and believing. Do it today, God, in the life of that person we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. God good? Amen. You may take your seeks for a moment today We'll continue next week. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.