I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen. Whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website. I really do believe that God has a special message just for you A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. You'll hear over and over again for the next four weeks. It comes from 1 Chronicles 4, 9, and 10. And Jabez was more honorable than his brethren. And his mother called his name Jabez, saying, Because I bear him with sorrow. Verse number 10, and Jabez called on the God of Israel. saying, oh, that thou wouldest bless me indeed and enlarge my coast, and that thine hand might be with me And that it would keep me from evil, that it may not grieve me, and God granted him that which he requested. I want to share over the next A few weeks from the theme Pray Big Part One. Pray Big When it comes to prayer, the most basic definition of prayer really is you and I, finite beings talking to a holy God. Isn't that amazing that you don't need a walk and talking, you don't need uh internet, you can just speak to the Lord. Right where you are, and he hears you. That still blows me away. He who makes the human soul is able to touch the human soul. Prayer really taps into our emotions. We'll pray sometimes when we're going through. We'll pray a prayer of thanksgiving when God has brought us through something. And so really prayer there there are no limits and there are no borders. to when you can pray. You fly, you have a solid prayer. You're in the car with somebody who's driving fast, you say slow down, Lord help us. And so the things that you will do as you pray, prayer can be audible. silent, very private, formal. And there has to be some ingredients. There has to be uh this fits when we pray that we're able to have in that prayer some scripture. Faith James 1 and 6, but let him not ask in faith, nothing wavering. So you asking God, saying, God, I'm coming believing that you're going to grant my request. I'm not coming saying, well, if you get around to it, Lord, if you would be, but I'm coming saying I believe that what I'm asking for, God, you can do it. Amen? And then we'll pray in Jesus' name, John 16, 13, and we should ask nothing. In my name, I will give it to you Yeah. Ask it in the name of Jesus. In the name of Jesus. That becomes almost the code, the password, as it relates to our time of prayer. And the Holy Spirit plays a role in there. I love this passage. Romans 8. 26 said we don't know what we should pray for as we ought, but the Spirit of God Uh would do what? Well take that you're trying to say and make something of it. Ever went into prayer and you didn't know what you were gonna say? Start mumbling, grumbling, fumbling, and all the next thing you know you praying for Big Mama down south, you were praying But folk you wouldn't even think about why the spirit took over. It helped you and guided you during your time of prayer, and that's always good. Amen? And praise God, even when it comes to praying, having that sense of the Spirit, amen. Be careful for nothing, but by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, make your request. Known under God, and the peace of God that passes all understanding should keep your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. Amen Just this time and sense of prayer. You know, I like what Martin Luther said some time ago, I mean many, many, many years ago. Great theologian says, the fewer the words, the better the prayer. Ain't got to be long. Uh folk or go to a reunion. So hope they don't pray long. Just bless the food You know, uh folks say you ain't gonna pray long, are ya? I don't know, we just as a society we don't like long prayers do we Oh y'all that y'all not with me on that, amen. Just kind of get to the point. And you might just say, Lord, thank you. Lord help me. Lord bless me. Lord guide me. Lord keep me. Amen? And so sometimes those very few prayers And those very few words can make a huge, huge difference. And that really talks about the person in our text today, one by the name of Japaz. Here's one who is not a headliner Uh if you read, you might read right past Jabez. Wait a minute, who who was that? You know, uh somebody by the name of Jabez. And so really it was about sixteen years ago I did the math That Bruce Wilkinson put a book out called The Prayer of Jabaz. Number one bestseller on the New York Times list. And so we remember going through that book I went through with several people, but yet 16 years later, you realize there's still power in that kind of prayer, and as simple as that prayer is We have to unpack that ninth verse and really get a sense of who Jabez is and who he is praying to. It says, and Jabez was more honorable than his brethren. Uh-huh. He didn't just show up. He he had more honor. So that means he had bad brothers? I'm not sure. It just means that he is one who took God seriously. He didn't just show up and say, I'm afraid, give me bless me right now. But there's something about him that he was more honorable than his brethren. And we think about honor, it is to honor God. We have to be in a certain place. I just don't think that that God's the kind of God says you can come any kind of own way. Whenever you want to come when you get ready, when you get in trouble, then come see me. You know, but it's the day-to-day living. Can I get an amen? That we're trying to walk the walk and talk the talk. It didn't say that he was perfect He was more honorable than somebody else. Oh, you know somebody who's worse than you, you think? You say, I'm bad, but I ain't bad as them. Oh, you know somebody like that? In the world, I was that way I did my thing, but I ain't doing that though. But I was no better. Amen. Thank God we're gonna get hooked on some of that stuff, amen. Well I'm on an honest church this morning. Thank God even brought you through from where you were And he says, his mother called his name Jabez because she bore him in pain. Can you imagine? It's a boy. What's his name? Pain. I mean can you nobody names up Kick Payne. But because of what she had gone through, she said, that's the name I'm going to give him. And today's society, we ask, what's your name again, Sugar? What does it mean? And so he is one who Knew what it was like to go through and to have that kind of label, but yet he comes to God. If you begin to read first chronicles, it'll give you generation, generation, generation, names, and then bam, in the middle And then there was Jabez. Look at that. He was more honorable than his brethren. His mother bareham in pain But then let's unpack that 10th verse. There's something about him, even before we get to the whole prayer. We won't do that this week. We'll do piece by piece The leftovers, the next week we have something else to share with you. Let's talk about this first part in praying big. Is that he knew God. He really did. So then Jebez called on the God of Israel. He was very specific because there were other gods. Amen. Bible says, I should have no other God before me. And so people would worship idle gods. Recall some years ago I got a chance to go to Greece and humanity is one of my best classes. I don't know, I just liked it. I I I guess I was good. I got A's in that one class But when I got to the Acropolis and stood up top, I was like, oh man. But names like Zeus and Aphrodite, all them crazy names in Greek mythology, I love the Iliad. And so we look at that. There were other gods that were being worshipped. But he was specific. I'm praying to the God of Israel, the God who's brought us through, the God who's made a way, the God who's led us through seen and unseen dangers, He knew God He could pray big because he knew a big God. He could pray bold because, see, sometimes we make our God too small. God, I'll confess it though. We don't want to give God his props. Not that you need us to, but we just say, well If it happened, Kelly Soda and folk in the world worshiping whoever and they're both they're bolder than you are. Come on man. Yeah, ain't you the Christian? Don't you go to church But he said it is the God of Israel. I know which God I'm praying to. That's important. Who am I really praying to? We talk often about things that will make gods. We'll make people gods. Amen. We'll make places gods. With the little G. We'll make things God if we're not careful. But I like the fact that he knew and had a relationship with God. Why is that so important to know God? I think it's a big deal that you know what I don't know much, but I know God. Amen. Isn't that great news today that with all that is around you and all the technology and all the fancy stuff, I'm talking about knowing the God of Israel, knowing the God who will bring you through, knowing the God that mama and daddy worship. I know God. He knows me. That's the real big deal. Amen? The fact that he knows me. Made me, made you, know all about you, even before you say one word. He already knows. But isn't that amazing? Well God, if you already know, why should I pray then? If you already know what I'm thinking, then why don't you just go ahead and do it? No, I want you to come stop with me. I want to slow you down for a moment. I want you to talk to me because I'm God on high Jabez knew God. That was important. Like what Paul said in the look of Philippians, he says, that I make know him. And the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his suffering being made conformable until his death. Know God today. Make sure you've got a relationship with God on high. And that means that you've got to stay in contact. You wouldn't take somebody you never call 'em, would you? So I'm I'm getting ready to go on your street now. You'll never call you say you love me and you don't talk to me? You don't call me? We don't discuss anything. Uh uh. Just something to think about. Do you know him? Oh sons, I know a man from Galilee. If you in sin, he already oh do you know him? Man, I anybody know him today. I'm just I won't leave this point so I know that you know him Amen. So Jabez could pray big because he knew a big God. He knew it. But he also trusted God. Amen. Saying, oh that thou wouldest, what's the King James word, wouldest bless me In other words, it was already past tense. He believed that God had already done it. Amen? He says that you would Bless he didn't sound like somebody was hell-hearted. Well, if you get around, no. That thy would bless me very specific. He didn't hesitate. He didn't fumble. Sometimes we'll fumble in praying. We'll just get to a certain point and we'll say, no, God, let the Spirit of God lead you. But he trusted the God in whom he prayed to. And you trust people sometimes because you know them and sometimes they'll let you down. But Jabez was really plugged in He trusted this God that he knew that he had heard about, this God that he stayed with. He knew that God would bless me. When this first came up, people said, oh, that's kind of selfish. Yeah, uh you know bless me. Isn't that bold? Yeah, I I I know my brother believes a blessing, but can can you bless me? When you're hearing out blessings, it's okay to ask God to bless you. Let me free you today. It's okay to say, Lord, will you bless me? I I I need your presence now. I need you close to me. And prior to that book, it was almost a known thing. You just didn't you didn't ask God like that You didn't just say Lord, no, you you beat around the bush. Now God, you know, I kind of need a need and I kind of no bless me Amen. Is that what your desire is today that you trust God so much, you would just be bold enough to ask him, God, please bless. And to bless means to pronounce a wish of happiness. to express a wish or desire of happiness. It sounds like there was some trust going on. Amen? He was speaking in the first person. Bless me. How does that sound to you? Have you ever tried that? Well, let's try it right now. Ask the Lord to bless you. This Tim Tutin down in Baltimore and you made Mr. Can you can you bless me? I ain't saying And ask you God to bless me and whatever the the the the mean thing is that's between me and you and it's none of my business what you've asked for, he said bless me We'll get more into that. But he trusted this God that he was able to connect with. And the Bible says, I love this passage in Proverbs, trust In the Lord with all your heart, lean not to your own understanding in all your ways, acknowledge him, and he'll do what? He'll direct your path. He trusted God. And you can't trust everybody. Amen. Didn't your folk tell you that? They look shady. I wouldn't trust them. It's something about them. I wouldn't hang out with them. But you can trust the God who will take care of you. The God who will provide for you. Anybody know him? I'm excited to just say, you know what? I'm glad I know this God. I'm glad I can trust this very God who is alive and well. God is not dead. He's yet alive. Can't you feel it every now and then? You know what? Access, you are here. We talked last week about a close encounter. I sense that God is in the house. But also and finally, he was really in awe with God. He he really and I I like this because it says, bless me indeed. Yeah. I think every word in the text means something. He admired God. He he had a mixed reaction of both fear and wonder. It's not what you do like ooh I I I'm excited, but I'm scared to death because you God. And yet he says, Bless me indeed. Go ahead. Do it. I believe it. Go for it, God. I can receive it. And so he had this certain awe about it that he was able to reverence this holy God. And we're about coming to God's presence just saying, ooh, the Bible says with fear and trembling. So I'm coming into the holy of holies and as I get in it's a sacred space and a sacred place. But God, I sent you here He put a little something on there. Bless me indeed. Like, go ahead and do it. Not that God needs permission to bless you, but to think about who He is at that moment. He's saying, God, I mean this. God, I'm expecting you to bless me. God, go for it. Anyone said to God, God, I'm ready. If you want to bless me, here I am. You gotta call me but one time. Amen. And sometimes society has shaped us to say that's arrogant What you doing asking you selfish. No, I'll call me selfish. Some somebody might even ask for it. As I prepared this word, I was like, you hadn't even asked that You have to ask it? There's some things that God has put on your heart He suggested that you to ask and you've not done it? Amen. Amen. How many folk want to pray big today? Yeah Amen. Yeah, praying being blown away by this great God Psalm 95 and 6 says, Oh come, let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker. There's such a reference And even while you're sitting in the service, you can just begin to whisper a prayer under God right now. Let's just take a moment right now and just begin to put into practice the very thing that we've been talking about. Amen. And so let's begin to ask God. God, good morning. God, thank you for getting me up. God, thank you. And I'm glad that I know who you are. I'm glad that I can trust you and I'm just wow blown away that I can talk with you. And when you get that real feeling, it gives you chills almost to think that I can come In the presence of a God who's alive. And I can do it on the spot. I can do it right now. Right where I'm sitting. That thing you've been asking God for, you've been half asking for it, can I just say, yeah, uh I know I'm right there with you because I've never really asked How many folk have beaten around the bush? That's old country talk. You beat it around the bush, you didn't really ask. You kind of went around it. But today, be bold and say, God Bless me and do it indeed. Amen. I'll think about uh The hymns of the church. I love this O hymn. Even when I sang it, didn't know what I was singing. Oh Lord, my God, when I, an awesome wonder, consider all the world thy hands have made. I see the stars. I hear the rolling thunder, thy power throughout the universe then things my soul My Savior, God to thee, how great thou art. Anybody serve a great God in here? A God who great and greater to be praised in the city of our God? And I just know today that as I look out upon you, that you know what? I I want you to think big today. Yeah, yes. You know say you know they'll say, man, that that person is large You never said, oh man, they ain't large, and you think of material stuff. They drive this, they drive. They're large. You know what? You're large in prayer Amen. So come on and just stand up today in this place and let's proclaim that God, you are God all by yourself. Amen. Let's go ahead and celebrate a God who's large. A God who's got the whole world in his hands. He's got the little bit of children in his hands. He's got me and you, brother, and me and you, sister, in his hands. We're gonna think much larger, as you would say, outside the box. That I'm walking out here today saying, you know what, I've been I've been playing God low. I've been kind of beating around the bush, but today I am going to be like Jabez. He didn't mind saying it won't take long. This J Bez. Hey God, bless me indeed. Amen. This is Tim. God, come on, bless me. Indeed. And put your name where Jig put a put a marker over that and say, here is my name where Jigbeth was naming. Oh, you're afraid to do it. Come on, you're not moving your lips. I don't see one lip moving. This is fair. What's your name? God already knows you, but just speak it. I need you to bless me. Amen. I can trust him. The fact that I'm talking about this, it's enlarged me. I read the book 16 years ago. I thought that's a nice book. And then I kind of went, ooh. Well now I'm back saying, wait a minute. I'm back. A sequel. Hey. Amen. How many folk want to be bold in God today? I mean really bold. Amen. Yeah. Let's take a little bit of that today. You make it personal now. You're gonna trust in him. Amen. How many came to trust the Lord today? Yeah, yeah, yeah. He's just waiting for you to ask. He's given you free will. He ain't gonna make you ask it. Come on, ask it. I will trust in the Lord Come on, figure together. I will trust. I will trust. Come on, let me sit here with me. Oh I'm going public. Well I plus In the Lord delight, oh I will pro In no way I will trust, in the oh I will trust In the Lord. Come on, let's say one more time. Are you with me today? I will. Uh won't you do it today? I will I will trust in the will I will trust. In the Lord I will trust. In the Lord I will trust Is the Lord still alive? Listen, let's just take a moment. I didn't come to beg or to plead. I just come to say, God will take care of you. And he answers the prayers of those who know him. For the sinner, the prayers, Lord, save me. You don't get to say, you know what, I kind of know him. I haven't got saved yet. I'm just gonna go around the back end. The prayer he wants to hear is Lord save me. Today is you come Maybe you've never prayed that prayer. You can't even do the J-Bez prayer unless you pray the prayer of salvation. Amen. Praise God As you bow your heads today, Father, we come in the name of Jesus. If there's one in this place who's never confessed you as Lord and Savior, I pray even now that they might receive you into their hearts. Touch that story heart today, touch that mind today. Change it around God so they may know that you are the God of Israel. You're the God who brought us through, the God who will keep us, the God who is the creator of the heavens and the earth. Touch that heart, even now, God. They might be saved. Well, those hands about today. If you're here and you desire to be a part of the great family of God, just raise your hand. I want to pray with you wherever you are today. You want to be a part of that great family Your name might be in the lineage. There was Susan and she prayed, Lord bless me. But more so, Lord save me If you've come today, you've not given your heart to Jesus Christ. The Bible says, thus you confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in thy heart that God is raised from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Say it today, Lord. Touch that heart today. Let us never open up and boldly ask you to come in. Come in today, we pray. In the name of Jesus. Amen. Aren't you glad he's in? You may have come today and you want to be a part of this ministry. Doors are always open for you. Doors are always open today. You want to be a part of this ministry? I'm moving, but I don't want to move too fast. Maybe you've come today. And you really desire to be in fellowship with this body of Christ, the process is that you you walk for the Lord, you connect with us This is God's church. It's not Pastor Tutan's church. It's God's church. So the day you may be here. God brought you here for a reason. He already told you what to do today So what's waiting on? Look at that. Sometimes you gotta just have people push you a little bit. God already told you, put it in your mind and spirit to do it today. Whatever that thing is, He's asking you to do. Come on, do it today. Be obedient Be obedient today to the Lord. Be obedient to Him today. Amen. Praise God. Praise God. Each one of you right now. I'm just looking at you and I'm doing a solid prayer So I look from row to row. I'm just praying for you right now. I'm praying for you right now where you stand. I'm praying for you right now. I look around this building I'm just whispering a prayer on your behalf today. Father, in the name of Jesus, I pray for every person in this. I'm praying for you right now. I'm praying for you right now. Lord, do it. Do it in their lives. Give them the hope that God. Do it right now. That thing they've been praying for. Do it today, God. We pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Praise God. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you It's www. comtoharvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called Seeds of Encouragement. You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.