Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. As we come today, we're just excited about what God has in store. God has a way of meeting your every need, has a way of meeting you at the place And the time that you need him most. Nothing has happened, chance, or it was a luck, but God knows. Let's bow today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. And we thank you for your word. Thank you, God, that your word makes a difference, that your word can lift a bowed-down head. Your word can Heal a broken heart. Your work can give us hope when there seems like there is no hope. So we come today and we thank you for your precious word. We pray even now that we might decrease And that you might increase. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen Praise God, I want to bring your attention to a passage today from the book of Daniel, the Old Testament book of Daniel, there in the sixth chapter, in just verse number 10. Now when Daniel learned that the decree had been published, he went home to his upstairs room where the windows opened toward Jerusalem Three times a day, he got down on his knees and prayed, giving thanks to his God just As he had done before. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, Take a Knee. Take a knee. If you've ever played any kind of sports, you know every now and then the coach would say, okay. Let's take a knee. Maybe a time for instruction. Maybe a time just to catch a wind But some of you season sex know that catching a break or bending your knee might be a little difficult to get up from that position. Do I have two amens Amen. But nevertheless, there's something about What I call neology. Now, while that's not an official term, it does mean getting on your knees and praying. It's an old saying that says, fight all of your battles on your knees, and you will win every time. Put that knife away, put that weapon away, and don't go after them, but take it to the Lord in prayer. You ever found yourself in that position that life has thrown you so many things that you may think of what you would do conventionally But you say, Lord, I just need to take time and to bow and to pray unto you. Why? Because prayer makes a difference. I'm so glad today that there's so many that pray for me. I know not the names or know when, but you can feel the power of prayer. You ever gone someplace maybe you weren't supposed to go? And you had someone praying for you and you looked back and wondered how you got out of your situation, I don't want to get personal, out of your situation Somebody was praying just for you. Today I want to call Daniel to the stand. Young Daniel, a biblical character, who at an early age, he and some of his friends, along with thousands of others, are actually taken from the homeland of Jerusalem and taken and put in bondage in Babylon Daniel, I would call him a modern-day gifted and talented student. The king didn't look for anybody. He wanted the best of what Jerusalem has to offer. And don't you know the enemy today is looking at our best? The devil is going after those who uh are doing great things for the Lord. And that's why it's so important to pray over your children. Yeah, the enemy wants to get at them as he tried to get at us. But Daniel shows up, he's young, but he knows how to pray. And the king says, listen, I want you guys to eat from my table. You gotta watch the world's menu. It's got too many calories. And the world is always offering us something it says will make us better. But have you ever seen the side effects of some of that stuff? That's the last line of the commercial. That's what's not on the box. Daniel says, I tell you what, why don't you allow me and my friends to do a different diet? We'll just do vegetables and water, and we guarantee you in 10 days, we'll look much better. What are you consuming into your own spirit that will help you spiritually? What are you eating? What are you snacking on in the world? I'm going down that lane. What are you consuming by way of media? What are you listening to? What are you watching so much so that that you take in begins to define who you are? Amen. I'm messing with people now. I'm in some dangerous deep water. You may spend more time on your souls than on your knees. Don't throw anything at me now. You may, perhaps, maybe you're listening to more music than you are the word. Just maybe. Watch your spiritual diet. Daniel says if we go our way, we'll look better. We'll be smarter, and the result will be that much different. Bless forward, Daniel, now some 60 years. He's an older Daniel now But he understands what it means to take a knee. Daniel is in a big position. Daniel's got a big job. And Daniel has haters. Those who are plotting to take him out. I know you are popular. Everybody loves you. But there's somebody behind the scenes smiling in your face trying to take you out. And so Some of those who work for the king says, let me tell you, Daniel has been praying every day. We checked him out. He takes the knee three times a day. Why don't you, dear king, put in place a law that says nobody prays to anybody but you? King's, okay, that sounded pretty good. He goes with it, and Daniel knows what the plan is. The world wants you to to lift them up. The world wants you to follow their God with little G. The world wants you to be one who follows what the norm is in our society. But Daniel is consistent in taking the knee. He's consistent in his prayer life. He knows what's going to happen. And so what does he do? He goes back to what he knows works. I don't care what folks say. Prayer is not old-fashioned. Prayer is not corny. Prayer is not old. I don't do that. Take time. And take a knee and lift up your petitions unto God. First and foremost, there is a certain posture It says that once Daniel found out what the real deal was, he could have gotten mad, could have said, I'm getting my boys, we're going after them, but instead, it says three times a day. He got down on his knees. He had a certain posture I've been practicing this thing all week, so I can take a knee. Every now and then you've got to take time to take a knee. Your posture ought to be one of submission. I know you can pray at the mic, you can pray in the car, but every now and then you have to get low before the Lord. What is your posture like? Every morning I get up, I did that thing I roll out of bed and I go to my knees. And that becomes my morning posture. There's something about being so low in prayer that you're able to look up to a holy God. What is your posture? When was the last time you bent your knees like grandma taught you and put your hands together and said, our Father? We talk in heaven. How would be that I mean just old school power field on my knees to pray? I know what y'all are doing, but I'm I'm going to my house, opening my window, and getting down on my knees. Some stuff you can't fight the world's way, but it takes your getting down on your knees and praying to Holy God. Do you feel me this morning? I know your knee hurts. I know you hadn't been down there for a while, but I dare you to try to say, you know what I've been praying. And not that God based his answer on your posture, but there's something about getting low before Him. Getting low. That's a certain kind of testimony to bow before him. Some cultures, when you see them, they automatically will bow. We have slapped five. But take time this week, tonight Just to get down on that knee. You might need help. But baby, can you help me get up from this? But I want to get on my knees and pray. Oh, you got carpet now To a holy God. Oh, you got a pillow? There's no excuse for not out, but once I get down there and get up from that experience, It will give me what I need to make it on my journey. Is this elementary or what? Pastor said just bend your knee. Take a knee and pray. Philippians 2 and 10, Paul writes that at the name of Jesus every what's that again? Should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth. How many want to change their posture today? Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. That same knee. You hold on to something if you need to. It'll help you get back up, but take time to bow. Not just that. But it became very personal to Daniel. Three times a day. Got on his knees, prayed, giving thanks to his God. Not the king, but to his God He made his thing very personal. I used to love humanities. This study of culture and literature. It's one of my best subjects. I read the Iliad I got into it, man. I was into Zeus and the wild stories of, you know, Melolipus. I really love that. But these were some crazy stories about gods in that realm. But what about your God? The God that you serve, the God who's the Father of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. You ought to make it personal. I'm praying to my God. On my knees, but I know where it is directed. See, it's very easy to set up other gods. Reverend, I love my car, and I'll put more time into that than I will other things. Now, you know, I like a nice car too I love my house. Or I love my clothing. And we'll put those things at a higher place than God. Don't you step on my shoe. Don't you dare park in my space and we'll get to such a place that we'll start worshiping IO gods. Daniel said, I don't care what's going on, I'm praying not to this crazy king, I'm praying to a God who can make a difference. A God who's brought me through. A God who will keep me in perfect peace if my mind is still do you pray to that kind of God? It it's got to be non-negotiable I know we can talk in generalities, but I'm talking about God with the big G. Amen? God who sits on high and looks low, it's got to be personal. In fact, the Bible reminds us, the Old Testament, thou shalt have no other gods before me. God is the jealous God. Dare you to start courting and winking eyes at other gods. He's the jealous God. Can you imagine when you were dating and Somebody had an eye on your lady. I was gonna wake you all up now. And you you gave them an eye. You got jealous. Somebody got jealous of you. You start worshiping other gods, start worshiping yourself. God is a jealous God. There's to have no other God before me. Don't find yourself getting so into other things that you forget the one who can bring you through, the one who can heal your body. The one who can make a difference in your family. It was personal for Daniel. Well, what about you? I'm serious about this thing. Are you taking God so serious? That's why I guess I never became One who could curse very well. Uh-oh. There were folk who were major cursors I mean back and forth. I never succeeded at that. And I also knew not to use the Lord's name in vain. Oh my god, that's a wake-up call right there. And God had to clean and cleanse our tongues. Oh yes, he did. Well, you would do it at the drop of a hat Oh yes you would. But God that we serve is a God who's worthy to be praised. That made y'all smile today. I pray God then delivered you from some of that stuff. Amen. Praise the Lord. So we know the sense of posture. How I'm going to pray. And who I'm praying to. But finally, there is a pattern because he says three times a day. I got down on my knees. I took a knee. I prayed. I gave thanks to my God just as he had done before. This was not new to Daniel. He'd been there before. Life had taken him through so many journeys. He knew what it meant to keep going back to God and praying. Amen? He knew what it meant to have a relationship with the Holy God. And it does become personal. So I don't want to talk faith and religion, reverend. But if the God you serve isn't a personal relationship. So that way I can't judge how much God you got, and I can't say, you know, Reverend, you ought to have more and all. You don't know that. How much God do you have? What is your relationship with him? You've gone back time and time again. You've seen him bring you through. Anybody have he brought through situations in life and you know it was nobody but God? You couldn't have figured that thing out. That same God is still bringing you through. I declare you got a history with God. God did it last year And the year before. And when I was in college, and when I was in elementary, you brought me through the same God is available today. He says, I kept coming back like I've done before. It became kind of a kind of a habit. Amen. Every morning when you get up, I'm not gonna get no coffee yet, I just want to say Lord, thank you. Before I get my day going, I want to say Lord, thank you for bringing me through another day. And on the back end, before I go to bed. Well God, thank you for allowing me to get through this day without any hurt, harm, or danger. Thank you for seeing and unseen dangers if you watch me. And so Daniel is praying to a God who is bigger than the plot. But let me tell you, you know what happened You Bible story readers, Daniel was thrown in a lion's den. Now, Reverend, I thought because he prayed that maybe he'd get off And and not get to a lion's den just because you've gone the God. His plan is bigger. He goes to the lion's den. He's put in that den, but look at the power of prayer. The king was so worried about Daniel. Now, Daniel, you're gonna be alright? Daniel, I hope your God gonna keep you. All night long, the big bad king who passed the law was worried. And when you start praying, situations are changed unbeknownst to you. Now I ain't gonna get them. Keep praying. Keep taking the knee. And the king couldn't wait till the next day. Daniel, are you in there? Daniel, did you make it? Daniel came out, yeah, I'm alright. Daniel taught Bible class 101 to the lions. He went to sleep because God was with him. And when you've got a consistent prayer life, when you don't mind going down on your knees Asking God to be with you and direct you. He will bring you through every situation. My God, you've been in some lion den predicaments, but won't God bring you through? And Daniel knew what it meant to stay on his knees. My God, he was on his face all the time, lifting up the name of Jesus, so much so that the one who tried to persecute him. The one who's got it out for you. The one who's got a knife in your back. Keep on bending your knees. And won't you know that God will change that around? The king said there's a new law in town. It's Daniel's law just passed. Everybody will pray to Daniel's God. I love Psalm 121, one of my favorite psalms. It's when you're down that you can look up. I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills from which cometh my help. All of my help cometh from the Lord which made heaven and earth. He will not suffer thy foot to be moved. Behold, he that keepeth thee will not slumber. Behold, he that keepeth Israel neither slumber nor sleep. The Lord is thy keeper. The Lord is thy shade upon thy right hand. And the sun should not smite thee by day, nor the moon by night. The Lord will preserve you He'll preserve your going out and your coming in from this time forth even forevermore. And I'm glad today that when I come through a situation and I can't figure it, I just look up After I've gotten in my position to pray, God will bring you through. Thank you, Daniel. You are bold somebody. Thank you, Daniel. I'm not a cop down. Thank you, Daniel. I'm not a wink one as a king. Yeah, I got you. And I'm about to go on back. But Daniel, no, no, no. For God, I will live And for God I will die. Today. Take a knee. Low enough to hear the voice of God in your life. Will you do it today? Reverend, I'm at the restaurant waiting on my meal. What are you doing? Take it on knee. It's time for the department meeting. What are you doing? Take it on knee. Today, take a knee Starting to feel right comfortable. Do it a few times. That's the word of God today. It's already blessed. Amen. Come on, stand today all over this place. We thank God for what he does in the life of the believer. We serve a God who can make a difference. Take time just to Bow down today. Amen. To bow before the Lord. Fall on your knees. Let you fall down, know he'll lift you up. Bring you up from every situation that you find yourself in. My God, you got a new pastor now Reverend I changed knees up, my left knee was starting to hurt. So I went to my right. He's a great God. How many want about the day? Yeah, yeah. Come on, sing it with us. But we get up. We both have but we get up. We fall down, baby dead up. Yeah, yeah. Come on, let's stand together all over the church. We bore now, but we get up. We ball down, but we get up. As we come today, I want to just leave that image with you. The Bible says that Jesus bowed when he prayed. We come today And we talk about that same Jesus who sits at the right hand of the Father praying for you and I right now The same one who died, but who rose again with all power in his hands. Maybe you've come today. You've been on your knee, but it was in disgust, anguish, disappointment, but maybe not in prayer. Maybe you've come and you've never given your life to Jesus Christ. Today I'm praying for you. That you might hear the voice of the Lord. As you bow today all over this place, I want to offer Christ to you as one who can make a difference And the prayer he wants to answer is, Lord Jesus, I am a sinner. I've fallen short. I believe that you died and you rose again. The Bible says you shall confess with your mouth. The Lord Jesus, and then believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. The Bible says, Thy shalt, thy will be saved. Why is salvation so important? Why is it such a big deal that I do it now? What's the rush? Why is it so urgent? Why? Because time is filled with swift transition We don't know what tomorrow holds. And what a soul that relinquishes to Jesus. When you depart in the Lord, heaven is your home. Is there one today who knows not the Savior but who wants to know? There's no safer place than being With the Lord. No safer place than knowing He'll take care of you, He'll protect you, He'll save your very soul. As those hands remain bowed today, it's the time to bow head. We don't know how the spirit is moving. Let's bow and close our eyes today. It's not you you're praying for. Pray for that soul that might be near you, who just needs somebody taking a knee on their behalf. Pray for the lost today that they might find Jesus and accept Him as their personal Savior. Believe it in faith today Amen. Praise God. How do they know He's your Savior? Are you sure? Are you really sure? Are you positive? Without a doubt, I've done my part. I can't save you, but I told you about it. Amen. Let's have got a place today. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's cumthenumber twoharvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.