I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen. Whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website, I really do believe that God has a special message just for you A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries for a worship experience already in progress. Amen. Just being able to call on the name of Jesus. At the name of Jesus, every knee shall bow. Every tongue shall confess that Jesus is Lord to the glory of God. There's still power in that name. Sometimes you find yourself lost for words. In those moments, just say Jesus. And in saying Jesus, you will find that he will show up in your situation. Do I have two witnesses today If you found yourself in a dilemma and all you could do was call on the name of Jesus, the Bible says the very demons of hell tremble at that name I'm just stuck right there. The name of Jesus is a strong tower. The name of Jesus makes a difference In every situation. Seems so simple, but so powerful. Can somebody just say Jesus today? Hallelujah Just speak that name today. Just say Jesus. Yeah, Jesus, Jesus. The same yesterday, today, and forevermore. We come today. And we call on that name. Why there's power in that name. There's help in that name. As we stand before you, the people of God, we stand leaning and depending on Jesus To get us through Jesus, to make it plain, Jesus to save a soul. And we come as just an ambassador. Spreading the news that he still lives, I pray even today, Lord, that I might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. When this time is done, we'll be so careful to give your name all the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Can get past that. In Jesus' name. In in Jesus name. That in that one One name there's power. In that name there's deliverance. In that name, everything can happen for your good. I haven't even started the message. I'm just stuck right there. Jesus. Anybody know him? Anybody him? Anybody believe there's power in the name of Jesus? That that gives me hope, that gives me courage, that gives me a sense of joy and peace just in that name. I want you to try it today. Anybody just want to say Jesus? Yeah, yeah, just Jesus. As we come today, I want to share with you a word of scripture from Acts The second chapter and the 42nd verse. It reads, they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and to fellowship, to the breaking of bread, and to prayer. I want to continue our series this morning by preaching from the theme, The Day the Church Caught Fire, Part 3. This week I have a spiritual flashback. I thought of one of the deacons of our church Growing up in Florida, and I could see his smiling face. His name was Jacob Williams. He was the kind of person that always seemed to be on fire for Jesus. Now we called him Mr. Buster He drove a nice Buick, but whenever you would see him, he had something to say about the love of Jesus And at my age I was like, uh oh, there he is again. But he was not someone who was loud or in full blaze, but there was this steady Fire for the Lord. You could find Deacon Williams on the parking lot of the supermarket. Miss Bueller would be in shopping, and Deacon Williams would have some kind of a book in the car reading. Just trying to keep the fire burning. Know anybody like that? As I look out this morning, I'm reminded of the chairman of our deacons ministry, Deacon Jared Waller. There's not a conversation you have with him. It does not bring up the name of Jesus. Does not have a booklet for you something about Jesus. That is how we keep the church fire burning by staying lit. That's right. I see even the daughters of the late Deacon Percy Porter save them all. Whenever you would see him, always something about Jesus. Anybody know what that means, that the fire just does not go out, but you take opportunity just to keep it burning. And I look at the word today. You know we've been talking for the last few weeks about uh the day the church caught fire uh there at Pentecost. And how the believers were filled with the Holy Spirit of God, and they spoke in unknown tongues, and there was a response. It says, in one setting, three thousand souls were saved. That's a major congregation. And were baptized. And Peter had preached the word until times got better. But I'll begin to ask myself the question: how does the church remain on fire? How do you stay lit? How do you keep the home fire, the Spirit of God burning within your life? And that's the question I want to bring today. It's one thing to say, yes, I'm all by. What happened when the winds of life and People get on your last nerve and your fire just about to go out. How do we as a community of faith keep the fire burning? Now according to the Bible, there are at least four, I think, characteristics of the early church that allow us to see how they kept the fire burning. I love the word of God so much. I just love doing what I'm doing now, just trying to explain it. But if you look at this text, you'll find there are a couple of things. This was a learning church. All these people had accepted Christ. They were all excited about being baptized, but now what? This church had to remain a church that stayed in life's classroom. We honor our graduates, but I tell you If you need to get a course every now and then or a Bible study every now and then, just to help you to continue to grow. And it says in this one passage that they devoted themselves to the apostles. Teaching. And my question was, who are the apostles and why should we listen to them? Amen. The word apostle means that they were sent out. And whenever you have sent out for the Lord to do a work, he had identified those twelve persons early on to say, you will go out and spread my word. And so they sent out the apostles to share. They needed to learn as a community of faith. How many folk know the importance of just continuing to learn more about Jesus? You can never get all of it, but just to say, you know what? I'm gonna learn one more thing about Jesus. They would meet in the temple courts They would meet in their homes, but they were a learning church. I'm gonna call Harvest the learning church That every Sunday I come, I hope that you leave learning something. Amen. That what is the one piece, you educators, what's the takeaway from today's message? There should be one thing that you get and that you're able to share. I'm still growing in my faith. Reverend, you've been to school. Uh-huh. You got a degree. Amen. You doctor, praise the Lord. But I'm still learning because the Holy Spirit continues to teach us Amen. Aren't you glad that you're a part of a learning community? And so that is what kept the fire burning. Love what Peter says. He says over in 1 Peter, he says, you know what? He says, you need to make sure That you do what? You consume the word. I'm what you see on screen there. As newborn babes, always what? Desire the sincere milk of the word that you may grow thereby. You ought to be like a baby. Say it's time to feed on the Word of God. You ought to be saying, I want more, I want more, I don't have enough And the word of God ought to be so rich to you, you ought to say it's Baba time. Amen. That if I just grab one passage For the day, if I just grab one word for the day, if I grab one of them leaving to go to go to work, that I got one passage That I am so hungry for the Word of God, it will keep the fire burning in you. Have you tried it? It may be a devotional, but all the time saying, I want to learn. They could stay on finding it because there was always this teaching. And the apostles had been with Jesus, so therefore, what better teacher? And the and the world says a person that teaches they learn twice. And so even in our teaching or sharing, we're still learning. Aren't you glad to be a part of a learning community? I know some of y'all are honest too. I'm just trying to wake y'all up this morning. Amen. I know the lights are low and you got a grill on your mind, but I want you to look over here Over here, hello, and just say, yes, yes, I I I agree. They needed the apostles teaching, they needed to learn how to keep the fire burning by way of study. The Bible says, study so yourself approving to God a workman need not being ashamed, but doing what right is dividing the word of truth. Is that alright? So just grab something today and say, you know what? I'm gonna take that with me, I'm gonna learn. But they were also a loving church. It says that not only did they get the apostles' teaching, but they did what? They were in fellowship. Yeah. And a big word for that is colonial. That means to be together and to have things in common. And they eat eat a little bit too. And so the early church, I mean Jesus did really the first grill, there's a passage where he talks about how the disciples were coming in, they couldn't catch anything, and they looked on the seashore and they could see some smoke. He was fixing fish. Look at that. Isn't that something? That the first cookout was on the Sea of Galilee. Look at that. And so but they ate together. They shared together. They had things in common. The person you're sitting next to, there's something you have in common with that person who's near you. And that's what good fellowship is. We can laugh, we can have fun. We're the laughing church every now and then, amen. But that is a time of fellowship, and the Bible says they Stay in fellowship. Come by your house, come by my house. Our conversation is all about what? About Jesus. That is what keep the fire burning. Now everybody may not want to fellowship with you, but if you find someone who's talking the same talk, Someone who have like interests or like hobbies. But what's my hobby? I I like the word, so I get around word people, amen. I can relate to everybody, but somewhere in that conversation, I'm gonna slip in. The word of God. You've heard my testimony. But this church made sure that they got together. They have no fancy homes. They just connected and said, okay, we've been hearing the teaching. Let's take time now to hang out together and to be in fellowship one with another. You ever spent time with someone over a good meal? Oh I know you have. And over that meal, you just said, you know what? You alright. It's good just to hang out with you, and that's what the early church called colonya or fellowship. That's good news And the Bible reminds us that it's so important to hang out together. And you're being in church today Is because you want to be around other believers and say, you know what? I went to church today and if I go to church, we could have hung out together. The Bible talks about not giving up meeting together as some are in the habit of doing but encouraging one another. And so when you say, you know what, I'm not going to church, don't you miss something? Well I think an amen on that You missed the Sunday, you said, I don't know what happened last Sunday. You missed some fellowship. You may not have missed me, but you missed just seeing people. Somebody hugged you, somebody gave you five, somebody said, How you doing? How was your week That's Kononia. That is fellowship. That is a loving church. I care about what you care about. I've been through what you've been through. You can make hang in there. And you won't find it in the world. And they'll beat you up one side or the other. But in church, folk at least be able to smile Yeah, you hang in there. It's gonna be all right. That is what fellowship is, and that's what kept the fire burning within the church. Amen. So this was a church that was a learning church. It was a loving church. It also was a living church. It says that in addition to fellowship, they took time to break bread together. You say, Reverend, you sat there eating. I'm talking about holy communion. Every fourth Sunday here at Harvest we have what we call communion. We take time to remember the things that the Lord has done by way of our salvation. It's a time of getting together, but they took time to take communion. Amen They realized that in remembering what Christ had done, they were indeed keeping not his memory alive, because he's still alive, but they were remembering what he had done And to keep a church alive is to keep Christ at the forefront. I hope this is not a dead church. Anybody ever been to a dead church? It's okay. You tried to laven it up, but it was it was a dead church. But at least when you come in you bring some life with you If I bring in a smile of amen or thank you, Jesus, I'm bringing something to the fire. You ever have one of those bonfires and it starts to go out and you say, Well, you know, put something else in it Some more wood. And so when we come together and to be a church that continues to remain on fire, we take time to observe an ordinance of the church, and that is Holy Communion. Passover. We know that Jesus took time with his disciples. They shared the Passover meal. They thanked God for what had happened previously. And so take time that whenever you take communion, it's not just Okay, it's just a wafer. It's the juice. I can't open it up. You know, it's on the fourth Sunday. Except it's open as you do it. You show forth my suffering us to come again. And that's what we do that. Same thing with baptism. These are reminders of what the Lord has done for us. And so the old saints, older, seasoned saints, say, you know what? I want my communion. And I was a deacon, a deacon strobe man, we'd show up at the house, them so that they'd be awake. I mean they'd have on the Sunday best at home saying, where is my communion? They're ready. Because when they took communion, it was like, oh, this is serious. And we take it serious that in coming together as the body of Christ, to break bread together, that is, his body And this blood that was shared just for us. Amen? I encourage you to keep that in remembrance. And if you look at even what Paul writes in 1 Corinthians, he says, whenever you eat this bread and drink this cup, You proclaim the Lord's death until he comes again. We need reminders along the way. Amen. I gotta be reminded of what he's done. Life is clouded Life is tough, but when I do something that connects me with the church, it reminds me that the fire is still on. Is that all right? All right. So we're Well what now? We're a learning church. We're what else? A loving church. And what else? A living church. Look at that. Y'all just passed. But finally, a lasting church. That with all that they had done, the thing that kept them was prayer. That with all of you know the apostles' teaching, oh he taught a good word today, and and with fellowshipping and we broke bread together with communion, the thing that sealed the church. is prayer. And that's why we have to pray. How many of y'all know about MC Hammer? I I love to do things that keep everybody on point. Didn't you see him just dancing across the way there? That was MC. But we have to pray, and it may not be a long dissertation, but you'll find as I did this week There was a time that I had to turn the power light up. Why? We're challenged daily. And one mind says, oh, lay them out. The other mind says no, your power light is on. And what you got to do is is just turn it up. It will keep you. God, I need a prayer moment right now. Can you pull over for a second? Let me go get a coffee. I really stopped to pray and to cool down. This church knew that the power of prayer made the difference. Have you found that prayer makes a difference in your life? Have you found that every time you pray that God hears your prayer? And that God can't that's amazing to me. I don't know. I mean I just know that Lord, I just mentioned it and you bless me. Lord, I just said help me. And you came by. Lord, I just said Lord, I need you right now. I need it comes by. I'm down to my last dime Here's the quota. Amen. And when you pray, God will give you peace. God will give you hope. I don't care who you are. When you begin to pray Won't you see something happen? Did he do it for you today? Say, no Lord, I I prayed and you answered my prayer, and therefore I know it was not look I know it's not helping chance, but I believe in the power of I'm getting excited today. I believe in the power of prayer. It's not how you sound, it's not how deep you are. Just say, Lord, help me Lord, I need you. Lord, come by here and He will do it. In every situation, this church said, you know what? That's what keeps the church on fire. That's what keeps the church alive is connecting and praying. Didn't you think that was old folky stuff? And mama said, now you go on and you be good and you pray, you hear? Sure ma yes ma'am. And you got out in the world and you didn't pray. Until times get hard. Oh, I know I'm talking to somebody today, and you realize oh mama told me to pray, and you begin to say, Lord, I've seen what prayer can do. That is what they did. But you know what? The piece that really kept me in this passage was they devoted. They they they were serious about everything they did. Serious about being the church that learned serious about being a church that took time to fellowship. Serious about being a loving church, but it's that they devoted themselves. They didn't have step. They didn't slap. They didn't say, well, you know, well I get around to it. But they were committed, and so we are that church. We are those people. And with everything that may be out there, it comes back to Jesus. Only what you do for Christ will last. Other stuff will weigh out, it'll go out of style, it'll not become popular. But how many know today if you just keep on staying with Jesus? That he will be with you, he will supply all of your needs, he will take care of you, and so keep that peace. That Jesus went to the cross and he died for us, he was devoted. Amen. And that's still a story that should not be covered over. He went to the cross and he died. And he rose again. And because of that, we have hope. This church stays on fire. It's the same church that Jesus is coming back for. A church without spot, a wrinkle. Yes. Can't you see him saying Don't see no fire over there? I see smoke. But no fire. If he comes by your place of worship, might there be some fire in the house? If he comes by your home, might there be something, a spark that you've taken time to spend with Jesus? If somebody confiscated your car, will they find prayer all up in your vehicle? If somebody went by your workplace and begin to dust evidence for fuck their fine, somebody's been praying up in here But Jesus is present in all of our situations if we take time to stay on fire. That's how they did it. That's how they remain relevant. Is they stuck together. And that is so important. Jesus paid a great price for our salvation. So what do we do with that? Okay. Church caught fire, it's great. But as you leave today, what role do you play? How do you affect the people around you? How do you affect your home with this fire? What am I to do with this fire? I don't want to put it out. I'm carrying it like a torch in my heart, but what now is my role? Get out and let someone know that my life is better because of the Spirit of God who rests inside of me. That is the word of God today. Let's stay all over this place today. There's power in the name of Jesus. Lots of power. Every now and then you will feel that fire whirling up in you. Might just be a tear, might just be an emotional moment, but I believe you can feel something When you stay close to the Lord. This week I was going through the Remote control when I get it. And I always go there. But my wife knows that uh oh you're on a religious channel, aren't you? Yeah I'll watch movies, but I'll go to 300 and 299 and yesterday I was looking and Billy Graham came on I said, man, be the grammar, preach it. And what I like about what he did He wasn't beating around the bush. That's right. He said, You know you're out there? Come on, walk. You don't know just a go pillagram. He wasn't making excuses. He was saying, you come on. And people start leaving their seats to give their life to Jesus. I said, you know what? We're going to kind of cover that thing up a little bit, you know, if you want to come. Now Billy said you need to come. I said I like that. And people came for the thousands And maybe you've come today as we sing a little bit of this song, one of the invitation songs. Just as I am See no what I'm coming today. I'm giving my heart today to the Lord Jesus Christ. There's Power in him Oh man of God. Let me just say today, if you know that you're not saved, know that you've never given your life to Jesus Christ. I feel that kind of moment today. Hunter Jesus while there's still time. And as I look at that. Old real of Billy. He didn't know per se who those persons were. He said, You, there's some room on that side to come. And over here. Now it was not Billy Graham, but his proclaiming the message of Jesus And so I come today with you making apologies. If you don't know Jesus, you need to come and give your life to him. And I said, maybe I'm not asking today if you've never confessed Christ. If you don't really know what it means to be safe, I want to pray with you today. I don't want you to leave this place kind of sort of But can I just be bold today? If you're here today and you don't know Jesus Christ, I want to pray with you. Just that simple. If you're here today and you don't know him, he can save you right now in this place. On the spot By having faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. This is called an invitation. If you're here today You don't know Jesus. What does that mean, Reverend? I've never confessed him. I've never given my heart to him. I've never made that move. I've never decided, yes, I'm going to be saved. And those 3,000 were saved and baptized. Let me back it up. I've never been baptized. Let's start there. But to be baptized, you've got to know why you're being baptized. It's because you've accepted Christ as your personal Savior. So let me just do this. If you've never been baptized, come today If you want to be baptized, come down today and we'll arrange to have you baptized. Anyone who's not been baptized today in this place? Everybody's been baptized today. In Harvest, is that right? You've not been baptized? Come on down, sweetie Hallelujah. Yeah. Anyone else who's never been under the water? Never been baptized? That's a starting place. Praise God. Is there one more? Only you know. I've not I've been wanting to get baptized, but I can understand. Come on down right now. We have one candidate already? Is there another today? Is there another? Come on today. If you know that you've never taken that step What a bold spirit to say, you know what, I'm not. And so I've come today. I've responded. But there's another. There's someone else. I don't keep records, but you've come today and you've never been baptized. Maybe somebody can walk with you today Can you walk with me? I want to do this, but I'm afraid I don't want to be singled out. Ask him, say, can you walk with me? I want to be baptized, but I don't want to walk down by myself. Take time today and do it. I know you're here. It's a great first step. It acknowledges that, yes, Jesus is Lord. If you know it today, As I do this, as I move on, if you've not been baptized, raise your hand today. Are you truthful? Everybody has been baptized. Everybody. If not, walk for the Lord today. It's okay. It's all right. I don't feel what people say don't worry about them. It's your big day It's your decision today. It's by the power of God. Let's bow today. Father, we thank you. For a bold spirit. The world says you're offending people. Spirit of God says, no, you didn't ask. And so, God, forgive us for not asking right. Touch that heart today that has never received you. Touch that heart today that desires to be saved. Desire to be baptized, which is connected to salvation. Do it today, God, we pray. In Jesus' name. Thanks so much for listening I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's cumthenumber twoharvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called Seeds of Encouragement. You can get them by way of iTunes from Podcasting. or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.