I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen. Whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website, I really do believe that God has a special message just for you A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries for a worship experience already in progress. Amen. Again, I want to salute you for pressing your weight. I can find the real saints, the ones that won't let a storm. A detour, anything, get between them and their Savior. Thank you for pressing your way. There's a word from the Lord today. It comes from the book of Acts Which simply means the Acts of the Apostles, that is a collection of the church early history. And there in the second chapter, verse 37-38, when the people heard this, they were cut to the heart and said to Peter and the other apostles, Brothers, what shall we do? Peter replied, Repent And be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive The Gift of the Holy Spirit. I want to pick up from last week and use the sermonic title, The Day the Church Caught Fire, Part 2. Once again, I invite you to this Bible-based discussion of not a physical church, but the people of God who represent the church. being on fire, that is being filled with the power of the Holy Spirit. And that's what we depend on to get our guidance. The Holy Spirit is a person. Has emotions, has feelings. The Holy Spirit will comfort you. The Holy Spirit will guide you. The Holy Spirit will convict you. But just know that He is the third person of the Holy Trinity. Here's a way we can find how faiths might change. And when I say that, We believe in the Christian faith in the Trinity. God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit, all one. God in three persons. You'll see throughout the Bible, you will find the Trinity really at work at the baptism of Jesus. That Jesus, the Bible says, is viewed by John as one who cometh, and there's a dove on his shoulder representing the Spirit of God. And then once he's baptized, he comes out of the water, we hear a voice from heaven saying, This is my beloved son in whom I'm well pleased. Just the Bible 101. Know the Holy Spirit resides in the heart of the believer. Once you confess that I am a sinner and I want to be saved, and you accept Christ as your personal Savior, you will then become filled with the Holy Spirit. May not feel like it, but the Spirit of God then resides in you. I don't know about you, that kind of blows me away. You mean the Spirit of God finds a place in this vessel? The Spirit of God takes residence in me as a person. That causes me to want to live right That causes me to be careful where I take the Holy Spirit. Can't take him everywhere. It lets me know that I may say something or feel a certain way, but am I grieving the Holy Spirit? I'm way off script. The Spirit told me to say right here. I want you to understand what it means to be empowered by the Holy Spirit. He's the person. He has emotions. He's real. So on last week we talked about this church getting on fire. We actually were able to leave out of here, lit up. From that standpoint, we did Acts 2 and we said this early church, they made a decision that they would be together in one place, all together. It was a church unified. A church that heard something that sounded like a mighty rushing wind. A church that saw something that what looked to be tongues of fire resting on them and this church as a result had something to say. The Bible says they begin to speak in unknown tongues And that persons who were around couldn't figure out what the issue was. They thought they had been hitting some boom farm. Some of y'all are not too young for that. They thought they'd been drinking some Johnny Walker Red. They thought they'd been and I'll stop there because I want you to know that that was the impression that the people thought. And when the fire of the Holy Spirit works on you, you may act or move in an unusual type way, but aren't you glad that the Spirit of God resides and rests in you? Well I don't think you have a choice. If you say he's already in you So it's all and whether you want a filling of a spirit. Amen? How many folk own vehicles? Do you gas it up often? Well you need a fill-up or two dollars, whatever it takes to get you where you got to go. But nevertheless, the Spirit of God we desire a filling of his spirit. So what happens then is Peter stands to proclaim the good news. Peter, who is one that was recruited by the Lord Jesus Christ. Peter, one who was very rambunctious. Peter is one who didn't take no stuff. Peter cut off a man's ear right there before Christ went to the cross. Peter is one who denied Christ three times. And we find the same Peter who's now standing and proclaiming the good news. Isn't it amazing what God can do through us? Through our past, he stands, all the people are there, he begins to proclaim to them about what Christ has done. The sacrifice of Christ, his death, his resurrection, and how they played a hand in it. He was saying basically you all rejected him, you are guilty as sin. He stands and proclaims to this church, proclaims to these people who have witnessed the church they thought was intoxicated, he shares with them this good news And what he points out to them is that there comes a point, once they hear him, they say, okay, we've heard you. Now what? Yeah, you spoke in the word. He didn't get any applause, no high five, a slap on the back. But the people wanted to know what is it that we must do? And don't you know that somebody is asking you the same question? Somebody in your home and say, okay, I went to church today. Now what? I did what you told me to do. Now what? There's someone on your job say, okay, I saw your Bible and the cross in your car. Now what? Yeah, I I heard your passage of scripture. I saw you at church, but but now what? This generation especially wants to know so what? Uh-huh. We can't just tell them you just gotta do right. But they want to know now that we've heard your presentation, as if somebody was trying to sell you something, I cut 'em off though. That's always my line. How much am I going to be out of every week or every month? Peter shares, and the people want to know. Has anybody asked you a question about your faith? You didn't get offended, did you? Wait a minute, let me let me tell you my testimony. Here's where I was, here's where God had brought me, here's where I'm still trying to go. People appreciate that kind of honesty. Don't try to pretend that you've never done anything wrong. Try to pretend that you're holier than thou. Try to pretend you've not made a mistake. But be real with people, and these people were looking for this on fire church. Peter, what you got to say? And he very simply gets right to the point. He doesn't give a long, well, let me tell you now, my name is Peter. I grew up down near Galilee. He said the first thing you ought to do is you got to repent. Peter replied to their inquiry and just said, repent. Repent means to change your heart. It's to leave behind that which does not please God. It is to apologize It is to be ashamed. It is to be sorry. It is to change your attitude. It is to feel remorse. It is to feel regret. It is to see the errors of your ways. To repent says I blew it. To repent says, dang, I messed up. To repent says I have fallen short of your glory. Can I testify? I have to repent. And you have to repent on some things that the Holy Spirit has weighed upon our heart. I just feel like teaching today. And the bottom line is you know and the Holy Spirit knows. And the question is, will you repent? Yeah. Will you make it right? Nobody may not know that you laid somebody out, that you're angry, you're mad, you're nasty You have a little attitude, and yet you have sinned and hurt the heart of God. And therefore, Peter says, I'll tell you off the bat, just repent. Yeah. That's old school grandma down home in the country church type of teaching is that yes, I repent that I've fallen short. And so Peter is very honest with them about what it takes to become an on-fire church and on fire Christian. I just love I love this. You know why? In the midst of this, I'm helping myself. In the midst of it, right now, let me just pause for 30 seconds for saying the notification. And right now there's something you need to repent of. I don't need to know. I'll do my own repenting, but just the thing that came to mind, even right now you can repent that and say Lord I am sorry for what I did. Amen. That was a repenting moment. And not repenting to a person per se, but repenting to the Lord. Oh my God. He said that's what it takes. Are y'all sorry? Yeah. Are y'all remorseful? Yes. He says it takes that in this life to repent. To turn away. Say, I'm not going to do it again. And then we do it again. And we keep repenting. But the Bible says in Romans 6, shall you continue in sin? That grace shall abound? No. In other words, God's mercy is sufficient. His grace is official. But you know what? Can I say today? Have you done something that you keep saying I'm sorry for? And you keep going back to it every time? Well, the Lord wants to help us in that area. Let's repent and then move on from what we've done wrong And as much as I want to share with you, it does come a time when the Bible says when you've offended someone to go to them. Now I went to the Lord on it. Yeah, but I won't find a Christian saying brother, I messed up. And so I'm coming to you to say I'm sorry. Oh we too big for that sometimes. Now I I messed up. Holy Spirit don't cut you to the core. And you've not had a good night see. Why? Because you did not take time to repent your sins unto him. James 5 and 16. Therefore confess your sins to each other. And pray for each other so that what? That you might be healed. The prayer of a righteous person is powerful and effective I could just say on that one point today about the importance of repenting. They wanted to know. Peter told them. But in the midst of that, there was also a time to rebound. Repent and then do what? Be baptized. To rebound is to bounce back. I don't know who you're pulling for in the series, but it takes good rebounding To win a game, getting in the best position, and how do I get back to a place to where God can use me? To rebound and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for remission of sins. Nobody is exempt. Everybody needs to be baptized. Everybody needs to do it in the name of Jesus. Reverend, you mean the water? Yeah, I don't mean a sprinkle, but then the faith. Within the ordinance of this church, we go under the water. Amen? And that's to be under. Why? Because Christ went down For three days and then rose again. John the Baptist baptized him. Amen. But this is a larger baptism. It's not just I got some water, I came out, and I'm still bad as I was when I went down But he was talking more about the baptism than of the Holy Spirit. To allow the Holy Spirit to engulf you, to allow the presence of God to take you over. I need to rebound from the things I've done, and I can do it by what? Allowing the Lord, asking him to baptize me. I'm still doing baptism, by the way. If you haven't gone in the liquid stream yet, I'm available. Because that is a public show of support for what you've done within your heart. But he says, you're going to be baptized not with some water. I can do that. But by the Holy Spirit, every area of life you ought to make available just to him. Speaking of water baptism, I remember the day. It was June the 15th, 1965. Got baptized in the Douglas Pool. Y'all know my story. You got your story too. Don't say now rep I heard that. Well, what is your date? I still got my certificate from 1965. I was scared to death. Reverend Grippin took me under. I came out, I was still a little bad. But when the Holy Spirit baptized me, something else happened Something got a hold of me. See, I went to the church last night and my heart was but after I got there, the Holy Spirit said I can do what water can do. I'm going to allow you to rebound from a place that you've been. John says, don't y'all get too worried about me baptizing you all. He says, I baptize with water, but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. Amen. How many folks will be baptized by way of the Holy Spirit? Amen. I mean I'm talking about go under and come out and say, Lord, I'm gonna live right. Go under, I'm gonna talk right Go and say, I'm going to be a better person because I have submitted to being baptized by the Holy Spirit. That's all the fire of God today. They were able to repair. They were able then to rebound. But finally They receive the Holy Spirit and they receive the gift. I like that. I don't know a person in you who would not turn down, who would turn down a gift. You have to do that? Thank you. We take a gift now. You shouldn't have. Where's it again? We love gifts And many of you love to give gifts. It's a blessing. But he says the Holy Spirit is something that's special and treat it that way. Amen. Don't don't uh don't don't sit there and say, well, it's just no. It's a gift that comes from on high. I'm giving you something that I pray you'll receive it. I pray you'll take it in. You won't know how you get right, it says their hearts were pricked. Their hearts were pierced. They felt downright bad. He says, Well, let me help you. That they're surfing for you, all wrapped up. There's a gift that comes to you. It is the gift of the Holy Spirit. How many people have that gift? Are you supposed to have it now if you're saved? Go back to chapter one. How many folk know that you have the gift? See you already have it. You have the gift of the Holy Spirit residing in you right now. It may not feel like it, but you have had a moment to where something laid heavy on your heart and you just sense that I need to be doing this. That's the right thing for me to do. I don't need to be here. That don't sound right. Lord, let me see myself under the power of the Holy Spirit. I could do a session all together just on the kind of gifts. The Bible says the Holy Spirit gives out gifts separately. So that when you receive Christ as your personal Savior, we all get at least one gift. I can't do nothing. Yes, you can. I just want to come to church and you can do more. Amen. Amen. There's a gift, and you may already be operating in that gift. So I don't know what your gift is, but there are many gifts, and there let me just hit a couple of them. A gift of prophecy. A gift of serving. I know some servants that no, that's just this thing. They serve. A gift of teaching. Here's mine. A gift of encouraging. I love to encourage. That's one of my spiritual gifts is to encourage till the sun go down. I thank God I know that. Gift of giving. I love to give As I grow in him, tithes and offerings ain't no big deal for me. I've learned that it's a gift to be able to give what God has given me. Gift of leadership, gift of mercy, word of wisdom, word of knowledge, gift of faith, gift of healing, gift of miraculous powers, gift of discerning spirits gift of speaking in tongues and a gift of interpreting tongues. Amen? Praise ye the Lord. So, with that said, 1 Corinthians 12. 11 says, all these are the work of one. And the same Spirit, he distributes them to each one just as he determines. Don't you feel good knowing you got at least one gift? Amen. I mean, as an old fire believer, you gotta have one. But to operate in that gift, it becomes so natural to you We can gotta pull you. You just encourage. I don't get lost in the store encouraging folk. I don't even know. Why? It's my passion and my gift. As I wrap up today, the Bible says a little bit further that once they heard this word, what did Peter do? Try, come on. I'll baptize you. He began to baptize them right on the spot. And the Bible says three thousand souls were added in that one day. Now that's called fire. That they showed up, they heard the Lord, he shared the word, they received the word, they asked, What can we do? They did it, and they were saved. And today there's someone that you know who is not saved. And they're waiting for you. Ready? What can I do? What took place added fuel to the fire. Some of y'all can cook out a little bit out here. I know some of y'all do gas now. But the old school grillers Get out there. I can't grill. I'm a grill watcher. And y'all get that fluid and just go. And that's what it takes sometimes. Is that you need somebody just to say, Lord, to blow you up? So that you might be the kind of person who says, you know what? My coals are getting low, but can somebody pour some fuel on me so I might let folk know that the wages of sin is still death and the gift of God is still eternal life through Christ Jesus? Sometimes you laid back as believers. You ought to get blown up in the fire. And let somebody know I'm glad to be that God saved me. Amen. And you need to have some fuel added to the fire. When Jesus died on that cross there was a firestorm. A lot of anger, a lot of criticism, and they put him on that cross. And they put him in that grave. But on three days later he got up by way of the power of the Holy Spirit The Bible says the Spirit raised him from the dead. And the same spirit that raised Christ. Can raise you from where you are. That's a big deal. Amen. The same spirit that raised him can raise you to new heights And you'll become a better you. I can see you right now. Light me up. As I closed today, I came across this hymn. Couldn't find who wrote it. But I love the words. It says, Thou Christ of burning. Cleansing flame, sin the fire. Sin the fire. The blood-bought gift today we claim sin. The fire. Send the fire. My prayer today is that he might send the fire that it might rest on the church that is the body of believers. The day the church caught fire. That's the word of God today. It's already blessed. Come on, let's stand today all over this place and thank the Lord today I just believe that somebody today will pull you up and say, okay, I don't get this. Can you help me to understand? And what will you tell them? The first thing you got to do is to repent of your sins and receive the Holy Spirit. Tell him you can come just as y'all. Don't think next week, let's do it now. Because the Lord looks at the heart. Man looks at the outer person. Aren't you glad he looks deeper than that? Come as you are today. Love the Spirit of God Come on, sing it with us today. He the spirit just as you Come and see, come and see, come re-seek, come re see, come and live, come and live forever. Lamb just as you just the way you are No need to dress up, fix up. He's available Com just tell you come and see Come and see Comries me Comrichne Come. That's what he promised. Ate the living water. Come Come just as you are. Just the way you are, that's where he'll take you. In the spirit Just as you all Come and sleep, harm and sleep, come we sleep, come we sleep I've said it before, I'll say it now this is the most Important time of the worship experience. Why? It's like the people in Peter's Day. Okay? We've heard it. Now what? You can confess your sins to the Lord right now. Not to me, but to him. Lord, I'm sorry for my past sins. But I want to be saved. You can ask him just like that. I know that I'm not living right. I know that I'm not doing the right things or saying the right things But right now I invite you to come into my heart. The Bible says, Thou shalt confess with thy mouth, Lord Jesus, and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Can I be honest with you? When I heard that, I was like, I mean that's it. I was expecting like, you know, 20-page document. Uh I had to quit doing all stuff I was doing already in the world. Try to become this perfect person, fool everybody else. But he says, no. Just confess your sins unto me. And allow me in. And I'll start, really Wow, I can do that. And I did it. Don't make it difficult for folk who come across, you know what? No. You got the uh you can't you oh no say child just repent and confess your sins to Jesus Christ and he'll do the rest if you ask him As you bowed your heads today, I said we'll take this opportunity. In case you've not done it, I just came along to boost you a little bit. You've never, never, never, never said to Jesus that is in prayer, I'm a sinner. If you've never said, God, I believe that you sent your son, Jesus Christ, to die for me. And I believe that he rose again as the scriptures proclaim. I believe that in my heart of hearts. I'm processing it. The Bible says if you do that and take it in, thou shalt be saved. Today you can do that Right where you are, you can receive Christ into your heart today. That's what I desire for you. I hope it's what you desire for yourself. Well those said remain bowed today. If you're here, you don't know Jesus is your Savior. I want to pray with you Either now or personally. Might as well let you know you can do it today. I mean the detour cut you off. You couldn't figure out Siri couldn't find the place. And all that. But you came for a reason. And that when you would hear the message of Jesus Christ. Today you can receive him unto your own. Right now. in this place. Right now. You can do it. He'll come in. He'll suck with you And it may not be this feeling of wow, but the angels in heaven are shouting. Because you confess. Look in the mirror, it looked the same. But because you allow the Holy Spirit into your heart today, your life will be different. You start sins and changes because she repeated your sins unto him. God, I thank you for your word today. Thank you for your people. We proclaim it all in Jesus' name. Amen. Somebody give God a praise today. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comthenumber twoharvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com. All you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called speeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes from Podcasting or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.