Hello. I pray you're having a fantastic day. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County. I have just one reminder. Don't forget that Jesus is the true reason for the season. And now this morning's message from the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries To us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the government will be on his shoulders, and he will be called wonderful counselor. Mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. I want to share today from the Samonic title, The Perfect Gift, Part 1 The perfect gift part. Well, I believe every gift carries with it a certain mystery. Whether you're the one who's buying a gift to share with someone, or maybe you're on the receiving end, it can also be a time of pressure. What do I buy the person who has everything? What can I get them? By the same token, when that morning comes, you're looking for a gift. I don't care how many times, oh don't worry about me. I'll be alright. There better be something up under that tree with your name on it. But there's a certain uh sense of it's colorful, it's neatly wrapped. It's a Christmas gift But I I really would love to be able to catch some of us on Christmas morning and to see the real reactions on our faces and then take those reactions and put them up on the big screen Amen. You would say, oh, thank you. That's exactly what I wanted. And some of us will say, that's great, but it's the wrong size. Oh, thank you so much, but is there a receipt? That's not the brand that I wanted. Amen. Others will say, did it come with some accessories? On the TV, they said it came with an extra something. And there's a lot of pressure sometimes in trying to buy that perfect gift for someone. And we look to receive something on Christmas morning. But you know what I found? And maybe I'm just getting older. Any more people will give you their list in advance. And say, here are the 12 things I want. And don't deviate from my list. Maybe nobody here. Then you find I like a little mystery to it. I don't want to know everything. Don't you want to be surprised by uh you know if you got some new socks, oh fuck you baby. You know, if you got some new cologne. But I mean there's so much of this here's what I want, I will text it to you. And this is what I expect. Sometimes we go overboard and in debt just to please someone in trying to get the perfect gift. No, I'm not the Gretch who stole Christmas. I'm just keeping it real in terms of sometimes we lose our focus on what this sacred season is all about. Would you agree today? That sometimes well, road rage comes out, folk cutting you off, they want to get the latest cell. And this whole season becomes one that's very frantic But I'm glad today to talk about the perfect gift in the person of Jesus Christ. John said it right in John 3. 16. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him would not perish, but have everlasting life. And I'm excited about that gift. So that's the gift I want to talk about today. The gift in the person of Jesus Christ, the Messiah, the sent one. But I think sometimes we get stuck on the image of the nativity scene. And all we see is the Christ child And we see Joseph and Mary and the wise men, and we see the shepherds and the animals, and we're stuck there. That for us is Christmas But allow yourself to go beyond that and to really grasp the meaning and the reason for the season. I know it's harder now because folk don't want it, they call it happy holidays. I'm not a holiday guy. I believe that Jesus came. He was wrapped in swaddling clothes and Lying in a manger, I believe he was sent. And I just want to help you that whenever you go to buy that gift, that you say, you know what, I'm not going to pressure myself. I'm really going to give a scripture passage in a box I'm gonna put a Bible in the box. I'm gonna do something in addition to whatever I get from the department. So just trying to be clean. But make sure that persons know why it is that you celebrate the Lord Jesus Christ. And so really we talked with Isaiah today. He's one of the major prophets, and major simply means that he wrote more, covered more history. Ezekiel is also a major Jeremiah. These are all prophets. And I see them really kind of sorta as as a news person. Can I just bring it down to 2012? And so as a prophet, he gets the divine word from his high source, being his father, God. And he really is giving information to a people who are already down, they're despondent, there's despair in the land of Judah. And Isaiah stands as the spokesperson He stands as the breaking news, newsman, to say, here's what thus saith the Lord. You with me? As he's sharing with them, I really want to take him out of a news person's role and put him as a meteorologist. He gives a long range forecast. Not a seven-day, but he gives something like a seven hundred year forecast on what is to come. There's one who's coming, the sent one, the Messiah whose name will be called Jesus. And so really, when you think about this time and period, every Hebrew woman wanted to be the one to bear the Messiah. They have a baby. Oh I hope I he I hope he's the one. I hope that my child will become the Messiah. The sent one, the promised one. And Isaiah shares with them this good news. Couldn't you imagine to say, well, now I could take seven days, but you're telling me I got to wait how many hundreds of years Now you know that God's word is true, that it may take a while, and Mama may have told you it may not come when you want him, but he's right on time. He paints this picture, he tells them about what is to come. There is this perfect gift. Who's on the way? May not match with the gift you're looking for under the Christmas tree. But aren't you glad that this gift is not seasonal? He's with you all the time He's with you when you're going through, he's with you when you're down, he's with you when you're up on the mountaintop. My God, I just love old Jesus. Aren't you glad that Jesus loves you? Yes, I do, for the Bible tells me so. I just get into can I just be sixteen and twelve and nine for a moment to realize in all this awe about the Lord Jesus Christ Sometimes we grow up and we grow out of Jesus. We get too big and bad. But I there says, I know y'all are facing some tough times. I know you're going through, but there is some hope coming your way It's a promise I've gotten from God that there's one who's coming. He says, for to us a child is born. I believe us is all inclusive. That means you and me. He's prophesying a word of what's to come. For to us a child will be born. There'll be many babies born, but there will only be one who will be the real thing. Amen Ever got a fake something that looked like the real thing and you realize this is not authentic, but Jesus is promised And Isaiah said, for unto God's people who are down, who are out, that there is one who's coming. And it says, to us A son is given. Well, we know it's a boy then, right? Okay, a son is given. And so we get our minds In a place to say, you know, there's this expectation even today on what God is going to do. So, Reverend, I'm not looking to I know I got Jesus in my heart. That's enough. I'm good to go. Don't you know He's still fulfilling His promise in your life? Has he done it today? Some things you've been asking God for, some things you've been praying about, some things you've been waiting on, and yet the promise comes your way at the right time Maybe it's never happened to you today. My God, don't get sleepy on me this morning, everybody. Amen. Has it ever happened to you? Have you looked for something to happen and God came along and blessed you? It'd been a long wait, but it was promised And you kept the word, you kept praying, you kept struggling, but through it all, he made a way for you. For to us a child is born. Everybody looking for this big king to come in on the big king mobile, uh, you know, with all this power, but they were really dumbfounded to find out it was a child. And the government will be on his shoulders. Not Washington Not Capitol Hill, not the White House, not a fiscal cliff, not a debt crisis, not tax hikes, but the people of Judah couldn't run their own government And so here comes to us someone who can take it all, someone who can run the world. Aren't you glad today that we serve someone Who's not limited to one place or one thing, but he's everywhere at the same time. And so Isaiah says he's coming, and the government, the authority, will be on his shoulders He'll have the first word and he'll have the last word. Aren't you glad about that today? He'll have the first word in your life, and the last word in your sometimes we get too hung up in the government and not God. Uh-oh I don't want to talk politics up in here, but let me just say that sometimes we put too much hope in the politicians and not in God Himself. Amen. He's saying Judah can't even run their own government. So the one who comes now can take care of all of it. Amen. He's got cattle in a thousand hills. And so he says that to him. And the government will be on. His shoulders. And then we begin to look at some of the characteristics of the sent one. The characteristics of the gift. He said, first of all, he is a wonderful counselor He's an exceptional counselor. Have you visited the counselor lately? That you've come into situations in your life that you needed just to pour your heart out and folk didn't understand what you were going through and they would never get it. They judge you based on what you told them and you couldn't tell all your business. And you say, I need to find myself not just any counselor But a wonderful counselor. And he'll be that just for you. You can tell him all of your business You can tell him all that you're going through about home, about work, about relationships, about what you're facing. And he gets his wisdom not from a manual M-A-N-U-A-L. He gets his wisdom from God on high. Isn't that good news today that I serve someone who will be a counselor for me? And I can lay on the couch and just tell him all about my struggles and he'll understand. My God, I've gone through situations in my own life. I forgot to make the right choice And oftentimes you don't know what the right thing is to do. You prayed about it. But aren't you glad you can just go see the counselor? He's always available, always free, always to talk to you. Never will judge you, but he will be there for you. That's the kind of gift I'm talking about. A wonderful counselor. Have you showed up lately? Have you had something that's been on your mind and heart that you felt like no one else would get? And you say, you know what? Even though I can't see him with my natural eyes, I know the Bible says that God is the Spirit and those who worship him Must worship him in spirit and in truth for the Father seeketh such. That means that even though I can't see you, I can't touch you, I know that God is real in my life Don't you feel them to that grandma say I feel them all in my hands, I feel them all in my feet, I feel them all over me. That sometimes we look for things that are so tangible, if I can't touch it, I don't believe I believe God is real. Do you My God, I know he's a counselor. I know he will bring you through every situation. Right now you've got something that you're dealing with. You've gone back and forth, been on the internet looking for help, got the latest book, and yet you're still stumped. Can I recommend a wonderful counselor to you? Can I just drop his name on you and to know that he is the perfect gift, but he's God all by himself? Amen? And so that's all Isaiah saying that here's what is available to you. Don't sweat the small stuff. God will make a way. Wonderful counselor. And we'll take just a couple this week and I'll pick up the rest of them. He's also A mighty God. Mighty In the Hebrew language, he is El Gabor, which means God is hero. How many folk watch movies every now and then? I'll catch one Here and there. Amen. My wife loves TV. Who is that? I don't know who that is. What character is that? And we look for the hero We all want to pull for somebody. And the hero never really gets killed, does he? No the hero says, well I don't care I go here and I don't And this is a part two. And so we look sometimes to God as a mighty God, but don't get stuck on just a hero status. He's all powerful. He has all strength. He is a mighty God. Aren't you glad today that you serve a God who has all power In his hands. Satan tried to compete. He was no match. The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. Amen. And so when we think about where we are And the gift that is available in the world's offers, make sure that you see him as a mighty God. Folk may call you a stranger. I serve a mighty God I serve a mighty God. He can do anything. I serve a God who can bring me through. I serve a God who's all powerful. I serve a God who looks high. And he said, I serve a God. Aren't you glad you serve that kind of God today that you can take it to Him? And no matter what you're struggling with, because He is mighty. He can take care of everything that we're going through. Can I help myself today? I'm I'm getting that. I start filling stuff I preach about. Say, you know, I believe that thing. I really do believe he'll take care of all of my struggles. He'll bring me through. He'll give me hope. And so I says, know that he's also a mighty God. Power. Can't be defeated. Can't lose. And so I'll save the other two, but I want you just to grab those two for the day. Grab those two for the day. Wonderful counselor, mighty God. You may be looking on the Christmas tree saying, I'm hoping that I get this gift. But the gift that I'm talking about is special. The gift I'm talking about will be there for you. It's a gift that keeps on giving. Amen. It's a gift that's priceless. It's a gift you can share with others just your testimony only about what God has done for you. So Reverend, I'm not going to preach out there in the mall. I'm not going out there Beat me and just say, you know what? That's a nice sell. God is good. Amen. And you find a little something and say, I'm blessed today. How are you doing? Uh you and the Starbucks man, praise God. I got a latte last time, but you know what? I'm thankful I can buy a coffee. You know, and begin to find ways to let folk know that I serve a wonderful Savior His name is Jesus. He's the perfect gift. I wouldn't want to return him. I'm so glad he's with me. I'm so glad he's accepted me. I'm so glad he's kept me. And this gift has changed my life It has made me a better Tim. This gift has helped me to become someone that's able to stand and say, you know what, I'm so glad that the Lord loves me. See, I remember the old Tim. And how I started, I was telling a young man this because I said, you know what, I was at a location where we were doing a story, they had on the wall of the school distinguished alumni. And they had everybody who was important on there And some years ago I got a call from my school saying we've selected you as a a who? A distinguished what? I remember the Tim who just barely passed his classes The Tim who talked to everybody, but he wasn't distinguished. But isn't it amazing how God will work that thing out in your life? That you may not start out one way but the Lord will finish that thing off for you. I became I was up there proud too like everybody yes. That's me, I'm in the number. Uh you know, and then I saw Miss Murray, my reading teachers. Oh Lord Miss Murray is still here. Miss Murray knew the story. You mean Jim Doughton? Who's slept in class? But it's amazing that when you've got the Lord on your side, you can make it when He's with you, He's more than the world against you. And this gift I received in 1965. Just a young boy giving my life to Jesus. Didn't quite get it all then. But I grew up into my faith. I put the toys down and my hair got gray and I got wiser and I began to walk with the Lord in a real way. But I'm glad that I am safe. The song was it says, I'm saved by his power divine. From the cradle to the cross. I'm saved by this new life sublime, which means life change. Life is sweet and my joy is complete. I'm saved. I'm saved today. I'm saved today. I'm saved today. But if I left today, I know that I'm going to hell. I'm saved today. Isn't that exciting to know that Safe I couldn't always say that I would say I go to church, but I could not tell you without a shadow of a doubt that I know I'm saved. Why? Because I've got the gift of salvation Why? Because I know who it is that makes a difference in my life. I have the perfect gift Just for me. And that's why Christ died. So that we might have an opportunity for life eternal. You won't look at a gift the same anymore. It's not really about this. Like folks don't even rap anymore. They just say it's under the tree. Yeah, those genes, those that's not my family. I'm just talking about somebody else's family now But y'all start trouble in church. But sometimes say you know what? It's late. I'll just give them the toy today. You know, I'm not gonna wrap it. But you won't look at a gift of saying Because you'll think about the perfect gift. The gift of Jesus Christ. How many have that gift today? Amen. That is the word of God. It is all ready blessed. I have the perfect Gift. Where do you get it from? Well, it came to me. How much was it? The price was paid on Calvary. Stay tuned to part two of this message. The perfect gift. Your grace and mercy. Are there any witnesses today that It was his grace and his mercy that got you through your courage situation. We thank God today for this opportunity. Let's bow all over this place today. Heavenly Father, we do thank you for this opportunity to share your word to Stand before your people. It is our prayers always that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save a soul today. Encourage another, but when this time is done, may we give your name all the praise and all the glory. It is in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. Amen simply means so it is. When you someone say amen, they mean that's right, I'm with you. That means I agree with you. I agree with the word of God today Let's share again from Isaiah 9th chapter, verse number 6. It says, for to us a child is born To us a son is given, and the government will be on his shoulders, and he will be called wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father. Prince of Peace. I want to share again from this same title, The Perfect Gift, Part 2. The perfect gift part two. There are one or two of you out there who by now has checked your list and checked it twice. You bought all of your gifts. You have one for each of the twelve days of Christmas. You've already put your gifts under the tree. I have identified you all yet. You've already done that. You're not be in a shopping line this year. In fact, you've gone to buy gifts for next year, for 2013. You're diligent people. You've got it going on. But if I would confess today, I've not bought a single gift yet. And that's between us. But I will. And I pray that it is a process that is quick, fast, and in a hurry. But what God is most concerned about is whether or not we have the gift of Christ in our hearts. He's not so particular about how many you have under the tree, but I would advise you to put something under the tree. Don't say that I said on Sunday that you did not have to buy gifts. But make sure that you keep uh in the forefront of your mind the real reason. I know we say that, but my God, uh I live near them all and it's a struggle Because people are going to and fro. And you pray for them in the name of Jesus. On our last time together we were able to really focus on that one verse. It is from Isaiah, the prophet. Who really gives words of encouragement to a people in despair, a people who are despondent, a people who are living under a dark cloud. That can relate to us today The truth of the matter is we all have situations in life or have had them where it's been a struggle. And what you need to hear is not folk criticizing you, but someone giving you a word of hope. Letting you know it's going to be all right, letting you know that the sun will shine again tomorrow. And that's what Isaiah did by explaining to them A forecast of what was to come, and that is that there's one who cometh, and the government will be on his shoulders. He'll be in full control and in charge And he begins to tell them some characteristics about the sent one, characteristics about the one we call Jesus the Christ. Isaiah begins to write and begins to share about the one who's coming. We talked last time about our sometime getting stuck on the nativity scene. We never get past that one scene. And all we see, we never let Jesus grow up. We just think of him as being the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes and lying in a manger. But you know he grows up in us. As we grow in him, we have a greater experience. But he begins to talk about who he is. He says, and he will be called wonderful counselor Counselor. We all need good counsel. And we need it not just from a jack-legged person who says they have all the credentials. But we need to be in contact with God who knows all things. He gives the greatest advice. Have you found yourself even this week in a situation? I know you have, and you have a decision to make And you went to the Lord in prayer and said, I need to get some real uh clarity about what you would have me to do. Not what the community says, not what society says But Lord, you can speak to me in such a real way because you are the great advisor. Amen? The counselor. The one who helps us through life's predicaments and situations. And even in my own life, I'm so glad to have a counselor in the person of Christ. I don't know about you, but sometimes I don't know what to do. I'm not sure how to make a decision sometimes. I'll put it off. No procrastinators in here. I'll put it off sometimes. I'll say, well, you know what? Next week we'll do how about next Monday? How about next weekend And when in fact the Lord will get us into situations where we have to make a choice. I like that. Sometimes He'll just say, come on, you've got to do it now. And with that, there's so much joy that comes afterwards But not just this wonderful counselor who lies there the scribes, but he also talks about him being a mighty God The Hebrew word is El Gabor, which means God, our hero. And we all love the Hebrew. We love the power. We love the person at the end who's still standing. They're the hero. But his characteristics are much deeper than that. He's a strong God. We don't serve a weak God. We don't serve a God who's got to scratch his holy head. But he's always in charge. He's the God of strength. Aren't you glad to be a part of a family like that? A family of God that you know that my God against your God? And I tell you, Elijah said, hey, my God is greater than your God He meets the prophets of Baal back at Mount Carmel. They have a showdown, and those folk call their God it their God never came. They start cutting themselves, and I just say, Come on, here's my God He comes down and fire. So know that you're on the right side, that you're in good company. Know that you're with the God who is mighty, mighty in battle Maybe you've never had any battles. Maybe that's it. Have you ever had any battles this week? Have you have you fought a boss this week? Have you fought a look? Come on now, let's get real with this thing. And you needed a mighty God to intercede and to come and give you some clarity about life. So that's the kind of gift that we need. We were able to talk about those two. I wanted to go further, and talk about him as being an everlasting father and a prince of peace. An everlasting father for me is really a father who's timeless. I think of my own earthly father, Jim Tudin. He had a season And he's now in the arms of the Heavenly Father. But it's something about a father. You know, you can say I'm a dad, but a father is a greater title And Isaiah says he's going to be an everlasting father. He'll be timeless. He won't be old-fashioned. He won't go out of style. Aren't you glad to have a God who's always Fresh, always on it, always knows what you're going through, always able to talk with you about what you're facing in life. He's a father who will last forever He'll be there for you, one who's sticking what closer than a brother. Love over in Psalms 90, it says that you know a thousand years is that one day to him He's not keeping time, but you know what? Lord, I got two more days. He said, I got I made the whole world. So why are you concerned about what tomorrow holds? I'm your everlasting Father What a father figure. I was glad to see you know father and son in here today and my son is here, you know, and I I'm a father who's going all the way to get it right. You know, fathers we try sometimes, but we we miss the market. Well, we're trying to be an example, but this father Never fails. This father never messes it up. This father is everybody. We all cousins. You all knew that, did you? We're all akin because we have the same heavenly father who looks over us. Postman may ask, well, uh Robin, you say that he's the Father, but he's talking about Jesus. Well let me give you the the the study on the Trinity. There's the Godhead. God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. They all have separate roles, but they're all one. And so when Isaiah says that he will be the everlasting father, he didn't get it twisted. He knew what he was talking about: that he'll be a father to you. He'll be a father to the fatherless. I'm glad today that I have a father who's everlasting. Ever seen that conversion about the ever ready bunny? He never runs out, he keeps going, but I I I declare the bunny at some point will run out of juice But the God that we serve uh it's it's eternity. Our minds can't even really grasp uh how how great He is How everlasting he is, how he'll be with us through every situation, you have an everlasting Father. Can I introduce you to your father? Father, this is your your father. And the Bible says that God is a spirit, and those who worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth, for the father seeketh such. So even though you may not see him, he's yet present with you. I got excited on that point. Could you all tell that? Because I I I know that the last word isn't with me. The book doesn't start with me. My dad will say, Hoss, I'm the boss. I'll pay the cost to be the ball. He paid the bills. He could talk that kind of way. But this God made the heavens and the earth. He is an everlasting father. And then he's also the Prince of Peace. The Prince of Peace. And the Hebrew word for peace, of course, is shalom Shalom. Peace. It's used to talk about tranquility. Chilling. Don't you say sometimes? If I can get some peace of mind, I'll be okay. If I could just get a minute uh give a place I need to just unwind uh you know because you talk about your personal peace but don't you know there's one who is the prince of peace He's the one that provides peace for us. He's the one who preserves peace. He's the one who commands peace. He's the one who creates peace. I'm talking about real peace. Not temporary stuff. Otherwise you have peaceful moment and then go back to crazy stuff. But aren't you glad that the one who cometh is the Prince of Peace? That no matter what you are facing, he will take care of your situation? Philippians 4 7 says, be careful for nothing, but through prayer and supplication with thanksgiving Let your request be made known unto God, and the peace of God which passeth all understanding should keep your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus No matter what you're facing. How many folk need some peace today? I know you look what you got it together, but don't you want some peace? In your life, some peace on your job, some peace in your home, some peace in your relationship. Well, I won't tell you that's what called the Prince of Peace. And he's coming for his people. Jesus talked about peace. Even as one who taught his disciples, he was on that boat. And they were out in the water and things down a little crazy. Sometimes life will get a little shaky. He rose up and talked to the score. Peace be still. He can talk to your situation around you and tell that thing that's been on you Shh to be still. Don't you know that? That what you've been battling all by yourself, you've been trying to do it on your own screen. You say, hey, let me talk to it. Let me speak peace into the situation. Let me give the peace of the Lord. And so often we try to get a new strategy. We try to get a new way of looking at it, but don't you know that you can have his peace today? That kind of peace that passeth all understanding He is the prince of peace. And you know what? He told his disciples, said, peace I leave with you. Not as the world gives. See, the world gives us some stuff that looks like peace. They'll give you a five-night, four-day spa massage and you know all the tremendous. Oh, I've got peace. Until your plane lands back at your destiny. And he's all God, I'm back to the same problem. But this peace is not seasonal. This peace is not based on where you go. This piece can meet you right where you are in your own. Don't you want that kind of peace? He is the Prince of Peace. He'll bring peace into your life. when you're at your wits' end. He'll give you peace when you're bombarded with life issues. Peace when you're facing conflict Peace when you're down and out. Peace when everyone has turned against you. Peace when you feel like you've been forgotten. Peace. That will give you the kind of strength to move on. Peace when hills are hard to climb. Peace in season and out of season. Peace just when you need it. Peace. He'll keep you in perfect peace if your mind is stay on him. Peace. He'll lay a new foundation for life for you. Peace. He'll move mountains. Peace. He'll come when you need them. Peace. He's right on time. He is the prince of peace. I got excited on that possible. I know that's some other stuff to say, but I just couldn't get past peace. You know, and that was for me. I love mighty God, I love everlasting Father, but my God, I think in our world we need peace Can I just stay in peace for a little while this morning? I I want to move on from peace, but my God, the more I talk about peace, the more I feel peace The more I declare peace, the more I can feel it going on right now. And so I just go break the rules and say, can I just not leave peace? How many folk need some peace today? You've got a situation, you say, you know what? I need peace in this Amen. And peace is being able to not have to look back and say, well, you know, maybe I should have done it. Just keep on going with your head up high and say, God, I prayed about it, you give me peace with it. I'm not worried about it. I'm not turning back. And that's what peace is. It's beginning to say, you know what? I'm gonna walk right on. Knowing that God's gonna work this thing out. I've got peace with it. Now don't go back and mess with it again. But when it gives you that kind of peace, it is for a reason. Peace. There's so much about the gift that we receive. But what are we going to give? Those wise men came from a distance. And they brought gold. We like some gold. They tell you to buy gold nowadays. It's more valuable than stocks. It talks about wealth. Talks about royalty. And then they brought frankincense used for medicines and incense and perfumes. And they brought mirror in anointing oil. But what do you bring today for the king? What can you bring to he who has everything? What can you bring when you run short on your gift list and say I bought something for everybody else? But what am I giving to the king? I'm always looking for him to give me something. But what can I give that would be of value to him? What can I give that maybe no one else would have thought of? I say, give him your heart. Give him who you are. Give him that part of you that makes up your whole person, your whole emotion. He don't want this miservice from us. He wants your heart. Do you want to give him your heart today? With all that you could probably impress them with? And we try to impress God, don't we? Oh yes we do. Like God don't know. That we're not trying to impress him. But if you give him your heart today, that's what he wants. And that's what he desires. And that's why he came to touch the hearts Of men and women. But that seems too simple. You mean to give them all that I am? To give all of myself, to not save some that and to hold some for later, it is to surrender and to give him that Which makes you your heart. If we did that, I think our communities would be better. If we decide that you know what, I'm just gonna give my heart to Jesus. Our homes will be stronger. The turmoil that you face will seemingly move away if you just give him your heart. So we hope other folk are going to respond. I hope they they like me. I hope they they take me in. They may not. But we are called to be the kind, loving people of God. This week, give somebody a gift. A gift of a smile. A gift of a good morning. A gift of how you doing today. And what you're sharing with them is the love and the light of Christ that's in you. The perfect gift. Will you do it today? Will you try to make a difference today? Knowing that you got the gift, but it's not yours, just to say it's mine only, but to share it with someone else. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. Amen Stay tuned for the final installment of our message, the perfect gift, part three. Let's bow today in this place. Heavenly Father, as we come We're grateful. As we come to this time of sharing, we ask in the name of Jesus for preaching power. May the words of our mouth and the meditation of our hearts be acceptable in thy sight. O Lord, our strength and our Redeemer. In Jesus' name. Amen. We come today to share with you on another Lord's Day. And we share from the Gospel of Matthew. Uh the first chapter, verses 18 through 21. This is how the birth of Jesus Christ came about. His mother Mary was pledged to be married to Joseph. But before they came together, she was found to be with child through the Holy Spirit. Because Joseph, her husband, was a righteous man and did not want to expose her to public disgrace. He had in mind to divorce her quietly. But after he had considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said, Joseph, son of David, Do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife. Because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will give birth to a son. And you are to give him the name Jesus because he will save his people from their sins. I want to preach and wrap up our series for this season from the sermonic title, The Perfect Gift Part 3. The Perfect Gift, Part 3. I've tried to make the case over the last couple of sharings of the importance of knowing that Jesus Christ is the perfect gift. He's also the promise gift that was sent by our Father in heaven, a babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger in a place called Bethlehem. Isaiah was able to predict what was going to happen as the prophet, as the spokesperson for God. He said, he's coming. And his characteristics will be that of wonderful counselor. Mighty God. Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. And so now we forward in about 700 years, what was talked about and promised has come to pass. God sends the angel Gabriel, you know the story, my God, two Sunday school classes. You got this. You say, Reverend, I got this thing. And yet with a familiar story, you can so often miss things Gabri shows up to Nazareth and he comes to a young teenage girl and says, you are highly favored. You've been picked to be the one to bear the Christ child. This was no easy news. Nobody expects to get that kind of news. It calls for a whole change in one's life. What a tough situation. Mary was a virgin. That's real talk. And had not been any kind of position that would have her to be pregnant. But let me just tell you that you'll be Bearing the Christ child and the Father will be the Holy Spirit. The presence of God He'll be the one who will make this happen. And the Holy Spirit is still doing miraculous things in our lives even now. The Holy Spirit has birthed some things even into your heart this week. There's some things you didn't think were possible. God sends by a message to you and said, you know what? I know you are not deserving of it. You didn't think you were the one, but guess what? Something is going to happen, and the Holy Spirit will make it happen My God, that gets me excited just thinking about it. What a tough situation because now Joseph has to deal with this. Joseph has already got the engagement ring, so to speak. Joseph has already got his touch. Joseph has already made plans, and then he gets word that The lady that I'm going to marry is pregnant, and the Father is the Holy Ghost. Now y'all looking funny. This is the kind of stuff you get on days of our life. This is drama as the world turned all my children type stuff You can't turn the channel away. Well my God, turn on heaven's channel. Can you imagine the situation that Joseph finds himself in? That you telling me what now? And he knew he had options. According to the law, it would have backed him to just stone her. Surely she's been hanging around with another guy Oh my god, you're not getting this thing modern. But he takes time to consider. Takes time to think it over. Mind who would think things over a little more. Have you made a decision that you didn't think about until after the fact we say, you know what? It's the best one I can make. But if you're given that thing about one more week One more day to say, let me see what the Spirit is saying. My God, wouldn't you make a better decision? I'm just testifying with myself today. Every now and then you've got to consider the situation you're in, and that was Joseph. The Bible says he was a righteous fella, a nice fella, wants to do the right thing, and finds himself having to deal with this. Verse 20 says, but after he had considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream. Some years ago I did a seminary paper on visions and dreams. I called up Miss Nettie B. Haynes in Live Oak and said, Miss Haynes, do you believe that God still speaks in dreams and visions? Well, of course I do, don't you? God has a way of speaking to us. God has a way of getting our attention. And so Joseph Is there waiting in a dream and the word comes to him, don't be afraid. Don't be afraid. He had options of things he could have done, but God sends his messenger by way of the angel to say, now just hold up Take Mary home as your wife. Because what's conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. And that's something I can't get away from right now, that this thing is of the Lord. It may not make sense to our modern minds, but sometimes in life there are things that happen, and they're just of the Holy Spirit. There are things we go through in life, can't deal with, we ponder, and yet the only answer is it's of the Holy Spirit. And you've got to receive it just as that: the presence of God He thinks about this. He considers all of his options. And what he does not realize is that this perfect gift is on the way. Is that somehow he's been involved in this thing, not really wanting to, but somehow God will involve you in a situation you that you know not of. Here he is minding his own business Everybody's waiting for the Messiah to come and the Christ child to come and nobody knows who will be so privileged to bear that child. And Joseph is there in this position. But I really want to spend some time in this verse 21. It says, as he continues this conversation with Joseph says, she will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus. I'm gonna involve you in this thing. Even though you didn't know what was going to happen, even though you can't figure it out, I've got a role for you. You make sure they don't call him Junior You make sure they don't call him another name, but make sure his name will be called Jesus. Aren't you glad that God let you in on this plan? Aren't you glad that even though you had nothing to do with it, you're just sitting saying, Lord, I don't know what's he said. You know what? There's a role for you. I want you to be the one to give him the name Jesus. Why? Because he will save his people from their sins. This thing is starting to change now, isn't it? That the reason this perfect gift comes, the reason Jesus was sent, the reason Jesus was born was for this very reason to save us from our sins. Isn't that pre-K elementary? That why did he come? He came because God knew that we needed some help. You may say, well, Reverend, give me a mini course on sin I got some gray areas. I'm not quite sure what is sin and what is not sin. I'm glad you asked. Sin is when you willfully disobey the law and the word of God. It's when you know you're messing up and you're on your way to mess up is sin. It's when you rebel against God When you say I'm gonna do it my way, because I'm 21, I'm grown, I'm driving, got my own place, got two credit cards, I'm gonna do it on my own And sin is just that. That's what sin is. It's when we decide to turn in a different direction. May I break the news to you? We've all sinned. There's not a person in this building who's without sin. Paul talks about it, Romans 3:23. All have sinned and come short of the glory of God Amen. Romans 5, 8. But God demonstrated his love toward us that while we were yet in sin, Christ died for us. Amen. Romans 6:23. The wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. He keeps making provisions because he knew we'd mess up. Can I take you back to the first book of the Bible? Genesis 2 and 3. You want some daytime reading? Well my God, right there, there's Adam and Eve in the garden. And God had given them some instructions about what to do and what not to do. Sounds familiar? God has told you to do some things and you did it on your own. I'm gonna do my own thing. Amen. Oh I may just testify. Y'all are not feeling this. I'm gonna just testify. Maybe I've done some things I knew were not right And I knew it was a sin. I planned it all week until I got to Friday. I knew it was going to happen. Amen. But he says to them that there's a certain tree you can eat from, and there's trees you can't eat from. And sin began in that garden because Satan, the father of life and I, he didn't mean that. What he meant was you could really eat this thing and you'll be like God. Satan is still lying that they're telling you you don't need God. My God, you can do it all by yourself. I feel this thing this morning that you can go ahead and do it and you'll be like God The magazines tell her, the TV said you can do what you want to do. Anyway, there's this sense of sin, and that's why he came That's why we got the gift to save us from our sins. Bible says you say that you don't sin, you lie. First John. Five. Round about eight. But it says if you confess your sins, he's faithful and just to forgive you of your sins and cleanse you from all unrighteousness. It was a sin issue. That's what connects this whole He's coming. It's not the cell, it's the Savior. That's what's really going on. And when I heard that thing, that got me all excited. You mean that's why He came. That's why he showed up because he knew that all of humankind had fallen and he wanted to make the difference. It was a promise that God made. I've been on this thing about three weeks about this gift thing. I I tell you, can you imagine some of you tough gift rappers? You know that when you have to wrap something you gotta lay it out And you cut the paper just right and you put the gift in the middle and you pull the sides up kind of right and you kinda line them up and you pull the ends up. Amen. And you get to a place to where you then seal it. Get some tape and you say now this thing is done. I'm so glad that he wrapped his love around me I'm so glad he wrapped his peace around me. I'm so glad he wrapped his joy around my life. He saw the mess that it was. Come here, let me wrap this thing. Come here, you need some work. Let me work you. And seal you with my love. Bible says, we're sealed until the day of redemption. My God, don't you know that you've got the seal of approval? Knowing that the Lord has sent his son for you and the Holy Ghost to step that thing and sealed it. And that gives you hope today that I'm not just any old body, I'm special in the sight of God. Amen. When God looks at me, he sees me through the blood of Jesus. And I'm glad about that today. Song by says, what can wash away my sins? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. What can make me whole again? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. Oh precious is that flow Isn't that something that thus blood flowed down and covered everything that you've done, everything you said, every transgression that this baby came for that particular reason It was a special gift. I want to mess you up for the holidays. I don't want you to see a gift. Any kind. Even when you wrap gifts, you'll say, oh, he wrapped me When you think the gift you're gonna give, oh, he is my gift. I want you to see this thing in a whole new light. That I know I'm buying a gift and Big Mama wants a gift, but inside of me I'm thinking about the gift The perfect gift of Jesus Christ. Isn't that amazing? That amazing grace. How sweet the sound that saved the wretch like me. I once was lost, but that you've never been lost before. Maybe you've always been where you where you're supposed to be. And now I'm found. Was blind, but now I see can I get elementary on y'all? I used to hear the saints sing that song. What you mean blind? Deacon Deacon Mitchell can see what is he talking about? He was blind. What does Deacon Philmore talk about? He came not blind But the world will blind you with the things of the world. But my God, he'll give you some spiritual sight. It is his love he gives to us. Well three thousand. But but I can't let this thing I'm I'm still stuck on. Is that why he came? Because He will save his people from their sins. Oh, I got it now. Yeah, it takes me a minute sometime to get that thing. I I I know now why he came. And maybe you come today. You're gift-minded. Maybe you've come today and you've not been able to wrap this thing together of the why of Christ. That's why he sent his son. So I got one thing today. We'll take. That's that's that's portable. You can back that thing up as a carry out. Say I got one thing today. I know why God sent Jesus. Why? Save me from my sins. Sins of the many. And that ought to make you feel mighty, grateful today. That ought to make you say, Lord, thank you that you sent your son Do you do you feel that thing? I'm I'm I'm trying to wrap the sermon's over. I'm just trying to process this thing a little more. Because see I you know I have to make sure I kind of got that thing. I think I got it now That he'll save me from the uttermost. You are not in a place, you are not too foregone that the Lord can't save you The Bible says he's long-suffering. He got time. Not willing that any should perish. That all might come to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. As you stand today, that's the word of God. It is already blessed. As you continue the rest of your day, be reminded that Jesus is the true reason for the season. We're holding a special seat for you at Harvest Christian Ministries. Meet us at church. The address is 7660-Bel-Air Road in Baltimore County, Maryland. We worship inside of the Movie Six Theater. Have a great day, the Lord.