I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen Whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website, I really do believe that God has a special message just for you A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries for a worship experience already in progress. Hallelujah. Take me to the king. I don't want to talk to the king's assistant. I don't want the king's executive I want the king. How many folk know that you want to be in the presence of he who's king of kings? And Lord of Lords, that's where I want to go. Don't take me any other place. But if I can get into his presence, I'll know everything is going to be alright. Do I have a plan church today? My God, take me. Even if I don't want to go, pull me. Drag me to the king. Let's bow today Heavenly Father, we thank you that as you sit high on your mighty throne The Bible says that you're not the kind of God who can't connect with us. In fact, you feel what we feel. You understand what we are going through, and that's King's business. I pray today as we stand to proclaim the truth of Jesus Christ That I might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. But when this time is done, we'll be careful to give your name The praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. The Lord is good. He's worthy to be praised. There's a word today that comes from the Acts of the Apostles. And that simply means it records all that took place in the early church. Acts 2, beginning at verse number 1, when the day of Pentecost came, they were all together in one place. Suddenly a sound like the blowing of a violent wind came from heaven and filled the whole house where they were sitting. They saw what seemed to be tongues of fire that separated and came to rest on each of them All of them were filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit enabled them or as the Spirit gave them utterance I want to preach today from the Samonic title, The Day the Church Caught Fire. The Day the Church Caught Fire. What I'm going to share might alarm you, it might make you a bit uneasy. In sharing this information, I realize it comes with a risk. But I've got a reliable source. It's been verified. It's breaking news straight from heaven. And in passing along this news, I'm concerned how you might react. Don't panic Don't leave the pew. Don't head to the nearest exit. It's important that you remain calm. And I promise you that you will benefit from what I'm going to share. I want to take my time and sharing this information. I want to choose my words carefully. I don't want to be misunderstood. And so here it is. I can report that the Church of Jesus Christ is on fire. Before you overreact, let me explain that the church is not a building. The church, rather, is a body of believers. The investigation is over. It was a fire that was set. And there's only one suspect. The Lord Jesus Christ. This is the kind of news that the early church expected, and the early church looked forward to, was to have the Holy Ghost to jump on the church. And to set it on fire. And so as the body of Christ, I can proclaim that the church is on fire. But unlike a physical building, there are no ashes. But there are testimonies of what God has done. Now put on your spiritual imagination. I want you to walk with the early saints as they leave the Mount of Olives and they head to Jerusalem to celebrate. It is the season of Pentecost. In fact, this is Pentecost Sunday. A Pentecost simply means 50. It thinks of the time that uh from Passover until that present moment. That it really is a celebration of sorts. And so everybody has come to Jerusalem to celebrate what we call Pentecost And the church of Jesus Christ must continue beyond even that day. Jesus is already gone back to be with his father. He promised in Acts 1 and 8 that you'll be my witnesses after you've received power and the Holy Ghost has come upon you, that you will be, in my words, a church on fire. And scholars say that in that crowd of 120 or soul is a familiar face. It is Mary, the mother of Jesus. And the Bible says they go to a high place. They go to what we call the upper room. Aren't you glad you serve a God who deals in high places? No matter how low we might run, God is always saying, I want to bring you to a higher place. Anybody want to go higher in the Lord today? That you're not satisfied with being a status quo Christian, but someone who is desiring to go a little higher. And so as we look at the text today, I want you to put in your mind these early believers in a room. It didn't look like this. There was no AC, uh, no light, no screen. Uh but they gathered together in a place that had been appointed, some believe, right near the temple And they gathered to take care of the Lord's business. These are believers who are prepared to be set on fire. Fire in the modern mind is a dangerous thing. We tell our kids, don't you play with matches. Make sure the smoke detector is on. But when it comes to the things of Christ, it's okay to start a fire in the church. And so when I look at this text, there are some things that the early church can help us to understand about being a church on fire. First of all, they had decided some things in advance. It says when the day of Pentecost had come, they were all together in one place. There was unity in this group. No one said, I'm going to a different room. No one said, wait a minute, how long y'all gonna be here? No one said, wait a minute, uh you didn't call me first. But there was this sense of deciding that we're gonna be in one place On one accord in the name of Jesus. Isn't that good to know that the people of God can be on the same mind? And the same heart. And that's the kind of fellowship that will set the church on fire. When you start getting together and Connecting with one another and talking about the goodness of the Lord and saying what God has done for you and testifying, my God, you'll see sparks start And you, as the body of Christ, before you know it, you will be on fire. I made up my mind some time ago that I would stick and hang in with the body of Christ. Folk might talk about the church and Talk about the pastors and talk about the members and they'll run the church down. Even some church folk. But I think if we come together as one And unify in the body of Christ that great things can happen in the church of Jesus Christ. Isn't that good news today? And I'm always concerned about unity I dare you to mess with one of the members of Harvest. I'll come get you. Why? Because we're a family and we're together as one And anytime somebody don't look right, I'll ask them like that. You alright? Anybody messing with you? Because second happened in the church. But this early church decided that we're going to be together. One room, nobody asked how long, but they came together, and I pray that you will come together as the body of I mean sticking together through thick and thin. Sometimes it gets a little rough. Nobody calls you. They don't want to connect with you. But I declare today that this early church was a church that was unified. and decided to stick together. Over the Gospel of Matthew, another text that talks about this. It says, for where two or three gather In my name, I will be with them, or I will be in the midst. That comes out of a larger context of some church discipline. And the Lord said, What's y'all get together? And once you agree, then I'll come in. But as long as you're disagreeing, as long as you're torn apart, as long as you're not unified, he don't want no problem with that But my God, don't take but one or two and say, let's get together and have a campfire meeting. Amen? Won't God show up? Has it ever happened to you? You just have a little conversation And next thing you know, the Holy Spirit then moved in into your conversation. That's because you've decided that I am going to be one in the Lord. But this early church, they heard something. It says suddenly a sound like the blowing of a violent wind came from heaven and filled the whole house where they were sitting. Now when you look at this text, if you're not careful, you'll miss something. Suddenly means right away. A sound like The blowing of wind. It didn't say there was wind, but it sounded like a violent storm. It sounded like a category five. It sounded like I should go to the basement But it came from heaven and filled the whole house where they were sitting. It's important to be able to hear what thus saith the Lord. My background is radio and I love being on radio. I could turn the volume up and you know you had your ride going, you had a little half a speaker, a couple of some of y'all old school, you blasted up at the red light and and you thought you were really grooving. But what happens is, is that God turns the volume up in our lives. So we can hear what thus said the Lord How you gonna hear you just own a two? You gotta bless that thing to nine or ten to hear what thus saith the Lord. Amen. And now this whole satellite you can be anywhere and still get it. And so this church heard something. Not one person said, I didn't hear But it came in such a way and came without warning as let's say something is going on. This wind symbolizes the presence of God. In order to hear something, they have to be again together. A church on fire is a church that hears. They're not nine different messages, but once we stick with the word of God, we get the real truth. Amen. I keep Tim's opinion out to make sure that what the Lord is being glorified Isn't that good news today? And so they heard something. And I pray every day that God might speak to me in such a way that I will hear and obey his word. One thing to hear, another thing to respond. Amen. But I pray that even as the body of Christ, that we hear something, and it was so Uh in such a way they couldn't miss it. Why? It says it filled the whole house. I mean, how can you miss that kind of presence when no area of the house was left That every single inch and space was filled. And that's what God wants to do with us. He don't want to just fill some places of our life. He wants to fill every gap, every space, every cranny, every nook. He wants To be in a position to fill you up. A church on fire. A church blazing Has it ever happened to you that you were just minding your own business and you sense the Spirit of God speaking to you? A reverend, he didn't speak to me audibly. But can't God do that? Oh, some of y'all heard him speak. He called your name, scared you half to death. But God still speaks. He speaks through his word. He speaks through circumstances. He speaks primarily through the word of God. I don't know what he's saying. Get the word. And when you start reading a passage or two I was with my friend this week and a couple of times and man this thing spoke to me. What you get is not always for somebody else. But the word is so clear it speaks just to you. This church heard something The Bible says in Revelation, he that hath an ear, let him hear, let her hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches. I heard something. But the church also didn't just hear something, didn't just decide something, but they seen something It says in verse 3, they saw what seemed to be, there we are again, seemed to be tongues of fire. Didn't say it was fire. It seemed to be. Things in your life seem to be going wrong, but God has shown up. You seem like you're going to be down, but you're not out. You seem like you're not going to get that next position, but it's not over yet. It seems like nobody loves you, not true. It seems like that you'll be down always. It seems like Whole tongues of fire that separated and came to rest on each of them. I I I saw some, but I felt some too. Amen. And that presence of the Lord can come and rest on you and the King James said it's that on them. How can you not know when something is on you? And when you have church on fire, you will feel something. Amen. The Holy Ghost every now and then will just jump on you Ever happened to you that you felt his presence in such a strong way? You're driving and mounting it, and all of a sudden you you felt something? Amen. You didn't just see it because you can't see the spirit, but you felt something. I don't mean you gotta shout every Sunday, but my God, every now and then you ought to feel something on the inside working on the outside. What a change in my life. Every now and then I thank the Lord when he sees me and see where I've come from and look at me as he sees me, and that's through the blood of Jesus I don't look like much in the natural, but my God, if you look at me from the shed blood of Christ, I look like somebody, and so do you. They saw something. They saw something happening right in their midst. They were able to be eyewitness to document that yeah, it did happen. Yes, it caught on fire. I've been to many of fire scenes, and when you go there, you're trying to find not the fire chief, you want to find somebody who saw something. Yeah, I saw the smoke starting earlier, and then somebody screamed, help! And then somebody jumped. We all need to be eyewitnesses of the presence of God. Eyewitnesses of the fire that happens in our own life. They were able to see something there in the midst. I'm glad he saw my potential. I'm glad he saw what I could become. Aren't you glad today that God is not done with you yet? He's yet working in you. The Bible says, I know the plans that I have for you. God knows exactly what is going on. What do you hope the Lord sees when he sees you? What do you hope he's able to glean from your life? What do you hope happens as he's transforming you in the midst? What do you see? Psalmist said that where I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills which cometh my help, all of my help cometh from the Lord. The church decided something. The church heard something. The church saw something. But finally, the church said something. Amen? All of them were filled with the Holy Spirit. Not not some of them. All of them. Not one or two, all of them. Not just the deacons, all of them. Not just the choir members, all of them And that is it that the Spirit of God desires to fill all of us. Amen? At the moment that you accept Christ as your personal Savior, the Bible says you become filled with the Holy Spirit. The Spirit of God resides in you, and while it may be low every now and then, Desire a filling of the Holy Spirit. Even right now, in the name of Jesus, I declare, somebody said, you know what? Spirit of God, fill me right now. I want you to feel me right now. I mean all of me. Fill me so that I might be able to do your will and to do your way. It's mysterious because he'll just do it without you having to ask, really. And he'll just show up and you'll know because something will happen to you, your mindset will change. You'll see things differently, you'll hear things differently. It says this early church, this on fire church was filled with the Holy Spirit. Filled with the Holy Ghost. Just talking about the Holy Ghost makes me feel good. Just saying Holy Spirit fill me, I begin to feel something and just asking for it. Amen. I declare that anybody want to be filled with the Holy Spirit today. I mean to want him to feel your life. That was okay. Anybody desire To be on fire? Anybody desire to be filled with his spirit today? And once you are filled, your vocabulary will change. Under the influence of the spirit, you don't talk foolish stuff. When you in the spirit poking me talking about chewing scandal, that's okay. I'm filled with the spirit. Talk about me as much as you please. The more you talk, I will bend my you ought to just say Lord right now feel me In my home, fill me. In my car, feel me. On the job, fill me. As I walk along the fill me, I desire a feeling of in a word, I want to be on fire. What's wrong with that man? I see something that I see something on him. It looks like the Spirit of God. Amen. That makes us a church on fire. There are terms the fire department uses. A one-alarm fire is not that big a deal. Oh, bring about 10-15 men. That's all we need. We can knock this down. But a six alarm fire means that you need everybody. Every firefighter in town and out of town. And I'm glad that one day I became a six-alarm fire. One day the Holy Ghost got a hold of me and I realized you know what? I'm on fire and I like it. Amen. Anybody like being on fire for Jesus? You are a church that's just burning. Burn, baby burn. Are you on fire? When you're on fire, you can say something. When you're on fire, you can sense something. When you're on fire, you can move in the Spirits of God I can say that the words of my mouth, meditation of my heart, be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength in my redeemer. Moses said, There's a bush on fire and it won't go out. And a voice spoke from the bush, Moses, take off your shoes. For the ground you stand on is holy ground. Can you imagine a bush talking to you? The people of Israel were led cloud by day, a pillow of fire by night. Elijah got into a big debate in a contest with the prophets of Baal and he said, You know what? I'm gonna put my sacrifice out there. And the fire came from heaven and consumed it. Shadrach, Meshach, Abendagh say, Oh yeah. We're not gonna bow down to King Nebuchadnezzar. Throw me in the fire. And the Bible says they were in the fire, and you would thought they would be burning up. But the church was on fire, but when they looked in and said we put three in there But I see a fourth person. It is the Son of God. And they came out, no smoke on them. They came out, no singing. They came out no burn marks. All I'm saying is today, he went to Calvary so that you might catch on by him. He went to the cross so that you might catch on fire. He died so that you might ask the church, catch On fire. He rose on the third day morning so that you might catch on fire. We want to run from fire. Have you ever seen all the Swartz and niggas some of the big time guys walk into the fire? As a believer, walk into the fire. Say Lord set me on fire. The church has caught fire. Don't call 911, but let the church burn. Let the presence of God rest upon each of us. Today, that is the Word of God. It's already blessed. Are you on fire? Come on, stand today. As a believer, as the body of Christ, as someone Who is on fire the day the church caught fire Aren't you glad today that Pentecost can come in your life at any time? Folks, are you acting strange? Today, what's wrong with you? I'm on fire. You can't say nothing today? I'm on fire. Why are you looking all strange? I'm on fire. Why don't you crying in your pain? I'm on fire. Amen? And we're going to sound the alarm to this. Hey, I pulled it, and I'm on fire. Let's give God a praise today. Amen. Lord, because of that It qualifies me as a Christian. Christians catch fire. Lost folk don't want nothing to do with that. Our fire is different. There's a hell fire, but there's a holy fire. Aren't you glad today you got the right one? Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. comToHarvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.