I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen. Whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website, I really do believe that God has a special message just for you A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries for a worship experience already in progress. Praise God. There's a word from the Lord today we want to share with you on this Father's Day from the very first book of the Bible. That is Genesis. Chapter 17, verses 1 through 5. It reads, When Abram was 99 years old, the Lord appeared to him and said, I am God. Almighty, walk before me faithfully and be blameless. Then I will make my covenant between me and you, and will greatly increase your numbers Abram fell face down, and God said to him, and verse 4, as for me, this is my covenant with you. You will be the father of many nations. Verse 5 says, no longer will you be called Abram. Your name will be Abraham, for I have made you. a father of many nations. I want to preach today from the Zemonic title, The Making of a Father. The Making of a Father. I came across this poem written by author Diane Wright, and she penned it back in the spring of 1944. I believe that the words are even true today. I want to read a portion of it. It's entitled, What Are Fathers Made Of? Little Boys are Made of Snails and puppy dog tails, but fathers are made of concern and love, ready to give aid when the going is rough, or to be a throwing partner with a baseball and the glove Fathers are made of compassion too, shown in a different way than mom. Mom has pure emotion sometimes. She may cry, but dads, just listen with wisdom to impart. Fathers of the light of our lives, along with God, shining the way in the darkest of nights, helping to ready a small life, who too will be called to be a beacon of light to their own before night. That was Diane Wright and I just was drawn to that particular poem and I'm sure it describes someone that you know, a father or a father figure today That special person who impacted your life, both by way of their living and by way of their giving, we thank God for fathers. You know, the Bible declares in Genesis 1 and 27 that we are made in the image of God. Male and female, never forget who made you. Amen. Who has the blueprint? Folk may call you out of your name. You say, you don't know who you're messing with. I'm I'm you know I'm I'm made by God. He formed me even in my mother's womb. And so that ought to lift you up today when you think about who you are. You are someone who's made by God. I want to highlight the biblical character, Abram, today Abram was one who, from a very early age with his father, left the city in which he was born. Ur of the Chaldeans. He left there. And let's do a background check. That particular city was like being in New York Had all the culture, had all the power, all the wealth. And at God's direction, uh Tara, his father, packed the family up, and they moved to another place that was much like Kansas They went from New York to an area called Canaan. But it was all a part of God's plan to make a father. My life, as you know, was in the reverse. I came from the country. Live oak, moved to Washington, D. C. Uh that was my big city. Stopped in West Virginia, picked up a wonderful wife, and then came to Baltimore. But God has a way in moving you uh to make you does that make sense today that you would not be who you are had God had not moved you, if nothing more than from one place to the other, even in the same city. But God in his wisdom has a way of shaping us. And keep in mind today, this is not just a Father's Day message, not just about Abram. It's for Alice. It's for Alicia. Amen? That I want you to think today how God can transform your life, how God can make you into someone he wants to use. And he's still in the business of making followers. I know dad sometimes got a bad rap. Dead B, low life, I may as well preach. Good for nothing. Just like your daddy. But thank God for the brothers who are out on the front line doing and handling their business. Amen I know every man would agree with me, every father. Sometimes everybody is going to bed, lights are out, your eyes are wide open. Lord help me to hold out Help me to make it, and God has a way of coming through. And so God connects with Abram. He shares with him in this very first book of the Bible. It's called Genesis because what it means beginning And so he takes time to make an announcement to him. It says, when Abram was 99 years old. Way past Social Security. Way past Medicare. I mean, we're talking 99. The Lord of appeared to him and he appeared to him before but it shows that God will continue to come into your midst if you would allow him to come Now I pray to God if I can get 99, praise God. But anytime God shows up in your experience, that ought to be strumpling and say, God, thank you. What do you have to say to me? I'm ready. Talk. I'm listening. He shows up in his experience at 99 and gets right to the point. Don't you love that kind of God? No small talk. He says, I am God Almighty. Announces who he is, and when God comes into your experience, he says, Hey, I want you to know who I am. I am God all by myself. Have you stopped by your experience lately to announce himself? And when he comes, he says in this making of a man, I am God, walk before me faithfully. Abram, I'm calling for you to do right. I'm calling for you to live. I'm calling for you this day at this moment to be someone who stands on faith. Is that asking too much from God? He said, I'm just coming to stop by, let you know that I'm still holding you to a standard. No matter what the world says about you, that I want you to be what? I want you to be faithful. Walk before me Not literally walk in front of me, but what do what? Allow your light to so shine before men and women that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. And then he says also, and be blameless. Other words, uh have a good reputation. Uh be a person of integrity. You know, it's easy for somebody to mess your rep up But but but you can't blame folk. You know back in the day and guys were like this they give you a nickname. Man, I said no I I'm not gonna wear that bruh So I would turn the name around. So we'll just be two of us then. If I'm gonna wear that name, he's gonna be it. And sure enough, they'll back off. But have integrity Do the right thing. Say the right thing. Try and live in the right way. It was God's way of making a father. Then I will make my covenant between me and you and will greatly increase your numbers. I'm so glad today that God saw my life. Had to cut it down to the foundation and rebuild. Well some of y'all never been there. Y'all come out the gate. Glory, hallelujah. Thanks y'all wish I would bless y'all. But he had to knock some stuff down and kick some stuff over. Come on now. And dig some stuff up and to build me and to make me over again. Yeah, I know how to be a guy and a dude, but a father? That's a different blueprint for me. It's some stuff that I have to put aside. Let me go ahead and get on your street. Daddy, time out for half an hour, you grown. Grown home. Uh oh Amen. Come on. Your playing days are over. I didn't mean to even go there, but I did anyhow. And I went there. God needs to clear the foundation and to build you up in the Word. Is that all right? The guy said, Yeah, I know what you mean. But it's not just for the guy. God comes and says to him, Here's what I want to do to you. And as a result, your numbers will increase greatly Not not the dollar bill, but your influence. Who you're able to impact will change because I stopped by to make an announcement. Isn't that good news? I love what Paul said to Philippians 1 and 6. Being confident of this very thing, that he which has begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. When God stops by, he stopped by for a purpose. And in Abraham's case, he had stopped by when he was 75. He had stopped by earlier. But he says, when he was 83, but he says, I'm by here again because I got a new announcement See, see, God is an extra, extra real about it type kind of God. Amen? In other words, he's like, oh well God, you can't no, I got something new this week. If you're willing to listen to what I got to tell you. And that's why the word is so important It's fresh, it's new, and you may say, well, I learned that Bible verse in Sunday school, but now you've grown up. Now you're a father. God desires to make the big announcement. And we love big things. Coming soon. He shows up in the life of one Abram and makes this grand announcement. But not just the announcement. He also hammers out an agreement in the life of Abram. But here's what I like. During this encounter, the Bible says Abram fell face down and worshiped. In other words, he got low. And when you're in the presence of God and He's changing your life, you ought to give some reverence. He falls face down, he's all ears, he wants to hear what thus saith the Lord. It is an agreement that's about to take place, but I couldn't get past Minister Washington. The fact that Abram Fell down. Every now and then you ought to fall down in worship. Get so low so God can speak to you. And when we are high and mighty, we miss stuff Can I just testify? When you high and mighty, your head's in the sky. But when you fall low before the Lord on your knees My God, your hearing, I may not be medical, but I think your hearing improves. The lower you get, the clearer it becomes. What he has to say to you, I'm thankful for that. He talks to him. Abram, it's me and you. You bow down. I'm God Almighty. I'm before you. He says, as for me, God with his bad self, as for me, this is my covenant. My contract. My deal with you. You will be the father of many nations. I love this direct God. Gets right to the point. As for you I ain't say what Big Mama said. Not your running partner of your homeboy, but I'm talking to you. As for me. He reassures Abram, I'm going to do something big in your life. I'm about to make you over. Some of y'all might have a makeover. You know they make over they're supposed to change it, right? Before and after. You know that's the outside stuff. Aren't you glad when God works on work on the inside and folk may not be able to see it? What are you doing? I've had a makeover, you know. I'm living right, I'm talking right, I'm sharing right. Why? Because I've had a makeover. It's an agreement. God says it's my covenant Unless you try to own it. I'm the one doing it. I will make you the father of many nations, but he already had a son. Ishmael. Ishmael, who was his uh boy by Hagar who was the housekeeper. Oh y'all come on some desperate housewalks, right? Who was the housekeeper for Sarah? And Sarah didn't believe that God could allow her to have a child. So she said, you go ahead Yeah, that took place in the Bible. You can go ahead and young be with my man and and Ishmael case he was already a father You don't need the soaps. Turn-huh. And Estera got mad later. She got mad later, kicked her out. So you get a little high for me, but nevertheless, he makes him the father of many nations. He gives him with this title an expanded role That you are more now than who you presently are. And don't you know that God will get ready to expand your role? Expand your influence? Anybody ready to say, you know what, I'm tired of just being where I am, but God has enlarged my territory? Amen? Oh, you don't feel that thing today. I'm preaching to me today Thank you, Lord, for give me some extra kick leg room. You're going to expand my territory. Amen. Won't he do it? Yes, he will. No borders when it comes to what God will do as he's remaking you and retooling you and getting you ready to be used. for his glory. I'm so glad he's not done with me yet. I hadn't even scratched the surface. What about you? The great thing to get is I'm just waiting like come on Lord. What are you going to do today? Anticipation. I'll make you the father over many not neighborhoods But many nations, and that's deep biblical, uh, you know, I can talk about the deep but I just want to put it in context that you will have influence wherever you are I cut a deal some years ago with the Lord. I'm glad I did. It was his contract. And he keeps renewing it and renewing it and renewing it as he changes me. Has he renewed your contract lately? Uh oh, he hadn't. Have you been to the bargaining table lately? Has he changed some language? Has he changed your language? Is God hammering out a new agreement in your life today? He desires to do that. Yes, yes. And it's all because of what we believe about him. Abraham was Abraham's, I'll come in. If you said it, I receive it. Look, Hebrews 11 and 1. Now faith is what the substance of things hoped for. He knows what's going to happen. And the evidence of things not seen by faith, the elders obtained the good report. He's going to do some stuff through you as he makes and returs you to the glory of God. Is that good news today? He makes the grand announcement, about to fix you up, makes the agreement. It's my covenant, got to work it out. But I love what he says in this last passage There is an adjustment that is made. An adjustment. Verse 5: No longer will you be called Abram. Your name will be Abraham, for I have made you a father of many nations. That thing, guys, oh man, you mean change my name? He has to adjust some things in your life to use you to his glory. Now the name change is a real big deal because Abram means exalted father. But Abraham means father of many. And scholars say all that God did was add at one level to the alphabet. Uh uh a fifth letter, which essentially made it Abraham, and five means grace. Aren't you glad for God's unmerited favor? Oh you're not talking back to me today. I mean my God. Your name getting ready to change. Came in one name, he's gonna leave with another name. Amen. I'm glad that he began as Abram, but his name is now Abraham, and God changes the birth certificate God said, give me some whiteouts. Some of y'all too young for white out. Y'all just delete now, but back in the day there was whiteout. He wipes out your old name and gives you a brand new name. Aren't you glad today he's still working in you? Your old name is not fit for your current assignment. Your old name won't work with this new thing that God is about to do in you. Anybody up for a name change? I am. Yeah, they used to call me many other names down home, but now I got the new name now I am redeemed by the blood of Jesus Christ. Oh, I feel like preaching today that He makes me, you know Just uh an adjust-justment, it you used to be, but when I get d d done with you Can I go go out when I get finished with you, your name won't even be the same. Yes, my title, Reverend Doctor, Pastor, but my name is Deeper Than That. I've become the father of many nations. It says in Matthew 16, 15, 16, he says unto him, because there was some debate. Jesus said, I want to know what the word is on the street. What they calling me. Oh, some say you you Moses. Some say you John the Baptist. Say what about y'all? Who do men say that I am? What you say? Peter said, I know who you are. Huh? So I know exactly who you are. You are the Christ, the Son of the Living God. Anybody ask you who you are, tell them I'm a child of God. Oh, don't be scared. Go ahead and tell them who you are. I'm a child of God. May not look like it, may not always do the right thing, but I am a child of God. Jesus, who was crucified Jesus who hung on that cross. Jesus who died but rose on the third day morning with all power in his hands. You may say, you know, I said, but every now and then you've got to say, you know what? I'll just call him the Almighty. I'll call him Alpha and Omega. I'll call him the author and the finisher of my faith. I'll call him the beginning and the end. He's the bread of life. He's the counselor and my deliverer. He's an everlasting father. He's my first and my last. He's my good shepherd. Can I just call him I am? He's the king of kings. He's the Lamb of God, the light of the world. He's Lord of Lords. He's the mighty God. Prince of peace, Redeemer, Rose of Sheridan, Savior, Son of God, Trubine. I just call him Jesus Amen. Anybody can call his name today. His name is Jesus. There's a name. I love to hear. I love to sing its words. It sounds like music in my ear, the sweetest name on earth. It tells me of the Savior's love who died to set me free. It tells me of his precious love. The sinners perfectly. Oh, how I love Jesus. Because he first loved me. I got that name. If I forget my own name, I got that name Take the name of Jesus with you. And that's what helps to make a father. Announcement, agreement, adjustment. And that's what makes you as a child of the king. He who began to work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. Don't you feel different today? Man, you ought to feel a little different today. You've been made over. And when folks ask you to sign your name, He's gonna write a different name because he's done it today. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. Amen. Come on, stand today all over this place. Let's give God some praise He wants to make you new today. And when God has the blueprints, he will do the best job in shaping you. He will do the best job in making you into his own image today. Let's bow over this place. I want to pray with you today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. We thank you for an example of an Abram who becomes an Abraham, but we fill the blinks in, and we thank you for our own journey. and what you're doing in us. I pray in the name of Jesus, if there's one today who's never accepted you as their personal Savior, that today they can do it. Just by confessing, just by saying, I'm sorry, just by saying, I believe, God, that you sent your son. Jesus Christ to die for me. Just by saying that and believing it, the Bible says, thou shalt be saved. Today, Lord, save that person who has never made a commitment to you. Do it in their lives today. Make them over. Make them anew again in the name of Jesus. As you've come today, I've often said, and I mean it, I have no power to save anyone. I don't know who's saved, who's not saved. And that's why I throw a wide net every Sunday. Because perhaps somebody said, you know what, today is my day. I want to confess Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. And today, you can do that. It's personal, but I declare today: Jesus wants to save your soul. I used to hear this and say, Well preacher, just stop. I mean why why'd you keep going down that road? I felt the same way. But there's a road we have to go down Young folks say, you ain't go there. Don't go there. Well, I'm going there. To let you know that he loves you. Let you know he can change your life around just like that. And all you have to do is say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. I need to be saved. I want you to come into my heart today. I confess it. I want you to save my soul. And just like that, Nobody may not know lightning won't go off, the lights won't dim. You would just feel this peace in your heart that will pass all understanding. It'll bring joy to your heart today. Anybody remember what that felt like? Would you kind of get about two witnesses who remember what that felt like? When the Lord saved your soul and you say, ooh, thank you Today he wants to do it for every single person in this building. I pray for you today that you might receive the Lord Jesus Christ. He says you're ashamed of me down here. I'll be ashamed of you up there. You know, we got some folk we're ashamed of. Yeah, don't want to be seen with them. Oh no. Want to be associated with them. But he said, if you do this to me, no. Don't you even try? Like we all right when you've not said, Other, I confess my sins. I just plead today with you. I'm not a beggar, but I'm pleading that if you come today and you really don't know Jesus, don't leave today. Until you get to know him. Don't walk out of this place today until you give him your heart. And he will not force himself on you. Come under me, all who are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Somebody may want to walk for the Lord to say, you know, I'm ready. I ain't ashamed. I'm coming down. I want to find out more about this Jesus. The floor is open. You can run, walk, skip, hop for Jesus today, and publicly get to know him. You may have received him in your heart where you are. That's wonderful. However, you receive him, get it today. Life is filled with swift transitions, not on earth and move to stand. Build your hopes on things eternal. Hold to God's unseen hand. Give yourself away today. Maybe you've come and you desire to be a part of this fellowship called Harvest. The doors are always open. I invite you today. I invite you today to come connect with this fellowship. I invite you today. Give your heart. Invite you today to renew your faith. I invite you today. Ever have somebody not invite you to something and you got an attitude? Oh, didn't invite me, huh? Well today I invite you to give your life to Jesus. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org That's cumthenumber twoharvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com. All you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comthenumber twoharvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they are really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.