Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooton, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvard's Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Amen. As we come today to share the good news of Christ, let's bow. All over this place today where you are. Heavenly Father, we thank you today for another opportunity to share your word. It's your word. And you put it in our mouths. I pray but now, God, that as we share that some heart might be touched today. That some soul might be saved. But in the end, that you might get the praise and get the glory. In Jesus' name. Amen Amen. It's a great day. Any time you can stand and testify what great things God That's done in the lives of his people. I remember a friend of mine, he broke all the grammatical rules. He said, you know, I can say God is good. But he said, I'm gonna say this, God are good. It had to be more than just he is. Amen. There's a word from the Lord today that comes from the book of Acts. Acts simply means that it's a recording of the Acts of the Apostles. Tells the story of what happened with the early church. And there in the eighth chapter, verse 26, now an angel of the Lord said to Philip, go south to the road. the desert road that goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza. So he started out and on his way he met an Ethiopian Munich. an important official in charge of all the treasury of Kandate, which means Queen of the Ethiopians or Candace. This man had gone to Jerusalem to worship. And on his way home, he was sitting in his chariot reading the book of Isaiah the prophet. The Spirit told Philip at the time, go to that chariot and stay near it. Then Philip ran up to the chariot and heard the man reading Isaiah the prophet. He says, do you understand what you're reading? Philip asks. The man says, how can I, he said, unless someone explains it to me So he invited Philip to come up and to sit with him. What a picture the Bible paints. of a testimony. I want to preach today from the Samonic title Total Impact. Total Impact Just for a moment, bring to mind that person who has impacted your life. That person that somewhere along the way gave you a word of encouragement. That person who said to you, you can do all things. For me, it was Bill Sabetz A local announcer who I listened to who kept saying to me, you can succeed, man. You can do this. And I'm saying, you think so? He believed in me. He impacted my life. And it turned out that on the day he passed, God had me back in town. in Florida to be able to write a commentary to thank him for his words of encouragement. But on another level, people who've impacted our lives spiritually I can see her smiling face now, my primary Sunday school teacher, Miss Lily B. Mitchell What a kind woman and what big cards we had. And she would explain the word of God to us. It added on to what we'd gotten at home, but my it was Sunday school I don't think she ever raised her voice one time. She had a real motherly spirit. But there are people that you know who poured into your life and now you have an opportunity to pour into someone else's life to impact somebody's life for the cause of Christ. Isn't that something that you have been blessed and now somebody taps you on the shoulder at a store and says, you remember me? And you may say, no, I don't. And they may say, you said something to me many, many years ago. I love educators, uh, many in my family, and many here People will say, you remember me as your student? And they will tell you something that impacted their lives for the cause of Christ. This morning we meet the biblical character Philip. He was one of seven people who became one of the first deacons, but really Philip was on fire for Jesus. It didn't take much for Philip to tell somebody about the good news of Jesus Christ. He didn't mind one bit. The Bible says that on occasion that the angel spoke to Philip Now keep in mind that during this time the church was under heavy persecution. We enjoyed now the freedom to worship. But you could lose your life by speaking Christ or talking about Christ or saying you were Christ's follower. But Philip is so bold He goes out and says, I'm going to tell folk about the good news of Jesus Christ. So angel speaks to him and says, fill up a new assignment. I need some place for you to go I know there's been a real interest in recent years about angels. God will send angels as messengers to his people. I've never seen an angel flap the wing. I've never had an angel show up at my house on my doorstep, but God will send people your way. For the purpose to give you a message. And that's why you can't discount anybody. You know, oh I don't want to listen. You better listen because you never know Who God may send your way that will give you a word that will help you on your journey. Amen. You can look and say, uh-uh, not that person And that might be the very angel that God is sending your way to bless you. So Philip is being told by the angel, I need for you to go from Jerusalem down to Gaza. And you look at this map of sorts. He leaves Jerusalem, he's on assignment, he goes down to Gaza, and he runs into a man who's an Ethiopian eunuch. Which means he's one who watches over the Queen's money. That must have been a bigger sign, man. You make sure nobody mess with my money Queen of Ethiopia, Candace, is the one that he worked for, but he finds himself coming all the way from Ethiopia to Jerusalem to do what? To worship God And you've come a short distance to do what? To give God the praise. You've come not to worship me or not to say I'm being seen. But you have pressed your way to give God the praise and to give God the glory. Persons may tune in on radio or podcast. Why? They want to give God the praise today, and they want to hear it from the word of God. Now, there's a nut for here to preach for time to eternity. And so he goes down. He sees this Ethiopian, who I would say pulled over at the rest stop. He's heading back to Ethiopia, and Philip sees him But he didn't pick where he was going to go. See, you can never tell God, okay, I'm not going there. And the places you don't want to go might be the place that God wants to use you Can I testify? Every now and then I find myself I don't really want to go down there today. And God will raise somebody up in a chat in a chariot, somebody who's waiting for you to minister to And you've got to be obedient. There's somebody's life you can impact. Why? Because there's something for you to share with them. If you've been ever impacted, you'll know it's so important Now they may not ask you, but you will be noticing that God, here's somebody you place in my path. Philip shows up And he goes over and sees this person who must have had a real entourage. You can't be that big time and have one or two chariots. There must have been a lot of chariots All Philip is saying, okay, you've got me here, and I'm here to minister. So let's look at this in terms of breaking this text down. So the first thing that we see happening here, I think, is we find someone who's a student of the word. Okay? He was on his way home, this the eunuch, sitting in his chariot, reading the book of Isaiah the prophet. Some versions say he was reading out loud. Now you wouldn't miss the guy reading the Bible out loud. He wasn't just in deep meditation. He was reading. And God said And so he's the student of the word. And we've got to be students of the word of God. Amen? To have a Bible. I know I promote technology, but my God you oughta have a ten gallon Bible somewhere. You oughta have something you can open up and put in your column the dashboard and let it you know it c sometimes you put on the dashboard it'll it'll get old. But you oughta have a Bible. It's still the number one bestseller. Amen. I don't know about you, but I can't throw a Bible away. Man, I don't care how bad it looks Can you imagine? I got a Bible here and a Bible there and a Bible there, but he's reading the book of Isaiah He's reading a prophetic book. He didn't have a Bible. He probably had a scroll. But there he is engaged and reading aloud the Word of God. How many just read your Bible out loud sometimes? Amen. Faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God. Every now and then you ought to just hear it. Okay, let me testify then. On your phones there's a Bible app. You can plug it in, and I'll listen to the word of God as I'm driving sometimes, listening to the word because I can't read while I'm driving. Don't don't try that. But to hear the word of God. So Philip is about to make an impact on this life. He hears the man Reading the word of God, this man is a student. Can I just say to the other day that the word has power? The word will bring you through. And you know, some years ago, a friend of mine, and I was just a babe in Christ I'm a little more than a babe now. He would say, are you reading the word? He said, man, that word is something else. I was like, what do you mean reading the word? He said, man, are you in the word? I was like I guess I am in the word. What do you mean in the word? Does that mean that I've got you know I got a Bible, but being in the Word is allowing the Word to get in you That's right. It's more than just reciting something, but you begin to taste that word, you begin to read it, it begins to impact your life, and that way you're able to share that word with someone else. Amen So be a student of the word. Reverend, I'm not in seminary. I don't care. Be a student. I'm not in the Bible study yet, but be a student. So take your Bible, get your cup of coffee or your tea, and say, I'm going to get in the Word. And the Word is going to get in me. I'm going to become a student of the Word. Anybody want to sign up today? And be a student. I don't see one hand. I see two hands. Come on. How many folk want to really be a student of the word? Some of y'all still in college. You got to read the professor's book. There's no choice. If you want to pass the course, but there's the good book, there's the word of God. I like what David said in Psalm 119-105. Your word is a lamp. For my feet. A light for my path. Amen. Some of you, King James, will say, unto my path. Amen. But I'm talking about being able to say, God, your word will guide me. It has so impacted me that I will share it with others. And so when Isaiah, I think he said, wait a minute, maybe I didn't see that dude, but wait a minute. He's reading something familiar. He's reading the word of God. And when you hear the word of God, your spirit will say, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. I recognize that. See y'all got real serious song. Now if I put the old song on the radio from back in the day, the hits of the cell, you say, Oh, that's my song. Oh yes you will. Maybe the sixties Maybe the 80s, and you'll say, Oh, I I know what's gonna happen next. Well, you ought to be that way about the word of God. That's my passage, man. That's my scripture. I love that word. It ought to be something that guides you in your daily living. Amen. Y'all pretend like you've never heard the radio. I know you can be in the world, love of the world. I like 70s. I'm old school. I was a DJ. Amen. Ain't my song no more, but I got a new song that I'm singing unto the Lord. Amen. He touched me all my life, has not been the same. There's a new top five now. Amen. There's a new number one. Oh, some of y'all know about number one. When you bought them 45s and that's you had a dollar anyway, you bought a you bought a little album that's all you had with a flip side B Amen. But you tore it up, you're wore it out. Well, you ought to wear your word out. Some gonna work my word, I'm gonna keep reading that word. I am a student of the word. Sometimes you gotta go old school. People get so heavenly minded. No, you were in the world, so was I. So I'm trying to come on your street today. Help you to see this thing. Amen Not just a student of the word, but he was standing watch. Philip was standing watch. He said, you know what? The spirit told him, go to the chariot and stay near it. So the spirit said, the spirit said Philip didn't say, go to the chariot and stay near it. Stand watch. Stand by. Get ready. And Philip ran up to the chariot He didn't say, okay, I'll get there when I get there. No, he ran. Why? Again, he was hearing that word. That word that impacted him. He ran to the chariot and heard the man reading Isaiah, the prophet. He said, Do you understand what you're reading, man? Do you know what you're reading? Do you know what you have in front of you? And that was a question the Spirit of God asked him to share. And persons might need help in their walk. And you can help them. Ask them, do you get this? Do you understand this? And there again, Reverend, you gotta degree. Okay, you've been to Bible school. I don't mean anything. God has given you a testimony that connects to scripture and you'll say, Do you get this? Ask the person, do you understand this? Well let me tell you what I know. I ain't got but 2. 9 verses in my arsenal. But I'll share all that I have. And I'll try to help you along the way, baby. Amen. And we ought to be in a position to say, I'm going to stand watch. He ran to the man and said, Can I help you out? Because I don't think you get this. Amen. And every time I come on Sunday, sometimes I'll behind the scenes, I'm saying, do you get this, Reverend? Because if you don't get it, no one else will. Amen. But you are saying to somebody, I get this, and I can share with them the good news of Jesus Christ. Follow me. It's all about discipleship He goes over, don't trot. He runs to the chariot, head to the man's ride, and said, Do you get this? I hear you reading Isaiah, but do you understand what you're really reading? Amen. And we have to make sure that we do that in our sharing. Because, see, I like what 1 Peter says, 3 and 15. In your hearts, revere Christ as Lord. Always be prepared. To give an answer to everyone who asks, you'll give the reason for the hope that you have. But do this with gentleness and respect. And I like that. You know why? There was a time I used to beat folk up with the word. You don't get this? You ought to come to church sometimes You don't get this, I get it. And that's not the way you do it. Always have an answer. You know what, dog? I didn't really get it, but let me tell you what a little bit I know. I know he'll make a way. I know he's with me always. Even to the end of the I don't know much, but I got that little bit. So what little bit I have, I want to be able to share and always give a reason why And folk ought to ask you why. While you go to church. Have an answer. While you're in Bible study, have an answer. Why you don't drink? Have an answer. Why don't you smoke with us anymore? Have an answer. Why you have an all study? Have an answer. Amen. Have an answer with someone who comes to you and says, My life has changed. Not what I used to be. But don't beat them up. Do it with gentleness and respect I'm here. And so when Philip approaches his brother, he does it in a nice way by saying, Do you understand this? Do you get this? Always stand watch You never know when a chariot gonna pull up on your job with a unit in it. You never know when a chariot is gonna pull up in front of your house With a unit in it. Never know when a chair is going to pull up in your experience. And somebody is just saying, Can you help m me get this? You are in church You are a deacon, you sing in the choir, you gotta book w what's in your hand, at least be able to be on standby to share with them something. Cathy, you ain't got no whole lot. I mean all of us are students. I'm still learning. Uh you know, we we never get it all, but what little bit you know, don't hold on to it like uh-uh. Share with someone. Amen. Student of the word. He stood watch. And then finally, there was a statement of wisdom. I love the honesty of the text Verse 31. He responds to Philip. You get this? How can I? Oh, you help me out. Unless somebody explained it to me I love this guy, man. He's a big shot saying, I don't know. Can you explain it to me? Can you help me out? I don't get it. He didn't say, Oh, yeah, I got it. Praise the Lord. Thank you for sharing with me. No. And we got to be very honest with people and say, you know what? I don't get this Be able to uh have this statement of wisdom to say I don't understand. Amen. I think we've gotten this whole sense about act like you understand it. No, you don't. People will appreciate your honesty. And say, I'm Doc, I don't get my book. But I'm getting there. Let me get my Bible in my commentary and and you know what I got in in the trunk. Hold on and I'll try to explain it to you They're a first chance I get it. So let's sit down together and let's see if we can understand this. Or we may call someone and say, do you get this? I don't mind you calling me And I'll say, come on, let's pray about it. Here's what I understand it. And so that way he at least is so honest about making the statements, how can I get this? Unless someone, wink, wink, can help me out. Maybe it's you, Philip. Maybe you are the person to do that. He's threatened to have an impact on a life. Is that making sense this morning? That you can have an impact on someone's life in your home, on your job, in your community. And like even in the words here, we look at 2 Timothy. He says, do your best to present yourself to God as one approved. You worker does not need to be ashamed, who corrects me handles the word of truth. Didn't bite off too much. Doc, all I know is Jesus wept. He was sad. His friend had died. He was holy God, but he showed he was human too. And every now and then we'll we'll weep when times get tough. And he said, oh okay, I get that Well, and we've got to break it down like that. But be able to share with someone the good news of Jesus Christ. I love story endings And the Bible says that, okay, Isaiah s is there. He reads Isaiah. And Philip said, Okay, uh I see what you're reading. You're reading apart and it's it's prophetic. He says, you know Uh he'll be bruised. You're talking about Jesus when he comes, he's prophesied. It's okay, I got that. Okay. And then he said, Oh, but by the way, you in my chariot, uh, I see some water. Can I be baptized He said, Yeah, man, come on. Get up. Let's go. And so this man was so impacted by Christ that he knew the next thing to do was to get baptized. He said, Do you mind baptizing me? Yeah. Well, let's do it. He baptizes him. This man comes out of the water. He's believing Jesus. He's been impacted. And the Bible says the Spirit of God. takes Philip away supernaturally and puts him in a new town. Man, that's pretty cool. Isn't that something? You done done your work, but I got more work for you to do so zap I'm taking you another place. No need for the megabus, no need for airplane ride. And God will transform you and transfer you to another place. Once you've done one assignment for him, he says something else for you to do, amen. Praise God. It's good to be used by the Lord today. He was just so obedient to follow the Lord's leading, to go in a different direction, to hear the word that drew him. To jump in the man's chariot, to talk with him, to explain the word of God, to baptize him. Okay, gotta go, see him. Bow. Look at that. Impact Today we are called to impact the lives of people without really trying to do it. Just be yourself. I'm just Tim. And here's what I've learned. But you will be amazed who you will impact without trying to. Impact. I'm so glad that Jesus came. And he impacted the lives of people. He impacted those who followed him, but when he went to that cross, there was a new level of impact. that I've taken all of this and I'm doing it just for you. But you might understand that I died for you. I realize that Jesus is still the answer for the world today. With all that's going on, all the new stuff, Jesus Christ is still King. Jesus Christ is still the one who will transform a life. I know. I'm not what I used to be. Amen. Won't God take you some places to remind you of where he brought you from? Oh, I remember when. But thank be the God I'm not what I used to be. Thank be the God He's delivered me, thank be to God, I've been impacted in such a way that he's made a difference in my life. Do you feel impacted today? Amen. I think impact means to run into something. Amen. Praise God. I think every now and then you ought to bump into God. I've been impacted by your love, impacted by your peace, impacted by your joy. You want to have a book in written now and then, you want to bump into God and say, Lord You've changed my life. Oh my God. I get excited about that. The fact that not partially, but he's totally impacted me. Ever gotten to a point say you know what I can't go back. I know too much now. Uh-uh. I'm not going back there Oh no Lord, not knowing what I know now. I'm afraid to go back and no good old days The new day is this is the day that the Lord has made. We can be rejoicing and be glad. Anybody feel impact Today, you feel like you have been impacted by some life, impacted by the love of Christ, impacted by He who makes all the difference My God, you can be a disciple. You can make a difference today. In the food line you're going to bump into somebody in the express line. Not literally. Don't hit nobody. It might be a fight. But God will use you to bump into somebody who might have a question in aisle seven, but really there's something else going on there. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. Amen. Come on, stand all over your place today. Amen. We thank God He's so good today. So we come today and we think about this grace of God Isn't God's grace amazing what he does for us makes such a difference. Old song of the church Come on, sing it together. House we that seed. I once was lost. I was like, Twas grace. Twas grave. Yeah. Come on sing with us today if you know the words, if they mean something. Isn't that great? The hour the hour through many dangers, tores, and snares Now he's brought you through. I've already come. Right now where you are, Christ wants to impact your life. You may have a Bible and you may read it aloud, but you may not understand the story of how Jesus came, died And rose again with all power in his hands. That's the grace of God. That he kept me through seen and unseen dangers. I could have been taken out. I deserved to get what was due to me, but God's grace. That's why it's such amazing that He would do this in our lives. If you've come today, you've never given your life to Jesus Christ. What a perfect time to do it. I want to offer Christ to you today. Someone who will stay with you through thick and thin. Someone who will be there. When everybody else has left, Jesus will be with you. He will guide you. As you bow today, search your own heart today. I don't have the ability to search And to choose and to go to row seven and say, you know you don't know Jesus. I don't know that. I don't have that insight. But the Holy Spirit does. And He's on your role today. As you bow your heads, ask yourself the question. If I died today, if God took me home, would my home be in heaven or would it be in hell? Am I assured today that I've given my life to Jesus? How do I go about this? The Bible says that you shall confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. That's how we become saved today. And you can whisper that prayer, God, I am a sinner in need of a savior. Save my soul today. I applaud that Ethiopian eunuch. He had a Bible, but he still didn't get it. But he read it loud, so much so that when a man of God heard it, he said, You know what you read Do you understand it? No, I don't. And so I come to you and say, do you understand what this means, what it means to be saved? And to have your heart and life in the hands of Jesus. And the Bible says no demon in hell can snatch you out. Once you're saved, you're always saved. I say today, come to him. Just as you are. Father, I pray in the name of Jesus that you might save that soul today. By way of their confession of faith. In Jesus' name. There's a sweet spirit in this place today. Why? Because you've been impacted in some way. If you're not saved, you can give your heart to Christ right now, on the spot, no 10-day grace period, no fill in the blank, and say, Lord Jesus, save my soul. And he'll save me. You may have come today and said, you know what, I desire to be a part of this fellowship. God says the doors are always open. Come unto him. Nothing keeping you from being a part of this fellowship. Maybe you've come today and you want to give your testimony. You may want to come and be a part of this fellowship. The doors open for you right now. You can walk for the Lord today. And we'll receive you in this place. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D. But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you It's www. com2harvest. org. That's come the number to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called speeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes from Podcasting or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.