Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Amen. How many know that to be true today? Is he the center of your joy? Bible says the joy of the Lord is my strength. Weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning. My God, you ought to receive the joy of the Lord's. Press the joy button and see won't God just fill you up. Folka wonder what's wrong with you? I know what you're doing. I got joy. I got joy unspeakable As we bow today, Father, we thank you for another opportunity to stand and to handle your precious word. It is our prayer today that we might decrease. And that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another But when this time is done, we'll be so careful to give your name all of the praise and all of the glory it deserves. In Jesus' name, amen. Praise God. I want to share today from the book of Romans, 8th chapter, verse 26 And 27, 26 says, in the same way, the Spirit helps us in our weakness. We do not know what we ought to pray for. But the Spirit Himself intercedes for us through wordless groans. And he who searches our hearts knows the mind of the Spirit Because the Spirit intercedes for God's people in accordance with the will of God. That's a piece of meat right there. We're going to preach this morning from the Samonic title Trial and Error. Trial and error. I want to talk about prayer this morning and how at one time or another we've all struggled with praying. For the Christian, prayer is both a privilege and an obligation. Something that God calls us to do. It is not optional. Nobody is going around and recording your prayers, but it says men ought to always pray. From the time you were a little taught And you learned the early prayer, that prayer has been a part of your experience between a rock and a heart place. You remember the prayers of mama and dad. And they got you through. The words were not always uh the right language may not have been dotting all the eyes and May have been bad subject verb agreement, but when you pray unto God, he's able to hear your prayers. Recent survey by the Pew Research Center concluded Something about prayer. How many people pray daily? About 53% of the people in America says, I pray daily. But yet if you look at the numbers a little bit more than oh about 20 percent say well weekly uh maybe during the course of the month I'll lift one up Perhaps, and then there's another group that says, you know, seldom uh do I pray, I never pray. Truth of the matter is when times get hard, we'll cry out unto the Lord. Amen. You get into a tough corner. You can have some uh say what you want to say. You say, Lord help me. That's a prayer. Amen. So if we look at this survey, it goes on to talk about Uh who prays women pray more daily than men, but I contend with pew that there are more women than men. They ought to pray more, shouldn't they? Amen I've inserted my own opinion to the survey. We thank God that prayers are yet going up in the body of Christ, and it's so important that people will pray for others. They'll pray for their enemies. They'll pray for conditions to change. I've said before, I'll say it again, one of the books I read one page of was uh the power of a praying parent, I think it was called. I got to the introduction and put the book away. And the prayer was that pray that the person that you're lifting up will hear the voice of the Lord. And not not your voice, but that I pray God that you might break through in their experience that they may get it for themselves. Amen. Any parents in here you say I'm praying for my child. But then you know what you realize that if your child hears the voice of God, you may never know it, but it's not your business. But they'll hear it and they'll be able to move forward. Amen? So we praise God today as we look at this sense of who else is praying. We know the senior saints, they take it, they have more time to pray. They've lived the longer. They've had some other experiences. Young adults about 45%. But nevertheless, numbers or not, it's important that we pray. And in our prayer life, we're still trying to get it together. Thank God for my beloved mother. She says, I'm still praying for you. And the old things will tell you what they're praying for. I'm praying that you will continue to allow the Lord to crown you with wisdom and knowledge. And that is her prayer. You pray the prayer for someone. God protect this person, that person. God change this condition, that condition. Oftentimes the change starts within you. I like what Oswald Chambers said. He's a late speaker and college Bible teacher who said to say that prayer changes things is not as close to the truth as saying Prayer changes me, and then I change things. This morning we're talking about making prayer and harvest a priority, making it a practice, making it a passion. And so we look really into the book of Romans and to Paul He's writing to the church at Rome, a church he started. And Romans talks really about all that God has done through the church and all that God is doing. He writes to a church that needs words of encouragement Talks to them about their prayer life. Paul, one whose life has been changed around, he writes to this church to let them know the importance of praying. I come out this year and I'm real passionate about improving one's prayer life. I picked up and began a new prayer journal. If I look back at the old journals, I remember writing in my prayer, Lord, I don't know how I'm gonna make it. I don't know what the dollars are coming from. I don't know what to do. And I look back now and over time God has answered those prayers, those types of prayers Can I get a witness this morning? If you prayed for something and you knew specifically it wasn't luck, but that you prayed and that God answered your prayer? Let me back it up one minute. What does that feel like to say, God, I prayed for something? I'm praying right now, as a matter of fact. I see some of you say I'm praying right now for that situation. I'm believing, God, in faith that you're gonna change the situation. In those times we're not always dressing the prayer. I contend that in public prayer that we we we we pray sometimes to the people. But I always close my eyes, and some of you do too, and say, I don't care who here. I'm having a little talk with Jesus. I'm telling him all about my story. You just happen to be eavesdropping, but prayer is tough work. It is trial and error. Nobody is such a great prayer that you just, you know, the same prayer that you've been praying, and you wonder if God has heard you, and yes, God has heard your prayer. As a believer, we struggle sometimes with Lord, I don't want to have you say no. But he'll say no in some of our prayers. He'll say yes and we get excited. We testify to the Lord. Other times he'll say wait. Wait on the Lord and be of good courage and he'll strengthen your heart. He knows what is best for us. So even in our praying unto the Lord, he knows what we need. And we thanked him. He didn't give us the stuff we asked for. Come on church. Stuff you thought you had to have. Mr. Wright, Mrs. Wright. Stuff you thought you had to have. Yeah, but God said, No, I'm gonna I'm gonna hope you out You don't need that. But God is constantly on the throne. And so when Paul writes this letter, there's some things that I think help us. First of all, we've got to be cognizant that there's a special assistant Verse 26. In the same way, the Spirit helps us in our weakness. We can't even pray right. Reverend, what do you mean? I can pray. No. Your prayer like my prayer might start one way, end another way, and while I'm down praying, he'll bring things to your remembrance that won't even be on your to-do list On your give me, give me list. He will help you. And Paul says, know the Spirit is willing to become your special assistant. Help me learn how to pray. Help me to pray back your word to you. I contend that the Lord knows his word. Lord, I come now. Uh uh the Lord you are my shepherd and I shall not warn. And Lord, you make me to lie down in green path. You're praying his word back to him. It ain't just something you made up, but the Spirit helps you. The Spirit of God the Holy Spirit helps you in your prayer life. And so as we embark on prayer, I'm asking the Holy Spirit tell me what to pray for And how to pray, how to be specific, helps us in our weakness. We don't know what we ought to pray for as we ought. No, you don't. You pray for the wrong stuff. Before you start praying, Lord, what would you have me to pray for? I contend. I'm not a big sports sports fan. People say pray for my team. Now God bless you. I hope you all win today. But does God really care about the team? Huh? Does he really? I said to one of my co-workers, pray for the pray for the bird Oriol. I said, you know, I'm praying for the Baltimore Orioles. I'm praying, you know, God love birds Amen. He he he he made the birds, amen. But Paul talks about this special assistance, the importance of having someone To come alongside and help you. If you would accept the help, that makes your prayer more effective when the Holy Spirit is helping to guide your thought life and therefore guiding what you pray unto Him. But there are times you don't know what to say. Amen? There's a word like over in the book, the Gospel of John 14, 26 And Jesus says, but the comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things. The paraclete, the helper, the counselor will teach you and then bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I said to you. Anybody that wants some help? Maybe you want that student who didn't want help. I I'm not staying out the class. I was a self at the class all. Amen. I was in office hours. I don't get that professor. You know, and so really the Holy Spirit is here to help us in our prayer life. If people but say, Lord, I don't know what to pray. But you have given me your word, you've given me situations. I was at the store on yesterday, and I here's how the spirit works I'm coming out and I didn't do the approach. I didn't do anything. But it said to me, Reverend, I just thought about you a few minutes ago on the interstate. I said, really? I said, wow, man. I said, come here, let's pray. We got in front of the store and just start praying. So whenever the Spirit leads you to pray, pray. He comes alone to help us. He is that special assistant that is the Holy Spirit. Amen? You still with me? Not just a special assistant, but also there's a special agreement. Uh-huh. But the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with wordless groans. Ever come to prayer and you were just moaning? And couldn't get one out, couldn't say anything, it didn't make any sense. You were hurt, you were downtrodden, you just were fool, and you couldn't even get a prior You ever had that frustration before that you tried to pray, but you couldn't pray? You sang a song, but you couldn't pray. You read a scripture, but you couldn't pray And there's this agreement that goes on. It says, you know, I'll take what you're trying to say and make something out of it. That even in your efforts to pray, you are groaning, you are hurting, you're struggling, don't feel bad. He said I can help you out. That there's an agreement that I've got with God the Father and Jesus Christ that will help to make all of this to make sense. I'm helping myself this morning. This this text means so much to me because every now and then when you get the way to pray, you don't know what to say. Anybody will be so transparent to say that? But mind what you start, he will start filling you up and you might have grown at the beginning, but before it's all said and done You having church in your own house. Having church in your car. You praying for folk you hadn't talked to in 20 years, but the Holy Spirit has put them on your heart, and you're praying. Amen. Trial and error. I keep blowing it. I keep trying. I keep trying to make sure it makes sense. I'm trying to make it sound good. He wants to start with you. The Lord already knows what you're gonna bring him. He said, come on here. I want to hang out with you for a while. Can we just suck together? It's bigger than your request. I made you. I know what you're all about. It's not about you. It's about what I want to do through you. There's an agreement that takes place that allows the Lord to come in and to become an interpreter. He takes your so I know what they mean Lord takes your ouch and does something with it I went to Turkey. I at best had some okay English, but they said, I said, teach me a word. Our guide was our man. I said, give me a word. He says, good night. I said, what does that mean? Morning. So I was the man. Good night until he said good night then. But once night fell, I was out of words. I couldn't say good morning at night. Don't you know what God will bring you through your midnight? He'll bring you through your days that you can't get. He'll come along and say, Can I just make this thing plain to the Father? He'll do that. And so as we begin to pray, know that while you got your list Open, stay open to the Holy Spirit on what He would have you to pray. 1 Corinthians 2 and 11 says, For who knows a person's thoughts? except their own spirit within them. In the same way, no one knows the thoughts of God except the Spirit of God. Amen? So that's this agreement. Okay, I got this. When they groan, I'll take the groaning. I'll tell you what their meaning, and of course God who knows what the Spirit is saying, okay, I got it. There's a process. And yet you come away, your spirits are lifted, you come away with the Holy Ghost report, you come away giving God the praise for the victory in your life. Why? Because the Lord has interceded on your behalf. A special assistance. A special agreement that's made in glory. But finally, there is a special arrangement. Verse 27, and he who searches our hearts knows the mind of the Spirit, God on the throne. knows what the Spirit is thinking as the Spirit interprets what you are saying, uh-huh, intercedes for God's people in accordance with the will of God. There's a standard He understands, breaks it down based on God. God knows what's happening. He's not dead. He's not asleep. He's able to interpret that thing that while you are praying down here, and I'm praying down here, so wait a minute Because I know we're a partnership. God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. Are you with me this morning? He says, What I'm doing is there's an arrangement so it all works out for your good. That's that next verse. And we know that all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. I'm thankful today that he knows what's on the mind of the Spirit. Take any pressure off you? You've been trying to pray and say, ah, I ain't like that. Let's start over again. No, he already knows And prayer is not just what you say or can't say, but just being in his presence is the blessing. If you be quiet for a moment, he'll talk to you. He talks with me and walks with me and tells me I'm his own. He never just said this and I ain't gonna say a mumbling word and you get oh God thank you Lord because that's prayer It's two-way communication, not just what you say, but what the Lord puts in your heart. My God, I'm excited all about that. Shut up, Tim. I know you're a talker. Let me speak. Speak to my heart, Holy Spirit. Amen. He will do it. Another passage there, John 14. And I will do whatever you ask in my name, so that the Father may be glorified. If you ask anything in my name, Jesus says, I will do it. I'll do it. Jesus gave the example of prayer, talking about Mark 135. Got up early, went to a quiet place, didn't want to be bothered, and he prayed. As he was making transitions, he said, Father, I'm praying for these disciples that you won't take them out of the world, but protect them from the evil one. He goes to the Garden of Gethsemane, his heart is saving, Lord, God, if you would just take this cup from me This is a rough assignment. Nevertheless, not my will, but your will be done. He's praying, he's praying, he's praying, and the disciples couldn't pray for one hour They were snoring in the garden. Amen. Some of the saints of those, I prayed two or three hours. But the Bible says to pray without ceasing Now you may not carve out a whole hour to pray, but you just keep edge going, Lord, Lord, thank you. Every chance you get Lord, I'm praying right now in the name of Jesus. Thank you. Some of y'all go to work in your bathroom. I'm not gonna tell your boss and you're praying in the bathroom Some of you shut your office door and you're praying. Everywhere you go, you can do some walking pray. Amen. You're walking, but you're praying. Amen. Every step you take. Say in the name of Jesus, I've got the victory. And that's what the Lord said. He said, You know what? Even on the cross Father, forgive them, but they know not what they do. He's yet praying on the cross. Oh, yes, they did know, but he said, No, I'm praying for them. Amen. So he prays. So what should we pray for? If you're angry, pray God calm me down. If you're a backslider, Lord, restore me. If you're broken, Lord, fix me. If you're a complainer, Lord, help me to offer praise. If you're dishonest, Lord help me to be fair. If you're evil, Lord, help me to be agreeable. If you're fornicator, help me to live right If you're greedy, help me to give more. If you are high-minded, humble me. If you're insane, give me a peace of mind. If you are jealous, make me more trusting. If you're lacking in kindness, help me to care. If you're lost Save me from my sins. Aren't you glad today that he will save you from your sins? That's the real good news of the hour, is that he still saves the lost He's still calling those who want to give their hearts to Jesus Christ. Give him permission to search you. Amen. Allow him and don't make him get a search warrant. Don't make him kick the door of your life down and say, I'm coming in. Search me, Lord, search me. Let your light from heaven turn on my soul. If there's anything that shouldn't be take it out and strengthen me. I want to live right. I want to live whole. I want to give God the praise. So I'm asking the Lord to stretch me today that even in my prayer life, does it make sense? God help me today to pray. Trowel and error. I uh tr but I've got some help though. And the help is coming from the Holy Spirit. Say I got you. Don't worry. But at least come into the presence. Don't just say no, no, he's not going. Come into his presence and he'll help to guide you. That is the word of God today. It's already blessed. How many folk will not? I'm going back now, Reverend. I gave up on prayer because it it wasn't sounding right I gave up because I was lessing up in prayer. I gave up because nothing happened. No. You need some help. And the Holy Spirit does that. Stand over this place today Give God the praise. Amen. Knowing He will help us to make prayer a priority, to make it a practice, to make it a passion We thank the Lord today. Even now, just know that you can just offer prayer right where you are. Yes. That's the good news today. Yeah, I know I need a war room, but my car is my war room. I know I need a war room, but excuse me. I'm going down aisle seven and bow my head near the produce section and pray. In me a great God. That's why I'm satisfied with the Lord Jesus Christ. May you be blessed today. So satisfy. I'm satisfied. So satisfy He needs, he needs so much more To me more to me than anything, anything, anything that is worth you never all I am so satisfied I'm satisfied so satisfied satisfied with my day He means so much more to me more than me Anything Help me say come on now, help me. I'm satisfied. Are you satisfied? With my heart, my day, he means so much more to me, more to me than in me. God is good. As we come today. Here's my prayer to you. Let's bow. Let's just put prayer into practice Heavenly Father, I thank you for your holy scriptures, how they help us to grow and to learn the importance of prayer, what it means, what it is What it isn't. I come today and I pray for that person who may be in this building who is lost When I say lost, I mean they don't know you. They've never experienced you. They've never opened their hearts to you. I pray for that soul today. I pray that you might touch them. I pray that you might change their thinking. I pray they might receive your word from Romans 10, 9 and 10, that thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in thine heart that God Has raised him from the dead, the Bible declares, Thou shalt be saved. I pray for that unsaved soul today in this place. God, I pray now that you might save them as only you can do. Thank you for the Holy Spirit to guide us in that direction. I pray for that person who is brokenhearted today. That person who's depressed today That person who's afraid today, that person who is struggling, dear God, with family issues, with finances, dear God, with employment issues, I pray in the name of Jesus, God, there's a more perfect way. I pray that you might show them, dear God, the way you would have them to go. Not to resolve it in their own methods, but so God How should I deal with this? I pray in the name of Jesus. We ask it even now. If you're here today, you're not saved. Open your mouth today, open your heart today, open your soul today, and accept Christ into your experience. In Jesus' name. If you're here today and you know that you're not saved, you want to be saved Only you know where you stand. That is now a new year trick. It's an everyday trick. God Save someone today. If you know you're not saved, you can accept him right now where you are. Amen. How many folk know they're saved? And really know it. Really know it. Not ashamed to say I'm safe. Over here I'm saved. Not ashamed to say it. Not ashamed to say. Not ashamed to say it. Not ashamed to say it. I'm not ashamed to say I'm saved. I'm not asham Thou might I'll declare from the mountaintop thank you for saving my soul. That's your prayer of the day, thank you. Anybody got a thank you praise in the house today? I mean thank you. Show enough. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You didn't leave me to myself. Thank you. You didn't give up for me. Thank you. You didn't let me die before I found you. Hallelujah. That's the good news. Amen. We're here today. If you've come and you desire to be a part of this fellowship called Harvest, the doors are open for you to come and to declare Your commitment. We're 10 years old. My God, we're getting we're getting great. Amen. But in the 10th year, I believe in God for great things in this year. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comethenumber to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.