Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Amen. Can't you sense his presence in this place? Let's bow. Father, we come. In the name of Jesus, we come as God chasers, trying to keep up with your presence, trying to follow you I pray even now that as we come today, that we might decrease and that you might increase Save a soul today. Encourage another. The one this time is done. We'll be so careful to give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. That's a wonderful name, isn't it? At the name of Jesus, every knee shall bow, every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord Demons tremble at that name. And I want to encourage you to use that name more as your password to keep the enemy off your tracks. I dare you to say, Jesus You find stuff changing in the atmosphere just by speaking that name there's power in it. I I dare you right now to just speak that name Yeah, some stuff not going right. You speak the name of Jesus over it and see if he won't show up and help you out and make a way out of nowhere. Amen. That's the word from the Lord today. It comes from Philippians 3, 13 and 14. Brothers and sisters, I do not consider myself yet to have taken hold of it But one thing I do, forgetting what is behind and straining toward what is ahead, I press on toward the goal to win the prize for which God has called me, heavenward In Christ Jesus. I want to preach from the symmonic title simply, What if? As you look back over 2015, do you have any regrets That is to look back on things that you might have done differently, the places you wish you either should not have gone or wish you could have gone. People that you tried to avoid and may have taken off of your list of any circle and those you may have added on. We could answer yes to any of these questions about what could I have done differently in the year that we're still currently in. I thought about this and so I was going through the supermarket a few weeks ago and came across a magazine that caught my attention because there was a headline uh in Scientific America magazine. And it dealt with what if. And the article dealt with something that's called counterfactual thinking. And to be counterfactual is to express what has not happened, but could, would, or might under differing circumstances. Now where I grew up, it was called I Sulda, I coulda, I would've. Amen? If we're honest this morning, we often will reflect on things that have happened in the year past, and we think about what if I had done this? Well, don't beat yourself up today. The choices that God allowed you to make, they're already past, they're already gone But I thought about this counterfactual thinking, and scientists tell us that thoughts often let us learn from our mistakes. Won't do that again. Next time I'll do this. And we still blow it. Is it an honest church this morning? I don't care how much I meant to do it and we do what Flip Wilson said. He was a comedian some years ago who said the devil made me do it. There's some stuff that we did that just broke us down There are things that we did we can be proud of because we actually sought the Lord before we did them, but we had no regrets about where we are today. Now there's someone who knows about the what is. It has to be the Apostle Paul. He knows what it means to have this street credibility. Paul has some street cred. Amen? That as Saul, he was a bad, evil dude who went after Christians and got paid under the table. Why? Because he would go after them and bring them in and that's installed in all us. Y'all looking at me kind of funny this morning, huh? Oh, you were bad somebody Before the Lord changed you and you would carry a piece on you and might have someone your glove component. I'm talking to a a saved church. Amen Little stuff in your hip pockets or breast knuckles or something. You weren't always saved. And Paul, amen, let me stick right there then. But God had to come in and to change who we are. As we look back on our life, only by the grace of God can we stand here today and those of us who tried to be real cool, uh, you know, hadn't have much fight on us, but we did some stuff But Paul comes with that kind of record, but he finds himself in the present in this text. He is in prison. For doing right. Locked up in solitary confinement for doing the right thing. And sometimes when you're doing right, what evil is always present But when you're doing it for the Lord, you can be encouraged today that I know that my Redeemer lives, that I don't have to live a life of what-ifs, but to look at what now Paul was that kind of person. He writes this letter to the Bolivian church, a church he started just to encourage them. I'm always amazed that here's the guy who's locked up and he's writing with words of encouragement. You living right and doing good and everything's all right and you can't even give a word of hope and help, but Paul is in a bad place. He know he's going to die. He know they're going to have his head. But he's saying, lock me up with the band's cat in here so I can tell him about Jesus. Amen. Ever found yourself in tough circumstances and in spite of where you are, you can still say, is there a word from the Lord? Praise God. What if So Paul is coming near the end of his life. He's writing a letter, and this portion of the letter is what helps us when he talks about this sense of not having any regrets. Now as you begin to play the tapes in your own life, there are some things you wish you had done over. Some things you wish you had done better. But you can't change that now. You're in the here and now. Let thy goals be thy goals, but today you can start anew and afresh in him. Aren't you glad you serve a God of second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth chances that even though you blew it And tried to dress it up. He's still faithful? Paul knew his past life, but Paul knew where he was in the here and now. And he's able to write some words to those who are listening, the what-ifs. First of all, Paul took time to pay attention Personal progress. Brothers and sisters, I do not consider myself yet to have taken a hold of it A hold of what, Paul? My faith. I'm still blowing it, but I'm trying real hard. He was honest to admit that he had not achieved everything he thought he should have achieved. Now I know your list from last year is wrinkled in the back of the Bible, coffee spilled on it, but you didn't make it. Paul says, I'm not there yet. I'm not where I want to be, but there's been some progress in my life. He's able to pass along information to the church and something about when a leader is honest about where you are. Oftentimes I try and be transparent. Not all my business, but let you know I'm not perfect. And don't make me perfect because I'm not. I blow it too. But I'm glad that God comes along and fix me up and brush me off and allow me to stand in this place today and to be honest with you and to be transparent. That's called a testimony. You could help folk if they didn't think that you were so Holy Ghost filled and so Bible on your desk type person. They said, you know what, you blow it too. I laugh off of their work in a real way. But Reverend heard that. And Reverend said it. But by the grace of God, I can stand today. Paul says, I'm making progress, but I'm not there yet. We've just become officially the Fitbit family. They copied off of me. I got mine on my wrist. My Fit bit it tracks my steps and my miles and my calories and my sleep or the lack thereof. Amen. But it shows progress And man, if you have a good day, I must have been moving today. I got my 10,000 steps. Some will challenge the best, but that's progress. And whenever you see that God is doing something in your life, God thank you for the progress that you've allowed me to have in 2015. Don't beat yourself up by what you didn't do. Thank God for what He's allowed you to do and the impact you've made on the lives of people. Oh, you didn't hear that thing. Don't beat yourself up about what you did not get done. But thank God for how he used you and you'll be surprised because folk you didn't think you were reaching, you reached. Things you didn't think were making sense. Come here, parents. It was on the hard drive. When they play it back to you said, God thank you that I said something right or I lived it in such a way. Paul was focused on spiritual maturity. We live in this rush rush microwave overnight Amazon Prime get it the same day society and we think God works that way that My God, He's still working on you and working on me, but Paul says there is some progress. He says as I look at my own life from where I sit, that I do not consider myself to be there. I'm I'm not the person that just said, Well Paul Paul did it. But he says look beyond that and be able to measure the progress. I'm I'm stuck right there So you used to obedience. Measure what God has allowed a small thing that he's done in your life. And thank God for that. Amen. Oh you're still not happy about that yet. I'm talking about that little old thing you did this year and you still be thank God for that. Thank God for the impact you made in the life just by being led by the Holy Spirit. Making some progress. My time is better than it was last year. I got one step more. But Paul is letting them know. He writes earlier in the same book Philippians 1 and 6. Being confident of this very thing that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. Can I just say it again? He's not done with you yet And before you write down one resolution, thank God for what He's already done. You are a work in progress. I'm a work in progress, and thank God for Jesus that my time is up now. Every time you get up, you've got another opportunity I blew it yesterday, but God thank you for today. I have another chance to get this right. Amen. Personal progress. But not just that. This personal perspective. He says, brothers and sisters, I do not consider myself to have yet taken hold of it, but one thing I do. One thing I do forgetting what is behind and straining toward what is ahead. He said now from where I stand, there's still a reason to give God some praise Now now look at my current situation. I'm locked up and and and you know but but God has made a difference in my life and so my past helps me to do better in my future. See, don't don't just totally say, well, you know what, that's all no. Take some stuff from when you were in the world. It can help you to make progress. Amen? That I've blown it so many times that I thank God now I got a perspective on life. Don't lie anymore Stop cheating and stop under the table and stop doing things. But now I can look back and that'll give me some push as I go ahead and get a larger view on what God has done Now see Paul didn't have amnesia. He didn't really forget what he had done. How he chased folk down. But Paul was a smart guy. Paul knew the books, man. Paul had it all together, but it takes more than just that. Grab a hold of this new day that God has given you. Live in the present. Amen. Can I just say that today that live right now and and and put your mind on pause for a minute? You're thinking about what you got to do later in the day, but just say, Lord, right now, I want to just thank you That my perspective is that you've been good to me. I can forget some things, but but I'm pressing. I'm pressing on the upward way. And you know what? You gotta have a new attitude in the here and now. I know y'all have been watching Patty LaBelle and the Patty Pies, but Patty was one who wrote a song in the 80s. Some of y'all were born, some of y'all work. Some of y'all was on the dance floor, some of y'all work. I'm gonna wake y'all up today. Amen. I've got a new attitude I mean Patty used to work that song and that gave you something even though it was over the soul station you realize you know what I got a new perspective on life. The things may have been a little rough this year, but I got a new attitude. How many of us got a new attitude? I mean, you know what? I got a perspective now. I'm forgetting all the mess I came through to where God has brought me now. I got a new season in my life Amen. And as you become more seasoned, you realize, what? That you ain't got that much time. Amen. You don't know what tomorrow holds. Do all you can do today while you have a chance. Can I just speak on you today? You've been putting it off. Go on back to school. Yeah, you've been putting that off. Go ahead and try for that big test. You've been putting it off. Go ahead and make that investment. Amen. So you have a new attitude, a new perspective. There are things I hope to do. You know what my day is like I'm saying, God, I want to get all this done while I can. I've shared this one time with you before. was uh Les Brown, who is a motivational speaker. He shared uh the story that was told by now the late Miles Monroe about a man who was lying on his deathbed As he was laying there, he was passing over, and all of his gifts were around him, saying, man, it's not right that we got to go with you. That you never developed me. You never used me. And so now I've got to go with you. And there are so many books In the cemetery. There's so many ideas in the cemetery. But now use what God has given you, all the gifts He's bestowed upon you Don't let time pass. Don't say what if, but say what now. How can I move forward with what God has developed just for me? And here's the lesson I'm learning at the latter part of 2015. Don't tell all your business either. That's not even in the script. But I learned don't tell folk everything. They'll take your idea Well I got my dissertation, I was done like it was a baby. Can I say no? You can't see it. You know, but now I gotta publish that thing. Amen. So God has put something in you That's for you. And I want to declare today, you can do that with this perspective that He's given you. Amen. Paul realized that. Isaiah speaks about it He says, you know, remember ye not the former things, neither consider the things of old, but behold, I will do a wake up, church! A new thing, now it shall spring forth. Shall you not know it? I will even make a way in the wilderness and rivers in the desert. I'm just trying to encourage you today Don't get stuck on what I could have shoulda done and number right now see I'm Reverend I don't start the engine up. I'm ready to go. Amen I'm not waiting to say you know 2016, but right now I'm doing what God has called me to do. Amen. Personal progress Personal perspective, but finally a public proclamation. I press toward the goal, the prize for which God has called me heavenward in Christ Jesus. Paul was not ashamed to say, I'm on my way. I'm not there yet. Please be patient with me. God is not done with me yet. I've got a goal in mind, not a resolution, but a prize on where God is taking me. And you've got to let the world know, you know what? I can give you some of it, I can give you all of it, but I'm letting you know that God has something special. Are you special? Something in store for you. It is a crown Not the prize we think of. I had to go on the internet to get this because I don't play. Not the pick three. Not to pick four. Not the mega million, not the powerball, but he who has all power. I thought I'd get you on that one. All power in his hands I can proclaim that I serve a risen Savior who's in the world today. He is all powerful. He's God all by himself. I recall the old civil rights song, hang on let nobody turn me around. Let nobody turn. I'm gonna keep on walking, keep on talking, keep on praying, keep on making my way toward the mark that God has for me. Don't you know there's a prize for you that's waiting in the here and now, not when you just get to heaven, but God has done some things he wants to give you. Right. Do you believe that thing today? I I'm I'm I'm trying to beat you up and help you to get to that. I already got it I'm trying to help you say do I see it? Am I gonna receive what God has for me? It's not motivation, it's in the word. That I ain't gonna quit. I'm locked up right now, but I'm gonna still keep on pressing and not be stuck on what if. Lord, I tried to. I can't close. No, this year and this season, make it happen. Can I preach to myself because I'm going to preach to them to them? I got a mirror in front of my face. I'm talking to me You better do what you say you just told them on the day. Amen. Tim, you better go ahead and do it. You've been talking about it, amen. So God is that good, He allows us to have this perspective and to proclaim it. I've not got there yet, but I'm on my way. Done paid the toll On my way. Then get in the right lane on my way. I'm trying to get there. Like what Joshua says it's on the screen now. Joshua 24. But if serving the Lord seems undesirable to you, then choose For yourselves this day, whom you will serve. Uh-oh. Whether the God of your ancestors The gods you serve beyond the Euphrates, the gods of the Amorites in whose land you are now living, but as for me and my household, We will serve the Lord. But Reverend, I live by myself. Serve the Lord. Reverend, ain't nobody living. Serve the Lord. Everybody in your house will say, you know what? I come to give God the praise. And the glory for all the great things. I'm going to proclaim it today from the mountain tops. I serve someone who can make it happen. Amen. So what if God had not taken notice of a broken humanity? What if he'd shown a blind eye to what was happening? What if he had not sent the prophets to deliver a word of correction? What if he did not send his only begod and son, Jesus Christ, to preach the good news? What if he had refused the assignment? What if he had been reject not been rejected? What if he had not been stripped? What if he'd not been beaten? What if he'd not been pierced in the side? What if he'd not worn that crown of clothes? What if he did not die and be placed in a bar. What if he had not been buried? What if he had not gotten up from the grave? What if he had not declared, I've got all power in my hand? But because he did I'm saved from the penalty of sin. I got a new attitude. I'm blessed and highly favored. I'm covered by his blood. I'm determined to never give up. Why should I be discouraged? Why should the shadows come? Why should my heart be lonely and long for heaven? But Jesus is my portion. Yes, he is. A constant friend is he. His eye is on the sparrow, and I know he watches me. I sing because I'm happy. I sing because I'm free. His eye is on the sparrow. I know he was is he watching you? He watched you all the way in 2015. He watched you for almost 12 months. He watched you for almost 52 weeks. He watched you for almost 365 days and 8,700 hours and 525,000 minutes and 31 million seconds, and we're not there yet. But I'm glad he's watching me. Had it not been for the Lord on my side My God, I'd belong. Know what is, but what now? I think I love to sing his word. You know God is good? You know God is faithful? What? If. But I'm glad he did. And he rose with all power in his hands. Because he lives. I can face not 2016. I can face my tomorrow. All I'm trying to say is, as those things would say, get in a hurry. Is that whatever you're gonna do? Do it now. Don't wait, don't soak in what could have been, and don't say, oh, whoa is mean, but I dare you to say, what else? He'd not kept me. I wouldn't be standing today. That is the word of God. It is already blessed. Come on, give God a praise today. Are you ready to get Moving or you ready to get going to see what God has just for you? And the beauty is come as you are. That word help meaning. You're waiting on. But to get right and make some progress, get the right perspective and stand from the mountaintop, I believe you can do it. I thank God for how He operates. Take a fellow like me, sister like you, and make something out of you and give you a brand new hope. Not for a new year, but for right now. Amen? Come with me, come with me. Coming live foreverlasting. Everlasting. Yeah, and yeah. Come to that you are in the spirit. Come de Come and see, come with me Come at least. I just stopped by to say to you today that it's a process. I really meant that. I was preaching to me today. Sometimes you gotta encourage yourself. They never told me I could make it. I never got a pat on the back. Okay. Paul says, I'm locked up, man. Bring my books when you come back this way. I'm about to die. But while I've got breath, I'm saying to you now don't you get stuck on the past Make some progress now and keep oppressing. I think so often the devil allows us to beat ourselves up. You'll never be anything. You'll never make it. You don't have the credentials. You don't have the looks. The devil is a liar. He who's begun a good work in you, he will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. I'll just stop by to speak into your experience today as I speak into mine. It's like an echo. I can make it. I can do it. I can be all that I want to be because Christ is with me. And He's alive and well. Let me ask you a question. Do you believe that today? Let me ask you again, how many believe that God has great things for you in the here and the now? And here's what I've learned When you try to outpace them, it's that here's my five-point plan But when you say God, you know the desires of my heart. And then to watch him, a little ebb and flow, watch him do it in your life. It's been like every year for me. It just started happening. I was like, yeah, God, I did pray that didn't I? And as you pray it, he will allow it to become He's not done with you yet. You are a king's kid. Amen. But it first starts with you being a part of the family, accepting him as your personal Savior. As you come today, there might be a chance there's someone who says, You know what? I like all that. Can I implement it? Well, there's a there's a plan, but you can't do it unless you know Christ. You mean I can't go around? No, no. It's not the world's plan. And so you have to accept him as your personal savior. And once you become a part of that divine family, it'll take place. I know I've been saying it ten times, but I just do believe that God will do some right now stuff. As we bow today, I want to pray and offer Christ to you. Father, I come in the name of Jesus. I pray even now that you might touch that soul that is lost, but don't realize it's lost. I thank you now that you can live anew and a fresh in their hearts. I pray even now, God, that you might touch them. Allow them to hear your word. Allow them to confess with their mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in their hearts that God not only sent him but raised him from the dead. I ask you now, God, in the name of Jesus. While those heads remain bowed today, take a chance on God today. Take a chance on Him. Throw out all your excuses about why you can't get with Christians, why they mess up, why they're not perfect, and say, Lord Jesus Take my heart today and do a new work in me. Open your heart today and allow him in. Give him passage into your experience I guarantee you, your life won't be the same. If you're here today while those heads are bowed and you don't know Jesus Christ, today you can receive him on the spot. While those heads remain bowed today. If you don't know Christ, I want to pray with you wherever you are today to receive Him. So sweet to trust in Him. So sweet. Yeah. So sweet to be part of his family. I offer Christ to you today. I'm not making a sales pitch. I'm making a salvation pitch. Receive them today into your heart Life will not be the same. Amen. You know he saved your soul. Give a hand today to the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Oh, he's worthy to be praised. If you've come today to desire to be a part of this fellowship called Harvest, the doors are open. What doors? The doors to our heart to our experience. We thank God for you I'm excited about what God will do today. I'm stuck on that thing. Ever had a record that was stuck? I know some of y'all are too young for that There was dust on the needle or something. You put a put a nickel on it so it keeps going. Amen. I I'm stuck on what God is gonna do. Oh some old heads in there I would do right now I'm believing God for the right now, for the here and the now. Amen? Bless the Lord today. We're making transition. It's our last Communion Service of the Year. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.