Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. You know he's worked out something great in your life. That's a celebration moment. How many folk know he's done some marvelous things in your experience? Well that sounded all right How many folk know God has done some marvelous things in your experience? And you come today as a witness. Let us bow today before the Lord. Father, we thank you Thank you for who you are. We thank you for this preaching moment. We don't take it for granted. Ask that your Holy Spirit might fill this pastor, this vessel, this servant, so that I might declare what you would have the people. To share with the wider world. I pray even now that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today Encourage another in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. This is the day. The Lord has made let us rejoice and be glad in it. I just wanna pause for a moment and just sense That you need just a little bit more. Amen. I mean, come on, somebody just put your hands together. Just celebrate the Lord today. Amen? Amen. Just a moment just to reflect on who he is And who he is to us. We serve a great God. I know it sounds repetition, but God is good. Aren't you glad to be on God's side? You're on the winning side. Amen. Then the word of the Lord today comes from the Gospel of John. And gospel simply means good news. And John is who wrote it. Amen. It says there in verse 12 in the 14th chapter of John, very truly I tell you, whoever believes in me Will do the works I have been doing, and they will do even greater things than these because I am going to the Father. And I will do whatever you ask in my name so that the Father may be glorified in the Son. What a preach today from the Samonic title. You've got potential. You've got potential. Has anyone spoken those words to you lately? Saying you got potential, you might you might make something of yourself and perhaps you've shared that with someone else I recall the day when our local announcer, uh there in LIBO, Bill Savetch pulled me up. I was only seventeen years old, still went behind the ease, said Tim, you got potential. You can go places I was like what? Yeah. I was trying to process that I'm seventeen. You know, I'm on my own journey of life and Yet he saw something in me as you see something in other persons that we do have potential. I like what the writer of the book of Philippians, Paul writes from that prisoner. He says something very simple, being competent of this very thing. He who's begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. There's something in you. There's something in you, you're trying to reach your full potential. I like what motivational speaker, Brian Tracy He's a best-selling author. He wrote, the potential of the average person is like a huge ocean unseld. A new continent unexplored. Now saying to someone that you've got potential can be taken a couple different ways. It means I see something in you, or it could be a negative connotation that could mean that you've got a ways to go yet So we gotta be careful uh who we say that to. I love to encourage young people and saint it uh saints as well, just to encourage them. Don't you know that God has done some special things just within you? Can I encourage you today? Can I just go off script? As I look at you and you look at me, it does not appear what we're going to be yet, but God is continuing to work a work in us. I'm glad about that that I'm not at my full potential yet. I'm not all that I'm going to be, and you're not washed up and and there's so much God has in store for you. Do you believe that today? That you are just starting out. I mean God is not done with you yet, no matter where you find yourself in the current circumstances. That God is always on the I'm excited myself. I'm just getting excited. I'm encouraging myself. You mean there's more? Yes. Isn't that good news today? See folks may have already talked you out. You're not going to be anything. You know, your father wasn't anything, and your family got a bad reputation. The devil is a liar. That you have potential Because of who you know in the person of Christ. I'm convinced that Jesus saw that in the person he came in contact with. I mean, think about it. He was hanging out with fishermen. Uh some tricky tax collectors. Uh hanging out with folk who were shady, but he still saw something in them despite their current status. Even folk who had planned to double cross him, he still saw the good in them, and God sees the good in you Yeah, he he sees what you can become. He knows what you're capable of doing. God sees your potential. Let's pull back the curtains on this fourteenth chapter of the Gospel of John, one that's kind of familiar, begins by saying Let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in God, also believe in me, that in my father's house live in mansions. It were not so I would have told you. Therefore, I go to prepare a place for you that where I am you will be also That's verses one and two, but that is a farewell speech of sorts that he shares with those disciples He knows his time is coming and drawing nigh. He knows his days are numbered, and so our days. He wanted to give them something, can I say some meat Uh something to hold on to. Uh they were still struggling with is it gonna really happen? Is he really gonna leave? Yes he is, but I want to prepare you and get you in the mindset that you can do the works of the kingdom. He sees potential in what the world does not see. I'm I'm serious, the world really has counted you out. The world sees you as a Jesus freak, and why are you gonna believe in all that when you ought to just get real? I'm real. I serve a risen Savior, he's in the world today, and his name is Jesus. I'm gonna stand on that even to the end. He talks with them, he makes promises to them about what's going to happen next And it's really in those twelve and thirteen verses that we'll get a clear understanding of how God sees our potential and what he requires of us is always a a two-way street. We'll say but God always said you do your thing and then no there's uh you gotta do something. Aren't you glad you have a a doing faith? And not a I'll just wait till it comes to me. You gotta do something. Uh and so he uses this moment to share with those disciples. And the first thing I I see in this text there in the uh twelfth verse There's a prior arrangement. Something happens before he gets to the meaty part of what you will be able to do by being my follower once I have left. He says, very truly, I mean he is truth. I believe him. He said, or verily, verily, if you read the old King James Version I tell you, whoever believes in me will do the works that I have been doing. I couldn't get past whoever believes. You don't get to like skip first base and go to the home plate. To realize your full potential, you've got to believe. I believe that God so loved the world that He sent His only begotten Son that whoever believes in Him would not perish and have everlasting life, that you gotta be able how many folk are believers? I'm a believer. Whoever believed you can't jump until you go back and make sure your relationship is right with the Lord. There's a prior arrangement. There's something that's done before. Some of you college students know, and even high school, there's a prerequisite. There's something you have to take before you take the main course. I know you're smart, but you don't just jump to English 202. You have English 101. And that was a bear Just trying to get through that. But there's something you must do before you jump right into Lord. I'm ready. You see my potential. Let's do this thing. He thinks whoever believes In me that you would do the works. And I began to look at this. What works are you talking about, Jesus? At first I was saying, Oh, you mean the miracles? You know, feeding the 5,000 and healing the sick and giving sight to the blind. Now, God can empower us, and you've seen it He will empower us to do those miraculous things, but the work he's talking about is really spreading the good news of Jesus Christ. You know, I began this ministry. We Talked about how's the work? That's a common theme among Pastor Doc. How's the work going? I didn't know what that was until I got to work. Is work. Amen. That the work of the kingdom is to share the good news of Jesus Christ. The work of the kingdom is to share with someone that the Lord is alive and well, but you have got to believe first. Whoever Can I get country? Who's the never? Whoever believes in me, that sets the stage for what you are able to do and how God is able to use you There's a prior arrangement. There's a behind-the-scenes meeting. You've got to confess unto the Lord Jesus Christ, and that paves the way for you to be able to do that. But you know, this is not just about look what I've done. I do believe that we're all empowered and given spiritual gifts But it's not really about the gift as much as it is about the giver. And so Jesus was all about reaching the lost. That was what he was about. People followed him because they love the miracles. Everybody loves a good show, don't they? Yeah. They see the old where they're at. And so many folk were following him for the purpose of saying, look. Do me another miracle. I like that. Do it again. And some folk thought it was magic. There were folks who were working that magic stuff. They thought, whoa, give me the formula There must be managed. It's just the power of the Holy Ghost. Amen. And so Jesus said that I've got to go. I'm already on my way To the cross. I'm on my way to Calvary. I'm on my way. But before I go, know that you will get what you need. That's why he says over in Luke. Says, for the Son of Man, my purpose is. Is come to seek and to save that which is lost. Really? Yeah. That's his whole purpose for coming. Our work ought to be that we're trying to live the life that others might be drawn to Jesus. You ain't gotta beat folk down, you gotta quote fifteen scriptures, but they're looking at you, they're watching you because you go to church. You know they are. And so your goal and my goal when it comes to realizing potential is to doing that which the Lord has laid out, and that's trying to reach one That's always my goal. Can I reach one for even for folk bother me? Now I didn't I didn't mess with anybody. You stop me You tap me on the shoulder, you gonna get it? I'm gonna tell you about anybody ashamed to tell folk about Jesus We can talk football and baseball and other stuff, but we freeze up When it comes to saying, well, you know, all I know is he's been good to me. That might work. All I know is that the Lord sure is good today It's raining. Oh yeah, but I thank God for the rain. And so there's this arrangement that you must believe, but also there has to be a plan of action. He says, Very truly I tell you, whoever believes in me will do the works I have been doing, and they will do even greater things. Than these, because I'm going to the Father. I pondered that. What do you mean? We can do greater things than you. You, Jesus. How how do I process that we can do greater things than what you are doing? We can do greater works than what you're doing? I mean, you're Jesus, how in the world can we talk that? Jesus is calling for us to do the ministry he's laid out And in the natural you'll say, yeah, I can be badder than Jesus. He said, No. Because I have been physically but not spiritually limited to just a small area that as I go back to my father you have opportunity to spread the word Peter preached and 5,000 souls were saved. You will do greater works. You will reach a lot of people because I gotta go back, but in the meantime, the plan is for you to share the good news. What's the plan for you to spread Jesus? What's the plan to tell somebody of what he's brought you through? What's the plan to do what? To let folk know that Jesus is alive and well. You will do these things because I'm going to the Well, wait a minute. You leaving, and you'll say we can do great things after you go? Okay. But we want you to stay right here. We enjoy hanging out with you, Jesus. We enjoy witnessing the men we enjoy being on your team, but you're expecting it to happen after you go. That's the plan. The plan is is that once he goes back to the Father, then you will get exactly what you need And you'll begin to realize your full potential. Amen. Am I making sense this morning? Amen. Amen. Just checking, just checking, just checking. Because that is the plan Well first I said, oh man. People I said, oh w wait a minute, I can do I can do some better stuff. No, we're not talking about miracles. But you can work miracles. And many of you have seen it happen. And seeing God work through you, He can do that, but that's not what He was talking about. He was talking about let's get busy And share the good news. Let folk know who I am. See, because when I go back, then I'll send the spirit. I can't stay here and give you the power, but I got the got to check out. It does that. Acts 1 and 8. But you shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you and you shall be my witnesses both in Jerusalem and Judea, Samaria to the uttermost parts of the world, in White Marsh, in Baltimore County, and Hartford County, whereby I send you, you will be my witnesses. But I got to go back first because when I go back, then I'll supply you what you need. How many folk know that you're empowered by the Spirit of God? There's some things you thought you couldn't do. And the folks say you couldn't do them. When you begin to pray and you felt this unction Of the Holy Spirit that empowered you say, Oh, I knew I knew I could do that. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. Is that that's the plan that with the power of God operating in your life, you can do greater work, you can reach your full pot I'm not helping you today, your full potential. And it does not yet appear what you're going to be yet. And so he's saying to them, I'm checking out. I'll send the spirit and you'll do great works. And they did. The Bible says that Peter was out preaching and folk were healed from his shadow. Well what the Bible says So God can work through you to do the miraculous, but he really wants you to be about the greater work of reaching somebody for Jesus. Prayer arrangement. Plan of action. And also, there has to be a prayerful approach. Rebuffa, that was it. No, there's more. Prayer has to be involved. Jesus taught prayer, he prayed himself. to the fathers. And what he's saying in this 13th verse, and I will do whatever you ask. In my name, so that the Father may be glorified in the Son. Oh, that's a big piece of meat right there. Look at that, look at that, look at that. Whatever you do, do it in my name. That's your passcode, Jesus. That's how you log on. Jesus. That's how you get peace. Jesus. Joy. Jesus. That's the Pasco. Do it in my name. I know you got a big name. I know you're a big shot, but if you will do it in my name, there's a prayerful approach, and something will happen because you put me first Now Reverend nobody puts themselves ahead of God. Yes they do. We've all done it. Didn't really mean it, wasn't trying to, but we kind of got ahead of ourselves. But he's saying if you would do it In my name, that's the right approach for you to reach your full potential. But look at this. He says, so that The Father may be glorified, that my daddy might be honored, that my daddy might be recognized, that my daddy might be the one that gets the glory. Ah, look at that. That's what he's saying. He said the real goal here is that he gets the glory. And so when you come asking, it really is about him being glorified In the Son. It doesn't make sense because see, we look at the Trinity, it's God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, all one, God in three persons And this is what it takes as you go about glorifying the Lord. How many folk want to just glorify the Lord? God, I want to honor you and worship you for who you are. That in doing so, I'm already on the path to reaching my full potential because of what you have done in me. I am already on the way to being all that God would have me to be because I followed the right method I prayed in his name so that his daddy might be glorified in me and through you. It's all a part of this plan. It's a powerful approach. You can't get around not praying. I don't care what it is. I used to laugh at my son years ago. You've heard the story to hear a child pray something else God thank you for my tennis shoes. And thank you for my PlayStation. Thank you for I mean young kids don't pray for that kind of stuff. Amen. But there's some kids in us. God thank you for another day. God thank you for the shoes on my feet. God thank you. I got breath in my body. It's all about the prayer approach as I become who He has called me to be. He might be glorified. He might get the billboard. He might be the one that you turn your eyes to. Turn your eyes upon Jesus. Look at this I like what Paul says in Romans 8 and 30. And those he predestined, talking about you, he also called, and those he called, talking about you. He also justifies, and those he justified, talking about you, he also glorifies. God will set you up. God wants to work through you that you will become all that you can become in Him. Anybody feel they're now reaching their full potential? Don't you feel better about yourself now? Oh I'm on the right track now I was using a 30-day book of 30 days and you become this. But now I've got the real book. I've got the Bible, and the Bible gives me the truth that I need. But let the truth be told We've not reached our full potential. Hope of not being a downer. You really haven't. There's so much more that God wants to do in you. It doth not yet appear Who you shall be. I love this passage in 1 John 3 and 2. But when we shall see him, we shall appear. We will be like him. We shall see him as he is. I love to sing on Sundays. Please be patient with me. God is not through with me yet. Now maybe he's through with you. Well, I got some rough edges he's working on. Maybe he's through with you. I've got some areas of life that need a little sharpening, and maybe he's through with you. But when he gets through with me, and then I will come forth As your goal. But I'm not yet where I will be. I've not yet reached my full potential. In fact, I'm gonna work In progress. I'm under construction. Detour ahead. Still in the works, but don't you glad that when Jesus went to that cross and shed his blood, that made all the difference? It lets me know what I could become Huh? It was because of the shed blood of Jesus Christ. And he does this inside job, which is what I like. He does a heart thing. What a wonderful Soul, what a wonderful move when he comes in and changes your heart. Takes your heart heart and does something in it when it comes into our life that I really feel that I'm a step closer to my full. Tutin? You doing okay, but you need work. We get upset by that. Oh I'm yeah no. You need a little a little work. Uh-huh. How many folk play sports and you come out what you did because they that was okay. You need to work on that. Yes. Your supervisor calls you in for your review. Uh-oh. It's okay. But you got a two. And really I said that gave you a one, but you're not at a four yet. But what God does, He continues to work in us. But I want you to get on the path. You know what? I'm on my way to becoming all that God has called me to be. Can I tell you one more time? You got potential. And you You look like you're gonna make something and you over there. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So you got the traits. And you. Uh-huh. Yeah Yeah, yeah, uh when God looks down, he sees through the blood of Jesus Christ, he sees somebody can become something There's a prior arrangement. There's a plan of action. And to do these great things, but there's always prayer. Don't you feel better about you? I do. Let's give God the praise today and bless his name. That is the word of God. It is already blessed. I see your full potential. You're gonna be something. You keep hanging in there and keep praying and Keep doing what the Lord has showed you, and you will do greater works. Amen? Stop by today to offer Christ. Please stand today if you can. That is the word. It's already done. You offer Christ. He's the only one that can make the difference in your life. Just embrace that today. That I'm I'm really. I'm really somebody. That I'm not who I'm going to be yet. Man, I'm on my way. You ain't seen nothing yet. You don't know who I know I know Jesus. And because of that, you know, there are no limits to what God can do. Even at your best. He said, no, no, no, no. You're still not there yet. I'm still building on you. We offer Christ to you. It's the best offer going. Come on, stay here with us. Offer Christ to you. Oh my brother. We offer you Cry Oh my sister He will give you rain Yes he will Life abundantly Let's say that one more time. Greater works when you do this. Yeah, yeah. Oh my brother. We offer. Christ, oh my sister. That's the promise. Like what me all to cry. You know, right before I do the invitation, I want to pray with you. If you know that you've not where you ought to be yet, come on, come on down to the altar. If you know, say, you know what I mean. That's me I've not reached my full potential yet. I want to pray with you. If you're out there and say, you know what? Man, I was just saying that I was giving up on myself. But you know what? I'm not even there yet There's so much more that God wants to do in these. Amen. And so I want to pray with you today as you You get to that point and that place in life That yeah, that Jesus was not a motivational speaker, he's the Savior. And he sees what the world does not see. He sees what the world will never understand Who could have counted you out? Oh, we can fit you. Come on. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. You you stepping in faith by coming down and saying, you know what? I'm with that. Yeah That God, you can do anything. You can take a little country fella with a speech impediment, okay student And allow him not just to speak news, but to speak good news. And the gospel, amen. And yet, he's not done. As we come today I want to encourage you that there's so much more. But I'm retired, Reverend. Uh-huh. But there's still something in you. I haven't done my time. No, no, no, no. There's still a work that God wants to do in you because you've not reached your full potential yet. You're almost there, but you're not really there. We'll get there when we see him. Let's bow today. Father, I come in the name of Jesus. We thank you God for honest folk who's saying, you know what? Yeah, I I won't do greater works, but I'm I'm so glad that the Lord has proclaimed with upon my life that there's still so much more to be done. God, you've gifted every person who gives their life to you. Spiritual gifts. And there's something that each person can do that will help the body of Christ. That's the goal. Not for you to shine, but for him to shine. I pray even now, God, that you might cancel out second thoughts. Well, I thought about it. I considered it. I pondered it. No God, I'm yours. Everything I'm not. I want to be used of you. I pray in the name of Jesus. That you might increase the faith of those who press their way. I know. It just seemed like it was okay. I'll just stay in the slow lane It's alright. No. Get in the fast lane. Yes. And get in the hurry for Jesus. Why? He's got a work for each of us to do There's somebody to reach. There's some word to share. There's someone who needs to hear your testimony. Oh, thank you, Lord. Somebody needs to know that you are not perfect. That you messed up. That you've blown it. And now they see the after you, not knowing there was a before you. That even that testimony might preach somebody say, you know what? If he can do it for you, he can do it for me. Father, I thank you even now. Thank you, So that the Father might be glorified. That the Father might be honored in the Son. God declared today it's a prayer for me that I might strive to reach my best in you. And God will walk away saying thank you. For what you've done. We declare it today. We receive it today. In Jesus' name. Amen. Somebody give God a praise today. Oh yeah. You almost there. Thanks the Lord. And now encourage somebody near you as you go back. Say child you can make it. Come on, let somebody say, well, I know we're going back, but you know what? You can you can you can do that. Let me just say to you. You two Yeah, dog got something in school, you can do it, you can do it. Come on, give me a holy pep talk. You go girl. Man, you got this Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD. But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you It's www. com2harvest. org. That's come the number to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.