Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. How many folk got a story today? Amen? Amen. This is my story. And this is my song. Praising my Savior all the day long. Let's bow today before the Lord. Father, we thank you that you are part of our story. Picking our feet up the Maori clay and turning us around and placing us up on a mountain. God, we thank you. As we come today, help us to tell your story. How you died and rose again. With all power. Now, God, as we proclaim your word, may we decrease and may you increase. May someone be saved today. May another be encouraged. But when this time is done, May you get the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. I want to share from The book of James, there in the first chapter of James, verse number 22. It says, do not merely listen to the word and so deceive yourselves. Do what it says. Verse twenty-three. Anyone who listens to the word But does not do what it says, is like someone who looks at his or her face in a mirror. And after looking at themselves, goes away and immediately forgets what they look like. I want to preach today from the Samonic title Just Do It. Just Do It. The story is told of a new preacher. Just brought on to the church. They've looked long, hard, and far and wide to find this preacher. Great resume. He came to the church and the membership right away took a liking to him. And he proclaimed the good news of Jesus Christ. But it wasn't long before the complaint started. After church whispering, that did you notice he's preaching the same sermon every week? I mean the same exact sermon every single week. Does he have anything else in his brief case? And so the leadership then approaches the young pastor. And say uh we want to let you know by the pastor, here's a C D from last Sunday And the C D from the Sunday before. And the C D from the Sunday prior to that. And it seems like to me you're preaching the same sermon. That young preacher nodded, and on next Sunday he stood before the people. And say I heard that you all have raised concerns that I'm preaching the same sermon week in and week out. So he says to them, I'll preach a new sermon when you start to act on I become a doer of the one I've been preaching every week. Now I hope that don't happen at harvest, but I may preach this one next week. I would imagine this young preacher uh would relate very well to James, the writer of the book before us this morning. James was one who was a servant of God and a servant of the Lord Jesus Christ. And rightly so, because scholars agree that James really was the half-brother of Jesus. In other words, he would hang out with Jesus there on the streets of Nazareth. But in those early years, James was not buying the fact that his brother Jesus was the sent one. Didn't buy it that he was the Messiah. But over time, James was able to understand that I've been Eating with the Messiah. I've been playing and fighting and getting into trouble with the Messiah. And in the text you'll find many places where there's a reference made to the brothers and the sisters of Jesus. How about the time when Mary shows up with the brothers and sisters because they thought Jesus had lost his mind? They said, word in Jesus, your mother is here. That'd make anybody shudder. And your sisters and your brothers. He replied, Who is my mother? Who is my brother? Who is my sister? Except those who do the will of the Father. So James now is a big shot leader in the church. He writes to the twelve tribes. Who are being persecuted. He talks with them about the trials and tribulations of life. But he does not stop short of saying to them the importance of obeying. The Word of God. The importance of not just hearing the Word, but also doing the Word. What do you mean when you say the Word? Are we referring to the Holy Writ, that book of great motivation and encouragement that comes from Genesis to Revelation? Those 66 books contained in those books are words that will encourage you day in and day out. So the word really is the Holy Scripture. Written by man, inspired by God. So if anybody ever tells you in a debate, oh man wrote the Bible, say he sure did. But he was inspired by the Holy Spirit. That God breathed on what he wrote. Oh, you know you wrote a good paper. When you didn't have all the facts and got an A on it. Because what God breathed on that thing. Amen? And you got an A. Well, God breathed on the word so that man could write it. I believe that we can become doers of the word if we allow ourselves and allow the word of God to confront us. And to challenge us and to change us. Verse 22 says, Do not merely Listen to the word, and so deceive yourselves. Do what it says. You know, I've taken time to allow God to confront me. Get up in my face. In my spirit. Push me in a corner. Every time I prepare to preach the word for this week. I take time to ask the Lord, what is it you would have me to say? But every now and then I'll shift gears and I'll try something else and he'll say, Okay, is that what you want to preach? So by Wednesday or Thursday he might shift. And so oftentimes it's something that I have to encounter as I'm going through. And so even as I talk with you about the importance of doing the word, I have been challenged to do the same thing. And so this is the word that God passed along to us. And what I say oftentimes, and you may say that I I got the word, I heard the word, I heard the voice of Jesus say, it's not the natural ear. But the Holy Spirit speaks in a very unique way. It is often a small, still voice, but he speaks. He speaks, I often say, through his word. He he speaks through circumstances. He speaks through other people, but he's always speaking. Amen. God is never silent if you stay Still long enough to hear him. Uh this past week I got a chance to go to Washington and to interview Dr. Barry Black. He's the chaplain for the U. S. Senate. He's a Baltimore native and I was so inspired by him. I walked in his office after I went through about fifteen security checkpoints And I came in and he had a fire lit. I said, well go on, Brother Chaplin. It wasn't no fake, but it was a piece of wood. But as I began to talk with him, he was sharing with me about the importance of just reading the word, but reading it slowly. That so often we use the word the way we do our microwave and hit it and quit it. But he says, I take time to just moor over that word. And when you do that, you will find that God will reveal things in His Word when you take time to just read the Word. And allow the word of God to get in you. Allow the word to confront you. Amen? That you are not just a listener, but you're also a doer. Here's the fact of the matter. John 101 says, in the beginning was the Word. And the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was with God in the beginning. Praise God. I don't know about you, but I love some words. Amen? Didn't always love the word. I've told the story about a friend of mine And I was just starting out. It might have been a wet behind the air deacon. He said, Man, look at that word. Okay, he said, read it. He said, Man, what'd you get out of that? I ain't getting nothing. You gotta read that word. I was like, I'm reading it. I read it again. But sometimes when you get to grow in the Lord, that word will come off the page and say, Can I live in you? Can I guide you? Can I direct you? Allow the word to confront you, but also to challenge you. Do not merely listen to the word. And so deceive yourselves, but do what it says. What am I going to do with what I've heard? How I'm gonna process this word and then this thing about deception says don't deceive yourself, don't don't fool yourself. Yeah. You got a word, but you have no intention of following it. Don't don't deceive yourself. You don't need to be misled. There's no false idea here that once you start to handle the Word of God, once you start to read the Word of God, I guarantee you it will challenge you. It will challenge you. I've heard people say, well, Reverend I you know it's too many thous and thus. Yeah, that's right. There's also another version. There's an NIV, there's a message Bible. But when you start to encounter that word, it will lead you and guide you. It will make a difference. But know that while you're being challenged to do the word There is a deceiver called the devil. He don't want you to get that word. Oh yeah. The Bible talks about this parable that Jesus describes in Matthew 13. And a parable is just an earthly story with a heavenly meaning. He says, let me call the people down by the water, by the lake, and he talks about a farmer. It was a farming community, about the farmer who sold seed. And some CD throughout no longer had to hit the ground that the birds come along and pick it up. Other seed was planted on stony ground and wasn't long before it got choked up. Other seed just allowed some growth to take place, but then the sun came along and and took it off. But there was some good soil. And may your hearts today be that good soil. May you allow the Word of God to get in you and to challenge you and to grow you to another level. Now now that said, really and truly the enemy don't want you to keep the word. By the time you hit the parking lot. You'll plenty of thought in your mind. By the time you get behind the wheel, somebody gonna cut you off and you will say, I'll tell you what, somebody gonna give you a bad call or a bad text. You are challenging enemy, but whether you're not Hear the word. He's encouraged you not to do the word, but just say I've been to church. That'll suffice you. But what did you get? What is it that you can do by the Word of God? It it confronts you. It will challenge you. Uh-oh. It will change you. Verse 23 and 24 says, anyone. That's us. Who listens to the word but does not do what it says is look at the word is like Someone who looks at his face in the mirror and after looking at himself goes away and immediately Forgets what he looks like. Now surveys show that we use the mirror about eight to ten times a day. You know when you leave and you have to go back and then there's one in the car. Amen? Eight to ten times, so we we want to make sure that everything is alright. Story goes and it probably happened in your house too of a child whose mother said, Now you need to go back and and wash your face. Go look in the mirror. Child comes back, face is dirty. He says, You gotta be killing yourself. You you must not have looked in the mirror. He ignored it. He may have seen the truth about himself, but he did not act on it. And every now and then we need a mirror, mirror. On the wall. And that is the word of God to remind us of how we ought to I'm serious that we're to hold you It'll stop you in your tracks. It'll convict you. It'll put you in l And I've done that before with you, that you were getting ready to do something. And that word convicted you. And change you. So now you are walking in the Word. The Word is designed just for that. Paul's letter to Timothy, 2 Timothy 3, 16, 17, all scripture is given by inspiration of God. And it's profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness that the Man and woman of God might be thoroughly furnished unto good works. Oh my God, the word does all that? It's guaranteed to change your life. There's so many metaphors about the word and metaphors of word picture. James says it's like a mirror. We can all get with that. David says it's like honey in a honeycomb. Peter says, it's like milk. Desire the sincere milk of the word that you might be what grow thereby. Jeremiah said, it's like a fire shut up in my bones. There's something about that word and becoming a doer of the word. Well. You gotta challenge you. Some years ago, driving back from Florida. You know when you've been on a long trip and you're almost home? He looked tired. As we approached 95, heading toward the Fort McHenry Tunnel, I looked in my rearview mirror and some young fellows driving a little too close for comfort. I was tired. But a long trip. They got a little too close. And a part of me Did not have doing the word in mind. I looked at him. I changed my expression and I got to the toll booth. And when I got there, I went to the toll attendant and said, Listen, I want you To tell the group behind me, here's an extra toll for them. And tell them that Jesus Paid it all. If you could have seen them when they came up behind me And I watched them pass by me, I just smiled. Jesus faded off. For one day more than two thousand years ago, Jesus went to an old rugged cross. He kept his word by going to the cross. He kept his word by receiving the abuse. He kept his word by being beaten But he went to the cross. He became a doer of his own word. He who is the word manifested the word on a whole rugged cross. I just thought about to tell you that Jesus paid it all. And all for him all. Sin has left a crimson stain, but he has washed me. White as snow. That he is not just a word keeper, but he's also a word giver. I will never leave you nor forsake you. He's a word giver Goodness and mercy shall follow you all the days of your life. He's a word giver. Nothing should separate you from the love of God. He's a word giver. Has He given you a Word today? My God, you ought to have a Word to live by. You ought to have a favorite scripture that allows you to go and make your day. You have a favorite scripture? By God, you need one in your hip pocket. I love Psalm 100. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord. Lord, oh ye laugh. Serve the Lord with gladness, come before it's present with singing. Know ye the Lord, He is God It is he who has made us, and not we ourselves. We're his people and the sheep of his pasture. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, enter his courts with praise, be thankful unto him, and blur his name. For the Lord is good. His mercy is everlasting. His truth endureth through all generations. That's my favorite scripture. That's my traveling scripture. That's my hip pocket scripture. You have one. If you got a word, you can do a word. You need a word. We all need a word from the Lord. Just do it. Don't debate it. Do it. Don't make an excuse. Do it. Don't rationalize. Do it. Don't tell me pray about it. Do it. Do it Now do the word. Can I go back to Jeremiah for a moment? I feel like Jeremiah sometimes. This word in my mouth is like fire shut up in the bone. I can't stop myself sometimes. Every time I start to read that word, I might get excited at the kitchen table. I might get excited On the workplace. What? The word will do that. Don't merely. Hear the word. Do it. Deceiving yourselves, but do it what it says. That is the word of God today's always. Come on, stand today all over this place. Find yourself a scripture. Get you one and say this is mine. Put it on your dashboard. Put it on your personal page, but you say I'm gonna just try to do this one. Won't do this word. Why? It's meant something to me. This word Has changed my life. So when I do so Muhammad, I get excited. All five verses Find the word in your own life today. Come just as you are. No need to fix up That's it, that's it. Come and speak, comedy speaking. Come just as you are. He'll receive you that way. No need to fix up. Life everlasting. Oh, yes. Never As we come today, I want to challenge you to get yourself a scripture passage. And then learn it. And then live it. And you'll find that when you're in a situation, you speak the word. Don't tell the devil I'm gonna get you. Say in the name of Jesus, man shall not live by bread alone. But by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. I'm a witness, and so many of you are too. That when you speak that word Man, something happens. It really does. When you speak that word, say you know what? I got one passage, Jesus well. But my God, that'll work. That's all you know. He wept for me. He wept when he looked over Jerusalem. He wept when his friend passed. He wept. Take a word for you as we bow today. Father, I come in the name of Jesus. Challenge us today that we don't just hear this word in one ear, as our parents say, out the other. But may your word find a place. Romans 10, 9 and 10, for thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus. And believe in thine heart that God has raised him from the dead. The Bible says, Thy shalt be saved. With the mouth, man confesses. With the heart, he receives you. God, right now touch that heart today. May your word uproot that life that needs transformation. Do it by the power of your word. Your word. Save that person today by your word. We thank you, God, and we claim the victory in Jesus' name. Amen. Somebody give God a praise today. Amen. Thanks so much for listening I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. comtoharvest. org. That's comthenumber twoharvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.