Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. We realize that had it not been for the Lord on our side. We would have been swallowed up by the enemy. Let's bow. Father, we come today in the name of Jesus. As we stand to declare your word. It is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today Encourage another and when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Good day to you and good day to Our Facebook friends are left off a state last week, the state of Indiana. God bless you and West Virginia, Ohio, Florida. And if you out just shout back at us Yeah. We can't fly you here, but we'll be glad to have you here in town. Amen. There's a word from the Lord that comes from 1 Corinthians. 10 and 13, it reads, no temptation has overtaken you, except what is common to mankind. And God is faithful. He will not let you be tempted beyond what you can bear. But when you are tempted, he will also provide a way out so that you can endure it. I want to preach from the Samonic title, Stay in Your Lane. Stay in your lane. About 10 years ago, one of the major automakers uh developed something called the lane departure warning system And what that does, it allows you to be alerted when your vehicle is crossing the line. In fact, it will give a buzz or a beep. Now if your car is older you won't have that. You still use the horn and you still fuss. But with these new vehicles it will remind you that if you were getting over you didn't put your signal on. And I believe that those of us who have been chosen to follow Jesus Christ are equipped in some way with a lane departure system. Yeah. A spiritual system that convicts us. That alerts us when we're about to face temptation. Would you agree with that? There's some times in life when there's things that are drawing you And but by the grace of God and but by the Holy Spirit, it puts you back in your lane. Thank God. You know, I want to suggest this morning that this lane system, this spiritual truth, can help each of us today. Amen? Now, temptation comes in all sizes, all shapes, all forms. There was a survey not long ago of Christians, and they began to share what it was that cause them to be tempted. They name materialism. They name pride. bitterness and sexual lust, envy, gluttony, lying, a temptation will come. It's all in how we deal with it. In fact, temptation has a history. Back in the book of Genesis, there in Genesis 3 and 6, Eve was approached by The devil himself. He was trying to change the narrative from what God had told her and said, there's nothing wrong with you eating this fruit. I can hear him say ain't gonna hurt nobody. And that's what the devil would do. He'll say to you, man, you're not as bad as the next person. Just go ahead and, you know. Ain't nobody watching, nobody knows you here, nobody has got a camera on you. Yeah. Uh you know, and that's where character comes in. Now now if I'm on your street, so to speak, if you can feel me today, don't leave me hanging today. Amen? Because all of us have been challenged to stay in our lane. So Paul writes letter to the church at Corinth, and it is a letter that in part addresses temptation. They were tempted to worship other gods. And of course in Corinth there was a lot going on. You know, there was uh I don't know if you all were humanities students and Zeus and Aphrodite and I used to study all that, all the Greek gods. And so he was preaching in the midst of that And some folk he were writing to for worshiping other gods. They were tempted to complain. Know anybody like that? Always complaining. They were tempted to fornicate Even then, temptation will come, is what he was saying. But temptation is not unique And there is a way to escape. God will not let you be tempted beyond what you can bear. He will help you to endure it. He will help you to overcome it. Has he done it for you? Amen? Okay, I still won't have the rough crowd today. He's done it for me. Why? Because we've all have been tempted. Amen? Temptation is not sin, but temptation can lead to sin. James 1, 13, 15, when tempted, and James sets in the record straight, when you are tempted, don't say God is tempting me. For God cannot be tempted by evil, nor does he tempt anyone. But each person is tempted when they are dragged away by their own evil desire and enticed. In other words, is on us. Some of y'all too young to remember Flip Wilson. He would say the devil made me do it. Well Yeah, the devil may have made you do it, but you gotta resist the devil and he will flee from you. Amen. Yeah, you gotta just give him the stiff arm, give him the Heisman trophy move. Let him know he is not wanted. And then when it comes to temptation, which leads to sin, uh first John eight and nine says, if we say that we don't sin We deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. But thank God for verse 9. That is 1 John 1. 89. If you confess your sins He's faithful and just to forgive you of your sins and then to cleanse you from all unrighteousness. So, how do we defend ourselves against temptation? To stay in our lane. Let's consider a few things. That is the Word of God, prayer, and our testimony. Why is the Word of God so important in helping us to stay in our lane? Psalm 119. 11 tells us, I've hidden the word of God in my heart that I will not sin against him. You've got to have the word of God in you. It becomes that alert system, amen. Telling the devil, you better quit and leave me alone. That's not gonna work You start speaking the word and just say Jesus. And sometimes that'll back him off. Amen. He will come Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, a light unto my path. We need the word of God to stay in Our lane. Keep the word in your secret compartment. Amen. And so that when temptation comes, you're ready. And that's the fact of the matter. It will come. You've been tempted this week by something. And sometimes we try to deal with it in our own means, but we're not fighting in the flesh This is spiritual warfare. And so we can't go and say, you better leave me alone. You say, in the name of Jesus, I plead the blood of Jesus. Satan, I rebuke you right now. Get thee behind me. You know why? Satan knows all of our good old days. He knows all of our stuff. Amen. We're not trying to go back down that road again. I'm trying to stay in my lane. Jesus knows what it means to be tempted. Even as he was baptized, he was drawn into the wilderness, and old Satan shows up. Say now I know who you are. Why don't you turn that uh stone into I know you're hungry? Turn it into stone, he says, man. You know, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. We need the word. 2 Timothy says you gotta study the word to show yourself approved unto God. A workman rightly Dividing the word of truth, not being ashamed to do it. So you got a Bible, you got your defense mechanism. You got a devotional, you got what you need is the Word of God. But also we need prayer In order to stay in our label. Now a little quick prayer, not just, oh, I don't feel like I don't have a prayer life. Jesus prayed in the Garden of Gethsemane. Time was drawing nigh. And he said to Peter, Peter. Pray so that you will not fall into temptation. This comes highly recommended. Pray so that you don't Fall into temptation that you don't fall for the tricks of the enemy. My God, you want to speak one? Amen Folk may hear you or not hear you, but as long as the Lord hears you, we need prayer. Every week we talk about the Lord's Prayer. And there's a part in that prayer that says, What Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Well, the Lord does not lead us into temptation. We make the choice ourselves. Amen? 1 John 2, 15, 17. It's because sometimes we become too buddy-buddy with the world. Now I'm not saying you ought to be square. Uh. But what I'm saying is sometime we will be so into the world that we'll put other fences down. Yeah, we'll we'll get comfortable. And so the enemy comes along with a major temptation that shakes us at our core. 1 John 2, 15, 17 says, Love not the world Neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. Don't cozy up too much with the world. World don't like you. Devil can't stand you. He's putting out some of his best shots. He said, if that didn't get him, let me try something different this week. Amen. Amen. Yes, he will But thank God that he gives us what we need to stay in our lane. The word of God, prayer, and of course then our testimony. We gotta remember what Jesus did for us. And all we know what he's done. Remember the old mothers that said, I want to give a testimony. Oh God, another testimony. But they had a testimony about that. The Lord brought me through. Am I the long way? Yeah, yeah. Until you got older. Until stuff started happening. So I got a testimony. I almost messed up. But God. Amen. And we remember what Romans 5 and 8 says. For what? God Commended or God demonstrated his love toward us that while we were yet in sin, he died for us. Was that enough testimony? Amen. I know what you see now. But if you knew the old me, if I knew the old you, oh y'all got real quiet now. I mean thank God that he didn't catch us Thank God it wasn't no hidden camera. Thank God, but you know what? He is able to bring us through every situation. So we're accountable to God. That's our testimony. And we answer to Him. But God gives us real-life people to answer to. Accountability partners. You ought to have at least one person in your life Who can call you up and call you out and make you mad. But they tell you the real thing. They're not sugarcoaters. Amen. So you bro you mess it up. What's this? I'm not trying to tell you how to handle your business, but you you know because they know us. And thank God that those persons know our oops and they know our almost. And don't keep it all to yourself. Don't try to be your own accountability partner. God will give you folk to be connected with who are spiritual and they can guide you through tough moments if it's nothing but just giving them a cause. How you doing? They can share what they're going through and you can encourage them. Because the truth of the matter is it'll come back the other way. Everybody needs somebody. That is our testimony. Galatians 6 and 1 reminds us, unless we get too spiritual. It says, if a person is overtaken in a fall, we who are spiritual should in meekness do what? Restore that person. Let them know, bruh, sis, you may have messed up, but let me tell you, you know, I've been there too. God is faithful. Let's pray about it. Otherwise, don't you get the big head? Because it says if you get so high and mighty, you can be tempted by the same thing. So watch what you say, like, oh, I don't know how in the world That got them. It'll get you. Amen. So when you approach someone, your testimony ought to be, you know what? Bruh, sis, I came through and let me encourage you in the Lord. The word of God Prayer and our testimony. James Rowe and Howard Smith were two friends, perhaps accountability partners, and they always encouraged each other. And they would sit around and write songs, and there was one that rope pen that is forever in branded into our experience. It simply said I was thinking deep in sin. Far from the peaceful shore, very deeply stained within, seeking to rise no more. But the master of the sea heard my despairing cry. And from the waters he lifted me. Now safe am I. It was love That lifted me. It was love that kept me in the lane. It was love that kept me from having an accident in my life experience. It was love that reminded me that the Lord loves me. It was love that kept me sittered. It was love that allowed me to love my sister and brother. It was love. And it's still love. Amen? He loved us so much until he did what? He died on the cross for us. Because he loved us. Man, that's that's stay-in-the-lean testimony about what God can do. Love helped me to realize that I need thee every hour Every hour. Every minute. I mean even Satan is so bold, he'll show up in the worship experience. And tempt you in the service. Yes, he will. In between, thank you, Jesus, and hallelujah. But thank God that He is with me all the way, even to the end of the earth. A part of that song says, temptations lose their power when thy art nigh. I need him. Guide me, O thy great Jehovah. Pilgrims in this barren land. I am weak, but thou art mighty. Hold me with thy powerful hand. Bread of heaven. Feed me till I want no more. Where are you eating that? Are you eating the word of God? That you need guidance. Why? We want to stay in our lane. Because sometimes we get careless. And sometimes we get a little sleepy. And sometimes we go off the deep end. First Peter 5 and 8 says it well It says, be alert and sober-minded. Your enemy, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeing whom he might desire. Gotta close with this. It's a throwback first of the year. There was an old gospel song that they sang many years ago, quartet song. It says, Don't let the devil ride See if you let him ride, he might want to drive. So don't don't don't let the devil don't don't pick him up on the corner. Don't let the devil say uh he got an Uber. Don't let the devil say he's gonna give you a ride. Don't do it. Because once you let him just go for a little while, he'll find a place in you to try and destroy you. Amen. That's his goal. So don't even Don't even go there. Don't even pick him up. Don't even entertain him. Don't even talk with him. Leave him alone. Otherwise you'll find yourself going out of your lane. Well my God, I feel better and I've been helped because of this message. Brought to you by Jesus Christ. That's the word of God. It's always come on standard. It's already blessed today. Already blessed today. Stay in your lane. Life will leave you with treadmarks of how you've gone to and fro. But thank God for Jesus. He really is love. He loves us. That's why he died. That's why he kept us. Love. You feel his love today? Love makes the difference. I thank him for his love. Even when you don't feel lovable, he loves you. Help your children and don't let them fall by the side of the. The road and teach them Yeah, yeah to love one another. And heaven might find a place in their par. Jesus is love. How many know it today? He won't let you down. I know. Um in my heart You got to walk on Oh yeah Walk on Through temptation. There it is. He love. His love and his wisdom will be our helping hand. I know the truth. And his word will be, will be, will be our salvation. Lift up the And we thank God Jesus is law. That's it. He won't, he won't let you down. I know. Oh K Ma. In my ho That song really says it all. It it really says it all. It really speaks to What Christ will do. I can't add anything to that except Jesus is Love. As you bow today, maybe you walked in and you weren't real sure about that. Because love has dealt you a bad hand, the world's love. Left you high and dry, disappointed you, made you mad, angry. Angry, vindictive. But today, the love of Jesus Christ can be yours if you're willing to receive it. Father, we come in the name of Jesus Today, there's one in this place who has not yet recognized your love. For God so loved the world That he sent his only begotten son to die for us. And the word of God says, if you believe that God sent him, you believe that he died, you believe that he rose again, the Bible says, if you confess that, you speak it, utter it. thy shalt be saved. That's the gospel of Jesus Christ. Father, touch that heart today. They may confess with their own mouth. I need Jesus in my life. Do it we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Maybe you come the day we desire to be a part of this fellowship called Harvest. I know you felt the love already when you came in the door. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's come the number to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals, they're new, and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes from Podcasting or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.