Everything will we bless the Lord today. When you've had sadness for so long. And then God allows you to receive his joy. The Bible says the joy Of the Lord is my strength. Weeping may endure. For a night. But joy cometh in the morning. Good morning. Receive your joy today. Let's bow. Heavenly Father, as we come today, we thank you for reminders by way of song that no matter what we're facing or going through, that we stay centered. May the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight. O Lord, our strength. And our Redeemer and the people of God said, Amen. Amen. There's a word from the Lord today that comes from Philippians Fourth chapter, verses six and seven. It reads, Do not be anxious about anything But in every situation, by prayer and petition with thanksgiving, present your request to God. And the peace of God, which transcends all understanding, will guard your heart And your mind in Christ Jesus. I want to talk today from the symmonic title, A Prescription for Worry. A prescription for worry. The Mayo Clinic recently came out with some data that ought to shock us. But it may not surprise us that seventy percent of Americans are on a prescription drug. And that another fifty percent or so are on more than one drug. Truth be told, uh at at some point you get one of these peel dispensers. That you gotta remember Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. I used to think that was for the older people. I'll put my vitamin in there as well. But a lot of what we are receiving are antibiotics, but they're also antidepressants. Some 50 million people experience panic attacks or some type of phobia in their life. We've become an anxious society. The word anxious in the Greek sounds like this. It means to be pulled in different directions. Anxious. It's when we become frustrated, down and out seemingly, throwing the towel in Hm. Have you ever found yourself there? Yeah. That you just felt like I can't take it anymore. Yeah. And no matter what folks said to you, it's gonna be okay. And that was well-meaning, but you had to struggle in your own spirit just to get through. It's easy to tell somebody you ought not worry. But there's not a person in this place who's not concerned about something. Yeah. Now if you are, let me know what pill you take. This week I read a book by Christian author Max Lacato. Entitled Anxious for Nothing, Finding Calm in a Chaotic World. Now I found these words that stuff with me He writes that anxiety and fear are cousins, not twins. Fear sees a threat, anxiety imagines one. The story is told of J. Arthur Rank, a successful movie businessman who Would pick Wednesdays for his worry day. He said, I'm gonna take all of my worries and I'm gonna put them in my worry box. I'm going to write them down, put them in my box on Wednesday, and then when next Wednesday comes around, I'll go back to the worry box. And what he found is by the time he got back to the worry box, those things had been worked out. And so in our own life situations, we have to put those things aside and just trust God. He's given us a prescription for worry. The Apostle Paul writes to the church at Philippi to encourage them not to worry Encourage them not to lose it. And isn't that something that Paul would write about worry while he's sitting in a Roman prison? About to lose his life. But Paul knew something and he knew someone who could make a difference. Uh-huh. And you know that one who can bring you through any situation in life. I want to pause for ten seconds for station identification because I I sense that maybe you're not on my street. Is there anybody who this morning got up worrying? Who went to bed last night about to pull your hair out, who are already fretting Monday because there's something that waits you. Maybe Monday is your worry day But thank God for Jesus, He allows us to come into fellowship. I may not show you my whole card, and you may not show me your but somebody is worrying about something. Even as we speak. Paul knew about word because when he was Saul, he used to inflict pain on Christians. He would give them anxiety, cause them to worry. Why? He would go out and round them up for a fee. But today he writes a prescription to the church. Can I include us in on the letter as well? And I believe what he's saying to them is to be content, to be clear, and to be calm. Verse six of Paul's letter says, Do not be anxious about anything. Are you kidding me? This is a command. It's not a recommendation. He's saying, don't worry, but find yourself contented. And to be content is to be in a place of satisfaction, to be comfortable, to be at ease, to be chilled, and not to be freaking out. Anybody ever freaked out? I mean you just lost it. Yeah, I know you know the Lord, but there came a situation in your life you just lost it. You you apologize later, but but life had gotten so tough for you, and you may have inflicted it upon someone else that you apologize to, but life got rough and you were anxious about your situation. It says don't be anxious about anything. What's on your anything list? I show you mine, you show me yours. There's always something that causes us to be anxious. Maybe it's family. Maybe it's the job. Maybe it's your health, but it causes you to worry just a little bit. And so Paul says don't don't don't be anxious, just be content where you are. Jesus said in the Gospel of Matthew 11, Come unto me all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Yeah. That that's what he commanded, that's what he promised. Matthew six twenty-five, he says, Now now look at the birds in the air. Are they worried about anything? I mean they know there's gonna be a worm out there every day that they can find. And we seemingly see them in the coldest of days and they still fly. Amen. He takes an example of what's happening around and says it's gonna be okay. Philippians 1 and 6, being confident of this very thing that what he who's gonna work in me will do what? He will perform it. Until the day of Jesus Christ. That you just gotta be content. Gala gotta be still and know that He is God. It's hard. But it's possible. 1 Corinthians 15, 58, love when Paul says, Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast. Unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. For as much as you know your labor in the Lord is not in vain. The Bible is filled with so many assurances. Yeah. If you want to give us some some pick me up, go to the word. If you want some encouragement, open that Bible. And you will find that the Word of God will help you get through your situation. It will allow you to be content. Amen? I I dare you. Never dog dare you to pick up the word and say, I'm gonna get me some food today for my soul. Right next to my eggs and toes to help me to be content throughout my day. It's the prescription. Not just being content, but being clear, it says, but in every situation. By prayer and petition with thanksgiving, present your request to God. Be clear. Don't beat around the bush. Be clear about what it is that you are facing. And you can say, Lord, you already know. Yes, he does. But he wants you to come and to talk to him. It really is about you supping with him. Of course he knows that situation. He he knew it before you did. He knew you were coming in too, but he said, Come on, make your request. Give me your list. Let me know what you're facing. And this again is a command. What is it today that is causing you to worry? You know worry shows on your face. You before I'm doing praise the Lord, I'm doing great. And you're about to fall out. Praise the Lord. Hallelujah. And you struggle all night. Amen? It's something about your countenance that shows where you are, but be real clear about what you're facing. What is it that's causing you to worry? Identify it. Kneel it down and take it to the Lord in prayer. There's an old saying that says, if you're going to pray, don't worry. If you're gonna worry, don't pray. That's some old old school stuff there. But it says to present your request To bring it to him. To make your case. To say, Lord, here's what I'm going through. I know you know it But I I come because I believe that you can make a difference. Any testimonies today about you bringing God something And he bought you through it? I'm not talking about perimeter stuff, general stuff. I got the green light all the way to work today. No, I'm talking about deep stuff. Stuff that God brought you out of And brought you through, and you can say, God, I know it was you. That's a part of growing up. He said you want to be an adult? You take on adult stuff. I know y'all said it, Paris, or you you w you start getting them bills and stuff. But thank God that when you're rooted in Jesus Christ, you can bring your request not demands, your request. Present it. James 4 and 2 says, and when you ask, do not receive sometime. You don't because what? You ask with the wrong motives. Trying to trick God. That you may spend what you get on your own flesh. It's all about me. It might be a selfish prayer. Yeah. Because all you worry about is me. I don't care about nobody else. It's me. Standing in the need of prayer. But you know what? Come straight. What is your motive? God bless me with this. And then what you gonna do? Bless me with that and what's she gonna do? Bless me with this job. What's she gonna do? You gonna give back to me after I've blessed you? I may as well talk tired. It was already in my spirit. Amen. That bring ye the tithe into the storehouse that it might be meet in my house. And see if I will open up the windows of heaven and pour you out a blessing, that there won't be room enough for you to receive it. I dare you to try me, he says. I know your money is funny, but try it. I know your bills are due, but try it. Be real clear about what it is. That God has for you. Colossians 3 says, if you then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, for Christ sitteth at the right hand of the Father. And then it ends about thanksgiving. Don't just get up and say, oh okay, all right, I'm gone. Thank. It says with thanksgiving. That's just good spiritual manners. Amen. First Thessalonians 5, 18, and everything give thanks. For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. Clear, be content, but also be calm And the peace of God, which transcends all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds. In Christ Jesus. I love the text and the scriptures because they are so clear. And they meet our situation. Be calm. The jail not too excited. And this is a promise. He says, if you do this, there will be this peace. That you won't even be able to get. Like why why you so chill? Because God got this. Why you so laid back? Hey, you know, don't need me to worry. The Lord is gonna make this thing out in the won won't he do it? In the Hebrew, the word is shalom. You be around our Jewish brothers, you hear them say, Shalom, that means peace. Isaiah 26 3 says he will keep you in perfect peace if your mind is stayed on him. That mind is a terrible thing to waste in it. That mind to be over here one minute and over there the next minute and over here the next minute and out there and get to bring yourself back in and over here. But if you keep your mind Stay on him. Think about him. Call him. Sometimes it's you in the car. Say, Lord help me. Because you need him right then. I need thee every hour. Told his disciples, peace I leave with you, not as the world giveth. Oh, world peace is cheap. It'll expire. But this peace will cause you to get through. These things I've spoken to you that you might have peace. In the world, you have tribulation. In the world, folk gonna mess with you. In the world, folk gonna dump across you. In the world, folk gonna stab you in your back, but in me. You got peace. Anybody feel that peace today? Man, if you feel the peace of God, stuff can be building up and piling up and the bridge about to go in. You say Thank you, Lord. I know you're gonna work this thing out. Why? Because you've done it before. See, once he's brought you through one situation, then you know what he can do. You got a history and a resume for what God can do. In your life. You recall that time when his disciples were all big and bad on that boat and the boat starts shaking. Somebody said I think we ought to go get Jesus who was in the hinder part of the sleep, taking him a nap. Now I like that kind of Jesus. He rose and said, peace be still. He commanded the wind to be quiet. He commanded the storm. Y'all need to chill out. And he'll do that in your life. He'll command the things that are after you. He'll just speak to him. He'll command that problem you are facing. He'll talk to it. It gives you peace knowing that God's got this. Oh, I'm glad about that today. Peace that will guard your hearts and minds. I thought that's a little piece that they in there. Because once you get that peace, don't think the enemy ain't gonna be saying, okay. You peace for now. But he says I want you to guard and protect my heart and my mind. Praise God. Well, thank God for his prescription. You got yours filled out yet? You gotta feel the prescription now. 2 Chronicles 7. 14 says, If my people, which are called by my name, will humble themselves in prayer and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven? I'll forgive their sin, I will heal their land. This is bigger than Bottom McFarland saying, Don't worry, be happy Well that was a big hit in 88. Y'all know it, don't worry, but oh that's a nice song. But then when life started getting rough, that song wouldn't do. If that was a song that would do, it was amazing grace. How sweet the sound that saved a wreck like me. It was a song that says, I know that my redeemer lives. And every now and then you've got to have a song in your heart. Amen. There's some things you've seen, things that God has brought you through. I love this hymn that's written by somebody who's unknown. That means it gave out who wrote it. He says, I've seen the lightning flashing. I've heard the the thunder roll. I've felt since Breaker's Dash. Trying to conquer my soul, but I heard the voice of my Savior telling me to still fight on He promised never to leave me. Never to leave me alone. Oh, no, never alone. Now sometimes when you feel alone, you're not really alone Why? He's with you always, even to the end of the I just took my medication today. I took my joy pill. I've taken my peace kill. I've taken my kill to know that everything is possible. There's a prescription and it's prayer. Be content. Be clear. And be calm. That is the word of God that's already a blessing. Come on, stand all over this place today. Don't let your worry get the best of you. Man, I think you've shaken off a couple things already that were boggling you down. Just take it to the Lord in prayer. He'll make a way. In fact he's doing it right now? How many believe that today? On your behalf. No complaints here. I played no small king for your. How many believe that today? Any satisfied folks today? He means so much more to me, means more. More to me. Ma man Thank you, Brother Bond. With the way that he gave to me. My man. How he makes the way to mind. When he sees dumb that all that eye. Any witnesses today? With the joy and the chicken. And how he helped me to help me. My mind I am. So I am your beauty. Even right now, the Lord Jesus Christ as the Heavenly pharmacist. He has written your prescription and he wants to fill it. In fact, he wants to fill you with his Holy Spirit. As you come today, maybe you've got the prescription, but you put it on the dresser somewhere. Allowed it to expire. Today, you can get to know Jesus Christ as your Lord and your Savior. The Bible says that if you Confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. If you believe that, the Bible says thou shalt be saved. That's pretty clear to me. I believe you said him. That is your son. I believe that he died. And I believe that he rose. If I can get that into my to my spirit and my heart and my soul, I've got promise of life eternal. And she bowed those heads very quickly today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. And we thank you for your word. Thank you, Lord. It is so clear, it's so inspiring, it's so uplifting. It reminds us of what is possible With a life in you. If there's one person today, God, only you know that, who has never made the decision, never took the step, never said, I'm a sinner, today, God touched that heart. And bring them to you. They've been fighting and excuses and rationalizing, but God today, hey, there might be a breakthrough in that soul today, God. Save them as only you can. In Jesus' name. Amen. Praise God. Amen.