Let's pray. Father, we come in the name of Jesus, and we thank you for this day that you made. And we thank you for this assignment, that is, to proclaim what thus saith the Lord It is our prayer today that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today, encourage and empower another And when this time is done, we'll be so careful to give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Well, there's a word from the Lord today. Romans 12 and 12. It reads, be joyful in hope, patient in affliction, faithful in prayer. I want to preach today from the Samonic title. Three things to remember in a crisis. Three things to remember in a crisis. My observation, my theological opinion is this, is that America is running on empty almost dry to the point of where we are from coronavirus to unemployment. To injustice, crime, and the lack of reverence for God. And that's one that really stands out that somehow we have disregard for God. That's a dangerous place to be when we think that we are smarter than God. As a people, as a nation, I believe that we need to pull up and to fill up, and it just so happens, It's certainly Pentecost Sunday. I mean to be filled with the Holy Spirit of God. Simply put, we are facing a crisis. As a nation, as a people. A crisis is something that's highly stressful. A moment when we break down a moment when there's a disruption, a moment when we go beyond what we once considered to be normal. Now some psychologists rather have suggested that when we face a crisis, and I like all of these, remember our values. During those times when you find yourself in a crisis, remember who you are. Remember the stuff that mama and daddy and grandma and granddad put in you. Also remember that you should not panic. Easier sometimes said than done. Exercise. Now that's good. Can I recommend that? I mean a good walk won't hurt you, any of us. And then of course to think very positive. Ever been around somebody who's negative? And everything they said, every other word was negative. And you're saying to yourself, I just need somebody who's positive. Amen. All of these are helpful, but what we need is to have Jesus Christ at the head of our lives. I like what Andre Kraut said Some time ago he was a gospel singer, very successful. He says, Jesus is the answer for the world today Above him there is no other. Jesus is the way. Jesus even said that. He says, I am the way. I am the truth. I am the life. No man cometh to the Father except by me. So today we look at the book of Romans and we look at the Apostle Paul who wrote a great portion of what we call the New Testament. 27 books in total. But Paul from Corinth writes to the church at Rome. And Paul knew how to operate a ministry in crisis. He often talked about the things he had gone through. He says, you know, three times I was beaten with rods. Once I was pelted with stones. Three times I was shipwrecked. I spent a night and a day in the open sea. That brother knows what a crisis looks like. And so he's writing today to the Christian church, a church under persecution, a church forbidden to meet, a church that you could all also lose your life just by saying that you are a part of the ministry. But Paul didn't want the people to lose their faith. He did not want them to lose their focus. And there's some scripture passages in the book of Romans that I think are worth mentioning. Romans 1. 16. I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ, what is the power of God, unto salvation to everyone that believes. Romans 3. 23. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Romans 6. 23. For the wages of sin is death, the gift of God. is eternal life for Jesus Christ our Lord. And Romans 8. 28. And we know that all things work together for good for those who love God, for those who are called according to his purpose Paul wrote to a church and a people in crisis, and it works for us today because we are a nation in crisis. But Romans 12 and 12 is where I want to spend my time today, where Paul issues a reminder Here's some things to remember in a crisis. Be joyful in hope. Patient in affliction. Faithful in prayer. Let's take a closer look. Rejoice in hope Now, how is it possible to be joyful and hope when you are in the midst of a crisis? That's a great question We can rejoice in hope if we know he who gives hope. You must know the hope giver. And it's so important that we keep hope. Romans 8. 24 It says we are saved by hope. But hope that is seen is not hope. For what a man seeth, why doth he yet hope for? You can rejoice in hope You know, just say, you know what, I'm just hopeful that things will turn out. I'm hopeful that the economy will come back. I'm hopeful that God will continue to keep my family. I'm hopeful for so many things, and yet I'm also thankful Paul says, in spite of what you're going through, you can rejoice in hope. How do I get hope? It comes by way of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Now, do you want some hope? Every now and then you will find yourself low on hope. And God sends somebody by to remind you of what the scriptures have said. I love that here. My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and his righteousness. I dare not trust the sweetest frame, but wholly lean on Jesus' name, on Christ The solid rock I stand on other ground is sinking sand. But you've got to have some joy. How can you be joyful in that that you're trying to obtain? Joy is important. Nehemiah 8 and 10 says, the joy of the Lord is my strength. That when I am weak, I may get a laugh. You ever find somebody say I'm laughing to keep from crying? There's something about the joy. Psalm 35 says, weeping may endure for night, but joy cometh in the morning. That no matter where you find yourself right now, it won't be always. Your crisis won't last forever. The Lord Jesus Christ will see you through. Three things to remember. Rejoice in hope, but also be patient in affliction. This is not an easy one. patient in my affliction. Affliction is what causes pain. It's what causes suffering through physical or mental stresses. Is that nobody wants to be afflicted. Amen? Another word for afflicted is tribulation. That is that we all go through something. I mentioned last presentation that either you're going into a storm, coming out of a storm, or you're in the storm, but don't you know that God will look out for you and that God will take care of you? There's some folk who are listening and watching this morning who know what God can do. All you gotta do is just look back. When I think back over my life and I think things over, you think about where God has brought you. Tribulation, affliction. John 16, 33 says, These things I've spoken unto you, that in me you might have peace. In the world you shall have tribulation. But what be of good cheer, for I've overcome the world. See, when we're in the midst of something, it seems that there's no way out. He said, look at it, I got this. In me you've got peace. In other folk, you've got tribulation. Other folk you've got doubt. But to know that you can be patient in your affliction. Romans 8. 18 For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared what with the glory which shall be revealed in us. The Bible doesn't doesn't go away from suffering and doesn't go away from hard times. You know, there's this thought that as a believer that once you uh accept Christ as your personal Savior, then every day is Sunday and that there are no situations in life. That's just not true. Why? It's through some of those things that you found that you are a new creature in Christ. Waiting. in our affliction. And that takes some patience. Now patience, I used to tell folk, I say, you know what? I want more patience. Well be careful. Psalm 40 and 1 says, I waited patiently for the Lord. He inclined unto me, and he heard my cry. We're not a people of patience. We want it done yesterday. We are an express line. uh overnight delivery same-day society but there's some things in life we just gotta wait for. Amen Romans 5 and 3 says, tribulation, there it is again, worketh patience, and patience experience, and experience whole. You want some experience? When you've gone through some things in life You gain experience, you gain history with God. Amen? That you have to know that I can be patient in whatever I'm going through in this crisis. Why? He promised. He would never leave me nor forsake me. And he never breaks his promise. In a crisis, remember to be patient in affliction, to rejoice in hope. But finally, faithful in prayer. Now Paul told you what he had gone through. He said, listen, I've gone through some stuff, but Paul took joy out of being locked up in prison and being put with somebody he could spread the gospel with. You would think that Paul would be upset about being in prison. No, Paul said, what's your name? My name is Paul. He was always trying to reach somebody by way of the Lord Jesus Christ. He prayed when he wrote letters to the church. He reminded them to thank them for their prayers, but to say, I'm praying for you as well. But the life of Jesus was defined by prayer. Mark 1. 35. It says, very early in the morning. Yeah, that's why I like Jesus. One of the many reasons I think I can connect to him. Why? I'm an early morning guy. Call me a southern guy, but Jesus didn't hang out at ten o'clock. He got up early in the morning, he left the house, and he went to a solitary place, Mark 135, that he would do what? Spend time with his father. Luke 18 and 1 says Men ought to always pray and to faint not, even when you are at your lowest, just saying, Lord, help me. Lord be with me. And that's our prayer today. It's so important that during a time of crisis, we must practice intercessory prayer. It's not always about you. You know, Lord, I got my need and I want you to help me. You know, but when it comes to intercessory prayer, it means to stand in the gap for someone else. Try that this week. Say, you know what? I'm going to put my agenda on the side. I'm going to pray for someone else. Namely, I'm going to pray for my nation and my neighborhood and my state. I'm going to pray in that way. And Jesus Christ continues to pray. Romans 8. 34 says, He sits at the right hand of the Father, the right side, making intercession for the saints. Well, prayer cannot be And it must not be an option. Can I throw back on you for a moment? And some of y'all might know about this if you got gray hair. It was in the 80s that M. C. Hammer reminded us that we got to pray. just to make it the day. And he is so true. His words ring today. We got to pray. But keep this in mind. There are more than three things to remember. I don't want you to say, well, Reverend, you gave me three, but I needed 23. The Bible is full of things to remember. The text is full of things to remember when you face a crisis. Always remember Jesus. and keep him on your mind. There's some things you may forget in the midst of a crisis, but never forget who it is that stands with you. I remember what was placed in me as a child at home around the Tutan. breakfast table and also it was shared with me. I remember at the Springfield Baptist Church and in the primary class and Miss Lily B. Mitchell helping us to understand The goodness of the Lord, that well, Jesus is coming. It was predicted that the coming of Jesus will take place. And we know that it happened that he did come, born of a virgin, wrapped in swathing clothes, lying in a manger, and then at the age of twelve there in Jerusalem, Jesus, uh much wisdom that when Uh Mary and Joseph thought they had lost him. They went back and found him sitting with some of the uppity folk Some of the smart folk. He was doing what? He was letting them know and helping them to understand the goodness of the Lord. I can remember that Jesus. But I also remember the Jesus who died for me Who went to that cross. And then there was a crisis at the cross. Amen. Some 2,000 years ago, he went to the cross. He shed his blood just for you And just for me. And he told his followers, remember, I go to prepare a place for you. That where I am, you will be also in my father's house. There are many mansions. If it were not so, I would not have told you. I love that song. Because he lives, I can face tomorrow. Because he lives, all fear is gone. Because I know this is key. Who holds the future and life is worth the living just because he lives? I don't remember a lot of things, but I remember that I remember that he died for me. I remember that he made a way out of nowhere. I remember when he gave me joy divine. I remember When he gave me peace that passeth all understanding, but every now and then we get amnesia. Yes, we do Spiritual amnesia, we forget the things that the Lord has done for us. We forget the crisis that we've come through. Like what Isaiah says over in Isaiah 46, had thou not known Had thou not heard that the everlasting Father, that he feinteth not, that he does what? He gaveth power to the weak and to the faint. He gives us the undergirding that we need, don't throw in the towel, that in the midst of our personal crisis, in the midst of a national crisis, Just be joyful in hope, patient in affliction, and faithful in prayer. Let me pray for you. Father, I come in the name of Jesus and I thank you today that you've given us just a couple of things to put in our arsenal. That when the enemy comes our way and when things are thrown in our path, we can remember there's some things and some places, but most of all, the power of Christ. That is ours in the midst of a crisis. In Jesus' name I want to just let you know that there's a song we want to share with you. Come just as you are Women for the heart Well, praise God. That's the word today is no matter where you find yourself, you can come as you are, that the Lord Jesus Christ will accept you. in that way. And I tell you today, if you don't know the Lord Jesus Christ and the pardon of your sins, today you can get to know him. I'm just an ambassador stopping by to let you know about the goodness of Jesus and to testify what the Lord has meant in my life But you must know him. Amen. Oh, songs. I know a man from Galilee. If you insane, he'll surely set you free. Oh, do you know him? And that's the question you have to ask today. Do I know the Lord Jesus Christ? The Apostle Paul writes in that same letter to the Romans, he says, if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus And believe in my heart that God has raised him from the dead, the Bible says, thou shalt be saved. Don't you want a new life? Don't you want something different than what you've been accustomed to? Well today the Lord Jesus Christ can be yours, but you have to be the one To proclaim it, to open your mouth, and say, even though I'm in the midst of a crisis, that the Lord Jesus Christ will take care of me and will keep me That's the good news of Jesus today. As always, we're certainly praying for you and praying for your family. And to that end, we thank God for the prayer closet. What that means is drop us a line. Maybe you have a prayer concern. And know that our prayer warriors will uh know about it. We'll be praying for you. Matthew 6 and 6 says, when you pray, go into your closet. It does not have to be a big display and tell everybody, I prayed for you, but it makes a difference We're so glad that you've taken time to join us for this broadcast. Now, for things that you want to know for any updates, for texts, emails, come to harvest. Update because if things change, we want you to be the first one to get the information. And we have many ways with our web team. of getting that to you. Amen? I want to say also thank God for all of you who are able to give. And we thank God for your sacrifice. Whether it be by online or whether it's the U. S. Postal Service, it's for the kingdom of God, it's for the building up of this ministry. And be sure to join us that even as we get into the month of June, that many things are going to be taking place from right here from the Harvest Studio in Baltimore County, Maryland. Follow us on Facebook and Instagram, and I'll make up two or three more platforms so that you might be blessed. Amen. Well to thank God as always for the production crew, the family crew Uh making things happen. You know, sometimes things are a little tight. That's what live broadcast will do, but thank God he will always bring you through. Why? There's no greater love Have a blessed day in the Lord. Share this with somebody that you know who may be in the midst of a crisis. So you know what? I got three things today, but he has so many other things to remember in the midst of your crisis. Be blessed.