Turn in your Bibles to Matthew 20th chapter. You don't go to a boring church. Verses 18 and 19, the gospel as penned by Matthew, the 20th chapter, verses 18 and 19. It reads as follows. We are going up to Jerusalem And the Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief priests and the teachers of the law. They will condemn him to death. And will hand him over to the Gentiles to be mocked and flogged and crucified. On the third day, he will be raised to life. We want to preach today from the Samonic title A Bold Prediction. A bold prediction. About three weeks ago, we watched anxiously as The start of March madness took place. Sixty-eight basketball teams, college teams were selected to be in the playoffs. Given a shot at winning the big prize, the championship. In fact, many of you, I don't say you gamble, but you got a bracket And you are hoping that your team will come close, and maybe by now your bracket is busted And you're pulling for the underdog. Or maybe you're still in contention. I think y'all some basketball bracket people up in here But there's always a Cinderella team. Always a team that nobody figured would go anywhere. A team that nobody heard of until March Madness. In this case, you're right, Sister Blackwell, she must have them in her record. St. Peter's University of small private Jesuit school there in Jersey City, New Jersey. So small, a little more than three thousand students attend this university That ought to be the clue. Anybody who goes by the name Saint Peter's, you ought to take a shot at them because it is named after the Apostle Peter The one who Jesus encountered there on the Sea of Galilee, Peter, who was in the inner circle with Jesus. And so today we'll be down to the final fourteens. And not long after that we will have a winner. But you know, anytime you sign up for one of those brackets, you're really making a bold prediction. A prediction that perhaps your team could win. A prediction is what someone thinks will happen. It's a forecast of sorts, not only about the weather, but pre-means before. Come on, English students. And diction has to do with talking. Therefore, a prediction is a statement about the future. Yeah. A bold prediction is daring. It is fearless. And that's what we see unfolding in the text this morning. Jesus has spent almost three years sharing the good news, going from town to town and village to village, really trying to reach someone. That was his mission. He came to save the lost. He was on assignment from glory. And at this point, his assignment is coming to a close. Let's face it, in our own lives, some of our assignments have run out. Some of us need to throw the towel in. I may talk to myself like that, but we're all given life assignments. That's right. Things that we do for a period of time. He was preparing his disciples. preparing his followers, prepping them, that yes I will die, I will be buried, but I will get up again on the third day morning, he is making a bold prediction. The Gospel of Matthew, there in the 20th chapter, is where we see the first prediction But really, it is the third. Because earlier in Matthew 16, he tells them, listen, I must go to Jerusalem I must suffer many things. I'll be killed and raised on the third day. And then he says it again. And Matthew 17. The Son of Man is going to be delivered into the hands of men. They will kill him. And on the third day, he will be raised to life And those disciples were filled with grief. And so this 20th chapter, he adds more information. How the Lord works. I told you once, and then when I tell you again, I'm gonna add some more to it. And when I come and tell you a third time, I'll make it clear unto you I don't know what bold predictions you've made in your own life, in your own experience. That's between you and the Lord But I believe when Jesus makes a bold prediction, it is a prediction with a purpose. A prediction with pain, a prediction that comes with power. Purpose We are going to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man, referring to himself, will be delivered over to the chief priests and the teachers of the law. That is the purpose. The reason why something happens. He lets them know it's not it might happen, but it will happen. Aren't you glad you serve a God who does not stumble? When he makes a promise to you, it is in writing, it is in stone, he will not change his mind. He and his disciples were going up to Jerusalem. Jerusalem was at a high place. Amen. And his disciples knew that there he would be tried. There he would die just outside of Jerusalem in Golgotha. And there he would be raised From the dead as well. We all have a Jerusalem. A place where we are rattled. A place Where it is uncomfortable, a place that may seem to be on the way to our destiny. We may not call it Jerusalem, but my God, we both have to go someplace, and the Lord is sending us. Amen. Oh, blessed be the God today. And he says, the son of man, he speaks almost in the third person. The son of man will be delivered over to The chief priests. Don't you love the details of the text? And the teachers of the law. Who are these folk? High-ranking Sidditi people, members of the priesthood who served on a council And they are conducting a series of mock trials. I love the words of the late Dr. Charles Booth says a kangaroo cult. Amen. They come in with charges that have been trumped up that make no sense, but we we know that he already predicted. So even though they have made a plan, God's plan is bigger. Amen. Jerusalem is the place where he will fulfill his purpose. Gospel of Luke 9. 51. That all along as Jesus was teaching He was saying, I'm doing this, but I've got my face set toward Jerusalem. Yes. I may be going and doing a healing here And I may be going and doing a miracle here, but all the while my face is really looking toward Jerusalem. And we can't lose focus on what God has for us. Distractions will come, disappointments will come, but I dare you to say, listen, listen My eyes are to the hills from which cometh my help. All of my help cometh from the Lord. I will not be knocked off course. Jesus knew His purpose. Amen. A prediction. But there was also some pain. Amen. He says they will condemn him to death And will hand them over to the Gentiles to be mocked and flogged and crucified. Pain. Pain that comes in many forms. He was mocked. And you know, people may talk about you, it may cause you pain because they're scared of lies in your name They're lying on you. They're texting stuff and putting it on Facebook. That's not what you really said. They were teasing him. They were going to laugh at him They're gonna scorn him. That is painful, didn't lay a hand on you. But anybody in the house ever had words to make you feel bad because somebody lied on you, somebody put your name in the street, somebody had false information, you were being mocked Yes. And keys for Jesus already knows what that's like. Amen. You say, well, I don't think anybody understands me. Oh yes, he does Jesus knows all about your struggles. He will guide you till today is done. He said, listen, listen, I know exactly what you're going through. I've been mocked Amen. And not just that, but he predicted I'll be flawed. That's when you beat somebody with a whip or a skip. As punishment or torture. The imagery is shameful. It is a snapshot in our nation's history. A whip. And these Romans use lead-tiff whips. So they were looking to cause some real damage. And he says, yeah, I know, I know, I know. All that's going to happen in time And then of course the crucifixion was to do what? To inflict the maximum amount of shame and torture. Folks can't crucify you, but they can get way under your skin. Amen? And cause you emotional pain Things that happen in life may cause you physical pain. There's situations that you'll feel that you're in spiritual pain. But aren't you glad today that God, by way of Jesus Christ Is a painkiller? Or you don't need to pursue and call anybody in the morning, but Jesus. Get out there for a second. Every now and then when you're in a painful moment, remember the doctor would say, what is your pain level? Is it a one or a nine? All I know is I hurt And when you heard, Jesus knows how to deal with your struggles. My God Matthew says in 816, he heals all the sick. There's nothing too big for God There's no pain that he can't relieve. I was laughing the other day. I said now you really gotta be of age before the fantasy stuff came out You took a BC power. And you called a person in the morning. Well, a BC power just suddenly came out of a little box. And it was just powder. It would look pretty bad nowadays. And you took the BC powder and you threw a RC colour behind it. And I saw men keep on working. And the commercial says, take a BC powder and come back strong. When you find yourself in pain today, get on your knees and say, Lord, I need relief. He predicted that there would be pain. Oh, for a particular purpose, but then would come the power. On the third day He, me, the Son of Man, will be raised to life. A prediction with power. We may know powerful people. But none of them have died and got up again. Amen? You were at the funeral. You went to the internment. You walk away and they've not come back. I don't care what they say or what people said they did I'm number one who got up with all power in his hands. Romans 8:11, as Paul writes from the church at Rome, he says, if the Spirit of Him Who raised Jesus from the dead is living in you. He who was raised from the dead will give you mortal power. In other words, the same power that raised Christ from the dead Can do what can shake you up. The same power that caused the truth to be rolled away can give you what you need. Not an energy drink. I'm talking about power that will last the day. Amen. First Corinthians 15 14 through 17 Paul writes to the church of courage. And if he has not been raised, see what Paul is saying, it's foolishness. If he hadn't got up, I may as well back up Amen? He said, and if Christ has not been raised, our preaching is useless. And so is your faith. For if the dead are not raised, then Christ has not been raised either And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile and you are still in your sin. How scary is that? And I believe he died and that he rose again. Amen? That's the good news. It's a prediction, is what someone thinks will happen, but a promise is assurance that something will happen. It depends on who's making the promise. Jesus is a promise maker and he's a promise keeper. I will keep you in perfect peace if your mind is stayed on me. That's a promise. Come to me all you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. That's a promise. I've told you these things that in me you shall have peace In the world you should have tribulation, but be of good cheer for I've overcome the world. That's your promise. Amen. Amen. Whatever you ask for prayer in my name, believe and you've received it, it will be yours. It's a promise But seek ye first the kingdom of God and all his righteousness and all these things will be added unto you. That's a promise. Amen. I'll be with you always, even if you Amen. I am who I am, and you are who you are, because the Lord has kept his promise in our lives. Amen. The world predicted that we never miss. The world predicted that we would fail along the ways. But God, the same God who sent Jesus Christ to die for our sins, say, oh, that's not the case. He knows our past. Yes he does. And he knows our presence. And he knows our future. And the song says, I don't know about tomorrow. I just live from day to day. I don't borrow from it. sunshine for his skies may turn to gray. I don't worry over the future for I know what Jesus said. I don't care what nobody else said What what did Jesus say? Well I heard that the people are saying no no no no what did Jesus say? Why you know I heard the experts on the news no no no what did Jesus say? I heard what the talk Now, what did Jesus say? What do you mean? What did Jesus say? What I say may not mean anything, but by God, what he says. It's all in his word today. But I know who holds tomorrow. And I know who holds my hand. And he has made a bold prediction in your life. He's made a bold prediction in your circumstance and don't you know he'll bring it to pass? Oh my God, any man be in Christ, they're a new creature. Old things have passed away. I'm glad today as a living testimony about what God can do. Stuttering boy from small town in Florida, you know my testimony. Dreaming like everybody else. But my God in those dreams, I have a praying mouth. In those dreams I had somebody saying we better run this race with patience, looking under Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith My God, I feel like running right now. I can run because he's put running in my legs. He's put walking in my feet. He put some praise in my hands. How about you today? Are you excited that when he says it, it means something? When he says it, it is done. When he says it, it is filled until the day of the judgment. I'm so glad that he would use me. And that he would use you to walk out of here to look at you. I don't care about your bracket. I'm telling you about the one who has blessed me. I'm not concerned about Cinderella. I'm talking about Christ who died but rolls again. Aren't you glad today that he rolls again? And don't you know he's sitting at the right hand of the Father making it a passion for the safe. This is not that work. Come back today that when God moves, I feel better. Full myself. Since I lay my burden on you, gotta burden, and I got a burden. now say Lord I thank you Lord I bless you Lord I praise you hallelujah hallelujah that is the word of God it is already blessed Amen. Based on your age. Amen. Based on your Based on where you no no no no the prediction is that you ain't gonna make it. Sorry We serve a risen Savior and we stand the world today. All over this place. Heavenly Father, we thank you today. Yes, we do For sending Jesus Christ. We already know who's gonna win. In fact, you promised us a crown. Yes you did. So I pray today, God, that we might follow you. And as you go and tell the world about this new life, that we might become ambassadors. I pray even now, God, that you might empower each of us To go out and tell a dying world that the wages of sin is still death, but the gift of God's eternal life through our Lord Jesus Christ. Father, we thank you. We walk the dusty road. With Jesus makes his way toward Jerusalem. Much is going to happen between now and then, but it won't come as a surprise. He said, didn't I tell you so? I told you they would mock me. I told you they're going to follow me. I told you they're going to inflict pain. And because you follow me, and because you identify with me. Get ready, get ready, get ready. But I am with you always, even to the end of the year. Father, if this one today, in the name of Jesus, God we lift up that person who may be in the house or watching. Says what is all this fake stuff? What what what do I have to do to become saying help me out with this? We can tell them, the Bible says that thou shalt confess with that mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in our hearts that God has raised him from the dead. The Bible says Thou shalt be saved. Or in a short word, tell them just try Jesus because he's alright. So Father, I come today. There's one who knows it not even by way of the electronic media. May you touch their hearts. We can't do the saving. We don't have that power. But you do by your spirit. There's one today in this place who desires to Be safe. Desires to be a part of this fellowship. Desires to be baptized. Desires these things that can come today. even in person. You are in person, God. We ask it all now in the name of Jesus. Amen. God bless you. Amen. Our teachings are coming. To prepare us for arms