Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Jesus Christ. You are the center of my joys. We come today to lift up that Jesus. Let us bow today all over this place. Oh gracious Father, we thank you first and foremost that you've given us joy. The Bible says that weeping may endure For night, but your joy cometh in the morning. God, we thank you for who you are. Thank you for how you've kept us In the midst of this week. And so we come today just to celebrate who you are. Bless the word today, God. Save a soul today. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. My God Didn't that do something to you to think about the goodness of the Lord? Yeah, yeah, yeah. There was everything else that seeks to drive me off course. I come right back to that. That it's all about you. I know we got things coming up this week and we're losing our focus, but it's all about you. There's a word from the Lord today. We Always so glad to be able to proclaim his goodness. Turn in your Bibles today and We're going old school. No screen today. Bring your Bible out. And 1 Peter 2, verses 9 and 10. That's 1 Peter, the second chapter, verses number 9 and number 10. It reads, but you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, and holy nation. A peculiar people that you show forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness. Into his marvelous light, which in time past you were not a people, but are now the people of God. Which had not obtained mercy, but now we have obtained mercy. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, A Church Identity Crisis. Knowing who we are. A church identity crisis knowing who we are Author and columnist Peter Evans in his 1968 book, The Mask Behind the Mask, tells the story of British actor Peter Sellows. considered to be one of the great names in comedy. In fact, in one of his popular movies called Doctor Strangelove Uh Sellers plays three people. He reminds you of the modern day Tyler Perry, who plays Mud Deer, he plays the attorney, and can play anyone else. But Evans says that Sellers one day walks out of his community and a man approaches him, a fan, and says, Are you Peter Sellers? And Sellers responded. I don't know today who I am. And you'll find that people that we know or our own experience, we may sometimes have an identity crisis. That means you're unsure of who you are. Unsure of what role you ought to be playing in this journey called life. Has that been your experience today? Everybody wants you to be something. Everybody wants you to be that person. And yet and still at the end of the day, you look in the mirror and say, Who has God called me? to be. They call it being comfortable in your own skin. And you may be at any age, but you may still be struggling to define who you are. An identity crisis. I want to suggest today that the Church of Jesus Christ, the body of believers, may be dealing with an identity crisis. Who are we? Who do we represent? And really trying to just hone in on who God has called us to be. In our text this morning, we meet the apostle Peter. Peter, one of the great fathers of the church, someone who is approached by Jesus there on the Sea of Galilee. He and his brother Andrew are fishing, and Jesus comes by and says, I will make you fishers of men. Just come hang out with me. Where did he find you? Was it on the street corner? Was it on your job? But our desire to follow and to go after Jesus Not long after that, Peter, who became a committed follower, certainly would find himself on the backside of the mountain, and Jesus would raise the question: Who do men say that I am? What's the word on the street? What's the talk you're hearing about who I am? Some say that you are Elijah, others think that you are Moses, but he says, Who do you say that I am? Now I don't know how you would have answered that question, but Peter says, you know what? Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. And with that profession of faith, he says to Peter, on this rock I build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. That St. Peter finds himself on the day of Pentecost preaching the good news of Jesus, and the Bible says 3,000 people were saved on that day. Can I just do a little Bible lesson today? Amen. And as a result of that, they were baptized, and lives were being transformed. And we find this same Peter now writing a letter to the church of Christians who are being persecuted. You know, we're really blessed to be able to come into a place and to be able to worship freely. A few of you have got your passports and you've been out of the country and you know what that felt like And not everybody was saying thank you, Jesus. And yet we have the freedom to come on a Sunday morning and to openly proclaim I love Jesus. Anybody with me today? Amen. We have that kind of freedom. And so he really writes to this church They are going through a tough time. They're being persecuted. He's approached them in the beginning of the second chapter and says, you know, there's some things you ought to get rid of: slander and deceit. And he reminds them to do what? To taste and to ingest the spiritual milk of the word, that you might grow thereby. He says you're really living stones. And that's what the word ought to do. It ought to encourage you today. My God, that's what I come to do every Sunday. That maybe you came in and your head was a little droopy Maybe you came in with problems. Maybe you came in. I will say, you know what? My God, you can make it. You are somebody And so in these few verses uh before us, we're going to see that we're reminded that we are special people. With a special purpose and who get a special promotion. Isn't God good? It says there in the ninth verse, but you are a chosen generation. Uh-huh. You you special. Uh you've been picked especially for my service. You're also a royal priesthood. That means That you have value. I'm not just feeling good this morning. And maybe somebody talked you down this week and told you what you could not be. I just came out and said, you know what? You're valuable You are royal. They roll the carpet out for you because of who you serve. We serve a risen Savior who's in the world today, and his name is Jesus. You are a holy nation. I'm telling you how special you are. And Peter Samuel need to hear this now. I'm sending that out. And you're also a peculiar people That sometimes can get us uh folk look at us a little different way, don't they? You Christians, you know y'all a little different. Y'all a little odd, aren't we a little odd? You're not all on your job. They don't look at you in a different way because perhaps they know that you love Jesus and not everybody is trying to feel Jesus. He says to them, You are special. You are someone. And you know, when God transforms our life, He gives us a new beginning. I don't know about you, but you know how you experience every four or five years in Maryland when you gotta get that new license and and you don't look as like you did before And your hair is a little grayer, your glasses are changed, maybe you didn't have glasses. And they give you a new idea. You're becoming a new person, there's a change that takes place in your life. But that is your ID card. You can't go to the landfill without ID card. Do you live in the community? And so as Peter writes this word, he's trying to encourage and impact the church that don't lose the identity. Don't forget who you are. You are special. I'm so excited about that Because not everybody gets that. Not everybody has somebody say to them, You you somebody. You are special and a special person. Open second chronicles says, if my people who are called by my you my people called by my name shall humble themselves and pray And seek my face and turn from your wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven, I'll forgive your sin, I will heal your land, I won't leave this point till I know you feel special Amen. Anybody don't feel special in the house today? Is there anybody who don't feel encouraged in the house today I just stopped by to sound the alarm and to ring the bell to say to you, you are special. Now do you believe that? Amen. If you believe it, come on, give God some praise. Amen. If you believe that I'm somebody, I'm special in the sight of God. But there's also a special purpose. It's one thing to be special. I'm special, I'm going to chill out, I won't do anything. No, the next part of that passage says that you should show forth The praises of him who has called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. We have an obligation. and the responsibility as Christians. What is it, Reverend? The church is fine with me. I don't want to do anything extra. But the word says you are the what Show forth the praises of God wherever you go. You ought to be advertising God. You ought to shout God out whatever chance you get. You ought to know that God, I'm putting you on blast. Amen. And so don't be quiet, don't be ashamed, don't dunk, but raise your hands and say, Lord, you've been good to me, and because of that, I gotta give you praise. Anybody want to shout blood out today? Because I know who it is who has made me, so I'm real sure about my identity, but but my requirement is, is I gotta go out and do something That because of where he's brought me from. And we don't want to talk about the dark side. We all got a dark side. Thank God Facebook wasn't around. Uh in my college days, I'm just testifying. Thank God Twitter Wasn't around, thank God you couldn't Google me. All you'll get now is is the good Tim. Yeah, you that's that's all you'll get now. But my God there was a time When I operated on the dark side. Do I have two witnesses today? Amen. Oh, you don't call it dark, but God delivered you from some place in life to this new place. Look at you sit up in church today. That didn't used to be you. But he says because of that, you have a purpose now is not to hide, but to share with others, this is what the Lord has done for me. Amen. Aren't you glad today he's brought you out of some tough places? You said, God, you get me out, I won't do it again, and you did. But he is the one who delivers us He helps us to see who we really are. So in the mirror of life, I know who I am. As I look at my situation, I thank God for the new me. There's a purpose. To show forth my praises. To let folk know who I am. To bring me up in a conversation, to put me on the bumper sticker, to Facebook me. To tell somebody about the good news of Jesus Christ. Now they were in a bad place. He said, you know, just try this. Your obligation is to do that, it is to share Psalm 105 and 1 says, we ought to give praises to the Lord. Proclaim his name. Make known among the nations What he has done. I have no idea what God has done for you this week. I know for me, he got me up Uh he kept food on the table and allowed me to have a peaceful night, but what has he done for you And those are the kind of things you can share with others about, let me just tell you, I don't know twenty-five verses, but I can tell you that my God will make a way out of no way. Do I have any witnesses today? To know what God would do. And so my script is He's the keeper. And my script is he'll make a way. My script, let me just read read my script Goodness and mercy shall follow me all the day. My script is the Lord is my shepherd. I shall not. My script is in the beginning was the word, and the word was God. That's something to work with. But you have a special purpose. You're a special person, but you also get a special promotion. We like that. Does it come with a raise, Lord? I'm being promoted to a new place. And verse 10 says this Which in time past you were not a people. You were nothing. But are now the people of God. Let me can I just stop and put my foot in that for a minute? Before he changed my life, I thought I was something, but I was nothing. Oh you thought you were bad. Thought you had it going on and thought nobody could do it like you. But it says beforehand You were not a people, but now I'm promoting you. I'm giving you rank that you are somebody. I like that. That I do not have an identity crisis. I know who I am Not a shadow of doubt. But the other part of that verse says, which had not obtained mercy. You didn't have it. And mercy is when God just said, you know what, you don't deserve it, but I'm going to cut you a break. You don't mess up, but my grace is sufficient for you. But now you have gotten your arm around and your mind around the mercy of God. I don't know about you, but I I thought I was okay. I thought I was not the baddest guy on campus. I thought I was not the baddest guy in the neighborhood. There were other folk who were meaner than me Who did worse things, but I needed God's mercy. And I still need His mercy to bring me through. Every step of the way, His mercy comes in and makes the difference in my life. And so you've been bumped up, promoted, in order that you might share your testimony. That's what it's all about. Some of your own children don't know who you used to be. They they they thought you were always in the marvelous life You've never shared with them that well I did my stuff. But by the grace of God look at me now. Amen Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. That's good news today. And so, because of that, he don't just save us for us to be goody two shoe looking. Kind of sorta, I'm not that bad, but let folk know. Had it not been for the Lord. On my side. Had he not kept me? Had he not held me? Had he not guided me? I don't know where I would be. You know it's a scary situation when you think about where I could have been Had it not been for the Lord. When first John said, Beloved, now there again, you wasn't, but now you are the sons and the daughters of God It doth not get up here what you shall be, what you will be, but We know that when he don't you love the text when he shall appear, when he shows up in your experience, then you will be like him Hey, hey, I like that. So we shall see him as he is. I'm glad about that today. That I've been promoted to tell the world about Jesus. Now experts have concluded that this case of misidentification can lead and has led to a lot of wrongful conditions. Some 70% of cases where people didn't really know who they were looking at. They could not identify one second. I think that was the person but that's led to persons being in prison. And so you'll see those on television and all of a sudden they realize oh the DNA showed that I wouldn't really mean. Or the DNA has caught me, but more often than not, the DNA shows that I'm not really that person. And if persons may have defined you, aren't you glad that you've got the DNA of God? That there's something about the blood that makes the difference, that by taking that blood test you will know that I belong to the Lord Jesus Christ Amen. I'm glad about that. It was the blood that washed my sins away. I know it sounds glory, but he died on the cross and shed his blood just for that reason. Oh him said the blood that Jesus Shed for me way back on Calvary. The blood that gives me strength. From day to day it will never lose its power. You agree with that today? It reaches To the highest mountain, it flows to the lowest valley, the blood that gives me strength. I send it my DNA now. The blood that that keeps me in my DNA from day to day it will never lose its power. We serve that kind of Savior who defines us, who paints the portrait of who we can become. But you're not walking around saying I don't know who I am today. I'm one person at church, another person at work, another person at uh at home. Who's the real you? And that's what the blood of Christ does. He died so that you and I might have an identity. We are the church. We are the called out ones. We are the body of believers. As I close today, I'm glad to know And to report that there was never a time that Jesus didn't know who he was. I mean folk called him Uh out of his name. Y'all country know about that. Mama, they called me out of my name. They called him Belzebub, saying you were the son of Satan. There were those who distracted his ministry. Scandalize his name. But Jesus knows who he is. And that's in the present tense. Amen? That in John he's the Lamb of God. And the bread of life. And the good shepherd. In Revelation, he's Alpha and Omega. He's the beginning and the end. He's the first and the last. In Philippians, he's the name above every name. In Psalms, the rock of our salvation, and a very present health in the time of trouble. I love this in Hebrews. He's the same. Yesterday, on the old time, and today, and forevermore. And because he knows who is, I know who I am If anybody asked you who I am, I'm a child of God. Aren't you glad today you know who you are? I ain't gonna figure out who I am. I know I've been called by Jesus A church identity crisis knowing who you are. I know who I am. Saved? Sanctified and filled with the Holy Ghost. That is the word of God today. It's already come a little standard over this place. I know exactly who I've been called to be. I'm a king's kid. I'm royalty. I'm a holy nation. I've been chosen. I pray that God you leave this place feeling better about who you are. Feeling encouraged that you have worth and value. And so I invite you today to come to Jesus. The one Who's able to save you? And to keep you. And to make life right for you. No one can do that but the Lord. But he won't force himself on you. He won't kick your door down and wait on your job for you. It's your call. To come to him. Every single of this today, the invitation is not there. Come to deal just now just now Come to Jesus, come to Jesus He will save you. He will save. I know you'll do it I know I am you just Now he will save you. He will save you just now. Let me just say this to you, others. Thinking in the spirit. That's what the Holy Ghost does. He'll bring something back to you. You remember Moses was all worked up because he said, Now you go tell Pharaoh. I said, let my people go Who should I say? Sit you. Tell him that I am. That I am. He'll know that. And you ought to tell the devil today, I am, then I am, sent me. Let nothing today separate you. From the love of Jesus. Nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing. As you bow today. Father, I come in the name of Jesus. If there is one today who has been struggling with really trying to pin down, who am I? What is my role? What should I be doing in this life? May they seek you first. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and all his righteousness and all these things shall be added unto you. I pray in the name of Jesus today for salvation. Someone here might not know you. Your word says very clearly, Romans 10, 9 and 10, if you shall confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus And believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. And this is what saved look like. It looks like somebody who knows who they are. Do it today, God, we pray, in this house. Save that soul today. We believe it and proclaim it in Jesus' name. So let's give God a praise today. Amen. Praise God. Maybe you've come today to desire to be a part of this fellowship called Harvest. The doors open. God can change you right now in the midst of where you are. Walk for the Lord today Walk for that's old school. Miss Sarah, you walk for the Lord. Old mothers make you walk. Amen. You know where you can walk? You know what's shame of who you are? Excuse me? I'm walking for Jesus. And so today you come and say, you know what, Reverend? I'm gonna walk for Jesus. Devil, come on down. Come on now. If God is leading you that way There's nothing to be ashamed of. See you deny me here. I'll deny you there. Depart from me. I don't know who you are. Wouldn't that be a sad state? Know him today. Let's give God a praise. Praise God. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course, by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comethenumber to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.