Good day, my friend. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland Inviting you to join us for our worship experience every Sunday at 8. 45. We meet at 7660-Bel-Air Road in Baltimore. County, Maryland. And now for today's message, this joint harvest already in progress. Anybody say that's my story? That he touched me. Anybody ever felt the touch from the Lord that you sensed that things were not going just right in your life? And you sensed that God encountered you Right where you were. He'll do that even now. Maybe a touch in your physical body. Maybe a touch in your spirit man or spirit woman But he'll touch you. Anybody ever played tag? He tagged for, oh, you it? Well today you it. Because God has touched you. Listen, thou today Heavenly Father, we thank you. Just for a touch. We thank you even now in this time of proclamation That you might touch us, that the words that we share might not be our own, but might be from you. Save someone today, encourage another, but when the time is done, may we give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Well praise God, there's a word today that comes from the book of Ecclesiastes, the third chapter, verses one, two, and three. It reads, There's a time for everything. And a season for every activity under the heavens. A time to be born and a time to die, a time to plant and a time to uproot, a time to keel, a time to heal, a time to tear down and the time to build. I want to preach today from the symmonic title, A God of All Seasons. A God of all seasons, part one. How many parts we have may depend on where the Lord leads. But today we got part one, amen. You may have heard the saying that timing is everything. A phrase that means It's important to do things at the proper moment. When you're dealing with people and places and things, it's important to try and to get the right timing. You don't ask a favor from someone when they're angry or stressed out. It's not the right time. Uh you don't ask for a raise when the business is going bad and it's tense around work. You say I need a raise. That may not be the right time. Don't try that on Monday. Timing is important in medicine. If you catch something early enough, there's a better chance of it being treated effectively and to get the proper medication Uh when you invest in a stock, uh you want to try to get the right time and the right stock. I don't play with Wall Street, but I hear if you get the right uh Stock and you line it up, you might have a little payoff. Some of y'all have been on Wall Street and know about that. You can help me out. But timing is also important in our spiritual lives It's critical to leave and to live our life in such a way that we realize that God is in control. So whatever the thing that we're going through, whatever the season that we find ourselves, know that God is there at any time and all of the time. The book of Ecclesiastes is one of those books that you don't hear much about. It is an Old Testament book. The Old Testament, there are 39 books from Genesis to Malachi And scholars tend to agree that Ecclesiastes was written by Solomon, one of the wisest men to ever live. Solomon wrote much about the word, was called upon to judge the people, and what a reputation to have is I'm a wise person It does not depend all the time on how gray your hair is. If that was the case, I'd be wiser because I've got gray hair But the book was written closer to the end of his reign as king of Israel. And it's actually Ecclesiastes mean the preacher or the teacher. So what he shares is something that will help each of us in our development. Aren't you uh thankful that the Bible does that? That it has something for everybody. And it has instruction for every situation you're facing. I can guarantee you this if you're going through something, uh you'll find help in the Bible And you can cheat. Go on the back of the Bible, find the concordance, find the word, it'll it'll take you right where you need to go. And you'll find a word that will help you in your time of need. And so what he shares gives us an idea to see through his lenses to find out what he how he interprets life. And that's good to look at someone like Solomon. The timing is everything. And we love the seasons. If you don't like summer, hang around. Fall is coming. If you're not a fall person, some of y'all love winter. God bless you. If you don't like winter, some folks say where's the springtime? But whatever season that you find yourself, isn't it great to know that God is a God of whatever season in life and where you are And so we must be able to interpret that. And there's some things to keep in mind when it comes to the seasons of life. The first thing is we ought to expect change The Bible says there is a time for everything and a season for every activity under the heavens You know, the very smallest details God is aware of. There's nothing that he's caught off guard about. He's not surprised about anything You thought it was a good idea to come to church today. That was your idea. Don't you know that God made that possible? You could have said no, but you said okay That's a good idea. And so expect something to happen today, and here you are, you're here. And when it comes to change, I like the old song that says, you can't hurry God. You just have to wait. You have to trust him and give him time. He's a God, you can't hurry. He'll be there, don't you worry. He may not come when you want him, but he's right on time. Anybody do anything about that that you just were waiting and wondering and and all of a sudden at the right time? God showed up in your experience. I'm trying to move from that thing. I'm talking about when you said, you know what? I don't know what to do. I'm in a dilemma. I don't know where to turn. I don't know who to call. And then right At the exact moment that you need the Lord, he shows up. I'm trying to move on, but that's getting me excited. That right when you said, I've had enough Right when you say, Well, I'm gonna put it in the hands of the Lord where it should have been from the beginning, but aren't you glad he shows up at the right time and the right season in your life? We expect God to do that. And so if you are not pleased with your life and where you are, just keep on living and a change will come And change is good. Change is not bad. Some of us need to change. Amen. Some of us we ought to be tired of the old you and say, God, change me. But be careful why? He'll do it. All of a sudden now you have to watch that prayer. Lord, change me. Man, he'll change you, and you do things you never dreamed of. Just because you ask him. Like what Galatians 6 and 9 says, says, let us not be weary in well-doing, for in due season We shall reap if we faint not. I know you're tired, but if you keep living for the Lord and keep trusting in the Lord, Your season will come. Look at that. In fact, you may already be in your season and don't realize it Is that possible? You still say, Lord, get me in my season. And you're already in your season. What he have you doing now is what you're supposed to be doing. Where he's placed you now just may be where you need to be. Am I helping somebody this morning? I'm just trying to I I I'm in school mode today, but I mean just where you are, it's possible You're in the season that God wants you to be in, and just know that he's with you in your season. Timothy receives a letter from Paul. He says, Timothy, you better preach in season and out of season. But you try to change up now every Sunday you bring it Timothy. You preach whether folk want to hear it, preach. If folk want to beat you up after service, preach If folks say I don't like the preacher, preach. Amen. And some folks don't want to hear what you got to say, but in season, keep telling folk that the wages of sin is still death. And the gift of God is eternal life through Christ Jesus our Lord. It's your season to declare the good news of and don't we need some today? What you have, people need. On your job, in your home, it's your season. Expect change. Don't look now. But God is doing something. Also embrace change. The writer says there's a time to be born and a time to die, a time to plant, and a time to uproot. We have no control or had no control on when we'd be born. Amen? I happen to be in August. I'm all right with that I can't change that. But we have no control over when we're going to die. And keep living, that day will surely come. But you don't get to pick the day. You're not in control. You have to embrace whatever change God has for you. A time to plant and a time to uproot. Farmers know that well They get that old beat up farmers almost. They said, wait a minute. No, no, no, you don't want to do peas yet. Not time for them. I never understood that I love when it came in at the field That was my best time, but farmers are very uh particular about when it is that they want to plant and the time they want to uproot as well And God has planted you in some places that maybe you don't want to be. God has placed you with people that maybe you don't care much for, but It's the season for you to be planted. Amen. And then when God gets ready to uproot you, He will. I guess what I'm saying is that God is yet in control. Aren't you glad about that today? You thought you were in charge and had your little calendar on this day, I'm gonna do this. And here's my five-year plan In my 90-day plan. That's good. But God will change that thing up. Amen. Never did something you didn't want to do and you lacked it later Because God was in it, because you prayed and said, God, lead me and guide me in my decision making. Keep doing that. He'll know when to plant you. He'll know when to uproot you. Don't leave that job too soon. Not yet. Hold on. You might be out of season. Praise God. Don't leave that relationship just yet. It may not be time. Hold on. It may not be that season at all. Talking to somebody today, I'm just kind of talking in the spirit. And you never know what God has you and where he has you and when he wants to move you. Oh, we've got to embrace the chain that the Lord has for us. I love Roman 828, and we know that all things work together for good to those who love God and to those who are called according to his purpose. I thought it was I didn't like it and I'm still mad about it and it made me uncomfortable but but all things Everything is working together. Every headache and every heartache and every disappointment. Everything is working. It's in the mix. I used to watch mama make that cake And I've waited for the bowl and still do it, but my my my wife make one. But y you gotta put the stuff in. Amen. Everything needs to be in the cake and then when the Lord begins to stir things up in your life You'll be happy. Won't you be happy when you look at what God has done? And Psalm 103. 15 says, as for man, his days are like grass As flowers. When the wind passes over it, it acknowledges no longer. You just don't have control. But when you're in the season, God will let you know, I need to just embrace this. Can't change it? Quit fussing about it. I'm saying, Lord, I know you know what you're doing. Let me just say, how many folk distrust God today? Amen. Amen. The Bible says, trust in the Lord with all your heart and lean not to your own understanding in all your ways, acknowledge him, and he'll do what? Come on, church. Come on, Sunday school class. He'll direct your path. And wherever that path is, it may lead you to your season where God is taking you I'm always amazed about this season stuff. I was out of town over the weekend, out of the week, actually, in a black girlness conference, and I felt like the pop-pa I mean I got thirty years and some men. And I was in a whole other season and someone said, You still look good. I thought, Oh, thank you, thank you, thank you. You look the same. No, I don't, I don't, I don't. But you're being nice. But my season was to encourage young people that you keep running the race One guy told me, Reverend, you've been doing this 30 years. He said, I've been doing it 15, about to lose my house. Man, just go to work and work every day. Amen. And so know where God is taking you and know when it is your season to expect change, to embrace change, and also to encourage change. A time to kill, a time to heal, a time to tear down, and a time to build. Now the sixth commandment says, that shall not kill. And and so how can the scriptures say a time to kill? Uh that shall not kill means you can't Meditate, premeditate on murder, I'm going to kill somebody and taking a life. But it does mean that, and we've been in war If we're not careful, there might be more war, but there's a time to defend. And the Bible talks about I mean what look at David In Goliath. Sometimes in that realm of the Spirit, the Bible talks about a time. Again, it's the Lord's timing. Don't go out and do anything crazy. But just looking at this is much deeper to pull from this. But it's all about the season that God has your time to heal. Amen. A time to heal. You've been hurting long enough. A time to heal. You had that open wound For a long time emotionally, it's time to heal. Maybe this is your season to let bygones be bygones. Somebody hurt your feelings 20 years ago, and you still hurt. Over it. Get over it. Amen. Ask the Lord say, Lord, I need to just let this thing go. You still twisting your mouth and still acting funny over stuff way back. Be bigger than that. Amen. Anybody ever been there? You still woe with me that there's a time to heal. The ministry of Jesus was all about healing. Amen. He healed physically, but there was a need to be healed spiritually and emotionally It is your time to receive the healing of God today in your life. Isaiah 53 and 5, I love this passage. But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities The chastisement of our peace is upon him, and with his stripes we're healed. How many folk want to just receive a healing today? Amen. In whatever area of life that you're dealing with, know it's your season and time to just say, Lord, I'm available to have that womb. You're torn down and you're worn out. But God wants to build you back up. Amen? I have no carpenter skills, zero. But I love watching folk build stuff They measure and have a pencil behind their ear. It looks important. Amen. But they're gifted in knowing how to construct things and to build. And God wants to build you back up Build you up where you've been torn down and build up where you've fallen short. This is a word to help us today. All of us have errors of life and we just beat down. But today you tell the devil he's a liar. And today said the Lord wants to build me back up again. Amen I'm talking about to be the person that he's called me to be. It is my season to be built up. Amen? Well I like that. uh to know that it starts with my mind and my attitude. Amen. I refuse to live a defeated life. I refuse to be just worn down, torn down all the time, but I want the Lord to build me up. Isn't that good news today? And He will do it. That's why He went to the cross. To build you up. That's why he died. To build you up. And that's why he rose again on the third day in order To build you up. It is your season, and we serve a God of all seasons. Change Some time ago I came across this story that really blessed my heart. It was a man who was 98 years old who lived in Dallas, Texas. Just 98 and enjoying life. He was the great-grandson and the grandson of slaves. George Dawson was his name. And George just enjoyed going fishing every now and then, enjoying his life. George was at a great season. Had already raised his seven children Uh always there with them to check their homework, to be the kind of father that was needed. But George Dawson could not read But at 98, he was alright with that season. But a man came by one day with an adult literacy program and said, hey, Mr. Dawson, would you like to learn how to read? He said, yeah, I'll do that. It's not long before he's able to read and to learn at 98 years of age. Great story. A book came out called Life is So Good. I read that book. It's a great book about someone who was okay where they were But was open at that age to say, okay, I'll change. Show me how to read. And don't you know that life is good right where you are You may think that there's nothing happening important in your life. Can I tell you that life is still good? Turn the TV on and look at some of the nations around us. Life is good May not have much, but Lord, you're doing pretty good. Life is good. You're not riding Greyhound bus anymore. Life is good. Amen. Some of y'all did Greyhound. That was like being on a luxury liner On a Greyhound bus, you were somebody on Greyhound, but my God, you're flying now. Life is good. You got more than one suit. Life is good More than one outfit. Life is good. More than one car. Life is good. Look at you. Look at you. Look at you. Life is good. It's your season that God has placed you in. But he's not done with you yet. The Bible says he who hath begun a good work in you will do what? Will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. He's not returned yet, so he still hasn't come back yet. So you are still being transformed even now. Song says, What a wonderful change in my life has been wrong. Since Jesus came into my heart, I am light In my soul for which long I've sought since Jesus came into my heart. Aren't you glad today that because he's coming to your heart There's floods of joy. There's now good peace in your life. Because he's coming to your life, your attitude has changed. Yeah, it has. Your living has changed. Your perspective has changed. Your giving has changed. Amen. Your prayer life has changed because you were open to being transformed. Open to a new season. I'm glad today I can celebrate because God is yet working in and through me. I'm always amazed at what He does each and every day through this old country boy I'm thankful that God you're going to use me for such a time as this that gets me excited. So I'm going to declare, it's my season. My season to worship and my season to give God the praise and my season to say hallelujah and my season to say thank you Jesus And my season to say, won't the Lord make a way out of no way? I just feel like I'm in my season. Amen. Not because of the age But because of where the Lord, anybody with me today, are you glad today to be in the season that God has placed you in Oh you don't seem too excited. You don't want to move from your season? Every now and then you gotta move from where you are. Oh song, so you got to move When the Lord gets ready, you gotta move. You may be rich and you may be poor, you may be high, and you may be low, but when the Lord gets ready You gotta move. Anybody want to move today? Anybody want to budge today? Lord, it's my season. My season to have joy. My season to have peace and my season to be all that you call me to be. He's the God of all seasons. I'm still excited about that. And aren't you glad that even from one season to the next, he'll just have to not inform you, you'll go from one degree of grace to another. And folk will say, what are you doing? You look better. It's the Lord. You seem different. It's the Lord. Won't He make a way out of no way? He is a God of all seasons. Expect change. Embrace change. And encourage change today. That is the word of God. It's already come on stand today all over this place. Something about seasons. I like where I am right now And when he says move, I got to move to the next level of his righteousness. That's what's so great. He's a great God. Just as you are in Spirit. Come with me, come with me. Come and live for you. Don't need to fix up Or the makeup he's calling or changing your life Come just as you come as the me Come with me, come and live for me. Say the meaning water and never turn the Just as you just as you are in the state. The spirit is speaking even now. Come just as you are come and see. I want to appeal to you today. First and foremost, if you don't know Jesus Christ, pardon of your sins. That's the real change that ought to take place. The Bible says that confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. That's a new season. From sinner to Satan. And that's really the first step. None of this makes much sense if you've not made a God connection by way of his Son Jesus Christ. I want to encourage you today. If you don't know Jesus, today you can get to know him right where you are. That's what I love about the Lord. He'll do on the spot At your chair, at your home, at your moment, in your heart today. I never assume that everybody who comes to church Knows that relationship and that they have it. So today I want to let you know that the Lord Jesus Christ loves you first and foremost. That's powerful all by itself He loves you. He desires to save you today. Save you for what? From a life of sin. From damnation. And in your getting saved, you're promised life eternal. That when this season of life is over earthly, there's a new building not made by hand, that there's a place called heaven. Amen. As you bow almost guess, I want to just pray for you in that regard. Father, in the name of Jesus, if there's one in this place by way of social media who has never confessed to you. As they that they might do it today. It's just that available. Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. I'm in need of salvation And I believe that God, you sent your son Jesus Christ. I believe that he died and that he rose again. And the Bible says you can embrace that and get that into your emotion, your man, your woman, and say, you know what? I believe that the Bible says thy shalt be, might be. Thou shalt be saved. Say someone today. If you pray that prayer of the day and ask the Lord with your mouth, he'll save you right where you are today. Amen. Amen. If you're here today, take that moment, that 30 seconds, to think about it. And then to do it. Cease it. He just wants a yes Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. comToHarvest. org. That's come the number to harvest. org or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.