I can preach to other folk now. I can look around and see your faces and uh yet know that the Lord is is good. Always thankful for Sister Tammy Mills, who's been with us since day one kind of sorta. Amen. Well, there's a word from the Lord that comes from uh the gospel of John if you would uh find your Bibles and we have adequate light. In the theater we spent fifteen years and It was a little tough to see sometimes. But aren't you glad that he will bring you out of darkness into the marvelous light? Let's have a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come today and we're yet thankful. And yet that seems like it's not enough in light of all that you have done for us. As we come today, we ask that we might decrease. Ask that you might increase This is your word. And you've taken a chance to allow us to preach it. May we preach just what the Bible says. Nothing more, nothing less. As we come today here at Harvest Christian Ministries, it is our prayer that somebody might be lifted up. That someone might feel encouraged today. That someone might find it fitting to give their heart to the Lord Jesus Christ. Yeah, we're living in treacherous times, but you're still God all by yourself. And we trust you today for everything that you put before us. So even now, may your words speak May those who hear be changed. May you transform the preacher. In this hour, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. They're in the Gospel of John and fourth chapter, verses 31 through 35. Really, I remember counseling a couple some years ago. And I just assumed that they knew John, the gospel of John, and the gentleman says, now who is John? I had to explain who John was had to explain what the gospel meant, good news. So we never assume that people know what we're talking about. But breaking it down in the common language. There in John 4. It says, Meanwhile, his disciples urged him, Rabbi, eat something. But he said to them, I have food to eat that you know nothing about. Then his disciples said to each other, Could someone have brought him food? My food, said Jesus, is to do the will of him who sent me and to finish his work. Don't you have a saying it's still four months until harvest? I tell you to open your eyes. and look at the fields, they are right for harvest. I want to preach today on what really is my 20th preaching anniversary with a throwback title from that very day called A Hungry Jesus. A hungry Jesus. And maybe I'm telling my age, but back in the 70s there was a very popular television commercial, and it sounded looked something like this. A mother goes on the porch and with a loud voice she calls out to her son, Hungry, hungry Jack! Jack was her son and he was in the community and she wanted to call him home because he was preparing to go on a trip and she wanted to make sure he was fed Now keep in mind that Jack was no small person. In fact, Jack was a giant. But once he got home, I don't know you can smell those biscuits right now, Mama had it all laid out And he got a decent meal. And so how does hungry Jack respond to what had been given him? He simply says, more, mom. That he wanted more of what was available to him. So whether it was something off of that commercial or whether it was something that we've experienced. And by the way, I understand those products remain on the shelves. But I want to take you today to first century Palestine. I want you to kind of walk with me as we see Jesus Christ, who I believe is hungry for souls. Yes. Think about it, God so loved the world that he sent his only begotten Son, it was for what? That he might die so that we might live And so Jesus is of course the center of this text. He was hungry for a dying world. He was hungry to reach humanity. He was hungry to minister to a sick sin society. Let's face it. All you have to do is to look around and you sound like your mom and dad. Oh my God, times are not what they used to be. Amen. That there's so many things that happen around us that cause us to pray extra hard. The fact that God has gotten us up today and allowed us to move, that is a blessing within itself In this fourth chapter of John, we find Jesus and his disciples on the way to Galilee. It is a familiar place. You recall that Jesus was born in Lower Galilee. Galilee is where he recruited some of his first disciples there along the Sea of Galilee, John and James mending their father's nets. Peter and his brother Andrew, they're casting their nets, and they are drafted by the Lord to do what? To come on the mission to help save souls. But on their way back to Galilee, uh they took a shortcut. Now some of y'all are shortcut drivers. I in fact Fifth Avenue is really a shortcut Uh people come this way to avoid the major traffic. But on this particular day, uh Jesus does not use uh uh you know the interstate He does not get on a sort of beltway, but he goes right into a community called Zikar. Which really means end. And on this day, he encounters a woman at the well. My God, you have been in two Bible classes. You know this story. He's hungry He's tired and the holy man of him wants something to drink. He comes to the well and he meets a woman there. Uh she's a Samaritan, uh he is a Jew, and so this is a problem within itself A, there was this challenge of races and nationality, and at the same time, it was not cool for a man to be talking to a woman in public. Isn't that something? And nowadays you can do whatever you want to do, but it was something that was proper during that time. This was called Jacob's well. And so he gets to the well. He sees this woman. His disciples leave to go into town because they're hungry They wanted to meet a physical need. They go to town. Jesus has a conversation with her and tells her about her own life. In other words, he knew what she'd already been through. He says, uh, where is your husband? And she says, Well, I I I don't really have a husband. He says, You're right And the one you have now is not yours. Sound like a soap opera, right? He's ministering to her at the well. And aren't you glad that the Lord meets you at a place in life at your own well? He begins to tell you about yourself, things that we don't know. But we all need a well moment And which time we can minister with the Lord. The conversation goes from you want something to drink? Uh well, you have nothing to draw with. to wait a minute it's worship and so this conversation goes from one extreme to the other but there's something about having a little talk with Jesus and you know when that happens you are not the same You you don't leave the well of life the same way you can. She didn't leave as the same woman. She she left excited. She dropped the water pot. She forgot why she came, ran back into town and said, Guess what? I met a man who told me everything about myself. Oh mybe you've never been to the well Amen. Ever had the Lord to expose you by way of the Holy Spirit? Nobody knew your business, but you had a little talk with Jesus. And so even if that is going on, guess who shows up? But his disciples. They come back and say, uh, did you get anything to eat? Did anybody get Uber for you? Uh did the DoorDash come your way? Uh did you stop by the restaurant? And they began to ask the question. And they want to know what is it that has happened between the time we have left. I believe this morning that Jesus has a divine appetite. He issues a divine assignment and he has to make a divine adjustment Verse 34, my food, said Jesus, is to do the will of him who sent me and to finish his work. The divine means it's of God. Divine means it's higher and more expansive than what we call life. And appetite is just that. You've already put your dressing in the oven You've already got your turkey in. I'm talking as a non-cook. But you've already got an appetite because today most of us don't hurt ourselves. Oh yes we are And then we'll come back later and we'll eat more. I recall when I first met my wife, I was sitting around the table doing this. When are they going to serve dinner? As a southern boy, we uh by noon we were hitting it. We'd do a nap, back up by two thirty Get it again. Later in the evening, doing the football game. And so but I found out that certainly We adapted. We got some southern and some West Virginia. We do a good time now. But this sense of an appetite, keep in mind that Jesus was holy man. And so he had to take care and nourish his physical body. Amen. The Bible talks about Jesus being on the seashore. And there he is fixing breakfast for the disciples. They had been out there all day and couldn't catch nothing. He says to them, come and dine. You recall the time that after his resurrection he was able to dine with a couple of disciples. They didn't know who he was But on the road to Emmaus, they realized they'd been in the presence of God. Oh, did our hearts not burn. He he was always breaking bread, so he was very much into a good meal. Just as the devil there in the Gospel of Matthew When he approached Jesus there in the wilderness, what did he do? He says, you know what, since you are who you are, why don't you just turn this stone into bread I I know you're hungry, Jesus. Amen. He says, but man should not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. He who is the bread of life. responds to his disciples in such a way by saying, My food, my nourishment is to do the work of him and to finish it. That's why I'm here. I'm hungry for souls. Amen. It was evident with this encounter with the woman at the well that he was what? He was really focused on trying to reach somebody for Jesus Christ. And you know, we may not have the issues like that woman, but shouldn't the goal be that we try to encourage someone? Don't you know what you carry is important? That you've got the gospel and you are in the midst of people, you are a powerful person in the Lord Jesus Christ. That's so important. Jesus was hungry, and he had a divine appetite. Can't you see him now? I I believe it was a setup that in going to the well, he already knew who he would encounter. And going to the well, he knew the outcome, and that's good news today, but it was also a divine assignment. Verse 35 says, Don't you have a saying, it's still four months until harvest? In asking the question about four months. Jesus was really speaking to something that was familiar to them. He knew that they kept track, maybe with the almanac. They knew when it was time to plant. And when it was time to harvest, and they were fixed just on that, he wanted them to be able to recognize a spiritual harvest. And so often when the Lord uses us, it's not at the time that we think is convenient. Praise God. Thank you, Dee. Amen. And so he is able To share with them that don't say let's do it later. Ever been to the airport and you bumped into somebody or and you realize that this was a moment to minister Are you at the store or at the mall, God bless you, and God allows you a moment to minister, not I'll see you on Sunday. Not wait until I go get the deacon or the choir member. Not wait until I finish my Bible class. But at that moment the Lord uses you to say, listen, you have an assignment right now. And sometimes the assignment is in your own home. There's somebody in your home, in your space, who needs to hear the word of God. They miss it. They were concerned about down the road. Can I testify when we start this ministry, which by now you know is called Harvest, based on this passage We had a service and I thought, well, you know, we'll wait some months down the road. We really launched the church that day. Not realizing that, oh, I think we just started a church with no paperwork, and later on we got the paperwork. But there are some things in life that the Lord will have you do on the spot Don't say, I need some more time. Don't say hold up, let me get myself together. You'll never get yourself together. But don't you know that your testimony might bless someone? that the life you're living might encourage someone. It is an on the spot over mashed potatoes and gravy. It's a past to ham and turkey moment. You've got to have that time even right there to say, you know what? I'm on a divine assignment. The disciples were preoccupied with the season. They thought this is not the right time. But in fact, it is the right time. Can you imagine now? I'll do this in the spring. You know it's November now. In the spring, I'm gonna get myself together. In the spring, I'll be ready. to approach that person in the spring I'll do it. How many folks put things off and realize no need to put it off? That it can happen right here In the name of Jesus. Luke 4. 18, the Spirit of the Lord is upon me and Jesus knew his assignment. He's appointed me and anointed me to preach to the poor. And to heal the brokenhearted, and to preach deliverance to the captives, and for the recovering of sight to the blind, and to set them at liberty who are bruised. Jesus was hungry for souls. He couldn't wait to tell somebody about the kingdom. He couldn't wait to say, I am the way, the truth, and the life. He couldn't wait to proclaim why he had been sent. Do you know what you're here for? Amen. You say, well, let me check my my horoscope. No, that's not going to tell you. Yeah, that's not going to tell you. You've got to know what the Lord has called you for, and to do it based on the gifts He has given you. A hungry Jesus, a divine assignment, a divine appetite, and finally a divine adjustment. I tell you, open your eyes and look at the fields that are ripe for harvest. Jesus saw something that they didn't see. He sees something that we can't see in the natural. They are left With a tired Jesus, they come back, he's all of a sudden up. He had to adjust their thinking to the point And say, this is a new vision. Open your eyes. Look into the fields. Ever seen something and you see it a different way when you change positions? There's so many things the Lord presents us that we just don't see and miss. And when the fields are ready to harvest, the farmer will tell you that there what? There appears to be something that says, I think it's time. My father was a a farmer. On his discharge papers from the army, all I want to do is farm. Now you would think that I would learn how to plant some peas. I didn't But his passion was he knew when the right time was to bring in the greens. He knew the right time to to bring the corn in. He he knew the right time because he had experience. And don't you know that the Lord has to oftentimes adjust our time frame and our timeline because the moment is now. A moment you may not have again. He wanted them to see not a physical field, but keep in mind, the woman he had met at the well. Had gone back into town, I met a man, and they were saying, oh, you met somebody? They had the wrong wrong idea Uh he changed my life based on what they saw at her. They came running into town. Is that if he did it for you, maybe he can do it for me. And so what Jesus wants those disciples to see is that there are people, here's a ministry opportunity right now for you to witness. My God, you may have gone to a game and whether your team lost or not, say the person next to you, my God that was a catch. You may be at a baseball game on the baseball, praise the Lord You ought to find opportunity to do what? Let someone know about Jesus. You'll be amazed of the examples you can use. You are hungry. I am hungry to see a difference made in the life of someone else. Matthew 19. 20 and chapter 28 says, Go ye therefore, teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the earth. Jesus died on the cross. He rose again so that we might reach someone. Think of the late Pat Kelly. powerful evangelist, baseball great, and Pat would say, man, I just want to reach one. I mean Pet would preach and preach and preach until somebody said, I yield, I yield. What must I do to be saved? Now Reverend, that's not my MO I'm shy. I'm not going to bother anyone. I just let it happen. But don't you know that God has an assignment for you? In fact, can I offer some help? This is not really about your army. It really is about a how-to guide, how to reach the masses. Men of every birth for an answer, Jesus gave the key. If I be lifted up from the earth, I will draw all men unto me. Oh, the world is hungry for the living bread. Lift the Savior up for some to see. Trust him and do not doubt his word. I will draw all men unto me. All I'm saying today is, let's not waste the moment that we have. My God, somebody is waiting. at the coffee counter and you are hungry enough if you're going to talk about the meal for today happy thanksgiving what are you eating let me tell you I'm full because God has been good to me Amen. And let somebody know today that I am hungry to share some good news today. Amen. Oh, maybe I go to the store and a loaf of bread and I may take an hour. Why I'm trying to reach somebody in our 19. I may go someplace and know today that God has equipped you to do something Don't say, well, you know what, you a big talker, and maybe you can do it. No. That God has somebody for you to reach today. It's only if you are Hungry enough. Only if you're hungry enough and passionate enough to say, you know what? Let me tell you about my story. And maybe that's all you have is that I don't know fifteen scriptures, but I can tell ya I was lost. And he found me. I can tell you I was low. But he raised me. I can tell you I was a rascal and he turned my life. Whatever your story is, keep that story and be hungry enough to let somebody know that there's no secret what the Lord can do. What he's done for others, he will do for you. I challenge you today. Reach one. Jesus had a divine appetite. Issued a divine assignment and made a divine adjustment That is the Word of God today. It's already blessed. If you're able to stand today in this place Even as we all look at the challenge, is that you're not just here to take up space, Reverend, I'm not the preacher. Yeah. But say something. Yeah, I'm not uh I can articulate like that Say something. I don't know all the time how I should approach someone. Let your light so shine. They'll see something in you that may draw them. So always make sure That you reach someone. Fact of the matter is, you may not know. Evangelism is not about keeping score. Man, I reached five today. Many of you today I've met along the way and didn't realize that I'd even shared the gospel. Maybe it was something that I said that was a kind word, or you said something with a kind word. Look around this place I've bumped into folk. And we've later become friends and now for richness together. But as we come today, Let's just sing a little bit about I want to thank you, Lord, for whatever he's done for you. Is he worth it today? I just want to thank you. And here are a couple of reasons. You've been so good. You be so good. It has to be. That's it. Didn't deserve it. I just want to thank ya I just want to say you Lord You brought me out You bro me. Whatever you and I were in And we thank you, Lord. You bro. I just want to think You right away, y'all. Let's bow before the Lord. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the examples that you give us in the Holy Writ. You're no ordinary Jesus. But you are hungry Jesus. And we thank you for the way you orchestrate our life. We thank you for the way you lead and guide and stop us and turn us and pull us and to shape us into your image. As we come today, it is our prayer that you might keep on keeping on. We're not where we ought to be yet. And we're not who we used to be. We thank you so much for being so kind. And there might be one today in this place, or one today, by way of virtual worship. Who has never got real honest, never opened their hearts to you and never confessed the Lord of a setup in need of salvation. It is not for us to know or for us to save. We don't have that power. But you do. I pray in the name of Jesus. As your word says, if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. May you touch one heart today. And maybe use us today, God. Use us to be an instrument. To bring light to someone, to bring joy to someone, to bring peace to someone, And to do it so that you might get the glory and the credit. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. God bless you. God bless you. Even as you prepare to leave this place, we thank God that we've made history yet again. As we've come to this place, you may ask Reverend when is the next service? Just stay tuned. Amen. I've learned, don't make any predictions. Just allow the Lord to lead us. But I thank you for being here You are part of something new, and we give God the glory for all the great things he has done. Amen. Well, bless God. Let's look now to the Lord Father, we thank you for this time together. We thank you that our heart's desire is to encourage one. Our heart's desire is to make a difference in the life of somebody. You can use us for that mission. Even as we leave this place, dear God, and go out into a mean world, that you might walk with us. might guide us and protect our families near and far. I pray even now, God, that until we meet again, that you might be with us. In the name of Jesus we pray amen. God bless you.