Thank you for tuning in to our broadcast. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Join our service now already in progress. And that's the question, how many folk know What prayer can do. That wasn't a survey. If you know what prayer can do, let someone know next to you. Say, no, well, I I know. Anybody know what prayer can do? Come on, talk back to me today. Anybody in the house know what prayer can do? Have you seen your prayers answered? Has God come into your situation? By way of prayer. Let's take a moment even now to pray. Heavenly Father, as we come today, we come to acknowledge that you are God of all. We thank you, God, for what you did by sending your son Jesus Christ. It still blows our mind that you would give your best for folk who were not at their best. As we come today, God, we thank you for your word as we prepare to declare it. It is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. God save someone today. Empower another. And when this time is done, we'll be so careful to give your name All the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Somebody say amen today. Amen simply means so it is. For today we want to share from the book of Hebrews. And again, it is our theme scripture for the year of 2018. And this is the one that you're going to learn in a few months' time because you have that ability to speak that word and to learn it and to live it. Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen, for by it elders obtain the good report. Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the Word of God so that things which are seen were not made of things which do appear. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, A Leap of Faith. A leap of faith. This week I had some warm thoughts in the midst of the cold weather we've been having up and down the East Coast. I had warm thoughts. How many folk had some warm thoughts? Amen. As I prepared this message, my mind went back to a warm place, Florida. And imagine this. I could remember myself at the Douglas Pool in the midst of the summer. And there I am in the three feet section taking swimming lessons. And man, we enjoyed it in the pool all day, too much chlorine. Eyes were read, but one day we put down our paddle boards and moved to a deeper place And so some of my swimmates headed down to eight feet. And they got on the diving board and They begin to dive into the pool on that end. Now I was a little reluctant. And I said, okay, I know I can't hang in three Well everybody's going to the diving board, so I looked, I measured that thing out in my head. I didn't pray about it. I just thought about do I want to do this? And the day came when I climbed up that ladder. Can't you see me? Climbing up that ladder, getting to the diving board. Bouncing a time or two and leaping into the water Now you make the swimmers know once you hit that water you go down and you're up quickly. And I swam to the side and I did it again I started cheating. I started diving at an angle. So if I think if I dive near the side, I may as well testify. I had about one, two, three, and I was there. But I did it. I I took a leap of faith of sorts from the diving board. And many, many years later, as an adult, I think my family can vouch for it, I did it again uh dove off I think one more time. Uh I'm certainly not uh Michael Phelps and there's no gold medals in my future. But in life Sometimes we have to take a leap of faith. A leap into the unknown, a leap into the deep. Have you done it? I mean you found yourself that I really gotta trust God in this. And I can't look back. I I can't be fearful I've got to just go for what I know. I've got to take a leap of faith And so this morning I wanted to really just raise some questions around the text that I think will help us. And what is faith? Where is faith? How do we live our faith? And so Hebrews 11 and 1 says, now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. You know, faith is to trust in something that you cannot prove. Amen? The very mere fact that you say more trust the Lord, people might look at you and say, okay, you go right ahead. I'm gonna trust me. But we've experienced that faith is an avenue, it's an instrument on God using salvation to draw us. And you know, faith is not something you just talk. Faith is something you have to put into action. Anybody that talks a lot of faith, uh watch their lives Can I be honest today? Sometimes we're just afraid. We are afraid to fail. You told someone, I'm going to trust God. And then nothing happens, and they're looking at you, and you're trying to explain why it didn't happen, but you put everything that you had on the line You trusted God. And sometimes you put more faith in people. We we are we're disappointed all the time. Can I get an Amen? Folk just didn't come through for you. And you were counting on them. And you put your hope in them and your trust in them. And it didn't happen. And then you may have been the one who said, I got you. And could not come through, could not make it happen. What is our faith? We learn over time to really put all the cards. On the table in God. And this is it. Things not seen. And you know, God is a spirit, and those who worship him must do it in spirit and in truth, for the Father seeketh such. You read the old saying, seeing is believing. Some years ago, one of these parks it has Ripley's Believe It or Not And they have all kind of stuff painted. I've never been in there. You would not believe your eyes when you walk in here. And folk walk out disappointed. It wasn't what I thought it was going to be. But what about believing is seeing? There's something about the eyes of faith that I I really I can't put my natural eye on it, but I have this belief and this faith that God can work out my situation. and that there is evidence, and I make the case that I am a person of faith. That's where I want to be all year. Can I tell you sometimes I get a little shaky? And and say, you know, do you believe? It is not what people say. It's when the Spirit of God begins to minister to you and say, are you going to believe me? Whose report will you believe? I will believe the report of the Lord. And then there's some things that just, you know, we say, oh, I got this. But there are the deep things of life that we struggle with. Yeah. God can you? God will you. What is faith? How many people are willing to to get on the diving board of life today? And and stretch out and not look back and reach for that which God has for you. I am, I am, I am, I am. Yeah, with no no hesitation and and you know I'm preaching about it, so Reverend, you preaching about it. Yeah, because I I want to be challenged in that area. Do you really believe What is faith? But then where is faith? Romans 10:17. So then faith cometh by hearing And hearing by the Word of God. Faith is not something that's made up. Faith has a home. Faith has a starting point. But there's no way you can get. Around having faith without encountering the Word of God. There's no way you can say, I got faith, but I hadn't picked up a Bible in nine years. I got faith. There's something about his word that reassures us that God, you can do anything. There are a gazillion stories in the Bible of how God just brought people through. And then if I check your journal and your devotion, you would say, listen, I've got my own testimony about when I begin to get the word of God in me That I could see then where my faith comes from. It takes diligent study. It takes a pursuit. You've got to chase after faith. There's no shortcuts to this. It's not a here and there. You've got to have a history with God. Let me ask you this. Has God ever brought you through something in life, not all 900 things, but one thing you really struggled with and say, Lord It's on the line. And I really need you not for them, but to come through for me. Bring that thing to mind right now. You said Lord, I I don't want out there now. I done said it. I done spoken into the atmosphere. And now here I am standing, believing that you do it. And your word lines up with Where I am, and that's why it says, so then faith cometh by Hearing. And hearing by the word of God. Faith comes by reading the word Faith comes by living this word. Faith comes by the message that comes forward Be it on Sunday, be it during your devotion, that word never returns void. That it really is you can't divorce one and say, I'll just do it based on my intellect You heard me say it? My my gut feeling. Man, your gut feeling will leave you in some rough places. Yeah, I I I had a feeling, Doc. You know, I'm not how am I being guided? And and we we all talk about you know we have to realize it is a spiritual thing that in your own flesh uh we blow it. Okay, I'll testify then. When I start thinking about, well, you know, this is the tutel thing. It's me. No, no, no. But when I say Lord, I surrender, and won't he blow your mind? And you'd be like, wow, I never thought that was possible. You can't find faith on the internet. Faith is not in a text. Faith is not on Facebook. Faith is developed. In the Bible. In the Word of God, I don't care what books are, it's still the number one bestseller. Amen? The Bible Building up your faith. We all start with kind of a baby faith, a bib faith, but through the challenges of life. Our faith is built. Through struggle, our faith increases. Through the great times and the high mountaintop experiences, our faith Bit by bit is developed. Have you ever got like a little progress? Oh Lord, thank you. Oh, I need a little bit to see what's possible. Can I testify? This ministry was faith. Yeah. It began twelve years ago and I didn't know what was going to happen, but I was already in. I already Okay. And God has yet provided every Sunday, every year, it's because I dared to trust them. And I didn't want to go back. I say that. I'd be driving home and the other boys would say, Have you lost your mind? You starting a what? Oh, yeah. I did. And God has been with us. Faith is this gift. Ephesians 2. 8. 9 says, but by grace are you saved through faith. And not of yourselves. It is a gift, not of works, lest any of us should boast. or brag or act like we got it all like that. Had it not been for the Lord on our side, we would just falter. Amen? Amen. Amen. Just knowing him a cause to leap for joy. Amen. You ever just leap for joy and then with no reason except that God, you've been good to me? I'm not going to try to leap now. I'm talking about in your spirit You felt God just leaping and moving you to a new height and a new place. Won't He do it? What is faith? Where is faith? How do we live faith? How do we carry faith out? Now that we got it, Hebrews 11 and 6 says, but without faith. It is impossible to please him. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he's a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Faith experienced. History record. It's the way that we grow. There's no other way, no other shortcut than to just live this thing. Amen. I mean to just to just walk by faith and not by sight. Just to say, God, if you said you're gonna do it, I'm gonna believe you. Amen. Because your word is always true Our faith, our belief, our trust in God. Romans 1. 17 says, the just Shall live by faith. The righteous shall live by faith. We don't live by the mega millions. We don't live by chance. We don't live by what could happen. We live Because the God who's in us. Amen. And so we're called to not just talk. I said that one time. It's easy to say, yeah. But when the rubber meets the road and you find yourself in a place, you know that place where you are right now. You kind of saw the believed it, you kind of had your big toe in it But you weren't willing to do the whole, he'll do it. And when I look through the text in Hebrews, it's a powerful uh book. There's a hall of fame of faith. Therefore, whose names have been left on record, who demonstrate faith. Amen. By faith, Abel offered a better sacrifice than his brother Cain. That mean rascal. By faith, Enoch walked with God and was no more. By faith, Noah took some heat. For building an ark when there was no rain, but the rain came. He just did it by faith. By faith, Abraham Went to a place, no GPS, didn't know where he was going, but he just believed God and moved on. Through faith Sarah received strength, laughed at God, said you gotta be kidding. You know old I am? I'm ninety-nine Yeah, but you expect it. Head to the maternity award, something about to happen. By faith, Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come. But by faith, Jacob, when he was dying. Blessed both sons. By faith, Joseph, when he died, talked about here's where I want my bones to go. By faith, Moses, when he was born, was hidden for three months But God had a plan. His mama said the boy gonna be something. Amen. And somebody has spoken faith into your life. Somebody has spoken faith into your experience. It's not just a pep talk, but folks says, God, I believe my son will become. I believe my daughter will become. I believe my husband will become. I believe my wife will become. By faith. Little old country boy from Liveau believed that any and everything was part. I didn't know no better. I said I just believe it could happen. It will hope more than faith, but I leap from that pool to the pulpit. I leap from doubt to deliverance and I'm still on the diving board of life. Why don't you come on with me on the board? I don't want to be on the board by myself. Will you climb the ladder of faith? Will you come to the last step and and all you swimmers know when you get to the end, you don't turn back. And don't think about it too long. You'll stay there for a while. But say you know what? I may as well go ahead and hit it. I may as well go ahead and believe the God of my salvation. Why? My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and his righteousness. I dare not trust the sweetest frame, but wholly lean on Jesus' name, on Christ. The solid rock I stand on of the ground is thinking, what do you stand today? Who do you stand on today? Is it God that you're standing on? Or is it you? I'm pressing on the upward way. New heights I'm gaining every day. Still praying, ask. I'm onward bound. Lord, there again, plant my feet On higher ground. Lord, lift me up and let me stand by faith on heaven's table land. A higher plane That I found. Anybody want to go higher today? Anybody want to go higher in God? Anybody Want to take a leap today? Oh, don't don't look at me funny now. I mean, are you ready to take a leap of faith today? Are you ready? Well come on then. Are you ready to show enough? Say, Lord, I I I haven't heard it. I I know what faith is, I I I I know where it is, and I'm trying to live it. I mean, I'm talking about you'll be faced with some challenging things And I got to just say, you know what? I got the go for what I know. And every now you gotta just close your eyes. I don't look at that water, I say. I look at it when I hit it And when I come up, I'll just say, Lord, I'm trying to get to the other side. Lord, I'm running and I'm trying to make a hundred. Why? Ninety-nine and a half won't do I I'm praying trying to make a hundred. I'm serving trying to make a hundred. I'm loving trying to make a hundred. I just Feel like leaping. Anybody want to leap today for Jesus? Come on, stand today all over this place and let's leap for the Lord today. Let's go for that. He has for us. A leap of But what if But what about but what but what but if but when but but but but but but nothing but Trusting him. But what? But Bill? His people? No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Today, we leave. Some of y'all are on the board. Are you on the board yet? Father, we thank you. For this word. Everything that we need is contained in your word. And I pray in the name of Jesus that you might increase Our faith. Oh God, help us to trust you not in some things. But in all things. I pray for your people today, God, that as a church and body of Christ that will become leapers this year. Where are you going? Take a leap of faith. God, I pray that you might bring back testimonies of folk who just ran up the board and ran off of it. Realizing that you would bring them through. God, we thank you for your word. It's in writing what you promised to do It's documented what you will do and you never go back on your word. Father, even now as we come, I lift up every person under the sound of my voice. And wherever they are in their faith walk That you might turn it up a notch. Start with with me, God. No beating around the bush, double talking, but God Do it in my life. I pray for every family. It might be known as the family of faith. Take for every father that he might become a father of faith. Every mother might be a faith mother. Every child might become A faith child. Not just dreams and visions, but faith. God, we thank you today, Lord. Even as there may be one in the house who needs faith to trust you. I I would give my life to Jesus, but I won't take the lead. Having a good time right where I am. But It's by faith that we're saved. That we're standing here because we believe in the word of God that He sent us His only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him would not perish but have everlasting life. And we believe that. Everything we got Hedges on our faith. That life after death, faith. I'm a healer Faith. Everything that we have is connected to our faith in a living God. God, do it today. Save that soul. Encourage that soul today. Thank you, Father. Thank you, Lord. It's a leap year in our faith. Yes, Father. We ask you Lord now. In Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Come on, give him a praise today.