Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits. and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries It's already in progress. Praise God. To God be the glory. All the great things that he has done. Let me ask you a question. Has God done anything great for you lately? Let me ask you again Has God done anything great for you? How do you define greatness? The fact that you get up this morning, that's a great thing The fact that you're in your right mind, that's a great thing. The fact that you have shelter is a great thing So let me ask you again, has God done anything great for you? And great in your experience? Great is the Lord And greatly to be praised in the city of our God. I can't move on. I want to just stop here for a moment. Anybody gonna give God some praise today? I mean when you think about what God has done for you, amen. When you hit the rewind button of your own life, say, God, you've been all for good to me, and because of that, I'm going to give your name praise. Amen. Come on, praise the Lord today. Come on, come on, come on, come on. Come on, give God a real praise today. Oh, he's worthy. I will bless the Lord At all times. His praise should continually be in my mind. Why? He didn't have to do it. But he did. Amen. I can't contain my excitement for the Lord. Why? Because of all that he's done. And so we bless him today. Let's bow. Heavenly Father, we can't say it enough. Thank you. Thank you for life and life more abundantly. God, thank you for just keeping us from seeing and unseen dangers We bless your name. As we come this morning to proclaim your word, it is our prayer that we might decrease. And that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise And the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. There's a word from the Lord that's found in the book of 1 Kings. I just get excited about Jesus. I make no apologies for that. I was in a restaurant this week and and you know when you get excited for Jesus you don't care where you are you just get excited for the Lord when you think about what he's done for you so 1 Kings 17, 8 through 16, it reads, then the word of the Lord came to him. Go at once to Zarephath in the region of Sidon and stay there. I directed a widow there to supply you with food. So he went to Zarephath When he came to the town gate, a widow was there gathering sticks. He called to her and asked, Would you bring me a little water in a jar, so that I may have a drink? As she was going to get it, he called, and bring me, please, a piece of bread. As surely as the Lord your God lives, she replied, I don't have any bread. only a handful of flour in a jar and a little olive oil in a jug. I'm gathering a few sticks to take home. And make a meal for myself and my son, that we may eat it and die. Elijah said to her, Don't be afraid, go home and do as you have said. But first, make a small loaf of bread for me from what you have and bring it to me. And then make something for yourself and your son. For this is what the Lord, the God of Israel, says, the jar of flour would not be used up. And the jug of oil will not run dry until the day the Lord sends rain on the land. She went away and did as Elijah told her. So there was food every day for Elijah and for the woman and her family. For the jar of flour was not used up, and the jug of oil did not run dry, in keeping with the word of the Lord spoken by Elijah. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, A Mother's Day Miracle. A Mother's Day Miracle. There are many things I could say on this special day. Many reflections I could have in this moment. But if I were to come to Euro, And pick out my notepad, I would find similar stories about your mama. I would find testimonies about your mother It's amazing that growing up, the people in the neighborhood knew you not by name, but by whose boy or girl you were. Uh tell the story I may as well testify. I was out at a club I shouldn't have been at as a young man and Older man said, Well, aren't you Doc's boy? So how you know me? I know your mama and your daddy. And I got out of there real quick. Hoping he wouldn't tell that he saw me there. But I came across this poem. It begins with a question, Mama How did you find the energy to do all the things you did? To be teacher, to be nurse, counselor to me when I was a kid? How could you do it all, Mom? Be a chauffeur, cook, and a friend. Yet time to be a playmate, I just can't comprehend. I see now it was love, Mom, that made you come whenever I'd call. Your inexhaustible love, Mom, and I thank you for it all. What a great tribute. In our text today, we meet a mother, a woman whose name is not given. All we know is that she is a widow woman, which means that she's lost her husband, but she is the mother of at least one child, a son. And we hear more about Elijah in this text. Elijah was the great prophet, but we don't hear much about this woman except a widow woman who lived in Zarepha. She was in the midst of a famine as all the persons were. Famine means that there was very little to no food supply. It had not rained in three and a half years, and God had taken Elijah away from Ome Jezebel, trying to hunt him down. He provided for Elijah by sending him down to a brook. And says, you'll find water at the brook, and I'll send the ravens to bring you food every day. But over time he says, I'm gonna send you someplace else. Isn't it amazing how God won't let you get too comfortable where you are? I'm going to send you to Zarephath, and when you get there, you'll find a widow woman, and she's going to feed you. I had to be faith. Now you sending me where and what's going to happen? And the woman had no idea that God was going to use her in that way Don't you realize that God wants to use you? You may not be aware of it, but God has already set you up for a blessing, that you might be a part of a miracle that's unfolding even now And so Elijah shows up at the woman's gate. He he finds her gathering sticks and He says to her, and only God know, is that the right address? Is this the right woman? Can I just tell you what God knows? He knows everything. And so he said, hey Can you get me a jar of water? And as she walked away, he says, oh, by the way, can you also fix me a little small cake? And she began to say to him, do you realize that I have just a little flower left? Just a little oil left. And what I have, this is the mother, I'm gonna take this, and me and my boy gonna eat it, and we're gonna die. Why the famine had ravaged the land in such a way. But but somehow, Elijah's faith and her obedience came together to work a Mother's Day miracle. Reverend, it wasn't Sunday. Well Mother's Day. I tell the brothers every day is Mother's Day. You want to get points? Say happy Mother's Day every day to your wife. I'm going to charge y'all for that. It's not like Father's Day. And so in this text, as we unpack it, we see a promise made. A promise kept, and a promise for the future. And so here's the promise Verse 14 says, for this is what the Lord God of Israel says, the jar of flour will not be used up And the jug of oil will not run dry until the day the Lord sends rain on the land. And so all Elijah is doing Is telling the woman what God told him. In other words, he says, I never met you before. All I know was that God sent me here, and when he sent me here, he told me to tell you this. He ought to set up a miracle based on the Word of God. That's what's amazing, is that God can use us to be about a good work if we are but obedient. Elijah didn't put his own words into it. I don't know why I'm here, but anyway, I was told to ask you for a piece of bread and so I'm just gonna do it. No. He said, God of Israel. Why there were other gods. But the God of Israel says the jar you just talked about. With the flower in it. Some of y'all biscuit makers in here. And the jug of oil will not run dry until the Lord changes the seven-day forecast and it rains again. He stood on the word of God. He gave attribution. And what you are sharing with people, Don't just give them your take, but do what? Give them the word of God. We too must stand on his word. What does that mean? Stand and believe that God's word is true. There's an old saying that says, God said it. I believe it, and that settles it I don't want to argue with you. I just want to tell you what God has done in my life and the promises that He has made in my He was acting in faith To even say that. He was believing God's word to even speak it. And miracles still happen. Amen. In fact, the fact that you're sitting here today, did you realize that you're a miracle? Let you start nodding on me, nudge the person next to you and say, Hey, I'm a miracle Oh y'all to hear that? I am a miracle. One more time for those who were nodding a little bit. I am A miracle. And so he stands on the promises of God. He makes a promise because God has. It was a third party. I'll tell you, and then you tell her, but I've already told you that you'd meet her. I'm just trying to get this thing, hopefully it makes sense here. That even before He ever met her, God had identified her as the woman who's gonna make that bread. How is that? Ever had that happen to you in life? That you show up someplace How did you know that I knew that you knew that the job is yours? How did you realize the loan is approved? How did you God has a way of working a miracle in our midst? Amen. And that's what baffles the modern mind. Right now you're on the brink of a miracle. Because God done told somebody That you don't know that somebody who you still don't know is coming your way to help you get the miracle. I could just say right here. Amen. I'm just talking that God sets it up A promise is made to this mother. She was on hard times. I ain't got much And and me and my son gonna take care of that. Mama hadn't measured that thing out. It's enough for one cakey. For me and my boy. But can you make me one first? Making you one first? Yes. Make me one first. A promise made, but also a promise kept The Bible says she was obedient. The widow woman went away and did as Elijah told her. But you don't really notice. You don't know him, but she believed the God in him. Does that make sense? You might meet a complete stranger who can give you a word from the Lord. You want to vet it. Are you sure that what church you belong to? Are you saved? Uh what has he done for you? God can send anybody your way. She went and did based on what he said. And guess what? There was food every day. Every day for Elijah. Every day for the woman's family. And God will keep doing that over and over and over again. This woman operated in blind faith That I don't even know this man. I don't even know how he know how much I got in the barrel. I don't I don't know, but I'm gonna just It and I don't really know his God, but I'm gonna step out. You ever had that kind of faith that you really did not have it all together? We give a testimony like you know God came to me and he told me to stand still. No, you were just struggling. And then God bless you. Oh, yes, he did. You may as well testify. Amen. She was obedient to the voice of the prophet that God sent to her. You never know. Who God will send your way? You never know. Philippians 4 19 says, the my God shall supply All of your need, according to his riches and glory by Christ Jesus, shall need. Everybody was hungry in the land Nobody had anything, but she believed that God could supply the need. God is working right now in your situation. God is working right now in my situation. That thing that you're so close to that you know I'm not gonna bother you about it, God. God has a way of keeping his says he's gonna supply it, we gotta believe it. Amen. That that even when doubt comes along, when we operate in the flesh and say, I don't know, I've been told, but how many folk can say today that you trust a God How how many folk know today and can testify that you know what I couldn't see this thing? How many folk can say I was feeling a rock in a hard place? I'm just looking for a testimony or three, and you say, you know what? God, I didn't see it But you came along and in my own life there kept being flour in my situation. And there was always more oil in my struggle. Amen? Oh, I'm talking about a God who would do anything but fail. Can I talk about God today? God will do it like that. He'll do it that the world becomes bad. But how did you get that? How did he work out? Oh, let me tell you about my God. Will he supply your needs? He is doing it right now. This mother believed that God would make a way. And and there was a miracle. Just picture this. Camera two. She goes back home, fixes the cake for Elijah, and then Every time she reached in there. Every day E every time she I mean, you know what she had. Every time you reach into your situation Every time it looks like it was over. Every time you were down to your last dime. And you kept oh some of y'all know about that. You didn't have it But God provided it. In fact, you ain't got it now. Won't God supply all of your needs? She was able to witness a promised kept Promise kept. Promise made. And a promise for the future. For the jar of flour was not Used up. And the oil never ran out. It says, in keeping with the word that the Lord spoke by way of Elijah. I want to bring you around that barrel again. Yeah, you got a barrel at your house. May not be flower in it, but every time you need something, I'm trying to move on from this, but won't he keep showing and keeps Pulling somebody else out because you've stepped out and believed his word. Not used up. Not run dry. God is still working miracles. Let me take the Holy Ghost fall. How many folk right now need a miracle? I mean you do. I don't need to know what it is. I'm just Elijah in the house. How many folk need I just need you to work this thing out? I I I I I just need you to come through. I haven't picked up my sticks. I'm about to make my last case and I need you. It was faith involved. Even in the modern day, God is still doing it. And the reason I said this was a promise for the future is that in the Gospel of Luke, Jesus is talking with the people. And he says to them, because they were hating on him, I can do no good work in Nazareth. That y'all know me too well. He's just the cop and the son and that's Mary's boy. He could not do any good work amongst his people. But then he says, you know what? It's just like Elijah having to go out from where he was from to go to a place where he knew no one, and there was a widow woman. Jesus quoted that in Luke. Amen? And sometimes God has to move you from that which is familiar. You begging the same person every week You bother them the skin. No, God said, no, no, no. It may not be that person. It may not be that method. But trust me that God has already settled up for the future. Does that make sense? That you still banging on the same door My family won't help me. God. God says, go over here. He had to send Elijah to a place where folk did not Even when they know the God of Israel, Jesus had to leave a place where he was familiar, but he mentions the Elijah story. He brings up the widow woman story from Zarephath. Isn't that great? Your blessing will come from the most unlikely place. Well, the end of this story. You would think that by now they got plenty of bread, everything worked out, but then something else happens. The woman's son stops breathing. But the same boy that she had been fixing those discus for her. And then she said, now, Elijah, in the Tim Tudon words, what's going on? I mean, I I've seen this great miracle, and you told me God said it, and all of a sudden now my boy is not breathing. What do you have against me? She said it, man of God, what did I do wrong? What what what is the problem? And said, did you come to remind me of my sin and kill my son? Did you set me up? Elijah just put the boy. And took him upstairs and laid him on the bed. And the Bible says he began to pray over him one time. And then two times. And then three times. You you you follow me now, you follow this thing. One for the Father. And one for the Son, and one for the Holy Spirit, brought the boy back downstairs And you know mama was happy that God had spared her son. See, it's not clear if she really knew Elijah's God. But when you see your God operate, I can't help but think that her life began to change. And then first king kind of ends it like that. Boy saved. But I have a sneaky suspicion. It's not in the text. Can I assume for a moment? Can I guess? Can I infer? Can I presume? Can I surmise that this woman took some time? After all that she'd gone through to give Dawson praise. I just can't see how. After all that She didn't have a praise left after all that you've been through. I can't see you saying, well, God, you did it. You got food on the table and you saved my son. I I just can't understand. Maybe uh the writer ran out of words in the next chapter picture, but I just can't see that she did not Give a mother praise. You mothers know what it means when you see your child delivered. You mothers know what it means when you see a miracle work in your midst. You mothers know how to praise the Lord. Amen. And I just want to recommend today that you give God that kind of praise. That I imagine that the woman offered up. This past week, I got a call from my grandson, the youngest one, by way of his mother's Facebook, and he was upset. And when they get upset, he didn't want to look at the camera. He was, I said, what's wrong? He said, I don't have a praise. So what you mean? His older brother had been going to the house saying, Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, praise the Lord, praise the Lord, praise the Lord. Pop up. And and the younger said, I don't have a praise I said, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. He's been working on reciting the Lord's Prayer. I said, man, that is your praise. His countenance changed because he realized he had his own praise. And so I asked you today, do you Have a praise. I'm just checking, I'm just checking, I'm just checking. Do you have a miracle working praise? Is there anything you can thank God for that He's done in your life That's my question. Do you have a praise? Somebody next to you might need to hear your praise. Somebody behind you might say, you know what? I receive your praise, but how many of folks have a real praise today? Huh? Oh, songs that I've got a praise And I've got to get can I just praise the Lord today? I got a praise and I need to get it out. Do you have a praise? When God works a miracle in your life, its ingredients For praise. What he brings you through seen and unseen dangers. It's miracle working power. How many folk have a praise? I love the word of God that says to make a joyful noise unto the Lord. O ye lands, serve the Lord with gladness. Come before his presence with singing, Know ye the Lord, He is God. It is He who hath made us and not we ourselves. We're His people and the sheep of His pasture. Now enter into His gates with thanksgiving. Praise. Into his course with praise. Be thankful unto him and bless his name. Why? For the Lord is good. Oh you the hear me today. For the Lord is good. For the Lord is good. For the Lord Is good. And his mercy is everlasting, or you don't feel me today, for the Lord is good. Is he good? Is he good? Is he great? Is he great? Well come on then and give God a miracle working praise. Right now, right now, right now He inhabits the praises of his people. He didn't ask you for a praise, but he'll receive your praise. Can you see that mother right now said, Lord You saved my son and I praise you. Lord, you put food on the table and I praise you. Lord, you brought me out and I praise you. I gotta praise. Do you Have a praise. Come on, somebody. Praise the Lord. Praise ye the Lord. Praise ye the Lord. Praise him in his sanctuary. Praise ye the Lord. For everything he's done, praise him, praise him, praise him, praise him. Anybody want to praise the Lord? I come to praise him. I come to praise him the miracle. Every time I I trusted you. I I kept putting my My faith in the barrel and you kept blessing me. I don't know that man. But he said that God said every time Hallelujah. She put her hand in the barrel. Hallelujah. Every Every time. Do you believe in that coming of God? Who works that kind of miracle? It was a Mother's Day miracle because it was her day. Father, we thank you today. We've never been to Zarephath. We in Baltimore. But the same God that provided. For that woman can provide for you and I. Don't don't don't miss The miracle. Oh it's just but some bread and flour. No, no, no, don't don't miss it. Father, I pray even now that you might give us the faith to trust your word. Come on, give God a praise today. Now give him some thanks today. Thanks so much for listening I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. comtoharvest. org. That's come the number twoharvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.