So appreciate you for being here and for being on the Lord's side. We're grateful that we uh came in this place back in july. Uh we purchased the property and were able to get in around Thanksgiving for a service or two. And so we're Uh asking you to tell folks. We don't want to keep anybody awake. We know they want to come here. We're looking to uh do other things on the property. The meeting came out a few weeks ago I might still be sore. We went out and cleaned a lot of the land back here, behind us, and just pray to God that we are able to use that in some form or fashion. Whatever the government says Well we kind of have to do. But don't you know we serve the Lord who has a cattle on ten thousand hills? Amen. He can do anything. I'm gonna acknowledge my wife today. Things are not getting done at home We gotta get at this home. And so we gotta ease back and do some chores around the house. But we just love God's people. We love you just for being here. Well we're preparing even now for the preaching moment. And uh we just thank God for the word on this Easter morning. So we've got a few of our praise team members are gonna come and share a song of tomorrow, and we'll come back with the word of God. Amen. I didn't see it. Please go away, but with the way. God will be free, lay by the name of me. They led to me, let me take They Lent to Game. Demon is where you rain They led to Helena. Under mention all he took my turn and held my hand. So I will get the chief that's all. Go away, put with the Jun by my embryo. Blessed be the God. What's the presence of Jesus? Now I know what size you may wear, but aren't you glad today that you serve a God? Now even when you can't carry yourself You look behind or you see the picture. The footprints in the sand. All of a sudden there's just one sand. Let's say God for our phrase team and thank God this for being careful to the morning of time. On the Lord's side. It's a good thing to be saved. Amen? You know, I can get back to preaching, but I just want to take a moment and say, you know what, the Lord is good and he's worthy to be praised. From the rising of the sun to the going down. of the saying the Lord is worthy. I'm sure I'm not ready yet. It's the light of mine. I'm already well this is I'm gonna make it shine. With the light of mine, I'm gonna make it shine Velisamel, Velissha Everywhere I go, I'm on a leg side. I'm on the girl. Everywhere I go along, I'm on the leg side. Everywhere I go, I'm gonna let it side, let it shine, let it shine, let it shine Well Jesus gave me this life. Come on, check me out. I'm going to make sure. Oh Jesus, give me this life. Yes, you do. I'm gonna let Jesus be. I'm gonna let it stop Lady Sun, lay it down, lay it one time, this is the light. It's the light of mine Well, I'm gonna live shine to the light of mine. Well, I'm gonna wake shine This will light of mine. I'm gonna let it shine. Let it shine, let it shine. Yay! I better do a bad one if you're backwards. that me learning those songs I'd be saying them years later. Some of y'all say songs in church you didn't want to say. In fact you didn't want to go to church. After a while something got a hold of you. And now when the man on the job is giving you a hard time, you pull out and pull one of those sons out and say them anyhow. Amen. Let us bow something with Father, we come even now. Asking that we might decrease, that you might increase. Save someone today Encourage another. When this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. There's a word that comes from the gospel as penned by John and gospel simply means good news. Amen? Call some years ago doing a marriage counseling For the couple, I said, you know, open the book of John. And the brother said, What who's John? He had no idea what John I was talking about, so I want to assume that you know who John is. He was a gospel writer who followed uh Christ and began to document uh what he saw that's our uh cardinal he comes by every now and then to have kids. They're in John 20, if you have your Bibles on Nobi but you cheat with the screen If you have your Bibles, you can mark in it. If you have your phones, you can uh highlight it. But there's something about the Word of God that makes a difference to you You ought to always believe because the preacher said it that it's true, but all for yourself. So good to see my Goddaughter in the house. J. Victoria killed means in front of her. Of course, her mother is with her. Maybe and Frankie. Blessed be the God. There in the Gospel of John, the twentieth chapter, we'll read verses 19 through 21. So on the evening of that first day of the week, when the disciples were together with the doors locked for fear of the Jewish leaders Jesus came and stood among them and said, Peace be with you. After he said this, he showed them his hands and sighed The disciples were overjoyed when they saw the Lord. Again, Jesus said, Peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, I am sending you. All of preached today on this resurrection morning from the Samonic title, The Promise of Peace. The promise of peace. This Sunday, Resurrection Day, will always be a big story. It should be categorized as a headline item, more so as breaking news It is a story that ought not ever be outdated. So many of you know people on your job who know it's your day And sometimes know more about your day than you. Amen. They'll tell you all about Easter. And there you are uh left with your mouth open. But this is a day and time and experience within our Christian faith that should never be forgotten. Can I just go on the record and say I believe that Jesus came? Wrapped in swathing clothes and lines And a man I believe that he died on an old rugged cross there in between two things. I believe that he was crucified, murdered, and put in a borrowed tomb, I believe, and he got up from the grave with all power in his hand I believe that he's sitting at the right hand of the Father, making intercession for the saints. In other words praying for you and I and I also believe that Jesus is coming back. Just like he said he would. Now why is this story so important? Now why is it such a big deal that you believe that Jesus died? So what? Why do you believe that he got up uh on the third day morning because so many other faiths will go that far. Yes, they believed that Jesus was a man, a great prophet Yes, and they believe he died in the story. But our faith believes that Jesus got up as promised From the grave. My God, you're looking at me like you know. Amen. You know that the be so there, Brother. I'm with you today on that. I believe that too. Amen. But if it's the cornerstone of our faith, if you don't know anything else, if you get quartered About someone who wants to challenge you theologically say, listen, all I know is he died for me. I got much more. I don't know many scriptures, but he got up On the third day morning. And he did it for me. You gotta make it personal today. The Apostle Paul wrote to the church at Cora. He was very direct. He said, Listen He says, if Christ had not been raised, that your faith is futile and you still in your sin. I don't know about you, but my God. I would hate to think that I still stuck in the stuff I did yesterday and yesterday. I'm just praying church as well. Amen? And blessed be the God that all the But there's none righteous, no not one. But Paul says, Why am I preaching if I don't believe he got a Amen. Why show up on a Sunday morning at an Easter service if you don't really believe it? Why get out to a comfortable bed and say, you know what? I'm going to church because I know what the Lord has done in my life. Amen? I believe. I believe. I'm not going to take a poll today. Your faith is personal. But my God, if that's all you got Is that Jesus wept? My God put it in my pocket. See the work? I know one verse. I can see it. And then we wind the button. Take a closer look at a familiar text today. I'm reminded of the late Dr. Charles Edward Booth. He would say, look at the text Reverend and interrogate it. Walk around the text and ask questions and become a detective and say, What is it I can learn From this passage. Isn't that good news? Yes, I read my Bible, but stop for a moment. So let me just look at this thing. And Lord, give me some spiritual eyes to see how this word applies to me. There was all the scriptures built about us. I break this word on them. And that word really is for you. Amen. Bless be the God for that. Amen. And so There's a closer look today at this resurrection story, and what I see in it is the promise of peace. So here's the timeline. Jesus has been raised from the dead as promised. According to John's gospel, Mary Magdalene shows up at the grave She's coming to anoint the body of Jesus. And she gets there, oops, she realizes that the tomb has been moved away. And she panics This is a brief encounter with the Savior, but she goes and tell the boys, those disciples, that listen, somebody has come and stole The body of Jesus. Say what? Peter and the disciple that loved him, John, make their way to do a further investigation. And when they get there, they see the evidence. Clothes all folded neatly, but Jesus is not there. They went back and told the boys that Jesus is missing. Should we follow a missing person's report? Ought to be a silver alert that Jesus The Son of God is missing. Amen? And so what I see in this text is that he says and makes provision For peace to quiet their fears. For peace to produce joy. And for peace to secure their future. Amen. peace that quiets their fears. So from the evening of that first day of the week, by now it's later in the day. Those disciples were on lockdown. Said in the earlier service that we're familiar with that term now. If something happens at your child's school, it could be in the school, near the school, they've been placed on lockdown. I usually get a text From folk I know. I heard their own lockdown. Amen. And you rush to the school, but you can't take Susie to the dentist office because he can't get in. Those disciples were so afraid they were on lockdown. They figure if they kill Jesus, we're next. Amen? And that is what happens. But Jesus shows up and he gives them peace. He greets them, peace be with you. It's the normal greeting shalom as he approaches them, but they are in a different state of mind. Ever been in a place in life and you realize that you just need somebody to give you a word of encouragement? The Lord gives us peace. Yes, we've done it for you in the midst of Of your situation all you need was just a beast. About to lose my mind, about to lose my mind, but he said speaks to you in the spirit saying this listen it's gonna be okay you got this amen you didn't use any method from the book of training But you realize what grandmama told you that the Lord will be by your side. That take the Lord with you, children, everywhere you go. I never knew about that. Mother say to me now, I know you go back to college You take the Lord with you. I'd say, okay, Mom, I I got that. So I got to school. And I didn't have him. I left him on an hour. But black be the gods that I understood that after a while and by and by that there's no secret what God can do when he's done for others he will do for you. And you ain't gonna have a great hand on nobody. Anybody ever been in trouble when the Lord came through and bailed you out. Anybody have to rock in a hard place and you didn't know when you were going to sit. And you were scared. Amen. And the Lord made If I passed tonight, you could give me a testimony. Reverend, not yesteryear, but this past week. I had a moment where I went on lockdown because I didn't know what to do. But God is always available. Philippians 4, 6 and 7 says, be careful with nothing. But through prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be known unto God and the teeth. When your mind is running, peace peace peace. When you can't think right, peace, peace, peace. to do it, about to lose your mind. Anybody ever been there today? And told the Lord's core in your situation. Please go peace. How big and bad you are. We all get moments where we shake it in the knee. We may look apart, but glory be to God, we need the Lord at that moment to do what? To take us through. So not only did he deal with their fears and he quieted their fears, but then that peace produced some joy. After he said this, said what? Peace be unto you, he showed them his things. Yes. Yeah, they was evidence. And he he showed them his side. And John knew his best because John was there At the cross. He saw it. And I believe that the fact that they were overjoyed means that they had a flashback. You ever had a flashback moment Wait a minute. I don't need to be afraid. I got the God that I serve can give me joy unspeakable. The Bible says that the joy of the Lord is your strength. That weeping may endure for life. But thank be of God that joy comes in the morning. And your morning might be one o'clock in the afternoon. And your morning might be midnight. And your morning might be before the sun comes up, but won't he give you joy? Joy when speaking, I'm glad about that today. My God, just talking about joy. I just got it. Just talking about what he gives you the misery. A spiral, he'll give you joy. Those disciples' frame of mind are switched. They saw the Lord. They seen something. They stole the evidence in person. Thomas Lady Stallone believe it. I wasn't there. They go buy it. He laid on got it too then. Some of y'all got that trauma spirit. Huh? Let me put my hands in your side to make sure that it's you. And we've been talking in our Bible Academy about overcoming or becoming emotionally whole. We're emotional people. I'm fine. The book talk about, oh, you got anxiety, you got fear, you got anger issues, all that is an emotion. And you begin to recognize I am an emotional being. Come on, brothers. Men ain't supposed to cry. And every now and then an emotion will hit you in the right way. And you can say, Lord, thank you for what you have done. And so their emotion went from fear to joy. That Jesus flipped the script. Have you ever gone from that today? One minute you were scared to death. Yeah. And the next reason, wait a minute. Folks said, what's wrong with them? They have their hope Built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and his righteousness. And so these disciples all of a sudden want to come out of lockdown. Amen. John 16, 24 earlier says Listen, until now you've not asked me for anything. Nothing in my name but ask, and you will receive. And your joy will be complete. That tells me your joy wouldn't quite complete yet, but you start hanging out with the Lord. Stop praying, reading your Bible, reading both of them, you'll get a joy moment right on the water. What's wrong with you? I got job And those disciples went from one emotion that he was able to use peace to produce peace. Joy in the life. I'm so glad today to have joy. Happy is one thing. But joy I believe goes much deeper. They say you're a happy-go-lucky person. You're funny. No, no, no. That ain't joy. Joy is when you've been stuck in a rough place. Joyce when you all suddenly say, let me just shout it out while he's in the courtroom. Let me shout it out on the job interview. Let me shout it out where I'm driving in my car and they think I'm crazy. Uh oh. Yes they do, but you've got joy of the Lord. It is the promise of peace that quiets their fears. And that produces joy, but finally it is peace that secures difference. Verse 21 says, again, Jesus said, peace be with you, as the Father has sent me. I'm sending you. Jesus says it again. He always has a purpose for saying things again. As the Father has sent me on my mission. I'm sending you. Well I didn't quite sign up for that. I thank you for the joy, but I we going aware? I'm not you you know they kind of mean out there. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, but there's a purpose that you can just get saved just to be saved to do nothing but there's something that we all have to do. There is work to be done in the kingdom And yes, you can make a difference. You may not go to a march, but blessed be the God, you can bend your knees and say, Father, I stretch my hands to me, no other help I know. I'm praying for what I see. Only today. I'm praying for what I encounter. I'm praying for what is there. You are being sent, even if you're not there physically, we're on the mission You know, this is not a lazy face. He requires us to do something. Some years ago and I told this story, the wife and I were out on the beach. And we chillin'. What you doing? I got a few CDs. Leave the people alone. I'm out there on the beach, you know. Leave them people alone. I don't think that's a great Jesus. Who has CDs now there? I don't know. Nobody. But that people don't even put in the cards in them. I was like, here we go. And so we have this But wherever you go, it's to lift up the name of Jesus. If I be lifted up, I'll draw all men and women under this. You can say it. And I'll stick it. What to get it? The Bible says one practice. Another watereth, but God gives the water. So come on, what you can't keep staying hiding and be one of those shocked for are you a Christian? I never knew it. I saw your palm rinse, but I didn't know that you loved the Lord. Never booked into something that I don't know if you wanted to do his hand. It's time to speak. It's time to represent the Lord. Unto the Lord. All you have. The serve the Lord is righteous. And the country for things. You've got something to say. Can you imagine the countiness? But we didn't want all of that. We missed opportunities. Yes, sir. This week to say something about the Lord. After every Sunday I do a little clip. Uh-huh. And I said it to my boss. He shit back clap his hands. Amen. I'm gonna tell him about Jesus. The building we moved into when it was being prepared, I asked my boss Can I anoint the place? You sure can I want to stay with my oil, anointing every guest? You gotta be a bold soldier today, amen. I mean the world is bold. Go up in there. Praise God. If you don't anoint the place, amen? Ah, you just come at the door. What do you know? I don't know. This is the anointing all. My God, he shook a hand with somebody and you just put what the oil on it. We have right. Go ahead, Mantha, that's right now. Matthew twenty eight nineteen. We know as the Great Commission. Go ye therefore teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Lo, I am with you always, even to the end of Europe. Today we must embrace this promise of peace. Nicholas Ridley was an English bishop of London. In 1555, he got himself into big trouble. He was telling folk about Jesus. And he was a major witness, and now came the hour He will be burned on the stake. Yeah, you might have gotten reprimanded, somebody might have pulled you into HR, but think about this. His very life was on the line. Yeah. As he prepared for his own death. His brother came along and said, Listen, I could hang out with you just to kinda be with you, you know, to help you in this moment. No, no, really, never mind Why? Because I've got the peace of God with me. That thanks for the offering. But just give me Jesus. Amen. Anybody feel that way today? Don't want to give you a a thumbs up book or tell you what was on the Little Pop program and send you something. No, but just give me Jesus. That's who I need today. Amen? And you know The Himborder says, when peace like a river attended my way, when sorrows like sea build rock. Whatever my love thou hast taught me. Thou hast taught me, I was a slow learner, thou hast taught me, I didn't pass the test, thou hast taught me, oh is there another exam? Thou hast taught me it is well With my soul. Can you say today that it is well with my soul? Don't look like muscles. Don't have muscles with my God. My soul is in safety. Does anybody feel that way today that your soul is right with the Lord? If you're gonna go right now, yes, it's your soul will go face to glory. Amen. That's the news. And this prince of this devil. I started thinking about that and I thought about those disciples out there on an angry city. Yeah, yeah. And the storm begins to rock the book. In your life, the storm will rock your situation. I know, but I'm saved. It's gonna rock. I pay my tithes every Sunday. It's gonna rock. I bought Girl Scout cookies last week and the Joe Corby pizza I gave to the Salvation Army. It's still And the boat began to rock and they got all worked up. And somebody said, wait a minute, here's a good idea. Don't you realize that Jesus Is that for him to part of the ship? He's taking this midday nap. Is somebody gonna tap on the door and say, Jesus, Master, carest thou not that we can the Bible says that Jesus came up, I can see another hand. What's the problem? He speaks you say, peace be still. Aren't you glad today what the wings and the ways had to obey? Circumstances in your life have to obey. Death has to obey. Bad relationships have to obey. And then that's the money of the job has to Oh baby. Amen. I'm glad about that today. I'm glad that God has given me peace. Peace I can live with. Peace that's workable. Peace I can take with me. Remember the song says, take the Lord with you. Death in where you go in the streets in your home. Uh-huh. In your car all alone On the highway, on the byway, you want to take it with you. If you take it with you, you'll walk like you got peace. And when you take it with you You are taught like you have peace. And when you catch it, it's sooner or later, you begin to embrace. But I really do have peace. Peace that passes all understanding. Aren't you glad today? Don't you feel better? So much better because you laid your body down. My boss, I could have displayed it. Amen? Yeah, stop more than you guys know who it is. That speaks peace. To my situation. Go here, Pastor. He talked about this before the crucifixion. He spoke about it even When he got up from the grave. Yeah. Same message. Yeah. Same savior. Have you tried Get peace today. Maybe you offloaded some stuff since you came this morning. Well, right now. God love this good. Deal with that. And you stress out. Thank God I've got Monday off. But your Monday can be your Tuesday But knowing that the Lord is with you and he speaks peace That is the word of God today and both anybody. Your word is yes. Yes sir. You have been not answering him Trying to avoid him. Nothing more than yes. Check the yes box. Come on, stay with us. Yes, Lord. Yes, Lord. Yes, no to the death. The good of my show in the ancient. My soul stages. Is that fair as the name? Yes, Lord. I want to do it better. Yes, Lord, I will embrace your peace from Alma. To the depths of my soul, yes no. Completely my soul. Even the best way to pay is to bow your head. If you've never made a confession under Jesus, never said yes. The Bible says that thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus. And believe in your heart that God has raised us from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Today, you can be saved. Start anew. Walk around with that newfound peace. Because you've given your life to Jesus. If you're here today and you don't know Jesus, but you walk the peace that comes from knowing him, you can walk this way today. And we'll receive you and tell you about this Jesus that we know. And somebody next to you knows that same Jesus. And they don't mind telling you what he'll do. Father, in the name of Jesus, we pray now that you might save that soul and make them whole. In Jesus' name you pray Yes, Lord. Yes, no ankles. Call it me, Lee, my soul Amen as you have come today. So good to see you. This is a Quite the 1045 crown. We thank you for coming today on behalf of the Office of the Members of Court of System Ministry. We just thank you. It's good to see your face. We thank God for the for the double up. So some guy I try to change up a little bit. The Holy Spirit will do that. If I did it a third time, he'd do something different. Amen. Thank you as as you leave this place. Uh continue to You can find us by updates. We still want you to register. And uh we thank you for that. Look to the Lord now. Now the Him was able to keep us from falling. And present us false before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy to the only wise God our Savior, be glory, majesty Dominion and power both now and ever. Amen. Everybody say everybody say everybody