And on his mercy rescue me, I shall For it my eyes to calorie to be the quote. My father is so he looked beyond he looked Be long Christ looked. Be all our folks and so Um, I think that sounds resonated with you in some way. Aren't you glad that he looked beyond your faults? My fault? Amen. And so our real need. Because he knows what we stand in the need of. Let's bow today. Heavenly Father, as we come That's on our top ten list. Number one on our charts. That in spite of what we have displayed to the world, you know the real us. We're so thankful that every time we stand behind this desk, it is our prayer that you might use me, allow me to decrease, that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and all of the glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Bless God. Amen. Happy Mother's Day to the folks who are virtual, amen. Thank God for Sister Brigetta Ellis I don't know who's watching always. She is our spiritual mother. We start calling her moms from day one. We thank God for her love for this family, and we love her. Open your Bibles today or your devices to 1 Samuel, first chapter that's in the Old Testament. Genesis, Exodus, and Numbers, Deuteronomy. Amen. First Samuel, second Samuel, you'll find before you these words. Verse number 10, in her deep anguish, Hannah prayed to the Lord, weeping bitterly. And she made a vow, saying, Lord Almighty. If you will only look on your servant's misery and remember me and not forget your servant, but give her a son Then I will give him to the Lord for all the days of his life, and no razor will ever be used on his head. Down to verse 27 and 28. Says, I prayed for this child, and the Lord has granted me what I asked of him. So now I give him to the Lord For his whole life he will be given over to the Lord. And he worshiped the Lord there. We preached this morning on this Mother's Day morning from the Samonic title A Prayer, a promise. a praise. There are not enough adjectives to describe the person that we call Mother Mom Big Mama They are accepting and amazing at the same time Brave and beloved, caring and cherished, devoted and darling, patient and protective. Molly, honest and helpful, stern and supportive, wise and watchful. And there are many more you could add to the mama list. Amen? We got a list, but it's not our time yet. It's coming in June, amen. But I do think back often to my beloved mother, Doris M. Tutin Uh what a joy uh she brought to the family. She was a praying mother. She would often tell me by way of long distance. Some of y'all too young to remember when you had to put a dime in the machine, they would say you you got another minute to go. But in the later years she would let me know Or some of y'all country. Mama told you to keep a dime on you in case you got in trouble. Well that was the four cell phones. I may as well back it up for a second. Keep a dime on you just in case You need to reach someone. But she would say, son, I'm praying that God will crown you with knowledge and with wisdom. And she prayed that prayer over and over again. And I'm yet the recipient as I try to gain knowledge, but most of all, to gain wisdom. In most cases becoming a mother is a choice. It's a miracle really to bring a new life into the world. And for those of us brothers who witnessed it, it is something to behold, to see God bring about a brand new life. In the text this morning we meet one by the name of Hannah. Hannah was one who was barren, she could not bear children. And in that day you were looked upon uh with a side eye if you could not have children. But Hannah prayed to God about her situation. In fact, she prayed for almost 20 years. Can you imagine praying for something for 20 years? What about 20 minutes. What about 20 seconds? Because sometimes we are impatient. But her prayers were personable and they were powerful. She did not pray. Just to be praying, but she was specific about her prayers and did not mind praying anyway. Amen? God be the glory. And she was misunderstood People assume because she prayed that way that she was either drunk or crazy. Folk may say that about you. You always praying somewhere. Going on break, you pray. Over your meal, you're praying. Can we just eat? But bless Jesus God today. God is so good, isn't he glad to know that some mother is praying over you and praying for you. I'll tell you this story. Never forget that on some of those Sunday evenings heading back to college. I would kind of get a ride with one of my buddies. We'd be on the road. And mama said, please call me when you get there. It wasn't about 84 miles. I said, okay, Ma, I'll call you. She wanted to make sure I got there safely. Not that I passed drivers there and I could drive so good, but mother's prayers They carry weight and they go the distance. Hera prayed without ceasing. She would not Give up. That's right. Have you ever given up in prayer? I mean, let's just be honest this morning. You're praying about it, praying about it, prayed about it You forgot about it, you prayed about it, you forgot about it again. And then before you knew it, God had answered your prayer. Hannah refused to take no for an answer So I ask you to stop by this morning on this Mother's Day to pass along a few reminders. And they relate to a prayer, a promise, and Verse number 10 really arrested me because I look at every word in the text. It says, in her deep anguish Can I pray to the Lord weeping bitterly? That describes from one Who was not on a Sunday morning just saying, Can I pray? But she made this work. That all of her person was involved in this prayer. It was an intense prayer Yes. A prayer that was filled with emotion. She was heartbroken. Helen was bitter. She was deeply hurt. She was greatly distressed. She was very upset. How can that be, Reverend, if we know God is on the main line, tell him what you want? But have you ever prayed a prayer that you just really kind of got an attitude with God about it? Oh you can go ahead and say amen. We pray, we said, duh, uh and you're not getting this? If you like hear me correctly, uh you know, I'm coming today because here's my need But the old song says he may not come when you want him to come. How many folk can say he's right on time? Hallelujah. Amen. Shed many tears over 20 years, and it's through her tears that she kept asking Through your tears and through your disappointments, what a witness, keep on asking the Lord. Don't give up. And she did not. Matthew 7, 7 reminds us, ask and it shall be given. Seek and you shall find. Knock and it shall be open unto you. Anybody ever knock lately on doors of heaven, say, God I I just really just want to come back and believe that you can do this. Well we can go ahead and be honest today. Everybody got something to pray about. Amen? Every morning is a part of your regiment. It's to pray for that thing, uh, to pray for that person. To God be the glory. Won't he answer prayer? Oh, have I had no problem praying. She wanted a son. Very specific. Now, Lord, anyway, you bless me. I'll be satisfied. No, no, no, no. We ask for specific things when we pray. But she prayed a prayer. That dealt with a promise. Verse eleven. And she made a vow Saying, Lord Almighty, if you will only look on your servant's misery and remember me, and not forget your servant, but give her a son. Then I will give him to the Lord for all the days of his life, and she goes on to say, and no razor will ever be used on his head. That's relationship. I'm happy. Don't you know me God? I I'm your servant. You gotta talk to God that way some that this Tim Tuton down here in Baltimore. You know, I I'm your servant Yeah. Not that I'm trying to make a deal, but there's a promise connected to the break. And so of course we say, Lord, give me that and I'll be thankful. But what are you going to do with the answer? Oh God, that thing will preach all by itself. Okay, you want something and God is going to give you, but then what are you going to do as a result? She made a vow that if you give it to me, I'm gonna give it back to you. I can be a word all by itself. Give that child to the Lord. Amen? I know, I know you you've done all you could do. But just give them to the Lord. The Lord gave you that son or daughter. Give them back. Amen? Just give them back. That could be a good children's day and a good adult day. Give that child back to the Lord. Amen She was serious in her prayers. James 1 and 6 reminds us. But when you Ask. You must believe. And not doubt because the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea blown and tossed by Go ahead. A promise connected to a request. What you gonna do? When I answer. She made sure that there was a promise. And she said, listen, that I will not cut his hair. Wasn't talking about no after. Huh? Wasn't talking about hair down and she meant this symbolized a devotion to God. You mean the sampson? Yeah. Long hair, the strength was there. And so she was very specific about Here is what I'm going to do if when you answer my prayer. Did I lose to that? I want you to realize that yes, we're praying, and yes, God will give us an answer, but you ought to attach a document to the prayer. You ought to attach A promise to the friend. Amen? God, if you give me a word, I'm going to speak the word. We'll speak it then. Speak it anywhere you go, just speak the word. God, if you give me, you bring me out, I'll go tell somebody, go tell somebody then what the Lord has done for you. Amen. So don't be afraid. say add to this prayer there is an adil. Ah, I like that. Praise be to God. And so that I believe is what Hella did. And then there was not just this promise and this prayer, but there was also A praise. Verse 28 says, So now I give him to the Lord For his whole life, he will be given over to the Lord, and he worshiped the Lord there So I guess you figured by now, you TV watchers, that it happened. Yes, sir. Okay? She got a ball. And his name is Samuel. And the name means God has heard. Oh Lord. Hallelujah. That's the boy. I can just name him Billy. I just name a name just to be naming him. But in that name is answered prayer. Samuel means God, you heard me. Is there a Samuel in your life today that represents something that God has done for you and you just labeled it? Hallelujah. Blessed be the God today. And his name is Samuel. God had heard Her prayer. And you don't have to be a mother to know that God will do your prayer. Ah, because trust and never die. He will surely bring you out. But hidden in there It said that, and he worship the Lord there. I said, oh wait, wait a minute. Give me another word. When it happened, a praise party broke out. That looked down your limb started praising God. Then on the back end of what you asked for, on the back end of the promise, there was a praise. So we can miss that in the text if you're not careful. He said what? He worshiped the Lord not down the road, but he worshiped the Lord right When have God answered your prayer? And when he answered, would you all shy? Thank you, Lord. He said, Father God, thank you. I mean you might have been somewhere in the phone call came in. Because you got the answer. I found the answer and I followed it in prayer. And when the answer comes, you gotta figure out who who it is. The mother rose will keep you guessing But when God blesses you, you know it's God. Anybody know what God has done? What you up this road inspired you on your way. He was bought the gift. What in your education and your connection? But God did it. Did God not do it for you? Has God ever done anything for you? Well my God, you want to do what? You want to worship him? Worship him at the place in which he thinks you. The thank you are you wrong. On a Thursday, on a Thursday. And he worshiped him. Jeremiah 32, 27 says, I am the Lord. Yes. The God of all mankind, is there anything too hard for God? Don't listen too quickly. Is there anything Too hard for God? No. I don't know what God has given around to. Is there anything too hard for God? Yes, sir. Anybody know today that there's nothing? Too hard for them. God specializes in the hard stuff. God deals with the difficult stuff. But God asked her and said, I got this. You don't know what is gonna happen, but thank be to God today. Anybody know that God will show up at the right time and it will cause you to praise it? Even if you don't want to. Only you know. Brought me up the money fields of God. That's the God that I serve today. Amen. And only you know, and so you want to take a moment even. . This is price is for that he says. Don't wait for waiting Monday. No, no. He said my money. I will bless the water all kinds. Go check your cell phone, go check the email, and you're gonna come to Just believe God today and walk in faith. What he does today? Well that let's go to that Mother's Day. But Hannah Never stop praying. She didn't say, appreciate it. Get my boy out of here. Say you don't want to be here. No. She kept Praise. Even though God had killed her for desire, she didn't do this. And we've got to keep praying even after God answers our prayer. And the Bible says that God blessed Hannah With five more children. Daniel has some friends and family to ride in the minivan now. And three sons And two Lords. When I think about God, our Heavenly Father, He only had one Son. You know well with this thing else, huh? Huh? God said His only Begotten Son. You praying for a son, and he's given you a son. Oh, glory. I like that. Aren't you glad today that he's given you that son God sent it? His son. No, they call him Jesus. And the hidden mother says he came to heal And forgive. He led and died to buy my pardon an empty grave. It's here to prove that my spirit will. And because He lives. I can face tomorrow. Because he lives, all fear is gone. Because I know Uh uh, don't you know? And because I know, not that I've heard, and because I know he holds the future and life It's worth the living just because he is. Aren't you glad today that I say he is? Hallelujah, he lives. He's challenging. Ah, he lives. Aren't you glad he lives? God is not dead. He's dead alive. Those things are filled in my head And I feel it with my feet. And I feel him all over me. Do you feel all the way? I feel like Joyo. Because God has been so good to me. He can take this to him to my. . All I got is a prayer and a problem and a break. Ain't got no bones and stocks readily available, but I got God. I won't go bring you up. I won't go to keep you. To see and I'm seeing man. Can I get a witness? All my God is a fact. And I gotta come up. But thank God I gotta pray. What you hold it? Woo! Oh yeah, fam. Yes. What else you got? Yes, sir. Huh? Somewhere here. And what else here? I've got a praise. Praise you. It's all we have. Praise you. He's working. Aren't you glad And that's why I can say yes. Because he's dead yes. More than two thousand years ago. Oh you mean that one? I got him. And he kind of messed up a little bit, don't we? I can cover it. Is there a yes in your spirit today? Yes, Lord. Yes, Lord. From the Bible. To the death of my soul yes more completely. My God is there, yes. Yes, Lord. Yes, Lord. Because of what you've done. Yes, Lord. Is that placed false late? You know, the world today is talking cheap. But when you make a commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ and you realize that you're one of his children, You can go to him like that. If you don't know him, the prayer he wants to hear is Lord say. But when you're in relationship, you can go to God and pray. And he will show enough and Not like you want it to be, not with your spin on it, but he knows the Bible says all things work together for good. To those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. Whether you're here today in the house, whether you're watching, it's my assignment as an ambassador to tell you about Jesus. Yes and Lord. Amen. Yes and Lord. I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And it's through that relationship that He save me and made me a brand new me father we come in the name of Jesus If there's one in this house who does not have a relationship with you and never said, Father Come into my heart. I believe that you said Jesus and he died and he rose again. God, if they have not prayed that prayer, may they pray that prayer today. I'm a sinner in need of a savior. And what we're glad about it. You're still in the saving business. Pandemic did shut you down. Economy won't affect you. You're saving from the uttermost. From the uttermost. We thank you, God. Save someone that we. We pray now in Jesus' name. I will trust you when your spirit you may take your seat. And my answer. And my answer will be yes. Yes, walking yes. I'll say yes. I will trust you when the spirit speaks to me. With my whole heart I'll agree, and my answer will be. Oh yeah. Amen. We're about to go home and I know that my wife wears 25 hats is working on some things for our mothers and so she'll give me that eye soon. But just want to take a moment to just certainly thank you for all that you do. uh by way of giving. Worship is giving. Tithes and offerings make a difference and we thank God that Well, it's one piece of paint is progress. We got a door painted this week. And the entrance got painted. Amen. Somebody coming next week, amen. So thank God we'll And the real future show you kind of what we've done. Many of you will hear from the very beginning on the parking lot. But blessed be to God today. Thank you for your tithes and offers and thank you for your Building Fund contributions. They have made a difference. Thank you. Whether it's one dollar or whatever else you want to give. I'm not a pass who will pressure you or what you are. It is your money So whatever Lord tells you, to God be the glory. And because of that we have some new envelopes, eight no, amen. Building upon And or you can uh put your envelopes to many of you uh kind of high class, y'all, y'all online girls. Amen. I'm gonna cast that view But I don't know what I'm doing. I said, you can send it the right person, man. She was trying to get some help. I don't know what to do with it. When he hit the phone, she said she said something. She all laughed at me like that. Please be sure to see uh Minister Washington, Tony Yo, and see Michelle, uh, because I think we're getting close to the couples night. I'm not sure how many Spots are left. But they say it's gonna be fun. I'm gonna be here. Amen. And also there uh you can sign up at the back for the sights and sounds of the trip to see uh David, and you can also see them And stop by the table as you leave. Amen? All right. Wife, did I miss anything? Oh, I gotta pray. Now is there something for our mothers Yes. Oh, they were supposed to feel surprised when I tell everything? No. Mothers, because we love you so much, when y'all leave. We got a little something for you. Amen. Come on, let's stand looking Lord even now. Father, we do thank you for all that you've given to us. We thank you for the ministry of giving. We ask even now that you might bless every gift and bless the giver in Jesus' name. Now the Him who's able to keep us from falling and present as falls before the presence of His glory with exceeding joy to the only wise God our Savior be glory.