Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits. And then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvard's Christian Ministries. We love him because he first loved us. As you remain standing today, let's Just look to the Lord. Heavenly Father, we come. And there's no love like your love. It's not as the world loves us, but you love us unconditionally. As we come today, it is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. God save someone today. Encourage and build up another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Somebody say amen and amen. Amen. Amen. You may take your seats in the house today. We bless God and we are always excited. Anytime God gives us an opportunity, just to share His holy and precious word. There's a word that comes from the prophet Isaiah, 43rd chapter, and we're going to share verses 18 and 19. It says, forget the former things. Do not dwell on the past. See, I am doing a new thing. Now it springs up. Do you not perceive it? I'm making a way in the wilderness and streams in the wasteland. I want to talk today about a season of change. A season of change. As I walked out this morning I grabbed the jacket and the cap. I had followed the forecast to know that the weather, while rainy at times, was beginning to change. Many of us welcome that. We all have our favorite. I like fall. I like summer. I just like any season that God gives me. But in the fall and the autumn you will be led to put something on to cover yourself why the seasons are changing. Now, I'm going to be an armchair scientist. Noah, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration says the cycle of seasons. is caused by the Earth's tilt toward the sun. It's already too deep for me. The planet rotates around what's called an invisible axis. And at different times during the year, the northern or the southern axis is closer to the sun. Now, some of y'all who aced these classes already knew that. Now during these times the hemisphere tipped toward the star experiences what we call the summer, while the hemisphere tilted away from the sun experiences the winter. Don't test me on this. At other locations in Earth's annual journey, the axis is not tilted toward any way or away from the sun. But during these times, there is spring and autumn. Now, I can't memorize that. All I know is the world is turning. And all I know is that God is in charge, and that God is the one who allows us to have seasons. Amen. But now that we have got the technical definition out the way, I want to suggest this morning that there are seasons In our lives in which we experience change. Let me say that again. There are certain life seasons in which we experience change. See, truth be told, we don't like to change. Most of us like to find a comfort zone. Like to stay with the routine. Don't make me do a detour. I was out this morning early to get my coffee at 515 and the main road was closed. That through me. I said, wait a minute, who in the world is fixing the road at 5 a. m. ? But I went, made a UI, doubled back, followed the detour sign, got my coffee and came back a different way But in life, detours will come. In life, change is necessary for us to grow. I believe that God initiates change. In our seasons. And we have to be willing to go along with the plan of God. Amen. And that plan is always rooted in the word of God. In the text today, the people of Israel, they know about change. Uh they've been through many situations in life and they find themselves now in bondage. They find themselves now facing challenges. They find themselves now in the midst of complications. Doesn't that sound familiar? That no matter how you live, no matter what you do, situations will come in your life. Most of them you can't control situations will happen, but you have to just hold on for the ride. Why? Because you put your trust in a God who what who made the heavens and the earth The Bible says the earth is the Lord's, and the fullness thereof, and those that dwell within. Isaiah the prophet is simply hearing what God is telling him and then doing what? Telling the people. Isn't that great? He didn't try to mix it up, add to it Uh, you know, he just said, God, you said to tell the people who are going through that it's time for a season of Amen. And I believe that in the midst of our change, we've got to remain focused. We've got to remain faithful. And we have to always keep looking forward. Faithful, focused, forward. And so in that first verse, verse 18, it says, forget The former things do not dwell on the past. This is a command that Isaiah issues to the people. Not a suggestion, not a if you get around to it. It is a this is what God says. He says To do what? To forget the former things. And you have to know that God is always speaking through his word. He speaks through situations. He speaks through circumstances. He speaks through other people. Not everybody. But there's some folk who told you a thing or three and it was right. Hello, parents. Amen. Many of us are now repeating things that our parents told us. And now we've given it to another generation. It didn't make sense then. Oh, I know I gotta pray in church. But what you have done what? You have some things that God has given you by way of those who love you. But he says, let me Let you know to be reminded. Forget the former things that God is a God of our present. He's the God of our past. He's a God of our future. And some things, granted, we need to forget. Amen. That there's some stuff we'll be deleting off of our hard drive. Oh yes, Lord, put it in the archive. Then there's some stuff that we say, oh that's the good old days. Uh this throw back Thursday. Don't throw back too much. Amen. Praise God. But he says stay focused on what God wants for you. Don't dwell on the past. Don't get caught up into talking about yesterday and yesteryear. Come on guys, you remember the days now now when I was playing ball. Yeah, well that was back in the day. You know, I'm just glad to get a walk in the neighborhood. You know, I I can't run any kind of cave. But what he's saying to them by way of the Lord is to be Focused. There are things that we brought to church today with us from our past. And there have been things that have been hard to shake. Forget the former things. That means don't spend all of your time dwelling on what happened to you. And how they hurt you and what they said about you. Just keep pressing on. Amen. And that's so key that these are people Who are in tough situations, they're in bondage, and they need to hear a word that says, don't get confused. Don't dwell on your past. They may exist, but I love what Paul writes to the church. He says, brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended. But this I do forgetting those things which are behind and pressing forth to those things which are before. I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling in Christ Jesus beep beep road runner that guy's after you. Some of y'all remember that. I mean you've got to just keep going. And you can't keep looking back and can't keep second guessing. You know God Has a season for you, and your season is about to change. Amen. That your leave is getting ready to change. Things are about to change for you. Why? Because you've been praying to God. Not because the pastor said so. I'm not trying to be prophetic. But this is the things you've been praying to God about, and now you since that your season Is everybody feel that way? Are you tired of being in the same place, in the same space, hearing the same word, but now God thank you I'm staying focused. But not just being focused. You gotta remain faithful. Verse 19 says, see. That alone gets me up to see what I'm doing a new thing. Now it springs up. Do you not perceive it? The people had lost heart. They had lost faith. Their vision had been blocked. But he says to them, see Look, that sounds like those old books from elementary school. C spot run. I know how old y'all are today, but nigga's saying, What are you talking about? Yeah, we had them old books. Google it Run spot, I mean that was as much as we had in first grade. Amen. Y'all explain that to the millennials when you get home. But He's saying, I'm about to do something new. Let me prepare you for what is about to happen. Don't don't throw up the towel. Don't Give in. Don't say I can't make it. I'm doing something new. And it says, do you perceive it? What do you mean? Don't you recognize what I'm about to do? Aren't you aware of what I am planning for your life? He gives us some kind of clue He don't just sneak up on you and bless you. Anybody ever felt the blessings of God coming on you? You couldn't make it out, but you know something good was about to happen. You couldn't put your finger on it, but you knew that God was up to something. Amen. And that's because you have remained Faithful, even though I can't see it, I know God is about to do it. And then the church said, Now faith is Of things hoped for. Evidence of things not seen. By it, not just the elders of table report, but you can as well. It really is about being faithful. That even when it looks like nothing is going to happen, be faithful. Folk talking about Chico's own break. You talk again God the praise Everybody tomorrow, thank you, Jesus. Just be faithful. Anybody faithful today? Amen. And while it may sound redundant, it may sound old-fashioned, let me tell you It makes a difference. My God, we're right here because somebody remained faithful. Somebody decided they're gonna keep praying for you, even though you were in the world. They kept praying. The people knew that their change What's coming, remain faithful, remain focused, and then do what? Look forward. I'm making a way in the wilderness and streams in the wasteland. Something to look forward to. Amen. Don't be afraid of the change. I don't know if I'm ready yet. I need some more time. I'll change on my own time. But God is already pushing that thing. Look forward. Get excited. See the visual highlight reel of what God is about to do in you. Do you ever get that kind of Highlight real in your own spirit that I'm not there yet, but I see God making it happen. Oh, y'all gonna feel me today. I'm talking about I'm not there yet. But I said just some good things about to happen in my life. I can't put my finger on them, but I know that why? I can look forward to what God is doing. He says I'm gonna do a new thing, and not I might make a way in the wilderness, but I'm doing what I am making a way. In the wilderness. I'm doing it. I'm God. All by myself And the truth of the matter is we all have places in our lives that we call the wilderness. Every day is not Sunday. Not always on the mountaintop. But in life, you will go through some tough Times call the wilderness uninhabited, uncultivated But we got to keep looking ahead. He says, I will make streams in the wasteland. God wants to open up some streams in your life, in mine. Now, Reverend, you mean income streams? You mean some money coming my way? I'm talking about some joy coming your way. And some understanding coming your way. And yeah, he can do that over and above. You can link and even take it. He can do all that. But he says, I gotta remind you of what I did when I brought you across the Red Sea. You were fearful. You didn't want to come, but to beat Moses down. And I said, No, no, no, no, no. I can take you through. He'll take you through any situation that you find yourself. I'm not talking from what I've heard today. How many folk know God will bring you through whatever you're facing today? That God is able to bring you through As you look forward, I am making a way. I've got a new path for you. There's a brand new route. There's a season of change. Isaiah 45, 2, a little later, says, I will go before thee and make the crooked places straight. I will break in pieces the gates of brass and cut in thunder the bars of iron. That's a bad guy. But no matter what is before you, keep looking forward to what God is going to do. It's my season to believe that all things are possible To them that believe. It is my season of grace, but why? His grace is sufficient for me It's my season of joy because the joy of the Lord is my strength. It's my season of love because of what God did. He sent his only begotten Son. It's my season of peace He will keep you in perfect peace. If your mind is stay on him. It's your season of trust. Trust in the Lord with all your heart and lean not to your own understanding in all your ways. Acknowledge him. He'll do what? He will direct your path. It's my season to press, to press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling in Christ Jesus. It's my season to wait, wait on the Lord. And be of good courage, and he'll do what? He'll strengthen thine heart. It's my season. I'm talking about me today. Is it your season? Is it your season to know that God will provide for you Can I be a DJ for a second? Winter, spring, summer, and fall. All you got to do It's called. I'll be there. You got a friend. Oh, y'all heard that song before? I don't know what Carol King and James Taylor had in mind. It was a number one hit. But I'm familiar with another song about. friends in fact a hymn written by a preacher named Joseph Scribban in 1855 long before It even became a him. It was a Paul. He wrote to his mother. He was living in Ireland, and she was in Canada It is a word by way of song. What a friend we have in Jesus. All our sins and griefs to bear. What a privilege it is to carry everything to God in prayer. My God, I'm chanting because my season is starting to change. A season. Everything to God in prayer. You can't have a change season just by sitting back. But it takes some prayer Amen. Aren't you glad that it takes prayer, that prayer has brought you here by way of somebody lifting your name up? Your season just don't change because you you've been good Your season don't change because you know a a person or two. It's because of your commitment to pray. And Jesus is the best example of that. He prayed. He prayed in the gardens of Gethsemane, but he prayed on the cross. For me and you father Forgive them. For they know not what they do. I'm glad that I got prayer in my ingredients. Prayer is a part of my change. Prayer is what's going to propel me into the change. That God has for me. My God, I feel changed already. Anybody feel that you're in a new season? Don't you feel yourself changing? Don't you feel your life moving to another level? Only you To know when it's time for a new season. That means kicking some folk to the curb. They're stunting your season. You have to change your location, some places you used to go Oh my god, I may as well say it's a change of season. Some things that we've got to put to the side. Those secret sins. Oh, I didn't mean to go there, but I did. That helps with the change. That comes with stipulations. But I'm glad today that he changed me. He changed me one day. I didn't think I was a bad guy. I thought I was alright. I could play with the best of them. I could read the script of life But deep down inside was there real joy. But thank God for Jesus that one day he changed me. And I'm glad he changed me. And he's not done transforming me into his name is my God, I feel that thing today. And you are since when you change it. You were fitched to turn. You may fight it, but my God, he's trying to change your season. He's trying to turn you to a new place where you have life everlasting. My God, a season. So as you watch the leaves over the next few weeks, he said, yeah, they changing. Think about you. Am I changing? That is the word of God today. It's already a blessed. Come on, give God a praise as you spend the day in this place. Come Just as you are. Let him change you. Not your 30-day plan. I saw on TV. If you dial 1-800, Mother Rose will be on there. Your life will change. And money will come your way. And for what this to a hundred, oh y'all know, to a hundred people. I'm talking about what God will do in your life. Come as you are. You'll look for seat just like you are. How many folks want to change today? Let him do the changing today. He knows how to change you and when to change you. Come receive. Come receive. Life everlasting. I never had to believe. Come as you are today. Let me say to you, that's the That's the first step to your change is accepting Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. It's one thing to know about Him. Another to know him. We all know people that we have never met. We follow them on Facebook, we we follow them on Twitter, but we don't know them. Today, I want you to meet Jesus Christ. You can't really begin to change until you've given your heart to him. Otherwise, it's your change. You broke a habit or two. That's great. I'm not going to do it again. Admirable. But when you give your heart to Jesus Christ, Do I have two witnesses today? Yeah. And what you do there, stuff won't taste the same anymore. Your vision will change things that appeal to your flesh you say nah yeah he wants to do a new work in you and he's always in the change business Let me do this. I don't subscribe to this, but ask the person next to you, have you been changed? And what'd they say? Now they fumble like uh But they say, Yeah, yeah, I've been changed. How do you know you changed? Let me go get my yearbook. You don't wanna see my yearbook. There's a new term now. They still do yearbooks. Let's bow before the Lord today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. God, we thank you that you are yet changed. If there's one today who's never opened their hearts to you, never said, Dear God, I'm a sinner in need of a savior, change them today. In fact, change their minds that they might confess. to you and change their hearts that they might receive you today. Do it, God. By way of confession of faith. If you're here today and you have not received Him, I I'm doing my part. I gotta tell you, as an ambassador, he'll make your life brand new. Thank you, Jesus, for the hearts that you're even changing right now. In Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Thank you for listening to the Leading by Example broadcast. To learn more about our ministry and to pick up your copy of my brand new book entitled Leading by Example, A Parental Guide to Teaching and Modeling Christian Faith at Home, Go to our website. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's www. comthenumbervest. org. Have a great day in the Lord.