Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits. And then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvard's Christian Ministries. Praise God, prayer will fix it not some of the time. Not every now and then all the time but prayer will fix it. Every time. Has he done that for you? There was something broken. In your life. And you pray to God about it. In the midst of your prayers. You know, sometimes before you get done praying, he's already fixed it. By the time you get up from your knees, head out your door, it's already done. Let's bow today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. What a sweet name. The Bible says in the name of Jesus, every knee shall bow, every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God. We come today to preach your precious word. May we decrease and may you increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. And when this time is done. will give your name the praise and the glory. In Jesus' name. Amen. Somebody say amen today. There's a word that comes from the Gospel of John. And gospel simply means good news. There in the fifteenth chapter we'll take up uh the first seven verses. Here's how it reads. I am the true vine. And my father is the gardener. He cuts off every branch in me that bears no fruit. While every branch that does bear fruit, he prunes, so that it will be even more. fruitful. You are already clean because of the word I've spoken to you. Remain in me as I also remain in you. No branch can bear fruit by itself. It must remain in the vine. Neither can you bear fruit unless you remain in me. I am the vine. You are the branches. If you remain in me, and I in you, you will bear much fruit. Apart from me, you can do nothing. If you do not remain in me, you are like a branch that is thrown away and withers. Such branches are picked up, thrown into the fire, and burned. Thank God for verse number seven. If you remain in me and my word Remain in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, A Season of Change. Part two. A season of change. Part two. Can I take you down home for a moment to 508 Martin Street? And there in the backdrop is my house. Growing up in that part of the country, we had a pear tree and a fig tree and a peach tree, not to mention some of the other fruit trees, but right behind the house on the property. Was a grape arter. And we had grapes that would grow. And I remember walking out the back door with a cup and going to the vine and picking crepes. Grapes making my way to the front porch and spitting out the seeds. I know they have fancy grapes now that are seedless. But I would sit there, eat those grapes, and Endure them to the fullest. And they were always so plentiful. But during the winter months, I would watch my father go out with this Barlow knife, and he would cut back the branches. Branches. I didn't know what he was doing and was a bit confused, but he was pruning the vine. He was cutting it back so that the next season I could still go out the back door, get my grapes. Can I go old school? I would put water in the cup, put them in the fridge, let them cool down, and would have cool grapes. But you know, much like the great branches I mentioned to you, we too must be pruned. Our lives must be cut back often so that we might become fruitful. in our spiritual season. This is not just a vine, but but Jesus used the words of the culture. He used the words from what he sees to make an example about the importance of getting into your season. In the 15th chapter, it really follows a long line of what John wrote, what he heard, and he constantly Referred to the Lord Jesus Christ as he referred to himself. I am the good shepherd. I am the door. I am all who you say I am. I'm the way. I'm the truth. I'm the life. light of the world. You know, when you are Jesus, you could say that. I I know who I am. Amen. But he also says, I am the true vine. That means that there might be some other fakes out there. But This is a metaphor, it is a figure of speech that Jesus used to elevate the creator and the sustainer and the savior. The vine is the source of life. The branches, we must abide in the vine to live and to bear fruit. Jesus, of course, is the vine, and the branches are the people. And to experience change, to move to that next season, to receive all that God has for you, there must be a role we must all play. There's some Responsibility, there is reaction, and most of all, I think there comes a time that we have to just reboot. What about our role? Jesus says, I am the true vine. And my father's the gardener. He cuts off every branch in me that bears no fruit. And while every branch that does bear fruit, he cuts it back, he It so that it might do what? Be more fruitful. You are already clean because of the word I've spoken to you. Jesus knows who he is, not who he was. But who he is. Amen. We speak about him in the presence tense. He knows the role he plays in creation. It is to save humankind. And He says, My father, my daddy, is the gardener. He is the farmer. Amen? My daddy was a farmer. Man, he loved to farm. I didn't learn one thing about farming. I watched him. I can't plant anything. Some years ago, when I first moved to Washington, DC, somebody sent me a nice flower arrangement. I don't know what it was called. But they say, you can't kill this. Well guess what? I killed it. No sunshine, no water, and I was trying to figure out why it wasn't growing anymore. But the role of the Father is to prune, to cut back every branch in us. And this cutting and pruning helps us to grow. You know, what if there was some other way to grow without going through some situations? You can't grow oftentimes unless you go through some painful moments. You can't grow off in time unless somebody hurts your feelings. You can't grow off in time unless somebody stab you in the back, double cross you, you hurt to your heart, but through that, you come out a better person. Anybody can relate to that day that you've been beaten and knocked down, but through your situation you are now more fruitful. You got more real friends now. You are involved in more important things now. Why? Because you are fruitful because what you've had to be proven. Now that's my role is to share with someone the goodness of the Lord. But the question remains, do you know who you are? Jesus says boldly, I am the true vine. And my father is the gardener. But but who Well Swan said if anybody asks you who I am, tell them I'm a child of God. That sounds good, boy. You're really a child of God. Amen. Why? Because a child of God has not just to talk the talk, but we have to do what? We better walk the walk. How many folk know you ran into people and they say you remember me? From where? But people are always watching us. It's all about the word. You have been made clean. Based on the word I've spoken to you. And that's not to be dismissed. Because whenever he speaks something, it's important. That when the words come from Jesus Himself, they're worth listening to. Remember E. F. Hood. And when the old commercial would come on, people listen. But we have to listen to the Word of God. John 1 and 1. In the beginning, what was the Word? And the Word was God, and the Word was with God. And so to explain. This season of change, we gotta know what our role is. More so, who am I? Describe myself, but there's also a responsibility. There's something we gotta do. You don't just switch seasons. He says, Remain in me as I also remain in you. No branch can bear any fruit. You can't do anything that's worth anything by yourself you gotta be remain connected to the vine to the source Jesus Christ neither can you he John keeps saying this thing over and over again you gotta remain in me or you can't make you gotta be connected just to me. He says I'm the mind. Keep reminding us. You are the branches. You know who you are. If you remained in me And my word in you, you will bear much fruit. I gotta stay connected to him. I can't go rogue. I can't just be my own man and can't just do my own thing. Can't have my own philosophy. You know, that's all against what the world says. The world says you've got to be yourself. But thank God for Jesus. I can remain in him. It is my responsibility to stay connected. Connected to the vine. That means there's nutrients. That means there's something that I'm feeding off of. It's my responsibility, and it's so important because you cannot bear fruit by yourself. I know you're a bad somebody. But outside of Christ, how many folks have tried to do your own thing? Oh, I feel like a DJ today. Come on, Island brothers, I can write today. It's your thing. Do what you want to do. Whatever your thing is. And I'll leave that song alone, but you've got to have a responsibility to remain in here. If you want a real season change. Responsibility. Apart from me, you can do nothing. It is in Christ that we live and breathe and have our being. Praise God. Peace be to God. But there comes a time where there's a reaction. This is the tension in the text. You know, we like flowery scriptures. Praise the Lord. But then there's some tension in the text. And verse number 6. It says, Now, if you do not remain in me, you are like a branch that is thrown away and withers. And such branches Are picked up, thrown into the fire, and burned. When we try to initiate our own season of change without the Lord, there is a reaction. We're like that branch. And what I want to say is this: some of us are in a season where we're feeling thrown away. We're feeling withered. We're feeling Weary. We're feeling the heat of life. And that's the reaction that we're getting, but thank God for Jesus the Christ. I stop by to tell you not to give up. And don't give in. You gotta fight with everything you got. Amen? I wasn't the best fighter, but I could watch some fights just going like a windmill. And and you know you might get a lick or two in You might take one, but you gotta just step up and say, you know what? I am changing in this season. I will not be withered. I will not be worn. I will not be downtrodden. Why? Let us not grow weary. Weary and well oh I know we get weary every now and then. I don't care how bad or how you look, there's some times that you've been beaten down. I mean beaten down. Down. You still smiling, but you'd be down. You still say praise the Lord, but you beat down. You still say hallelujah, but you've been beat down by life. But let us not grow weary in well-doing, for in due season, you will re If you faith not. Oh my God, I'm excited all about that. That no matter what is coming, I refuse to be a withered Christian. I refuse to be a Christian whose throne. I want to know that I'm connected. Reaction, responsibility. There's a role we all play, but thank God for the good news of verse number seven. Any verse number seven, folks in the house? My God called me of verse number seven. We got to reboot. If you remain in me, it is again, and my words remain in you, then. Ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you. Thank God for Jesus. To reboot is to start up again. Down that crazy cell phone and maybe your computer that you say, I don't just reboot it. Yeah, better do that. It was sending crazy messages and wouldn't let you get in. You said, I tell you what, I know what to do now. I'm gonna turn it off. Sometimes in life you've got to just reboot your situation. And say, Lord, I need to start over again on this. I need to reboot my life. Amen. My words are in you. And what does it mean to have the word in you? Does it mean do I take the Bible and how does that work? As I begin to read the word and speak the word and hear the word because faith comes by hearing. Hearing by what? Amen. There it is again. Once I keep getting that word in me, I'll sense this season change as I hear the word. Thy word is a lamp. unto my feet. A light to my path. Thy word is sharper than any two-edged sword. Heaven and earth shall pass away, but thy word shall always remain. Thy word I've hid in my heart that I might not sin against you. But thank God for the promise. Ask whatever you wish. I I dare you to ask what's on your mind. I dare you to ask what you're really Thinking about don't be afraid. What c can I testify? I I get a little shy sometime with God. Say, God now I don't wanna bother you. He said, Come on, ask me. Well, you know, I I'm I'm doing okay. Ask me. You ever been that way where you didn't wanna you didn't wanna be a bother? But verse seven says, I dare you, I dare you, I dare you to ask whatever you wish. Ask whatever you wish, and I'll do what? I'll do it for you. My God, I will go for you. Further, but I'm gonna end the sermon with that. Ask the Savior to guide you, ask the Savior to give you peace, ask the Savior to give you love, ask the Savior to give you joy. And I know that when And Jesus what to that cross he was into a new season amen he went to Calvary in one season beaten in another season but thank God that when he died he rose in another season Aren't you glad today you serve the kind of God who's in season and out of season? He don't need a calendar. He don't need daylight saving time. Why? He made the heavens and the earth. Sir. Earth is the Lord, and the fullness thereof, and those that dwell werein. He rose from the grave as Alpha and Omega. He rose from the grave as the Almighty One. He rose from the grave as the Almighty one. offer and finishing of our faith. He rose from the grave as the beginning and the end. He rose from the grave as the first and the last. He rose from the grave as the good shepherd. He rose from the grave as the gre Great high priest and the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords and the Redeemer and I rock. Aren't you glad today that you're all ready in a new season? I dare you to step into your season. Step into what God has for you. But don't forget. If you remain don't be right. If you remain in me in your word, then you'll see your season. That is the word of God today. So already this come on give God a praise today. That's the formula for a real season change. Not 30 days and send me your money over the internet. I'll send you a five-point plan. It's abiding in Jesus. And the Time is now. Why he kept saying, remain, remain, remain. I mean stay put. And you will know. When your season is changing. It's your time. Anybody know it's your time today? You've been faithful. You've been true. And you've done all you can do. And for your faithfulness. It's your time. You've applauded for the rest. Now it's your time. To be bless for your faithfulness, it's your time. And you got all you can do. And for your paper, it's your life. God is for the roadway with your design to be very blessed and for your faith. And for your faithfulness is your time. Now let me tell you this right here now. You waited for so long. Well done, you were strong. And for your faithfulness, it's your time. You encourage everyone else. Yeah, yeah, yeah. When you needed it for yourself. And for your fableness, it's your time you have to wait. Hallelujah. Is it your turn? Don't watch the clock. Don't check out the calendar. You're in your season. Let's pray today. Father God, we come in the name of Jesus. And we feel a spiritual nudge as our season changes. Yes, Father, thank you, Lord. But change us. Yeah. Because you've begun this good work in us. Yes, Lord. That I pray right now for your people. Hallelujah. It's not what the world says. It's what you say. Give us the faith to transition to the kind of season that will glorify you. Yes, Lord. Father, I pray even now. It may not may not look like it. Others may not see it. But we know that within you've already shifted. And we give you the glory. Now as we come God, if there's one today in this place stuck in the same season year-round, daily, I pray in the name of Jesus that's they may accept the season changer, give their hearts to you and declare, I am a sinner in need of a savior. At that moment, that they might believe with their mouth. Yes, sir. Confess that you are God. Yes, sir. Do it today, God. We pray. We pray. In Jesus' name. In the name of Jesus. Amen. Amen. Amen. There's one today who desires to be part of this fellowship it just may be your season to join harvest it may be your season you know what it's my season I want to thank you for tuning in to our broadcast. We'll harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. To find out more about our ministries, simply go to our website It is www. comthenumbervest. org. Again, that's www. comthenumbertharvest. org. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, have a blessed day in the Lord