He shed his blood on a cross. They put him in a borough too. But on the third day, my Bible tells me that he got up with all power in his hands. And I believe that today in faith. So as we come even now, may we decrease. And may you increase, save someone today, encourage another, and when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Praise God. Yeah, that's that's the difference in what other folk believe. They believe he was a good prophet. A good person and that was it. But those of us who claim Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior believe he didn't just go to the grave, but that he got up My that's Sunday school technology. You ought to arm yourself with that. That is what you believe. There's a word today from 2 Chronicles, the 20th chapter. Old Testament book. Amen. Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy. Yeah, just keep right on going. And there in Second Chronicles twenty, twenty-one and twenty-two it reads after consulting the people Jehosaphat appointed men to sing to the Lord and to praise him for the splendor of his holiness as they went out at the head of the army. saying, Give thanks to the Lord, for his love endures forever. As they began to sing and praise, the Lord set ambushes against the men of Ammon. And Moab in Mount Seir, who were invading Judah, and they were defeated. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, A Song and a Shout. A Song and a Shout. Somewhere right now in the world there's a war going on. In fact, it is believed as many as eight Wars are happening right now on battlefields all over the place. America has been at war since seventeen seventy-five. You history bust know it was the Revolutionary War and You Baltimoreans know that the War of 1812 happened right here in our backyard. Amen? Don't just say the national anthem, but know what it came from. Amen. And some of you listening today have experienced war or know someone who served in the midst of war. And they may have told you stories. You may have done the history. But let me say today that those of us who have joined God's army are in a war. The Bible reminds us that the weapons of our warfare are not carnal. Amen. That we don't fight with uh M sixteens. We don't fight with Uzies, but we fight in the spirit. Let me just say that that you you you you don't think that you're in a war Uh yes you are, but blessed be the God today that we have the right weapon tree with us. Second Corinthians ten and four reminds us that the weapons of our warfare are not but are mighty. Through the pulling down of strongholds. That is any argument raised up against the knowledge of God. So we encounter war in our text today. We meet Jehozephat, King of Judah. Judah means praise. Jehosaphat got word that the Moabites and the Ammonites and the Ianites were preparing war against them. Well he said, Reverend, won't you break down all them groups? Well, let me just say that. You've got some Ammonites and some Moabites and some Mennonites in your own life experience These are persons who are what? They are warring against God. They are enemies. Now you may call them something else, but they do exist even today. So Jehoshaphat got word that they were preparing to invade Judah. Had some intelligence. And what does he do? He calls a prayer meeting And say we need to go to the Lord about this. And so often we try and fight our battles based on what we know or what has worked in the past. But they held a meeting and said, you know what? We ought to be praying about this. Have you ever found yourself in life in a situation where you say, you know what, uh I know what I could do and what I think I have done? But when you begin to pray, I know it seems old fogey, old fashioned, but how many folk know that prayer still works? Oh, blessed be the God today. Don't you stop praying Don't you give up. And in the midst of their praying and honoring God, God allowed a brother to stand up in the prayer meeting and to declare this. He says, Don't be afraid. And don't be discouraged, the battle is not yours, but God's So take up your positions, stand firm, and see the deliverance of the Lord. Yeah, yeah, put your fist back down. You're fighting a battle and you think it's all about you, but don't you know if a battle is not yours? It's God's who can handle it, God who can bring you through, God who will deliver you. And so the next morning Jehozephat goes out, it's war day. And what does he do? He gives them one more pepto about what's going to happen. And then he does something that may seem strange to us. He said, I'm gonna send the men out ahead of the army. You gonna do what? I I'm gonna send the praise team out ahead of the army. Uh they're the special forces. I don't want folk who got stripes on their shoulders, but I want folk who have been appointed to see. Now you know one or two said my throat's been bothering me. Uh I I I can't hit that note. But but but they had to find someone. Oh I'm not none of y'all here. Uh but the assignment was to do what? I mean can can you imagine this That that that's the war strategy that's so different. You gonna send the praise team out front Instead of the army. He sent them out, and they went only with a song and a shout. But but what motivated Jahaza Fat to do this? On what grounds, what point was he trying to make? What was his reason, his cause, his impetus, his objective, his goal, his plan for appointing sailors to go to war? Don't that leave you with your head scratching, but when you do things in God, they may seem strange to the world, but they make sense to the Savior. Amen. I believe it's because he trusted in the God who was the center of the lyrics. Amen? I want to suggest this morning that a song and a shout will add up to victory for believers who are armed with prayer, power, and passion. Verse 21 says, after consulting the people, Jehoshaphat appointed the men the same, and to praise him for the splendor of his holiness. And let's just stop there. Prayer in advance, not prayer after the fact. Anybody that can testify today that you did your thing and then say, Well, I'm gonna pray about it now, after I've done what I want to do. Well I'll I'll testify then Uh sometime prayers on the back burner. We go to other people for consultation. Uh we go and see what Facebook is. Well, I shouldn't do Facebook. Facebook might cut me off with the bro broadcast. Or that that that yeah anyhow uh uh uh them amen. Uh you you well I'm not gonna call any more social media because I But but to let you know that prayer set the stage for victory. Now, as simple as that sounds, it is also profound. That all you have to do and all I have to do is any situation when the enemy is coming against us, and by the way, the enemy does not have A pitchfork and uh with a red suit on, no, no, that the enemy works behind people and situations. Oh, anybody can testify today that somebody done made you mad And who was it? It was the enemy pulling the strings, got us all hot and bothered, but prayer is important. Jehosaphat counseled with God. And what he did afterwards, he began then to share with the people. He he didn't consult with the people and he consult with God, but I believe before he consulted with the people that he had a little talk with Jesus. By way of God the Father. And that becomes so key. Has prayer guided you to bring a song and a shout in the midst of your battles? Some years ago, Donald Lawrence wrote a song that said, Don't wait till the battle is over to shout. You know in the end you're gonna win. Prayer ought not be optional for us. Prayer ought to be the first thing that we do. Let me just take a holy poll. If you ever had something confronting you and you really earnestly, day in and day out, says, God, I need you to answer and help me And did he come and guide you in your situation? The outcome was great because you put God first and not someone else. It is prayer. Prayer makes the difference. We're standing here and sitting here today because somebody prayed for us. Amen. We thought that was old fogy. I'm praying for you. Well thank you, Mother Jones. I'm praying for you. Thank you, Deacon. I'm praying for you. Okay, I'm not that bad But aren't you glad that God has somebody standing in the gap for you? Amen. Oh, I'm not a heathen, but I need prayer. Folks must say those who know the worth of prayer. If you don't know the word of prayer, don't pray. Those who've seen God work, those who've seen God bring them through, those are the ones you want praying for you. It was prayer that made the difference They were armed with prayer, but also power. They went out head of the army. I I'm still trying to picture that. The army ready. They got all the gear they need and the praise, excuse me. The praises coming to the front line and strike up a song. And they're saying, give thanks to the Lord for his love endureth forever. There's power because God's name was a part of what they saw. Amen. And when God's name is involved in what you are doing, there has to be power. Amen? His name was a part of their song and their shout. What do you sing about when you Face life struggles. Some of us make a song up. I can't think of one, but I'm just gonna sing something that has your name in it. Amen. And has it not been a difference in the midst of that See, the the oldies and the goodies are not gonna do. In fact, some words in the oldies and goodies, you're inviting the enemy in. Oh, I know I just said something there. But when you think about people who knew lyrics, I was the disc jockey, but I didn't know lyrics. I went with the beat. I ain't trying to be holy. Some of y'all know every word. Let the temptations come on. You'll be singing everything. Uh-huh. Yeah. Yeah, let let one of those singers come on and uh what what's her name? Yeah, Beyonce Oh y'all know her songs and you know the lyrics, some of y'all. But the fact that there is power within What is being shared, what they're singing, makes a difference. Psalm 96 and 1 says, What? Sing unto the Lord a new song. All of the earth. And that is what makes the difference when you say I'm gonna say something that has God in it. And I can shout something. You ever had a situation, oh Lord help me? That's all you had was God help me. It wasn't a song, but that's the only thing that came in your spirit. And God answered, he came through for you and made a difference. They they proclaimed and they sing a song that was full of power because God's name was in it. Amen. Look through your hymn book, you'll find many a song where folk are not lifting up themselves, but the lifting of God. We don't even know who wrote it. If you're from down south, they just made them bad boys up But guess what? Those songs are what got me through. Jesus is on the main line. Tell him what you want. Amen. Real Jesus is real to me. He gives me the victory. You may not find that in your hymn book, but my God, when a mother sang that song, and when a father sang that song, there was power in that. Power that made a difference. Power that turns your life around. Or you're going to find yourself a song today. And when you sing it, go ahead and shout it out. Amen. Oh, blessed be the God today They sung songs that had power because God's name was in it They prayed because prayer gave them a roadmap of how to deal with their enemies more than one. But there was some name-dropping, but there was also the passion. Give thanks to the Lord for his love endures forever. There was passion, uncontrollable emotion. For his love endures forever. And love will cause you to become passionate. Love will soften you up with your big bad self. Somebody said to you, I love you, and we can't even receive it sometimes. Love makes the difference. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. Amen. Love lifted me When nothing else will help, it was love. Wasn't my friend, wasn't a drug, wasn't a drink, but it was love. Well yeah, awful quiet just then. But love is the one who will lift you up. And we gotta be passionate. About God. Excited about God. Amen. They say the people begin to praise God and the enemy start fighting each other with an ambush Then all of a sudden the Ammonites start killing the Moabites and the Immunites start killing the Moor bites than the Ammonites. It's because Of a song and the shout, they will confuse. And don't you know that your praise will confuse the enemy? Ah, folks are after you, and you say, you know what? I'm just gonna moan because the devil don't know what you're saying But it takes that to get through. Can you imagine folk dying and killing just because the praise team brought one? And all of a sudden they've fallen out and killed each other. The enemy that's after you today, I dare you to keep on singing around your desk. They can't write you up for that I dare you to pull a hymn as you at the light with your window down. What they gonna do? Give you a ticket? Somebody ought to give God some praise right now. Hallelujah. And I mean some passionate praise. Not kind of thought out that somebody looking at me, but praise where you just get crazy praise. Anybody got some crazy praise today that you don't care what nobody says or what they think? I come to see And the south. All these preachers are No one escaped. And God allowed the people to go in for three days. Oh, what is this? They were getting equipment They were getting cold and they were getting things that they needed on the battlefield where the enemy once stood. They took three days. But on the other side of that Yeah, well we were uh under attack and uh and what happened was uh they sent the praise team out They prayed and the enemy killed each other and over some stuff there and many of us are going to stop right there. But the Bible says they they continued to pray. They gathered in the valley of Baraka where they praised God, and Baraka means blessing. Where is your place of blessing today? Once people got word about Judah. Once they heard about those singing and shouting people, nobody didn't mess with them. And when folk hear about your song and shout, All of a sudden, they don't want to fool with you because they know the God that you serve. I dare you to sing a song this week. On your job. I dare you to sing a song in your house this week. And I agree with David, who said in Psalm 150, Praise ye the Lord. Praise God in his sanctuary. Praise him in the firmament of his power. Praise him for his mighty acts. Praise him according to his excellent greatness praise him with the sound of the trumpet praise him with the psaltery and heart and here's where I need Mike Praise him with the timbrel and dance. Praise him with stray instruments. Praise him with the loud cymbals and praise him with the high-sounding cymbals. All I want to say is that everything that has breath praise ye the Lord. Let somebody praise him because don't you know that the world cannot block your praise. Amen. We praise our children and we ought to. And we praise our favorite athletes because we want to win because you may have a dollar on that thing And we praise our favorite entertainers and we'll drop big dollars to see them. Can I testify? I saw a seventies group And I said, maybe I can go. Not for that price. I'll watch it on stream. But we'll praise other folk But it won't cost you nothing to praise God. Why? Because Jesus paid it all. And all to him my whole sin has left a Christmas thing. And he did what? He washed me white. Well, before I leave ya, I got one or two in the top five. How about amazing grace? How sweet the sound. That saved the wretch like me. I once was lost, but now I'm found was blind. But now I see uh he lives. Christ Jesus lives today. He walks with me. And he talks with me along life's narrow way. I'm talking about me. Since Jesus came into my heart, something has happened. I'm not the first I used to be, but what I don't mind doing, I don't mind singing, and I don't mind shouting. So before I take my seat, I'm looking for one or two praise team members out there who don't mind giving God praise in the house right now. I I'm talking about anybody got a song or a shout that they don't mind giving to the Lord today, or you too cool on me. Anybody in the house today don't mind Putting the whole body in the praise. That means your arms got some praise. Amen. Oh, you know you used to move. Why don't you move for the Lord? I'm trying to get one or two more praises. Anybody come to praise? Praise him today. Praise him in the morning. Praise him after noonday. Praise him. Praise him. Praise him. Hallelujah. A song. And a shout. A song? In a shout. Come on, stand today. Praise him. Because he's worthy. That's why. That's why he sent praise first. And when you start praising him, your enemy Will be confused. Father, as we come today, how we thank you that from the fruit of our lips We can put the enemy at bay. Just a song and a high a shout. How we thank you as we come today, God. It is our prayer that we might take this pattern of prayer Of power, of passion. Mighty replaced the six-shooter. Might we put it around our waist and in our hearts? If there's one today in this place who has never given their heart to Jesus Christ, today is the day to save. And to shout, because he lives in the heart of the believer. If thou shalt confess with thy mouth, The Lord Jesus, and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. The Bible says, Thy shalt be saved. Thank you for salvation.