Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Amen. Break every change. Maybe you've never been bound up in a situation in life that required you to just break out Has that been your testimony that you felt that you were wrapped up and tied up and depressed? Low, and you begin to pray. And as you begin to pray, you can see God breaking the chains. I'm just trying to paint a picture All of a sudden the things that used to bound you, they don't bound you no more. People used to affect you and made you mad and hurt your feelings. You know what? The chains have been broken. And so when you hear a song like that, that's what it means. To break not some chains, but to break every chain of the enemy The Bible says that he comes to kill and to steal and to destroy, but I come that you might have life And might have it more abundantly. My God trying to get you riled up today. I'm trying to get you to see that maybe you'll think about what's happening in your own experience. In fact, I'm not gonna move until you really say, wait a minute, Pastor, you on my street. Has been everybody who ever had a situation that just had you on lockdown I mean, unlocked now. In your mind, in your body. And you said, you know what I refuse to be chained up. I refuse to allow this situation to hold me back. I'm gonna break out today. There's an APB out. A saint has broken out. I am more than a conqueror through him. Wait a minute. I'm trying to go to the word, but When you think about what God has brought you through, that's your time to say, yeah, I'm out. I'm free. I'm not going back Is anybody in the house feel that way today? I'm so glad that Jesus has lifted me. I'm so glad I've got my joy back. I'm so glad I've got my peace back. I didn't lose my mind. In fact, my mind is staying on him. Amen. And so when you hear that song, it ain't just saying, I feel the chain. No! The chains are the there they are! All around me, there's an evidence of what God can do. Come on, just bless the Lord today. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on Come on, bless him. Come on. If you know what God has done, come on, bless him. If you know he'll bring you through. Come on, bless him. If you know he'll make a way, come on, bless him. I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually I'm trying to preach, but can I celebrate first Can I talk about what God will do and what He'll bring me through? I know what we normally do, but when the Holy Spirit shows up, you flip the script. He says, just give me some praise right now. Just give me some honor right now. Just lift your hands in there. Just put your hands together and give God all the praise that He so richly deserves. Oh thank you, Lord. That's it. That's it. That's it to have a song to just to to jog your memory. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. Celebrating what you've done in our own lives. If folk only knew your story If they only knew the whole story, they just got the book cover and the introduction, but they don't know what's in chapter 4 They don't know what's in chapter five of your life. If people only knew, hey, what you have done They would celebrate with them, and we're not ashamed to say what you've done. We're not ashamed to give you the credit. We're not ashamed to give you the praise. As we come today, may your word fortify our souls. May your word give us the strength that we all need. We're all facing something. If not you, your family. If not you, your next door neighbor If not you, your co-worker, but God, you are able to do anything but fail. We declare it in the name of Jesus. Amen. Ah love the Holy Spirit. He comes along and does what he does best. Throws your format off. Just to encourage you. There's a word from the Lord today comes from the book of Exodus there in the 17th chapter. Verse number 11 through 13. Amen. There we go. As long as Moses held up his hands The Israelites were winning. But whenever he lowered his hands, the Amalekites were winning When Moses' hands grew tired, they took a stone and put it under him, and he sat on it. Aaron and her held his hands up, one on one side, one on the other, so that his hands remained steady until sunset. So Joshua overcame the Amalekite army with the sword. Want to preach today for the Sammonic title, A Team Player. A team player. If my memory serves me right, I was 14 years old the last time I walked on a football field. As a player. And that was the ninth grade there in Lieboak for the JV team. I was number 52. But I learned what it meant to be on the team, to make the team, and to be a team player. Whether in the locker room or the wait room, I realized that you had to be on the same page. You may have been the person who blocked or clipped, the person who tackled someone or you cheered somebody on But to be a team player, you've got to be willing to put aside your own personal goals for the betterment of the team. And that's what it took even those early years because I realized there has to be a common goal. That we're going for the same thing. were heading in the right direction. Truth of the matter is, I didn't play that much. Maybe when I went in, I did something. I held somebody or uh you know just to say I was in the game. But it was all to help my team to win You know, God is not looking for superstars. He's not in search of MVPs. He'll use the water boy. He'll use the water girl. He'll use the person who's the trainer. He'll use the timekeeper to his glory. You may not have a jersey, but the Lord will still use you. He wants someone who has a willing heart. Isn't that great that we really, God chooses us, it's not because we're qualified. It's not because we've got it like that, we're smart, we know everything. He's able to use us just the way we are Aren't you glad about that today that you know that he takes you and meets you where you are, puts you in the Jesus program And before you know it, you become somebody for the Lord. In our text today, we meet people who I won't just say are team players And they're in the midst of a battle. The enemy has come up against them. The people of Israel faced many enemies during that time. And over and over again, when they found themselves between a rock and a hard place, and they may have been hard-headed, they called on the name of God. Does that sound familiar? That when we get into a rough spot, Lord help me. Well I'll just testify. And so they found themselves up against the Amalekites. And the Amalekites were some bad folk. They were cheap rivals. They were like the team across town. They were like the team across the track, the team that you couldn't stand and couldn't stand you. Amen. There was that kind of competition, but God equipped the Israelites To win this battle. And if you look at the jumbotron and see the highlight reel, you'll see people like Moses Been around for a long time. You'll see Aaron and you'll see her and you'll see Joshua, kind of a newcomer Just a rookie on the team. But but Joshua finds himself facing a major battle, and Moses being the wise person he is, said now, now Joshua You take the team and you go fight the enemy. Meantime, I'm going to the top of the mountain. And I'll be holding up the staff of God and I'll be praying. Okay? Now you you do that, and I'll do this. And isn't it great how God lays things out, there's order? And so this morning I'm going to talk about within the framework of principles, about the importance of team strategy. The importance of team support and the importance of a team solution. When you say Team strategy, verse eleven reads, As long as Moses held up his hands, the Israelites were winning. Go. Israelites. As long as Moses kept his hands up. But whenever he lowered his hands, the scoreboard changed The Amalekites were winning. But Moses kept going up and down Winning and losing, tie and penalty, each Time he held his hand up or let them down. But that was the strategy. Everybody can't be on the battlefield. Somebody gotta pray. And so there was a plan of action. There was a set playbook. There was a need to work this out the way that wisdom would have it. That everybody can't do everything. And it's great that the team had a plan. I mean can't you see Moses? He's no spring chicken. He's already old man. And I imagine getting up the mountain was a struggle. But every time He lifted. Somehow. And every time you lift up your hands before the Lord said, Lord, I I can't make it. Without you. Anybody ever surrendered like that? I I I don't know what to do. I I've had it up to here and I just throw my hands in there. And don't you know that in your mind's eye that you're looking up And God is working that thing out. Now when he blesses you and you say, oh I got this now, I'll put my hands back down. But it was really a prayer posture Amen. That was something they did. And it was symbolic of lifting up your prayer unto God. You know, the Bible talks about these hands. Amen? You glad God gave you hands? Psalm 134 and 4 says, lift up your hands in the sanctuary. And praise the Lord. And you thought I made that up. It's all in the Bible. Lift up your hands, and while your hands are up, Begin to give God some praise. Can we sign up for a moment? Lift your hands up and then give God some praise. Man, this is easy as rumparous. But that was the team strategy. In your own life, you ought to have a plan. A plan to defeat the enemy. A plan to come against those things that would seek to throw you off track. God's word gives you a complete outline of how you can remain victorious as a team player. With me this morning? Let's go now to team support. When Moses' hands grew tired, they took a stone. Not a lazy boy, but that took a stone and placed it under him, and Moses. Sat down. Don't you like how the Bible just kind of lays it out? Tired? Sit down somewhere. Moses, you can't stand that long. And in the process, Aaron and her Show up. And they said, wait a minute. Let me hold that in and let me hold the other one. And we just got you We we we know you're weary. And maybe the person next to you all they need is not criticism, but somebody say, let me just hold your hand up in prayer. Don't know what you're going through, but I'm gonna just hold your hand up. I'm gonna allow you to sit down for a while. Get us a way to minister one to another. We all need support I don't care who you are and how you got it like that, you will need somebody to give you a helping hand. Someone will say, No, I got it I got it. I got it. Okay. All right. All right. But how many folk know I need some help? I don't mind you holding my hands up. I think of this ministry is a clear example of the people of God. I'm talking about y'all. I know you're praying for me and my family. I know you're praying, and I can feel During the week. I thought oh harvest. I I I really mean that And so thank you can I can I just say that thank you for lifting me up in prayer Thank you for praying for me. That I can come and encourage you. Thank you for your support in the Lord. So Aaron and her came off the bench. Aaron, the brother of Moses, kinfolk, a one who spoke for Moses when they went into tell Pharaoh to let God's people go. It was it was brother Aaron. He said now Moses getting a little tongue-tied, but I got this. That's the same brother who's on the mountain assisting being a team player. And then there's her, also a part of that support team. Her, the son of Caleb. Caleb and Joshua were ones who went into the promised land, checked things out, say, you know what? We can take this land. They got big grapes. They got big men. We can do this. And so God will send an Aaron. He'll send a her your way just to give you support. Amen. And maybe you change the roles and you in turn will lift that person up. Praise God. Does anybody have anybody in their own life who you know is lifting you up in prayer? Can you identify somebody say now I I know what you've been doing all week? And you may call them and say, I I I ain't got long But let me just let me just pray for you. Let me just hold your hand up for a moment. It makes a huge difference. Yeah, because you can't do it by yourself. I love Ecclesiastes four, nine, and ten. It says, Two are better than one. Why? Because they have a good return on their labor. If either of them falls down, one can say, Hey You need a hand and lift the other person up. You know, that's the kind of friend to have. Not a talking friend Now that you know I got your back friend, but somebody you know will say, hey, I know what you go, I can sense it. Let me lift you up for a moment Let me encourage you in the Lord for my God. You ought to find somebody like that and say, you know what? Can we have an exchange program? Do I lift you up and you lift me up and then we set up high five in Jesus at the same time Find somebody like that. Ask God to send you somebody who will stand with you and be a team player to give you support. Support strategy, but there's always a team solution. So Joshua overcame the Amalekite army with the sword. What happened on the mountaintop made a difference in the valley. On the battlefield, they got the W. Amen Praise God. Touchdown after touchdown in Jesus. You know, a solution means that you can solve a problem that you may not have created, but it's important. It may be difficult, but the fact that you have found the answer in God And he says they won it by the sword. So get me wrong now. Prayer didn't go now and then and take him out. Prayer may have given Joshua some extra To win. And so God will use whatever you have, fueled by prayer, to be victorious. Does that make sense? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. He could come down and just do it, but he gives you the gifts and the talents and the tools to do it. He wants you to be a doer of the word and not a hearer only The Bible says the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but they're mighty through the pulling down of strongholds. Now you may not even know it, but I know you carry it A story. How many folk have their Bibles today in hand or on the phone? Just raise your hand. Uh-huh. You carry it. Why? The sword of the Spirit is the Word of God. Uh-oh. Every time the enemy comes Pull it out and know that the word of God will get you through any situation. Any area of life, as long as you're on the same page with the same mind. Romans 12 and 16. Be of the same mind. I was somebody who kind of thinking like me You know, everybody don't think like you. Okay, you okay all right, we're together. And it says, mind not high things, but be condensed to men of low estate Be not wise in your own conceits, but you can always learn. So I guess by now, can I add you to the roster? Are you on the team? Wait a minute. I I can't go the ballot yet. Are you on the team yet? I'm I'm I'm looking for a seller I need a left God in the Spirit. Any right God in the Holy Ghost? I I need a tackle. For the Lord. Do I have any tackles today? Amen. I need a an end, a tight end. Amen. Can you give me a running back who don't mind running for Jesus? Amen. Can you give me a quarterback who won't get sacked in the pocket, who don't mind throwing it, and if need be or some of y'all watch TV now. You you've been through a game, even if it's Christians game But I mean there's something about being on the Lord's team. So you made the cut You're on the team. You're among the Hall of Famers. And just know this. He will use those who are available Abraham was up in age, but he made the team. Caleb got a peak of the promised land, and he made the team. David has some missteps Was an adulterer and a murderer, but he still made the team. Deborah was a prophet and a judge, and she made the team Either walked with God and was no more. Either you're on the team. Esther modeled bravery and courage. She was on that team Isaiah says, I'm available to you. Here I am. Send me. Go ahead, Isaiah. You on the team? Jonah says, I ran from you. And a big well got me, but I came out and I'm on the team. Jeremiah says, I'm gonna quit talking to you, but he's still on the team Moses had a speech impliment, but he still Make the team. Miriam says, I'm just a praiser. Somebody give God the praise. She was on the team. Matthew, a tax collector, kind of shady, but he made the things. Mary, the mother of Jesus, willing to carry the Messiah She's on the team. Mary Magdalene had a bad reputation. She made the team. Nor a jerk and an art builder. Is that Moses and the team? Priscilla, whose husband Aquila, they worked together as tent makers with Paul They owned the team. Rahab was a prostitute, but she owned the team. Ruth was a woman of character, but she's on the team. Amen. The Samaritan woman had some baggage and she called it fumbling down by the world, but it was all said and done She's on the team. Saul. Messed up. A persecutor. God changed his name. And that old Paul. He's on the team. Sarah had faith and confidence, and she's on the team. Thomas was the downer. But he's on the team. And Jesus, a baby boy, born in a manger. Jesus, at the age of twelve, being able to share the good news of his father. Jesus. Who died on the cross and rose again. He's the team captain. Can I get amen today? And can I talk about myself for a moment? I got a number. I'm glad, but I'm glad that I'm in the number. John says, I saw a number that no man could count. Aren't you glad you're in the number today? Amen. When he calls me, I will answer. I'll be somewhere listening for my day. Coach, put me in Aren't you glad he still wants to use you and that with all your mess-ups, you are still on The team. I want to be a team player. When the team runs out, I'm running too. When the team goes into a huddle, I'm going to When the team says let's break, I'm gonna break too. When the team storms the field, I'm gonna run too. Amen. How many folks feel like running for Jesus today? Come on, run for Jesus. And you know he's included you. You are a team player. Your your your name is on on your jersey. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And and folk know you for saying that that look Ah who got that tacker? Who who just took out the enemy? Oh no no no. Let him run it back. I I I told you was that praying mother. It was that praying father. It it was Praying that big mama be identified today. You are a team. That's the word of God today. It's all ready and blessed. Come on, stand today And let's give God a praise. Amen? Let's give him a praise. And that's why today it's so Important to have a strategy a support team and ultimately a solution. And so I come today as a team spokesman, speaking for the owner, and I want to offer Christ to you. They they they they told me to come by. I I represent the team. Yeah, I I come on behalf of The owner to say even today we got salary space We why? He's paid it all. And so you won't be cut. Just just stop by and pick up the uniform today. And there you are with the team. We offer Christ to you. Come on, sing with us today. Oh my Oh, my sister He will give you doing You invite it. Now, let's say it again. We all grow. All my He will give the way As we bow this morning, You can become a first round draft simply by giving your life to Jesus Christ. The Bible makes it real plain and real easy. It says in Romans 10, 9 and 10, if thou shalt confess with thy mouth, The Lord Jesus, and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. It's based on your belief. It's based on something that you really can't see with the naked and natural eye, but it's so real Today, come among those who have made the commitment, those who've made Jesus their choice. May you do it today. Let's bow. Just keep bowing for a moment. And think about it. Ask yourself the question. Am I saved? Am I a true son or daughter of Jesus Christ? If he came today, would I be among those going back with him to meet him in the sky? Think about it for ten more seconds And right where you are today, if you don't know him, you can whisper a prayer something like this. God, I'm a sinner in need of a savior. I pray today, as I confess unto you, I believe that you sent your Son Jesus Christ to die for me. I believe that he died, but he rose again. The Bible says confessing allows you to make the connection. Maybe you've come. Maybe you've opened your heart today. It is our prayer. In Jesus' name. Maybe you've come today and you desire to be a part of this fellowship. You desire to be uh baptized and I find sometimes that's the I want to get baptized. Well the baptized is the next step after you accept Christ And you know you're saved. Baptism is a public showing that I am doing like Jesus did. I'm baptized. And so today, you may be here. Amen. We're going to kill Facebook for a moment because I know The persons who came on last week and they were ready. So I'm ready. And so I'm not gonna put them on social media blast. But there's a couple young ladies here who Express the desire to be a part of this fellowship and to be baptized. And so today, I want you to come right on down. Amen. There's no need to be ashamed. Praise God. Praise God. They're young people too, amen. Amen. Welcome. You know it's grace. They get a nervous like pastor. Why are you doing this? But it's great when they say, you know what? We're ready. And so guess what? The 14th is coming. But let me just ask you this question Do you believe that God sent his son Jesus Christ? Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. comtoharvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.