He is worthy to be praised from the rising of the sun till the going down of the same word. The Lord our God is worthy. Even as we come today, we're just certainly grateful for his goodness and grateful for his mercy. Thank him today for everything that he has done. That's how we get my technology together. Let's bow forward the prayer. Heavenly Father, we do come today and as we come it is always our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase save someone today encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Bless you to God today. Copy your Bibles with you today to turn in the Gospel of John. And there in the 14th chapter of John. Just one verse we'll bring to our attention John fourteen, verse number twelve, few. Have it, say man, if you got the screen, that's fine too, but always go back and read ahead to see what the whole text is talking about and then read past it as well as we become Bible students. They're in the Gospel of John and Person coming in, come right on in. John 14 and 12 always say that the gospel simply means good news. How many folk need some good news today? They're in the Gospel of John and Chapter 14, it says, very truly I tell you, whoever believes in me will do the works I have been doing And they will do even greater things than these. Because I am going to the Father. We're going to preach today from the Samonic title A working faith. A working faith. It was Indira Gandhi, the former Prime Minister of India, some 15 years Who relate a story she had heard from her grandfather. He told her that there were two kinds of people. That those who do the work and those who take the credit. And he said to her, try to be in the first group There's less competition there. We may have heard that from our parents and foreparents, something to that effect. Maybe you have said something as it relates to work. My beloved father will always say, I've never known work to kill a man. Amen. And we're still standing. Work was important. Work is important in the physical. Paul writes to the church of Thessalica in 2 Thessalonians 3 and 10. He says, listen, unless you work. Then you should not eat. If you don't work, you don't eat. How many of your folks said that? You got a little piece of job and you brought nothing in. He's a kid, my son. I always pickle him every Sunday or so. He was working at a major food company and I said to him I've got an issue with that store, the grocery store. What's what's the problem? I said, I don't think they still have bread or milk today. What do you mean? I said, I don't think they sell it. Because if they did, you would have brought some home. I'll pick on the other for the next week. I believe that beyond what we call physical manual labor, that there's plenty of work to be done for the cause of Christ Christianity is is a duty really to share the good news of Jesus Christ at last check Yes, it was that uh there were some 2. 3 billion people who practiced some form of Christianity. And it's growing in South America, in Africa. Our faith is growing in Asia. And that tells me that somebody is doing the work of faith Are you and I in that number today? I've often come up with this. It's not a Tim Tudon original, but we don't have a lazy faith. Just because you're a Christian don't mean that you lay back That's right. But there's work to be done. Who I became a pastor, I would go to some of these conferences and uh Brothers would be talking and sisters saying, yeah, how how's the work going? I said, what do they mean how the work is going? What they meant was the work of the church. I get it now. This is important work. And each week we come to get fueled up, to go out to the highways and the byways and not look the part of a Christian. But to walk the walk and to talk the talk. John fourteen Jesus begins by saying, let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God. Also believe in me, for in my Father's house. There are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you that where I am, you will be also. But we're really uh dropping our anchor on verse number twelve today. Verily, verily I say unto you, he that believeth on me, the works that I do, He do also, and greater works than these shall he do because I go unto the Father. That that scripture passage arrested me last week. And I know the Holy Spirit still speaks and we talk about a whisper, but that thing came uh into my spirit and I was all week kind of looking at that. What what what does that really mean that you can do the works of the Father? Do the works that you've seen me do. And I believe that there are certain stipulations which call for our participation and which can lead to our transformation. Verily truly I tell you, whoever believes in me will do the works I have been doing. No, a stipulation is a an agreement. It is a requirement that there's something that we have assigned to be done. Whoever believes in me. Whoever, whoever that not might believe in me, but whoever does believe in me will do the works. See there were those who followed Jesus who didn't believe him. They just played the part. They caused trouble. They tried to trip him up theologically, but did they really believe in him? Isn't that what our faith calls for is If you believe. Nobody can put a belief test on you. I know they're lie detectors, but you know that you know, that you know what the Lord has done for you And I don't mind saying I am a believer. Amen. Anybody with me today? I'm not ashamed of the doctrine of Jesus Christ. But I'm not ashamed. of the gospel. And one verse earlier, Jesus had said in verse 11, believe me when I say that I am in the Father, and the Father is in me, or at least believe on the evidence. Of the works. Yeah. Amen. Amen. And you know our faith has to be tried. Our faith has to be tested And people are looking at us. You may not mumble word, but people said, Night, aren't you supposed to be a Christian? Hello And they're looking at you a certain way. Don't let them put you on a pedestal. Well, now you you the reference. Yeah, I I I know. You know, I yeah Yeah, I just wake up in church uh because we still struggle with things in life. Amen? And thank God that Christians are forgiven. Yeah. Oh, blessed be the doctor that I could stay right there. Don't let folk just say, oh no, you know you, you, we slipped Amen. Every now and then. Why? Because we're flesh. And some people think just because you're a Christian that you won't tell them off. Because you're a Christian, you won't get them straight. Watch and see what Jesus did. With those Pharisees. Well, he would turn you in the text. But we As believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, we have a faith that has been tried And a faith that has been tested. And it operates in the heart of the believer. This sense of heart is our emotional part of us. And those of us who really love the Lord, and we display it not by trying to be Christian right, but trying to walk the walk and trying to talk the talk. And uh know that even uh Philippians uh one and six where Paul writes to the church being competent of this very thing that he who's begun A good work that is in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. The message is a working Hope you brought your bro game boots today. I hope you brought a pair of gloves today. Hope you brought the old sweat rag. Because guess what? As believers, we've got the work to do. My God, there's so much happening in our society. We cannot sit by idolie And talk about it. Amen. I didn't say go up and on the corner and approach somebody necessarily. We've got to have the Spirit of Christ. There is work to do as believers. Amen. So what's the work? Reverend you say it gets a word. What is it? It is to demonstrate the love of Jesus Christ. Folk may not ever come to church to read the Bible, but they're looking at you As a template of what Christianity ought to look like. It is to lead others to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. Let me ask you. When have you led somebody to Jesus? You got a minute? They're open to it, so let me just uh pray the sinner's prayer with you. Uh you know you you can't make them be saved right then. All you're doing is planting. Right, yeah, right. The word says that one planteth, another watereth, but God gives the increase, but together quantity. Amen. It is to show men and women the love Of Jesus Christ. It's part of our work. There's stipulations, but also there has to be a level of participation You might have to work. Yes. It says, very truly I tell you, whoever believes in me will do the works I have been doing And they will do even greater things than these. Working faith allows you to do greater work. That's where it kind of messed me up right there. I said, No, what are you? What do you know? What do you mean we could do? Greater works and greater things What Jesus was doing at the time, he was teaching. And preaching. And working miracles. And being an example. He shows us what is possible. Think about this. Jesus had a small area that he worked in. About 13 miles is about all he did in terms of ministry. uh to a few thousand people. But we have opportunity to do greater things, not greater than him, but to do greater works. Amen Let's sit right with the other day that there's so much more that we can do that he has put certain things in us for that reason. We can reach people right where we are. We can have an impact on somebody's life. Aren't you excited and puzzled and people say to you Remember that day you said that to me? And I was down, you said, what's your name? Because you were not doing it because of you, but all you have is just that well I can do, I can just pray for you for a moment. Or can I encourage you? And what you're doing is You're doing the work of ministry. You rolled your sleeves up and you notice uh at the coffee shop. That's my top place. I come in the coffee shop starting stuff. Amen? Up the street there's room. Rose. When I see I see rose, it's my coffee ready. A rose, I I I have fun with it because people want to see the joy of the Lord in you. But my God, if you laugh every now and then, you might reach somebody for Jesus. Tell a clean joke every now and then. A clean one. And you'll reach somebody for Jesus. You better participate In this faith. The work of faith is already in you. It's already in me. And I remember what Jesus said in John 4. But he and his disciples came and they met the woman at the well and the disciples went in town for a meal and they came back and said, Aren't you hungry? Nope, nope. You all miss this. My nourishment, John 4. 34, my food, said Jesus, is to do the will of him who sent me And to finish his work. Participation. That's right. Sign up Get in the game, make a difference. This week, just trying to be someone who is working in the faith. Stipulation, but then finally there's some Areas of transformation. Very truly I tell you, whoever believes in me will do the works I've been doing, and they will do even greater works than these because I am going to the Father. Jesus was speaking of a time of transformation. time of transition. He says, because I'm going to the Father, you can expect something to happen. That I'm gonna send my spirit, Acts 1 and 8. But you shall receive power when the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and you will be my witnesses in both Jerusalem and Judea and the uttermost parts of the world. You know, just about being a witness for the Lord. Not another kind of witness. I'm talking about a witness Who knows and believes there's more than 144,000 will get to heaven. Amen? That's why you need Bible study so you can know what you're doing with. Otherwise, folks will give you a different translation of Amen. will say it of your Bible and you don't know what you're reading. Amen. But let folk know that it is the call of the Holy Spirit. As a Christian When you accept Christ as your personal Savior, you receive the Holy Spirit and you received at least one gift. I can't do nothing. See, that's not. I'm shy, that's not in my no no. If you're a believer, you've got at least one gift. Maybe know it could work that way. Amen. If I only had encouragement I'll work it. Amen? Work the gift that you have. Blessed be the God. And there are spiritual gifts. The Bible, Paul talks about it in Romans. 1 Corinthians, Ephesians, there's a list of different gifts. You've got at least one, survey is a gift. Teaching is a gift, encouraging is a gift. Giving is a gift, leadership is a gift, faith is a gift, healing is a gift, amen. Hallelujah. One of my aunts, we called her H Steady. She lived out in the country. And when you came on the property, something was going on, she she just gets full of the Holy Ghost. Whoa! Hallelujah And people would conjure her just to get a healing. So it is a gift. Amen. She had a gift of prophecy. She would say, I remember she called me and said, I can see that little boy I said, what little boy? He's so busy. I said, uh uh, you got the wrong family. There he is. There are people that God will get and get cost respect Spirit has given you the gift. We've got to use it. Come on back in now. Amen. God has given us what it takes to do the work of faith. And you've got to activate your faith. Who wants a credit card if you can't activate it? Uh oh. I got it, but I can't get nothing with it. Who wants an electronic device? that you can't activate. When I first heard of Bluetooth, I said, Well, what's blue? It means that you were connected to something else. Amen? So we thank God today, and I like with the writer of the hymn. He says We say this often. He says, how to reach the master. Men is every birth for an answer. Jesus gave the key. If I if I be lifted up from the earth, I will draw all men Unto me, sir. You gotta do some lifting. Aren't you glad today that Jesus already did but then lifting? Amen? And and not lifting was him carrying his cross Up to Calvary. He's already done the heavy lifting, but we've got to lift up the name of Jesus. He said if you do this I'll do the rest. I'll do the drawing if you just live. I'll do the saving if you just live. But that's something that we have to do in the Christian faith. We've got to work The work of him who called us. And Jesus always gets the glory. Amen. That I will draw them unto me. And in me you will find a savior. And meaning you'll find a stick cheerful place. Don't try to steal the headline now, but let Jesus get the glory. Amen. I know we say something, oh, to God be the glory, but when you do the work of faith, my God, something will happen and folks, lives will be changed. You didn't punch out too soon. You didn't turn down the overtime. But blessed be the God today. There's work to do in ministry. You and I will grow on one day. I was thinking deep in sin, Robert. I know where you're going with that. No, no. Anybody been deep? You might have been a surface sense. I was thinking deep in sin. Didn't think it was deep. I was thinking Deep, I thought I was cool. I was sinking deep and far from the peaceful shores. Very deeply stained within, seeking to rise no more. But here's the good news. But the master of the sea. Heard my question. And from the water she lifted me. Now safe am I in the love that lifted me. If you have nothing else to tell the folks, let that be your own work with you. And had to shape me, had to transform me and still that. Amen. I know all that I could be, but thank God today. I'm not what I used to be. Anybody look at this? God will use me with your warm up. You got your warmers. You gotta do whole this work. I will work until my day is done. Anybody feel like timing up right now? I don't give a job space. But I'll thank him that he got me up this morning. And he's following me on my way. I'll thank you today. He's a good dog. And I don't mind working. But blessed be the God today. We've been told according to the good news of Jesus Christ. I tell you, we travel. And he hit the world with the king of the work right now. My body, my quick, that's not the shelf. Amen. We bless his name today. Anybody want to work? Until the day is up. I'm going to work. I may be tired, but I'm going to work. I may be tired. disappointed or go work. I may be down, but I still I got work to do. I'm looking for one more worker. You got me working in here. I'm not going to work on the pay. Because this one, you pay off. Here is not a person. And if you want, you want me? Why do you still? Lord the glory, that's my pain. That's my whole one pain. Hallelujah! Hallelujah! And working. That's the time of faith we have. That is the word of God today. All of the death. Part two or next week. Yeah, buddy. I'm retired. Not for paperwork. I got my gold pen! No, it's not a crown. God today we thank you. Thank you. In this moment You said Jesus, but he said it. There's no any greater works. What you do? Because I'm going back to the Father. Father, we come today in the name of Jesus. As we come, we make that commitment today. Don't need to necessarily look at what the job description is. It is to lead someone to Jesus. Maybe there's someone today in this place. Maybe there's someone watching or listening. Been out of work. So to speak. They're unemployed in the faith. God, I thank you even now that you can save them if they would but commit. The Bible says that thou shall confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in our hearts that God has raised them from the dead. The Bible says Thou shalt be stained. Save someone today, God. You can't use us to lead the amount of thank you It's a great work assignment. But you get the glory today from that life. In Jesus' name. Amen. Blessed be the God today. Pregnant transition always a grateful you and