A work in progress. Amen. We're about to enter a very important season in the Christian faith. The Lenten season. Lent is a period of fasting, a time of self-discipline. It begins with Ash Wednesday and ends with Easter Sunday. Now during this 40-day period, it's not uncommon for people to give up certain foods, and I know chocolate is at the top of some people's list. Amen. Or that they may look at something else in their life, maybe a habit, or to replicate Jesus Christ's sacrifice and withdraw into the wilderness for forty days But here's my personal opinion. Can I just say caution? Lip should not be a time of boasting of one's sacrifice. Are trying to earn God's favor or love or try to earn points. Amen? Telling folks, yes, I'm giving up this. And then that same person will see you on day 41 and you're back to what you were doing. I know I'm also about to speak. That's okay, maybe my own. I want to suggest this morning that we focus on on what God has already done in our lives. And to keep in mind that you and I are still a work in progress. Now when I think about a work in progress, I'm reminded of something which has not been completed I am not your handyman my wife would say amen to that he is not a handyman I remember the day When my father-in-law was alive, he would come to visit with his toolbox. Amen. He knew there were 20 things that needed to be done around the house, and he would do it and I would look and have him tools for the project. But maybe it's an unfinished project that's been added to or developed. And we often start projects in our own lives with great enthusiastic. Look at my plan. Here's what I'm going to do. However, over time, the zeal things. And the work fizzles out. As it happened in your life today, if you maybe you're home and you're looking at that project that you've not done, it is A world in progress. Before us is a portion of a letter written by the Apostle Paul to the church in the city of Philippi, modern-day Greece. A letter he writes from a Roman prison. I'm always amazed as to how upbeat Paul is. He's locked up. on death row and from that position he's able to say listen let's have the joy of the Lord let let's let's Let's look to the heels. I'm always amazed at that because although many of us, most of us, have never been in prison, physical prison What it is like to be able to share from what the Lord has given you to someone else's situation, violently the persecuted church. So Philippi is where he writes the letter. It's where he planted the church. He showed up preaching the good news of Jesus Christ. showing the people the way to salvation. Harvest Christian Ministries is a church fight. Some 16 years ago Me and my family stepped out on faith and look what the Lord has done. Amen. But as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, Paul reminds the church, that is the people, that they are a work in progress. Oh knew what it meant to be a work in progress. Keep in mind that before he became Paul, his name was Saul. Saul the agitator, Saul the persecutor who would chase down Christians just for a small fee. It did not matter, but one day Saul met his mass. He's there on the master's robe and he's blinded by a light he has encountered. By God. So, why do you persecute me? Isn't that something that God changed his name and changed his mission He will do that. Amen? So Philippians 1. 6, Paul makes an observation of the people whose lives he believes will undergo a transformation. And one that will lead to a life of celebration. Verse 6, the one fast in the board says, being confident of this that he who began a good work in you all is it is confident Paul is sure. Paul is convinced. Paul is certain. Paul is persuaded by what he, that is God, has done in you, done in me. This is the foundation of our faith. Aren't you glad today that God is still at work? Aren't you glad today that God is changing you to be what he would have you to become? Ho with overjoy! Although in Jerusalem he had spent ten years with the people, overjoyed how they were growing in the Lord. See, he didn't just write it up, but people wrote Paul's. Paul Here's what's going on. Sometimes there were problems. Sometimes there were issues. But Paul dealt with all of them. Paul knew what was happening, even though he was locked up. He had a heart for the people In my 16 years of ministry, I'm always amazed, overjoyed, and thankful when I see people grow. Not that I need a pat on the back, but they have committed themselves to lure the scriptures, to myth themselves to learn more about Christ. You know, some of them had a heart blast We're not always dead who we are today. Someone saw something good in us. Someone mentioned the Bible to us. Someone walked before us in such a way. You say, you know what? That's not all bad. I think I like this. And we've tried it all over size. And blessed be the God today. Here we are. I think we've got to keep telling the old story. I think you've got to keep telling the book about Jesus. Here's what I believe. I believe that sometimes we're withholding information that they need. We talk about everything else under the sun except Jesus. Reverend, I don't want to offend anybody. You know, I don't I don't want to you know get on their wrong side. Well Guess what? Some things just need to be spoken. Most of all, folks ought to be able to see your witness and say he's not just talking the talk, or she's not just talking the talk. But they're actually leading in such a way. Amen. First John 3 and 2 says, Dear friends, we are children of God. And what we will be has not yet been known. But we know that when Christ appears, we shall be like him. We shall see him as he is. Paul makes an observation. He looks at the situation in Philippi. He sees the church, and despite what they're going through He's seeing them grow in the Lord. How exciting is that? But he's also believing God for transformation. Being confident of this that he who began of the work in you will carry it on to completion. In other words, the Lord will finish what he started. You'll be with that today that he's not a God quest Amen. But some of us who were never on a roll may have gotten an incomplete at our class Uh I. Wasn't a F. Wasn't a D, but you just did not get credit for the course. And it's that way in the school of life. But when you feel Engineering. When you feel distressed by your shortcoming, make sure that you remember that God is in the mix that God even through your challenges is yet forming you in such a way that you will become who has made so aren't you glad that that the mold wasn't just broken and that you were thrown out that you didn't have a shot that God comes along and equalizes Amen? Think often times about high school. You may not have been to talk to a person in high school. You would not most likely To succeed, and you are not most successful, but down the road, God has put you in a place that you have found success In helping people, you found success in being a blessing to someone else. Remember, God is transforming us I'm thinking of of that play-doh, you can make many things on a play-doh. It's always transforming. Whatever stage of life you may be in He is yet molding you and me and transporting us to his image. I love what Paul wrote to the church at Rome. Romans 12 and 2 says, be not conformed to this world. But be transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove what that is good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Paul sees their transformation. He sees the Philippian church before, and he sees the Polypian church now. He sees what the Philippian church can be You ever had folks say I remember you man? Oh yeah. Yeah, I I remember you. He said man that was 30 years ago. You knew Addition now. Amen? And God is yet doing that for us. Transformation. He's made the observation, but this will all lead, I believe, to a celebration. to the lack of celebration. Being confident of this that he who began a good work in you would carry it on to completion until the day of Christ Jesus. Paul gives a timetable, not an exact day. He says This work will continue in you that this progress until the day of Christ Jesus The day when Christ will come and receive his church by way of the rapture. 1 Thessalonians 4, 16 and 17 says, for the Lord himself Shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise First, verse 17, then we which are alive and remain shall be called together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And so Shall we ever be with the law? I know you like it around here. And so do I. But my God, one day, because we have been faithful One day because we have given our lives over to Christ. One day because this world will end at some point. Aren't you glad that there's a new building and a new place where you can go? Nobody's signing up to check out But blessed be to God when you do, not if you do. Don't you know God has already made plans for you? Amen. But until that day come, we are still a work in progress. Cabellow Castles, the late Spanish Chalice, made musical history with this instrument, playing for teens and Queens and presidents all over the world. At the age of 95, after a concert, a young reporter said to Mr. Castles, you are 95 years old And the greatest jealous that ever lived. Why do you still practice? This 95-year-old man thought about this for a half second. He said, because I think I'm making progress. It's been said that practice makes perfect. I believe that practice makes improvement. Amen? We have a practice. You don't have a team winning a championship and they don't practice. You don't have a runner breaking the record and getting a gold medal or a spear or even someone on the ice. They gotta practice, amen? I practice because Jesus died for me. I practice because he rose for me. I practice because he's coming back. I practice because heaven is my home. I practice with the shout and sometimes with the song. I'm pressing on the upward way. New height, I'm gaining every day. Still praying as I'm onward bound Lord, let my be on higher ground. The song was, Lord, lift me up. And let me stand by faith on heaven's table at a higher plane than I have found. Might be on higher run. I I just thought about flying. Amen. We can fly again. You know, flying is a process. You determine your destination. And then you book the flight. You can go online. Now, the old schoolers know you can go to the airport with a water cash in your hand and buy your ticket right there. Those are the old days You pay for the flight, you get to the airport, you check your bags, you go for security But you can't get on that plane without a boarding pass. All right. Do you have a boarding pass today? Proof that you've given your life to the Lord. A proof that you belong on the flight, amen? The one that's heading to glory, but between now and then Just know that God is working on you. Just know that He's chipping you away. Just know that He's making you anew because no matter what you think about it, you're still A work in progress. I'm glad to be a part of the Work in Progress Club. I don't have a five-year plan to make me perfect. I don't have a 10-year plan to transform me as the world sees it, but I thank God every day He's doing a new thing in me. I'm not the tennis I was on yesterday. That's the Tim I was last week, but thanks be to God if you see me in walking life. You know it's because God is walking. If you see me talking whether you know what? He's not there yet, but he's a work in progress. I want to walk in such a way that God might be pleased with me. Please be patient with me. God is not through with me yet. Amen. But when he gets through with me, amen, I will come forth as sure gold. A work in progress. Yeah, you look up at the day. I'm in progress. Yeah, you have a look about you. You I'm in progress. Amen. Blessed be the God. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. A work. In progress. Let's bow our heads all over this place. And there we'll lie as well. Tell me, Father, we we thank you today that you didn't give up on us, didn't throw us out, didn't condemn us But she gave us another opportunity that when we look in the mirror of life, that we're changing. Apparently for the better Maybe there's one today in this place. One today over the airways who you thought you ought to have been at a place by night. You said, I don't know why I'm not making progress. See, progress is not often what the world was saying. But it's he who begins a good work in you, just before it, as the word said, until the day of Jesus Christ. That is our prayer today. That you might continue to lead us in God. There's one who has never experienced you, one who has never made a decision that I want to make Jesus, my choice. Today could be that day. I pray even now for that person. That a man, that woman, that boy, that girl, that they may have an experience with Christ. And that you might get the glory. In Jesus' name. Amen. Praise God. God bless you. God bless you. Bless you. If you are still with us and you have opportunity to get your beverage out, opportunity to get your Holy Communion. What to share with you today. represents the body of Jesus Christ that was broken for us. And the blood that was shed there on the low running cross. We thank the Lord today if you have your elements with you. This prayer. Father, we thank you even now for this time of remembrance, the price that you paid. For our sins. So if we come today, we just remember, Paul says What's often as you do this you show for this death and suffering chilling to come again in Jesus' name. Today you have your wafer, you'll break like this, light for any. back to the day. Whatever that is, it represents. Think of what about Pastor Dr. Vaughn said, he said, you know what? Some will be taking communion all day to they have real wine. Amen. Bible says he took the bread. and he break it and gave it to the disciples and said, this is my body which is growing for you. Take eat the all of it we do as a cup and gave thanks to the thing. This is my blood shed for many for the remission of sins. Drink the all of it. Amen. After that he went out from the Mount of Allahs, able to share with his disciples. He began to Although spent that time in prayer took off. The towel around his face began to watch his disciples do. As Peter was having a little partners, he says, this is my example pretty much of spirit. Amen. Thank you for taking time to join us for us certainly Thank you for your words of prayer and encouragement. And thank you for your giving. The Harvest Building Plum campaign is going well thanks to you. There's no gift too small. No gift too large. Thank God for our benefactors. They're growing weakly, it seems $2,500 or more. Whatever the Lord leads you to give, give it. We're so thankful. On behalf of the staff and the family here at Harvard Scripture Ministries, until next time, have a blessed day. Stay in the Lord.