How excellent is his name in all the earth. We're grateful today. That we can call on that name at any time. Any time of the day. Let's bow before the Lord. Heavenly Father, as we come today, we stand with this assignment in toll. And that is to tell someone about the good news of Jesus Christ. We thank you, God, that one day we heard the news. And now we're just trying to pass it along. I pray even now that as we come to declare your truth, that we might decrease. and that you might increase, save someone today, encourage another. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. There's a word from the Lord today. As we continue to talk about uh a working faith. They're in the book of James. James, the second chapter And verse 26, that's the New Testament for you Bible scholars. And just go out on back. Write to James and you'll find there in the second chapter these words. When you found it, say amen. You're still looking, say hold on. If you're waiting for the screen to come up, say wait a minute. The Word of God reads as follows. For as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead also. We're going to preach today from the Samonic title, A Working Faith Part Two. A Working Faith Part Two I came across these gloves not long ago and they remind me of growing up that when when somebody had these gloves, they were not trying to be fashionable. Still find them on the shelf, but they are uh working gloves. I say working man gloves, but they could be working gloves for women as well. And gloves are important. They're not fancy. They'll fit about any hand. You won't get many looks, but they take care of business. How many of you have working gloves at home that you use? Amen. How many want some gloves? We don't want our nails to get dirty. We don't make sure we don't get something uh on our hands. Uh but here as of late, uh gloves have been considered what we call PPE. uh personal uh protective equipment. And gloves are used for a purpose. They're highly recommended that you're going to do something. Uh I remember the days when we didn't have gloves you grabble to that rink long enough at some point you will get a blister. Have we got a blister? You were working diligently until you realize that you needed something to cover your hands. Now one of the oldest gloves discovered that had fingers to them, because there was a day they weren't that kind of gloves, was back with King Tut. They said that when he passed, they looked into his tomb, and there he had a pair of gloves. He was one of the pharaohs there in the 18th century. And it said that he used those gloves to drive his chariot. But certainly within uh Greek and Roman culture, gloves were used for warfare, they were used for agriculture. Amen? I believe that gloves are necessary But so is work that if you associate somebody, even if I didn't didn't hit a lick, if I walked into some place looking like I was gonna work. The fact that I've got a pair of gloves, you know, that looks like I'm ready to go. As believers, what is it that you carry? that may give somebody the indication that you are really serious about the work of the Lord. Amen. Let's recap from last week. We talked about uh there in in in the book of romans certainly about recapping the book of john brother about stipulation uh jesus challenged his followers that uh if you believe in me, that you really can't carry out the work of the Lord with no knowledge of of the Lord Jesus Christ. But that's the first step. There's certain things in in the contract, so to speak, that you believe in me, and then you will do not just what I have done, these things, but greater things. That's the same with me even until this week that uh you know sometimes you've just kind of played yourself short. Uh that God has created us in his image and there's so many things we can do uh in the Lord. Amen? You'll be amazed at how effective you are if you're doing it as unto him. And I even lifted up the fact that it takes participation. You can talk about work Uh but until you get out and do the work, uh that our faith, I've said it again, it's not a lazy faith, that we ought to do something. Maybe I can do one thing And you can do another. But folk ought to be able to see our light and know that there's something peculiar about us And it's okay to say, I'm a Christian. I'm I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And there's some things we certainly don't want to talk about and say, well, you know what? My faith is private Understood. But we can do something as it relates to work. And of course, work is a work of transformation that in the midst of doing something and working from the Lord, you can not be the same. Amen. And folk who knew you back in the day said, Oh, you you kinda changed up a little bit. It's not your address, but there are things that you've grown and matured in. And oftentimes you don't realize it. Amen. You you don't realize what that devotional has done for you. You don't realize what your prayer life and your struggles have done for you. Other folks see you as different because God has brought you through something And you're being transformed. So it's not really about you and I, but when you do the work of the Lord, you won't be the same. In today's text, we go to the book of James. He's believed to be one of the brothers of Jesus Christ. And he was one who really early on did not believe that Jesus was really the Christ. That's right. You just my brother. But he soon came to realize who it was he had grown up with, who it was who had worked miracles, and he became the head of the Jerusalem church. In his letter today, he directs toward uh the Jew as Christians who are persecuted. And he writes to them to encourage them. In fact, right in the first chapter, he says in 1 and 22, but be ye doers of the word. and not hearers only, deceiving your own souls. There again it comes back to what are you doing to advance the kingdom of God? It may be a small thing. Amen? But what is it that each of us is doing to qualify as work from the Lord We don't need a badge, don't need a uniform, just say, I'm determined to work for the cause of the kingdom. This morning I want to talk about faith and how faith without works is dead. So what does that mean? Uh yeah, some scholars suggest that The lack of works reveals an unchanged life. So you can't be saying that you're saved and you're doing nothing You can't say that I'm a Christian and you haven't hit a lick at all. You've not said anything to anyone, but more so, uh is your life displaying that Aren't you glad you're not the person you want to work? Even though you like that person? You like that swag, but but you're not the person that you were because God is constantly changing us. And so The question begs, can I earn my salvation? If I want to become saved, what does it take? Do I have any reward points? Amen. Listen, I I've done this, this, this and this. God surely I've got some points. But go to the gas pump, it's oh I got some points off. You get in line with your little work point. It doesn't work that way. You can't earn a seat into the kingdom. No matter how good you and I believe that we are, uh the price has already been paid. Amen. Hey, stamp, paid for it. You didn't do a thing except to open your heart to Jesus Christ. It's been suggested that we don't have a work-based faith, but rather a faith that works. Does that make sense? A faith that's operational, uh a faith that is effective, and oftentimes you know you're doing the work because there's fruit. Associated with your work. That the fact that you have been living the life that the Lord has led you to lead, that somebody is being affected by your walk. Someone is being affected by your testimony, and there's some proof. You're not just on the vine, but blessed be the God. And it's been said that works are not the cause of salvation Brother, works are the evidence of salvation. Let me back it up for a second. Works are not the cause of salvation, but works are the evidence of salvation. I know it sounds repetitive. But that's what we are called to do. It's to roll up our sleeves. We're called to get the things that God has given us and to let someone know. About how great he is. Anybody got a testimony today? Say, you know what? Amen. Let me just tell you where God has brought me from. I remember very clearly uh growing up and hearing the deacons give a testimony. There's no way in the world I believe that that uh that deacon Sam Martin get about all night. He said, oh Timmy, I used to guess that he can't. That's Deacon Lord. I can't put my mind around the fact that Deacon Lord was No. That that blew me away. Or that Deacon Johnny Mitchell Has shot a man, killed a man, that's what they say. I'm like, wow. And people look at you and say, oh I can't believe what God has done in your life. That we are still in progress. Amen. So our working faith must also be a living faith. And a giving faith and a transmitting faith. For the as the body without the spirit is dead, our body is kept alive by the spirit, our soul The body has no life independent of the Spirit of God, independent of the soul. As a body is without a soul, so faith without works is dead. Had a funeral, buried, there's something that we're called to do. Ephesians 2, 4 and 5. I love what Paul says in the church at Ephesus. He says, but because of his great love for us. God who is rich in mercy, verse five says, He has made us alive with Christ. Even we were what? We were dead in transgressions. It is by grace you have been saved. You you and I were on life support. Until the Spirit of God came by and said they still use those came what them things called when you put You get by gone, but they come and they bring you back. And the truth of the matter is many of our lives were like that. Until the Lord came by and gave us a shock treatment and woke us up and put us on the right path. And now we're saying, hallelujah, thank you, Jesus. Aren't you glad today that he shook your experience? Experience turns your life around and you have a faith that is a living faith. Thank God for the spirit. Paul also says in Ephesians 5 and 18, he says, and be not drunk with wine. Pause right there. Wearin in excess, but be filled with The spirit. Yes. You and I can't do the work based on our own intellect. We go to the wrong person, but there are times that and I love to witness That I have to make sure it's spirit land. Just because I said I'm gonna go over and tell that brother right now, you need Jesus Christ in your life. Did the Spirit lead you there? Or was it you being a show? You know? You the you the big person in school. You you the Christian, so you're obligated to pull somebody up. No Be led by the Spirit of God. And the Spirit will give you a whisper when the moment comes. Amen? That that you'll know when it's been activated. Even at home, even with our children, the time we want to just get right into them. And the Spirit said, now is that the flesh? Or is that the spirit? Did I tell you to say that? You go say it's an eye. Lord told me to tell you. It's about being spirit-led. Am I on somebody's street today? We always have advice when we're parents. We will share it, but in what context? Are we here now, the parents of all giving us advice? And you say, I don't know where that came from. It came from the scriptures. Amen. Oh, you will respect me. What does that mean? That came out of the word. You know, train up a child know where they should go when they're old, they will not depart. Amen. Thank be the God that we need God's spirit. Our faith ought to be a living faith. It's necessary for working, not optional. But not just that. We ought to have a giving faith. That faith ought to be the source of all that we do. Our our belief in Jesus Christ. That's what our faith is. I can't say to you, I got 80% faith, and you got 20. I don't know what you're going through, but once you exercise your faith, you'll find that Some stuff that used to hold you down, make you doubt. You say, you know what? I'm just going to trust you, God. Has that gotten to your life that you say, you know what? I I can't figure it out. But I'm going to trust you in faith. How many folks don't feel way right now? Unless you work it out. Yeah, I get no sleep at night. But am I gonna trust God in this anyhow? God just preached to me this morning. Look at that. But there's some things in my own life. I said, you know what? I know he's gonna make a way. And you oftentimes you wanna fix it. But allow him By way of faith. The Bible says Hebrews 11, 1 and 2. Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. And by faith, the elders obtained a good report. That when you go out doing the work of faith You gotta have faith to do it. Amen. Amen. That we're looking to approach someone. We're looking to live that life, and we're doing the Lord's work. Don't forget about these gloves now. Amen. You say, well, Rebe I got some gloves. I'm ready to go. And this giving faith, you're really saying to someone that I have for you a life jacket. That we see people in our lives that we need to just throw off the lifeline. Don't sit and say but you know they've been through what I've been through. I'll just let them go through it. And they they got to learn the hard way. You know what we say. Hard head makes Yeah. But we gotta have faith that when we approach and plant the seed that we know it is our belief in God, Ephesians 2, 8 and 9. Somehow we keep coming back to Ephesians today. For by grace are you saved through faith. And that not of yourselves, it is a gift of God, not of works, lest any one should boast that I've done something important. It's the Lord working through you. Giving faith, a living faith, and let's end it with this a transmitting faith That does your faith just stay in your local area or does your faith go out? The work that we do, does it go beyond uh uh you know the the county line does it go beyond your house and beyond wherever and and this internet stuff allow you to reach persons in many places Some years ago we began putting our sermons and devotionals on on sermon audio. And it is amazing each month to see in all the different countries. That if it's just one person clicked on, then you reach that one person in that country. Some time ago we were in Russia, I was old Lord But somebody in Russia got a word. I don't know who it was, but when we do it, it allows us to transmit that what God has done in our life. To pass along something. to to someone else. Health experts told us that we we should not transmit. Is that what COVID has been about? That you're transmitting, but when it comes to faith It's okay to share it. It's okay to let someone know that the Lord has brought you through seeing and unseen dangers. Amen. Our faith must be shared. That's a part of the word. Sharing with co-workers and sharing with friends and sharing with complete strangers. But there comes a time when we become frustrated. That I've been talking to that person for a year and they still ain't got it. How long did it take you to get it You know I I every day I've been trying to give them the word. Is that you keeping score? Just live the life. Just do the work 1 Corinthians 15, 58 says, Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. For as much as you know your labor Labor, labor is not in vain, because y'all are Bible scholars in the Word. And so we got to just keep doing the work of faith whether we see results or not. It's not about us. You say, well I would have said it 1100 times But you don't know what seed has been planted, and we gotta be patient. Amen. Please be patient with me. God is not through with me yet. And when God gets through with me, then I will come forth. Not when you get through with me, but when oh I'm getting excited about that. When God gets through with me, I'm gonna be somebody different. When God keeps working on me, I won't be the person I used to be But my God, we gotta be patient. So don't give up on that on that child. And don't give up on that co-order. And don't keep on keep on living it and sharing it You're not keeping score. God will do it, but you do the work. Amen. Oh, blessed be to God. Make a commitment to do the faith work regardless. I was listening the other day to a throwback. I'd like to see what year songs came out Oh I I remember that. I wasn't in faith then when that was out. When that was number one. But The car war song at the car wash. Some of y'all Saw the movie, some of y'all humming it now, in your head, with your holy self, but you're being done. And when I heard that song, I was like, okay. I must have missed this. It says, the least thing is this, those cars never seem to stop coming. And the background says work. Ain't work. That's all. And then he came back and says, those rags and machines are humming and the background says Work and work. And the Christian life is one of work and work. And so you can't be tithe to do the work. That when you reach someone for Christ, it is what? Work and work. That means work on top of work. That you can't fall in the tower. You can't Throw your gloves away, there's still work and work to do. That on the old rugged cross, it was work and work. Because we knew that our lives had been lost. It took some work. And work to bring us to a relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. Buried in a grave, but he rose on the third day morning. That was the work And the work of the Spirit of God. Isn't that good news today? And the fact of the matter is, is that you and I, while we're doing the work We are yet a work in progress. Oh, God is not done with you and I yet. And so when you're doing the work Think about the work that has been done in you. That when you do the work of faith, think about God, I was that same person. Doing the same thing, but you brought me through, and I'm glad about it, that it took some work and work in my life And it still takes some work. Anybody ever fall off the wagon every now and then? Whatever your wagon is. But blessed be the God that He forgives us of our sins. I think that you would take Home today some work and work. That we can't afford to give up on anybody. We gotta continue to press Toward them all for the prize of the high calling in Christ Jesus. I don't know about you, but I'm trying to roll my sleeves up now. I'll work overtime. Amen. Blessed be the God today. How much am I getting? Pay, or you'll get your reward in heaven. But just keep going. Anybody want to work today? Wanna work for the Lord today? That you committed to have a faith that is a living faith A giving faith and a transformative faith, it is one that is being transmitted. That you've already hit hit the tower. to live that life that someone is being affected. They see the work that's been done in you and therefore It is the assignment. Amen? Ah, faith that works. Part two. Let's go one more round next week. Amen. Stay tuned for part three. Come on, give God a praise today. Yeah. Reverend I'm I'm tired. I just worked the double for the Lord. Okay? Yeah, see I that person ain't doing as much as me and they getting paid more. We had on yesterday and we were kind of having a little fun out on on the grounds and We kept giving Brother Barr a hard time. I said, man, you the foreman. Any decision we make, we're going to the foreman. Supervisor. Anybody supervisor or you know someone who is? Now you say how do you see it? And God has put us all in positions. I can't say it enough. That there's so much work to be done. It's easy to say, I don't know why she wearing that. I tell you what, that's a lot of cussing in that song. In the song. Then that means we got more work to do. I don't know. It ain't like it used to be. We were in that stuff. It was easy to point the finger. Is that you can't be so heavily minded. That you're no earthly good. A lot of some transparency. I do it all the time with my my young folk. I say What you know about that song? Well that was that no that who made that that's a sample that song came from 69 and folks ought to be able to sample From your life. A sample from your testimony. Allow yourself to be transparent today. Let's bow before the Lord today Heavenly Father, who are not tired yet, works is that you're long suffering. Yes. Not