Good day, my friends, Dr. Tim Tooten with Harvest Christian Ministries. I'm so glad you've taken time to listen to this broadcast Today's sermon is one that will lift you up, one that will encourage you to run this race with patience, looking to Jesus Christ. the author and finisher of our faith. We're a small ministry with big ideas who serve a great and mighty God. And now, today's message. This is the day that the Lord had made. Let us do what Rejoice and be glad in the day. Let's bow today all over this place. Father, we do thank you Thank you for your provisions for allowing us to stand once again and to declare your word. You take a risk when you put your word in our mouths. But I pray today, God, that we might continue to decrease and that you might increase Save someone today. Encourage another. We'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. So good to be in this place. Amen. I was out of town over the weekend and got a chance to speak with one of our West Virginia viewers. And she tunes in every Sunday morning. And I just want to say to Sister Johnson, God bless you, and to all the others who are out there in Facebook Land. Praise God. Let me know where you're where you're from. Shout out. And if you're ever in Baltimore, let us know. We'll try to get you to the airport and we'll bring you in Buy you a biscuit, feed you, bring you to church, amen? But there's a word from the Lord uh today that comes from uh the book uh first corinthians paul's letter to the church at Corinth. Uh we'll just take a few of those verses today. First Corinthians 12, 8 It says, to one there's given through the Spirit a message of wisdom. To another, a message of knowledge by means of the same Spirit. To another, faith by the same Spirit To another gifts of healing by that one spirit. I want to preach today from the Samonic title: activate your Spiritual gifts part one. Activate your spiritual gift part one A few weeks ago I was convinced by my family that it was time for me to upgrade my smartphone. So I showed up at the store with my wife and my credit card. And the rest is history But I watched very carefully as the salesperson to go look at my old, I didn't think it was so old of a phone. He inspected it, he looked over it And he was able to activate it. He pressed a couple of codes. I gave him my password, and my new phone is fully activated Now, my passport alone would not have activated the phone, but he did some fancy stuff that only they know what to do to allow you to be able to use your device. But I was reminded this week of how as believers in Jesus Christ, we've got to activate our spiritual gifts Over the past few weeks, we've been talking about uh our class on gifts. I thought I would just preach right in that same vein. So we'll unpack some of Paul's letters today As he talks about the church and he sheds light on spiritual gifts. But as a foundation, let me just say this: that if you have accepted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, you have at least one spiritual gift. Let me say that again. If you say yes, Reverend, I'm saved. I know Jesus You have at least one spiritual gift, even though the Spirit gives them severally, that is foundational. So tell someone, I don't know, I don't have a gift. I'm just saying, no, you got one. Amen. And we want to encourage you to activate that gift today. And Paul writes not just in 1 Corinthians. But in several of the passages, he talks about gifts. There's been some debate of the nine or the nineteen or how many are there, but just know that there's one with your name on it. So keep in mind that as we talk about the gift, why? Why the gift? Why do I need to activate it? Reverend, what's the big deal? When you do that, it allows you to bless the body of Christ. That what you are able to do spiritually can help someone else It can help the church. You don't want to just have all arms and we all do the same thing, but God has gifted you. Am I encouraging you today? God has really gifted you in such a special way that there's that one thing that you do well to build up the body To encourage someone to let them know they can make it and it's all in you. So today we'll talk about the gift of wisdom And the gift of knowledge and the gift of faith. Can I just tell you that Paul is right on my street? All three are right on my street. And it's not happen chance that these three areas of giftedness are areas that I seek the Lord for. And they help us in our daily living. Let's take wisdom. To one, there is given through the Spirit a message of wisdom. And don't you laugh? But gray hair does not determine whether or not you're wise. It just means that you you gray prematurely. It means uh that you just been around for a minute. But wisdom really in a pure form is the ability to apply the principles of the Word of God in a practical way to specific situations and to recommend the best course of action. We we like to hang around folks who are wise. And it's not always about your age, but that how can I take what God has given me and be able to frame it in a real sensible way that I've got some biblical wisdom. Folk get wise, they look a certain way. A young man, young lady, but it's not so much our experience. But how do you observe the Word of God? Everything we needed in the Word. And so to have this gift of wisdom is to be able to look at the Word Have the word to look at you and be able to explain it in such a way that you're helping somebody else. Praise God. My mother to this day still prays for me specifically. I fake her prayer. For that. She says, I always pray that the Lord might crown you with wisdom and knowledge. I don't know about you, but I've always been a wise person Now do I have a witness? I've done some crazy stuff, didn't even think about it. It wasn't wisdom. It was craziness. But God. Who made a way out of no way. And so Paul talked to the Corinthian church. He wanted to let them know that I'm rejecting your worldly wisdom. See, the world has its own set of wisdom. You know, we think here's our forecast, and here's what we believe of the next trends. Don't you know that God can work things out on your behalf based on His Word? I've never seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread. The Lord will be with you always, even to the end of the earth. There are so many things within his word that provides wisdom, and what Paul is saying is that that is a gift. Not everybody's lining up to be saying I'm wise, but you will know because God will give you that special insight. That if it's activated, you won't have to brag about, you know, I'm wise. If you know, do I look wise? But God will be able to have you to share with persons and share from His word, and people will be blessed because you've activated your gift of wisdom. Is it possible that you've got the gift and it's still lying dormant? Is it possible that you've been running from the gift? Is it possible that you said I don't care what you said, I ain't gonna activate anything. I'll just be who I am. But God wants more from us than just the mundane In the ordinary, I need some wisdom from God. We make decisions every day and we don't think about it, we just do it. Didn't pray about anything, but when God gives you some wisdom Been around the block a couple of times, you learn how to apply the biblical principles to life and to decisions. It's not just what I feel, but wisdom Proverbs 2 and 6 says, For the Lord gives wisdom. From his mouth comes knowledge and understanding. I love the other proverb to trust in the Lord with all your heart and to lean not to your old understanding, but in all your ways acknowledge Him. He'll do what? He'll direct your faith. Do you feel wiser? Just knowing that it's possible that you are totally around a wisdom gift and you're afraid to activate it, today turn the switch on. That just may be your gift. Oh, does that scare you or am I helping you? Sometimes we don't want to be wise. But you say it, and God will open your mouth up. You speak it, He'll give you what you need to say. That is this gift of wisdom. But also There's this gift of knowledge. Now, now the gift of wisdom and knowledge are similar. They'll both relate to special understanding, but if we're not careful, we'll have our little knowledge and think that we're wise But knowledge applied correctly can become wisdom. Knowledge is the ability to discover and to analyze truth for the benefit of others. Well you got a degree or two. But knowledge means to investigate, to dig for the truth, to look for those nuggets. This is not classroom stuff It's enriching others and their abilities. The Corinthian church had gotten the big head. They thought they were really all that smart. So smart for themselves. Amen. But Paul is writing to encourage them in the Lord. I'm blessed to have a couple of degrees. Praise God. That's nice, but that's just knowledge. But what happens when you take knowledge and begin to allow the Lord to use it? I like what uh someone said years ago, and some of y'all might hold this uh distinction. It's uh cum lati And there's summa cum laude. And then there's oh my lore. Amen. I got that distinction, oh my lore Didn't he bring me through? Oh Lord. Amen. But having knowledge and being able to gain knowledge I suggest reading a book. I suggest getting information. But when the Spirit of God is working on you, you can have the knowledge that you've obtained and be able to help someone else Yeah, you're a smart self. You may have a a second grade degree, but you got some knowledge. My father had a sixth grade education Was a smart somebody. He knew how to do stuff. And so don't let your lack of a degree keep you from knowing that within you, perhaps, is the gift of knowledge. Your scholarly self and Jesus. Look at you. You head of the class looking. You let me look at you today. He wants to do that in your experience. Look, Proverbs one and seven. It says, The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. That when I give reverence to God, when I acknowledge who He is, I'm really getting into some deep water. I'm really getting some real knowledge now. Stuff that's not in the books, but yet in the book of life. That is being the Bible. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, but fools despise wisdom and instruction. That's unlike some of us. We used to be hard headed. I didn't want to hear anything. It was our way, a no way. Amen? But then one day something got a hold of you. You realize that I've done it my way for way too long and I need to have some biblical knowledge. I need a scripture or two under my belt to be able to say, Lord, I don't know many, but I can take this with me And so he wants to dig that out of you, activate the gift of knowledge. Wisdom, knowledge, and faith. Nine says to another. That means that everybody got a different gift. Faith by the same spirit. Yeah, yeah. Folk may tell you, they'll say, well, you know I I know your gift, Doc. No. Don't let somebody tell you what your gift is You ask the Lord to reveal it to you, and that way when you walk in it, you're doing the right thing. Faith is the substance of things hopeful. And the evidence of things not seen, but faith is the ability to have a vision for what God wants to be done and to do it confidently And keep this in mind, scholars really agree on this, that they're saving faith. That when you come to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, that is, Father, I believe you sent Jesus Christ I believe he died. I believe he rose again. That is saving faith. But there's another realm of faith. Oh God. It's faith that deals with the miraculous. It's faith that takes you out of your comfort zone It's faith that had you to step off on a ledge in the name of Jesus. Anybody ever done that before? You just say, you know what? I can't see a thing, but God, I trust you God, I believe that you'll make a way out of no that's faith. That that is and there's just some folk you marvel at. Oh yeah, well I can do this. You said, well let me check back tomorrow. I'll uh let me think. And they say, oh, don't you believe And there's just some folk that we come across who've activated their gift of faith. They just believe. We still shaking and fumbling and and grumbling and scratching our heads, but they have seen some extraordinary things happen in your own life. How many folk have seen God just blow your mind? I mean, your faith was really must receive faith. And one thing about faith, the enemy will tell you enough to tell nobody. You don't spoke it. What if it don't happen? That's what fear would do. So well, I'm going to claim this thing in Jesus' name. Then you go home and say, Oh Lord, is it going to happen? But some folk have this faith And we're all growing in it. It may not be your gift, but that's a certain kind of faith. And so those things lined up for me this week. That God give me your wisdom even as I lead your people and give me the knowledge as I share the word and give me the faith to believe that there's more that you want to do That thing was like on my street. Can I just testify that, Lord, you must have picked those three out for me? I know there are others to come, but I thank you that you're building up my faith I thank you that you're growing my faith. I thank you that you're giving me an avenue to say, Lord, it is possible. Some of you are walking right now in major faith Some of y'all say, oh yeah, Reverend, that's been my gift. Yeah, well you you can I'm gonna claim this thing. Others of us are still growing But you've got the gift of faith. Hey! It's a spiritual gift, and you have no problem saying, Lord, do it. Do it for me. Do it for my children. Do it for the church. God has given that faith. Romans ten and seventeen says, so then Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. Something you heard on TV, but you've been in that word. And once you're in that word, it will build your faith. You want a faith builder? Just study the Word of God. You want something that's going to build your faith up? Just get some word in you. Amen. The Bible says to desire the milk of the Word, huh? So that you might grow that. get some muscles in Jesus. Amen? But that's just a few of the gifts. What better time to activate your spiritual gift than right now? Paul wrote to a young Timothy. Timothy, I know you're having a rough time with the church, but let me just remind you about your grandmama, Miss Lois. And your mother, Miss Eunice. Oh, y'all know some Miss Lewis's and some Miss Eunice's. He says, Now I know what's already in you. Won't you stir up the gift? That's already, once you set aflame, what is already happening in you, I'm dare you to activate the gift that God has given you Let's activate the gifts we've been sitting on. The ones we packed away and put on the shelf, they're already in you. The late pastor and leader Myles Monroe says this about spiritual gifts. He says the gift is not something that we learn. It's something that God gave us. It's something we need to discover and stir up. He says, activate the gift, and no one can activate the gift for you. You better flip the switch yourself. Lord, use me. And then you do it by developing Refining and enhancing and using that gift and allowing the Word of God to guide you. I don't know about you, but I'm excited about what's already in you. But I can't flip the switch I know you're gifted. Every one of you in here who knows Jesus, you got one or two. But I have no power to press the button. I can't flip the switch. Only you can do that. How many folk already got the hand on the switch? Say, God, I I know I gotta give, and I want you to tell me, let me just flip the switch. Let me activate what is already in me And you'll be amazed what God would do. Things will start to happen. Chains will be broken. Lives will be transformed all because you activated your gift. That spiritual gift. Do it for Christ's sake. Not for the pastor's sake. Not for the loved one's sake. But do it for the sake of Christ. As I close today, I love this hymn. It says, you may build great cathedrals, large or small, you may build skyscrapers Grand and tall. You may conquer all the failures of the past, but only what you do for Christ will last. Flip. Remember, only what you do for him will be counted in the end. Only what you do. Uh-oh. Only What you do for Christ will make a difference. Only what you do will help to make the lives of others better. That's our first preachment, teachment on spiritual gifts. On next week, we'll go a bit further in that same series of passages. What are they again? Wisdom. Oh, some of y'all got it? Amen. That is the word of God today. It's already blessed. Come on, get another phrase today And take time to activate that which is in you Somebody needs it. Somebody desires what God has placed in you. You are gifted. You are a child of Jesus Christ himself. I'm glad today that he sought me to identify some of my gifts. One of them is the gift of encouragement. I know it. I love to encourage this gift of evangelism. I love to share the word. That's some of the gifts. And he has more in you. Amen? Let's together come to Jesus. He wants you to come. Not just to show up. But when you come, allow him to use you. I pray before you leave this place today that you have been already asking God, God, what's my spiritual gift? And He's already started to reveal it to you. Activate it today. Come to Jesus. Come to Jesus. Come to Jesus. Come to Jesus. Come to Jesus, come to Jesus He will save you. He will save He was thank you, J Let me just say this to you today. You've come And you've never received Christ as your personal Savior, have the faith to ask Him to come into your heart today. And He'll do it And once you do that, as a part of the package deal, you're filled with the Holy Spirit. And as a part of that, get at least one gift. Did you know that? And as a result, he may give more than one to you. So that you might bless the body of Christ. If you've come today, you don't know Jesus. I want to pray with you where we are today. That's wise when you accept Christ. That's real knowledge when you say, Lord, I get this. You'll save yourself. If you bow today, if you're here today, I want to pray for you. Father, I come in the name of Jesus. I pray for that soul that has not surrendered to you. That you might save them. Even now. Do it, God, we pray. In Jesus' name. Invitation is always open to join this fellowship. But I I want to close out with the altar prayer being where you are I want to pray with you because I know that when these weeks are done and we take a poll, every hand of go up, oh yeah, I don't mind Why? You will have activated it by then. Let's bow. Father, I come in the name of Jesus. And we're just speaking your word back to you. That some she gave wisdom. Some wisdom Some knowledge, some faith, and the list goes on. I pray in the name of Jesus. You might free up that person to say, I need to know what it is, but I'll just never ask you. And so ask him today What have you gifted me, God, to do spiritually for you? If you do that, I believe through the Spirit of God, He will reveal that area to you. In fact, I know here's faith. I know he'll reveal it if you ask for it. He'll give you the code. Prayer, fasting, study, meditation will unlock your gift. Do it today, we pray now in Jesus' name. Come on, give that a praise today. Amen. I pray you were blessed by today's sermon. I am just so thrilled that God would use me to help you and to encourage you in the Lord. Now to find out more about our ministry, go to our website. It's www. com,thenumbertwoharvest. org. That's www. com the number to harvest. org. Also, check out our brand new church ad. It's called HCM Baltimore. That's HCM Baltimore. Go and search Google Play or iTunes. And then download it and you'll be blessed immensely by this app. It'll give you devotionals, videos, prayer wall, directions, and everything you will need. Again, Dr. Tim Tootin in Baltimore County, Maryland. Have a great day in the Lord and thank you so much for listening.