Amen. How many can testify after that this morning that our God is great? He's greatly to be praised in the city of our God. We serve a great And a mighty God, if you know that to be so, just say amen where you are today. It's time for the word of God. Let's have a word of prayer. Father, we come. In the name of Jesus. And as we come today, we thank you for the blessings of this day and for the assignment that is ours for this moment. It is our prayer. that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. There's a word from the Lord this morning I want to share with you that comes from the Gospel of Matthew. As we've said, gospel simply means good news, and don't we need some good news today? Take time to find that passage. If not, it's there on the screen for you. And during the course of the week, just read all of Matthew, first, second, third chapters. It tells the whole story Matthew 1 and 19 says, Because Joseph, her husband, was a righteous man and did not want to expose her to public disgrace He had in mind to divorce her quietly. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, Actions Speak Louder Than Words. Actions speak louder than words. It is a wise saying. It is an age-old saying. When you hear that, you've got an idea of what it means. There's a short definition for that. And when those is people are more likely to believe what you do rather than what you say. People are more likely to watch you. People are more likely to check you out, other than just hearing you say it over and over again Can I go to the streets? On the street, they would say talk is cheap, put in a real way, that there's so many things we can say, but what are we doing to back it up? Research not long ago found that we as adults, for the most part, speak more than 7,000 words on average in a day. That's a lot of talking. Amen. And when I think of the 70s and I think of James Brown, he said it well in a song that was up the charts called Talking loud and saying nothing. Being so careful that we just don't talk, but that we might do something Even as I share from the Bible today and in this preachment, I'm sharing words I pray will encourage your heart today. You know, I believe this morning that in order to become effective fathers, we must consider the life and the ministry of one of the Bible's lesser-known characters. in the person of Joseph. For a moment, use your spiritual imaginations. Let me take you down to Nazareth. It is hidden in a ridge off the beaten trail. empty fields, farming community at the time, maybe five hundred people, small town. Among the residents in Nazareth, a carpenter named Joseph his wife to be whose name is Mary. And Matthew says they'd already made plans for a wedding. And of course, within the culture That was just not I do or I will. This had been planned for many, many months before they got to this point But then there's a wrinkle that develops within their wedding plans. If you've gotten married recently or many years ago, you know that a wrinkle can happen in your marriage plans. Amen? In the case of Joseph and Mary, it was more than a wrinkle. He found out that his bride to be was pregnant. Then you hear the music underneath come up and the scene change. And there he is having to deal with this information that comes by way of an angel of the Lord. He's having to process this. He's having to scratch his holy head and say, now, uh tell me again how this all took place We haven't even got marriage yet. And he's being assured that this is of the Holy Spirit. But he finds them place between a rock and a heart place. He finds himself having to make a decision based on what the law said and what the Holy Spirit was saying to him as to what he ought to do. You know, life is full of decisions And sometimes we have a knee-jerk reaction. Sometimes, come on fathers, every now and then we'll do some things that may not be well thought out. But thank God that we're climbing the mountain day by day. He could have had a stone, but the Bible says and he was a righteous man. He was a just man. In other words, he was someone who respected God. He was someone who made sure he stayed in touch. And so instead of making a big spectacle Instead of making this thing public and going down to the Nazareth courthouse and saying, well, I want to declare on the steps of the Nazareth courthouse that my wife to be as pregnant. No, no, no. He he he did it the way God told him to do it. But it took an angel of the Lord to change his mind to convince him that this was so much bigger than him. I believe that at that moment that Joseph became a person of action as a man, as a husband, and as a father. So let's unpack this. As a man, the Bible again says that Joseph was a carpenter, but he was a righteous man. He was a just man. He was a man that followed the law. Amen? It is great to know and to embrace the fact that you are a godly man. See, I said a godly man. It's one thing to be a man Just because you over 21 and got a piece of money in your pocket, voice got deep, you got a little facial hair, nice little car, and you think that you somebody That you are the man. But it's not a godly man, because a godly man is one who fears God. Amen. And you say, you know what, I'm a man. Well, some of you fellas know you were of that age and you thought you were really a man. And you had some responsibilities, but not full responsibilities. And Joseph demonstrated his faith in God, knowing that he was God's man. 1 Corinthians 13, 11 says, When I was a child. I spake as a child. I understood as a child. I thought as a child. But when I became a man, I put away childish things. Amen. I put away childish things. Men, we must put our toys away. It's time to grow up and become a real man, to stand up. And to say, I declare that I am going to follow the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Isn't that good news today to know that you are a God man? And Psalm 1, 1 and 2, says, Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sit in the way of sinners, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and because of that he meditates day and night. Isn't that great to know that I'm not just a man, but I am a God-driven, God-respecting, God-loving man And it's all because of my action, not so much what I say. The Bible says we want to be doers of the word and not hearers only. So Joseph proved by his actions There again, he hasn't said a single word that's being recorded, but he proves by his actions that he is a man. I want to move on this, but I want you to know what it means to be a man But also, it's important to know that he's also a husband. Amen? He is a husband Amen. If we look further on, it says how when he woke up, he did what the angel of the Lord had commanded him, and he took Mary as his wife. There was a change that he took her as his wife. He at that point became a husband. In this verse, we see this transformation in the life of Joseph. You may say, Reverend, I'm not married yet Maybe I'm thinking about it. Yeah, I'm a man, but there is a transformation when you go from being just a man to a godly husband. Amen? There's a responsibility that comes along with being a husband. You can smile and laugh over the wedding pictures. You can say, yeah, that's my girl, but at the end of the day, you got to be a man and to be a godly husband. Genesis two and twenty-four says, Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and cleave unto his wife and they shall become one flesh. Can I do just a little 101 marriage counseling this morning that it's not just about you Amen. It's one, and the two shall become one. One plus one equals one in God's eye. Ephesians 5, 25. Through 27 says, husbands, talking to all my husbands now, love your wives just as Christ loved the church. and gave himself up for her. In the same way, husbands ought to love their wives as they love their bodies, their own bodies, that gym body, that six-pack. Uh you gotta love your wife the same way uh as you love yourself. I don't know many folk who don't love themselves. Come on, brothers. And so on this Father's Day, the importance of becoming a God-fearing husband. That you made the commitment. And Joseph made that commitment with all that he had to go through And with all the talk around town, did you hear about Joseph? I heard Mary was already pregnant, man. He said, you know what? I'm going to do what God told me to do. Take this woman as your wife. And if that wasn't enough, they went to take part in the census. So they packed up. She's pregnant, and they head from Nazareth to Bethlehem. And of course we know what happens in Bethlehem. Come on, you Bible students. There's some real breaking news, some news that has been prophesied It was during the time when he couldn't get into the holiday inn that they had a moment where Christ was born there in a stable with the animals. Oh, blessed be to God And that's so important that he did what he had to do, didn't fuss about it apparently, didn't say a mumbling word, but as a godly husband, actions spoke louder than words. He was able to move to that point, and we know that from that that Christ was born. A man, a husband, but a father. You probably say, well, Reverend, when are you going to get to fathers? You know, this is the Joseph model. Joseph model is man, husband, father. It's not always in that order, but God can bless any arrangement you have. But Joseph just gives the Example. Bible says later in Matthew 2 that from that point he got up, he gathered his young family together, and he went back to Nazareth to raise his family. He went back to raise Little Jesus. He went back to make sure that he was doing what a father does. Didn't say a word. I I'm always amazed by this text. He didn't say it. It was not recorded. He just was a man of action There were other children born after Jesus. The Bible makes reference to this when he talks about the sisters and brothers. Matthew 13, 55. There was a moment that someone was trying to really find out, well, who is this Jesus? It says, isn't this the carpenter's son? Isn't this mother Mary and his brothers James, Joseph, Simon, and Judas? As a son, Jesus learned how to work. So you thought work was new. Yeah, Jesus had to get a job in that culture. He probably worked for daddy there in the carpenter shop. Amen. You got to know that as a father, you got to set the example of a work ethic Amen. I'm not going to get into business, but when you see your father doing something, you didn't just watch, but you had to take part. And so always make sure that you are doing what God has called you. He learned how to work and I want to apologize to my Botech friends. I wish I'd taken a Botec class or two. I can't fix anything, but there was a trade that was learned, and because of that There was a domestic example as well. The last time that Joseph is mentioned in the Bible, it's when the family goes to Jerusalem to celebrate the festival. As they're heading back, and Jesus is 12 years old, they realize along the way that we don't have Jesus in toll. And Mary asked Joseph, in so many words, where's your son? And they realized that they had left him behind. So they went back to Jerusalem and they found this 12-year-old Jesus sitting among the lawyers and the doctors asking them questions and answering questions and you could feel the emotion that Mary wanted to know why in the world did did you do this We didn't hear from Joseph. But he said, that is Jesus, in that moment, I'm about my father's business. Didn't you know I'm about my father's business? No, not carpentry. I'm about my heavenly father's business as I share even now. But you know what? I would have some questions For Joseph. The journalists in me would want to know some questions that I want to pose. Joseph, what were the house rules in Nazareth? What kind of child was Jesus? What was his favorite game to play in the neighborhood? And what was it like having Jesus in your home but also having him in your heart. And Joseph, if you don't mind, can I ask another question or two? Did you realize that your son was also the savior of the world. He had to have a clue because as he was approached by the angel He was told even then that his name shall be called Jesus, and he will save his people from their sins. And so Joseph took this assignment on. He didn't need to say much He was with the one who had done everything, was under his tutelage. It was all about the cross. Scholars present accurately that at the time of his crucifixion on that cross. Joseph was not present. And persons surmise that he was already deceased by then And that's why Jesus said from the cross, woman, behold your son, son, behold your mother, referring to John, that disciple. But thank God there was something about that cross. You know, the cross was not about words. The cross was about action. And you know, actions do speak louder than words. One songwriter said, must Jesus bear the cross alone and all the world go free? No, there's a cross for everyone, and there is a cross For me. Can I say the day? It was at the cross, at the cross where I first saw the light. And the burdens of my heart rolled away. It was there by faith I received my sight. And now I'm happy all. Can't you tell I'm happy all the day? It's not just because it's Father's Day. I may get a gift or two, but I'm happy because of what happened at Calvary. I'm happy because he died, but then he rose again with all power in his hands. And guess what? You can be effective as a father Not so much by by what you you say, but what are you doing? Actions. And this is not just a wait till I tell my husband what the pastor preached this morning, but whoever you are, know that your actions must Be important in your work. Isn't that good news today? That it's okay just to just to be quiet. It's okay just to do something and not just say something and you can reach someone today because they'll see what They'll see your light so shining before men and women that they will see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. Joseph, thank you You didn't get one word, one sentence in the Bible, but you had the greatest assignment ever. That is to raise and to bring up the Savior of the world. That's a real father. Right now we're gonna have an invitation song from the choir. CDB, BD, don't go to that in the hey, if you're over there, I think I'm gonna get you know the customer. Praise God. Come just as you are. Don't need to fix up as I laid my head down last night. I was praying to the Lord. I said, you know, I don't know who will be watching this broadcast. I don't know who will be listening, but I pray for their very soul today if they don't know you. Here's one of my memories of my father. He loved to farm. It was on his record as a veteran when he got home. He wanted to be a farmer. And I would watch him, me and my siblings, he would go and have someone to plow up the field, to turn the soil back, and then he would come along and make rows and begin to plant And then begin to water. And we would watch the increase. How appropriate is that when it comes to your heart being that plow field? Did I come about today just to plant a seed? Knowing the Lord Jesus Christ is prepared to be your Father. To be whoever you need him to be today. Let's bow. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. And we're praying for that heart, that person who has never received you A person who's never given their heart to you. You said you'd be our father. You said that you would be with us always, even to the end of the earth. And so we pray our Father, which art in heaven. But I pray even now, dear God, for that person who does not have a relationship with you That this might be their day. They can say, you know what? It was on Father's Day that I opened my heart to Jesus. The Bible says, if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus And believe in my heart that God has raised him from the dead, the Bible says, thou shalt be saved. Today, pray that prayer. Today, make that testimony, and God can change you that you will become a person of action and not just a person of words. In Jesus' name. Praise God. I'm getting excited because you know why? When I come to do this, there's so many pastors, we're trying to reach one. For Jesus. May not be a hundred, but there's somebody who needs a relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. It makes such a difference. in your life. Amen. I feel like preaching all over again, but I can't. Wanted to let you know that we're so grateful for the partnership that we have Rejoice Musical Soul Food Radio. My good friend Mike Chandler is the CEO and president. Go to our site. You can link on and hear all kinds of gospel music all day long on any device And you can also catch a seed of encouragement every now and then. Again, we want to let you know there's so many ways you can reach us and stay connected. And we want to get you on our list. And maybe you say, I don't get any updates. I want to Find out how I can become a part of this ministry. How can I become a part of what's happening that's good for the kingdom? It's right there. Text or email come toharvest. org slash updates. And we want to thank you as always. For your sacrifice giving online to God be the glory, others are doing postage. Amen But thank you. There's no secret what God can do. Well, I want you to enjoy your Father's Day. Brothers, ask for whatever food you want this morning. And pray that your wife will fix it for you. Amen. I'm making my request known unto the Lord. I know what I want today to eat, but anyway. God bless you. Have a wonderful day. Take time this week. Don't just stop Father's Day now, but share this broadcast with others you know, sons, nephews, and uncles. So God be the glory. This is Dr. Tim Tootin, the founder and pastor of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, wishing you a great Father's Day. In the Lord, be blessed today. Amen. God bless you.