Good day, my friends, Dr. Tim Tooten with Harvest Christian Ministries. I'm so glad you've taken time to listen to this broadcast. Today's sermon is one that will lift you up, one that will encourage you to run this race with patience, looking to Jesus Christ the author and finisher of our faith. We're a small ministry with big ideas who serve a great and mighty God. And now today's message How many folk believe that the Lord is more than enough for you? Maybe you settle more just enough. But how many know that you need some extra? In your life experience, we bless God today. He's always available, always there when we need him. Ever found a time that you needed the Lord, He wasn't there for you? He may not have come when you wanted him to come, but the old sex would say he was right on time. Let's bow today Heavenly Father, we thank you for this opportunity just to share your word, to learn from your word, and to have your word to transform us. Bless your people today. Someone came with a heavy heart today. Give them hope. Let them know that they're valuable to the kingdom. We thank you and we glorify you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Praise God. We want to just say it's good to see you. Amen. I always learned about that. Folks say it's good to be seen and not viewed But nevertheless, the Lord is good. There's a series of passages we've been uh sharing over the last few weeks and it's it's continuing. It's it's like some of those TV programs you keep watching and watching for the next episode. Some of y'all do that and in the next episode, and you follow along where the characters in this text are is the Apostle Paul and his writings to the church and Corinth in particular, but he'll go beyond that today. So there in 1 Corinthians the twelfth chapter. We'll just read what we've shared pretty much. Uh to one there's given to the spirit a message of wisdom, to another a message of knowledge. The same Spirit, to another faith by the same Spirit, to another gifts of healing by that one spirit. Verse 10 says, to another miraculous powers, to another prophecy To another distinguishing between spirits, to another speaking in different kinds of tongues, and still to another the interpreter. All these are the work of one of the same spirit, and he distributes them to each one just as he determines We want to continue our preaching talking about activating your spiritual gift. Part three. For the past couple of weeks, we've talked about the importance Of our having the foundation to know that if we've accepted Jesus Christ as our personal Savior, we have at least one spiritual gift. And the Holy Spirit will give them severally, and many of you here I know have many gifts. But what's important is, are you exercising your gift? We talked about the gift of knowledge, the gift of wisdom, and the gift of faith. We went on to talk about the gift of healing on last. time and the gift of miraculous powers that God by way of the Spirit issues all of these gifts and the gift Of distinguishing between spirits. And this morning in part three, we'll take up the gifts of speaking in different kinds of tongues and interpretation. of tongues. And then we're going to shift years after that and pick up some of the gifts that Paul lists in his letters to the church at Rome uh serving, teaching, encouraging. We'll wrap up next week talking about leadership and giving and mercy. So lots of work to do. Let's get started on what the Lord has given us. Speaking in different tongues. This is a sometimes controversial, or at least misunderstood, or at least mysterious gift In the body of Christ. And you may have heard persons speak in an unknown tongue and may not have known exactly what they were saying, or you may have been the one to speak. It may have left you confused. It may have been something that you did not grasp at the time, but let me assure you: if it is listed in the Bible, and I believe the Bible, then I believe that it is a spiritual gift. Amen. I would not dare go against what the Word of God is saying. And so Paul lists all of these spiritual gifts, and the Bible gives all of these gifts credibility. Amen. That if they're mentioned, then there's substance to these gifts. But in Paul's day in Rome, at Clinth, people were fascinated By by the gifts. They they thought this was exciting. Sometimes they abused this gift. But he was trying to connect them to what was the greater peace And he says that there are different kinds of gifts of speaking in tongues, and then in the same vein says there's also a gift of interpreting tongues. That if it's going to benefit the body of Christ, uh, if someone speaks in tongues, that there's also one maybe that has that interpretation to say, here's what is being said. Does that make sense? Before we just throw out, oh, they're not talking about anything, you don't know that. And you may have that gift, but I'm not sure, but a time or two I've seen people in a church setting to have someone who interprets Now if you go beyond Maryland and get to a different country, you will need interpretation because unless you speak fluently other languages But there's also uh this importance of having someone who can help to interpret the gift. Does that make sense? It's a gift It can be exercised. Does it benefit the body of Christ like any other gift? And on top of that, is there someone with the gift of understanding and thus interpreting that particular? Language. But now, in fact, the church on the day of Pentecost, which we're celebrating now, the Universal Church is celebrating Pentecost Sunday. Now, on that day You remember that uh Peter started preaching and those around him and they began to speak in these unknown tongues, and folk thought they were high on Boone's farm? Uh oh, I just heal a nerve. If y'all remember that, you really throwback. Uh or any other kind of beverage And they thought that they were on something, had been nipping, but in fact those who heard were amazed that they spoke their language And so when the Holy Ghost is present in the gift, folk can be blessed. The Bible says on that day, more than 3,000 souls were saved. Again Does it benefit the body of Christ? Amen. Now, let's shift gears. You've got it and drive. And let's move on now to some of the gifts that Paul talks about in the book of Romans. The gift of serving. If it is serving Then serve. I like that. Yeah, that's your gift, do it. In other words, do the gift that God has given you. Simply put, uh what you're doing as you are in the role of a servant. That is someone who don't mind putting their shoulder to the wheels, somebody who doesn't mind working Within the body of Christ. The Bible is filled with servants. In fact, as I look out, I see a lot of servants right here at harvest You step in, you do what needs to be done to benefit the body of Christ. Oftentimes it's behind the scene You don't want a pet on the back. You don't want recognition. You just serve because that's what God has put in your spirit. And you are loyal. You can be dependent upon to serve this present age. You know, Jesus said in the Gospel of Matthew, I have come for this reason. I have come not to be served. But I came to serve. Isn't that good news? Is that he was a lowly servant. He came to serve others. There's a line in an old Charles Wesley hymn. It says, The charge to keep, I have, a God to glorify, who gave his son my soul to save and fit it for the sky to serve this present age. My calling to fulfill, or may all my power engage, to do my master's will. Look at you wearing a spiritual apron. Look at you always about trying to serve folk to the glory of God beyond the church. You know, you look around and your servant's already there. You ain't got to text the servant, you ain't got to call them, but you're gonna be here. But some of us have that gift It is a spiritual gift to serve each other. And then the gift of teaching If it is teaching, teach. Don't you love the fundamentals of the word? If it's teaching, then go ahead and teach. If this is your spiritual gift. If you know this is your gift. And even beyond a survey, there are the things that you will just do that have become what seemingly is natural. It's you. That's what you you do, and that's what you get excited about. It's to do what? To teach. Now, sign that you have a spiritual gift may be evident, is that you are a clear thinker Amen? You you you're clear headed uh because you've got to take in information. I love my educators. I come from a family of educators. I mean, there's a plan I was kidding with one of our teachers that you gotta have a lesson plan. You can't just get up and make it look as easy. No, they they spend time preparing the lesson for the children So when one cut up, they get worked up. I've planned this lesson, and they've come to learn. But when you're grounded in the Word of God, you are teaching the truth of God. And the best handbook is the Bible. Reverend, uh, all I have is the Bible. You have enough Amen. If you can read that word, understand that word, teach that word, and model that word, lives will be changed. And no matter what book you get, ask the Holy Spirit to be your helper. He'll come alongside you and make sense out of stuff. So that when you're teaching, you say, ooh, what was that? It was the Holy Spirit supplying you with the power that you need. Now you still need books And commentaries and see what other folks are saying on the subject and seeing where it lays out and seeing why Paul wrote the letter to Rome and and what and what was he that you got to read all of that, but the bottom line is Stay in the word. There are many false teachers. Jesus dealt with them. They looked apart, but they were false teachers Paul talked about them. False teachers. Even today, they're false teachers and false prophets. Let me say it again. Even today, there are false teachers who are handling this word not in the right way. Amen. And that's my prayer. Lord, help me to interpret the word and then to share it to the best of my ability with the help of the Holy Spirit. So that never it is a Tim word, but God help me, even in the midst of preaching that's not in my manuscript, help me to understand and to teach your word. Amen. It is a gift. And James said, and you may not want to teach when you hear this. James 3 and 1 says, not many of you should become teachers. My fellow believers, because you know not what you teach that you'll be judged more strictly. I'm a teacher of the word. Well you better get it together because when you come to the you'll get extra Scrutiny. Amen? But it is a gift. Teaching, serving And all this is to do is to activate, get you to say, wait a minute. It may have taken four Sundays, Reverend, but I think I know I think I got a clue. The Lord showed me what it is that I've already been doing and didn't realize it was my spiritual gift. And I'll tell you, there will be fruit as a result. And of course there are fruits of the Spirit, but there'll be fruits. But then we'll end today talking about the gift of encouraging. If it is to encourage, then give encouragement. And I'm smiling because I love that gift. That's my primary gift. Can I say it again? Encouragement is my primary spiritual gift. It is to invite. It is to comfort. It is to motivate someone and to give them a sense that you can make it. Now most folk I encourage is at the coffee counter, uh at the store. I'll just say, hello, how you doing today? Just to start something If I get a little response, I'm okay. Hang in there. It's gonna be okay. They're like, who are you? Yeah, you know it's the weather a little rainy today, but thank God for an umbrella. Amen. And you'll you can encourage somebody. They're having a bad day. And not everybody will take to it. Don't just say, I don't want to talk today. And you've got nobody with the spirit to move on. But that folks can encourage. And you know what? Every now and then I will meet another encourager. And another encourager showdown Amen. I'm like, don't start. I mean, I'm trying to encourage you, and you encourage the miss. Wait a minute. You must be an encourager. Why? Because we're just encouraging each other. Amen. Isn't that good news today that when you work in your gift, you'll find a like gift and y'all be serving together. Come on, child. And so there again I find folk who will try and they succeed. See, not that I'm never down, but they will encourage my heart. You encourage me. Every time I shake your hand and hug your neck, Reverend, thank you You know, I well praise God, I'm more excited. Woo! Because hopefully I've encouraged you along the way that you can make it. But there will come a time when no one will encourage you And you'll say, Well, I I've been giving God encouragement tickets and nobody wants to encourage me. First Samuel 30 and 66, David said, You know what? I'm stressed out. You mean big bad King David? Yes, I'm stressed out. Folk on my last nerve. They're gonna stone me, and I can't find and David said, guess what? I'm going to encourage myself. Amen. You ought to pat yourself on the back every now and you know what? I can make it. Turn to your divine mirror, Lord, you told me. If I continue to follow you, that you bless me. God you told me if I continue to uh to lift up my eyes to the hills which come with my help, you've got to encourage yourself. He's been good and he's given you a gift. Back in nineteen eleven, in the city of New Orleans Mother gave birth to a young lady who would go on to make many records and her fame would spread. She used her gift of encouragement Her talent of singing to bless others. She was on the big stage for Jesus. And so much so the word was that all the big folk wanted her. Or you can sing, Jesus, but come on, you can make some money if you sing for us. Now I'm not going to name a record label, but she stood fast to her principles And stood fast to what she knew that God had called her to do. And she began to share that gift. Everywhere she would go, you would know her voice. Her voice was unique. I'm talking about the late Mahalia Jackson. Mahalia Jackson could sing until times got better. She could sing, if you're looking at me funny, go YouTube. It's Mahalia Jackson. Amen. And you can find out that she had a great gift she sang before Dr. King did his March on Washington speech, but she used that gift to the glory of God. Can I just close with another day? She says if I can help somebody as I pass along If I can cheer somebody with a word or a song, if I can show somebody where they're traveling wrong Then my living will not be in vain. What a testament. If I can just do that small thing, if I can do my duty as a good man ought If I can bring back beauty to a world of wrought, if I can spread love's message as the master taught, then my living would not be in vain. That's my prayer today that as I come before you each Sunday, that maybe there's something that encourages you. That my living is not in vain. Why? Because I did the master's will. I took the gift he'd given me. I didn't keep it wrapped up, but I used it to the glory of God. So take time today and say, Lord, I thank you for the gift But it's not for me, but to do what? To bless the body of Christ. My God, take your gift right now and begin to use it. The gift is needed. Someone needs the gift. That I need to be able to share. And that's what these gifts are all about. Lest we put too much emphasis on Paul, Paul was just the messenger. He's just saying, read all about it. Here's what the Lord has said. And as you share your gift, you're just doing just that. That I want to know that I've been used by the Lord. Don't you want to live up to your fulfillment and your potential today? That I don't want to live below my potential. I don't want to just get by in the Lord. I want to be a high achiever. I'm just going to another place because I want to encourage you. There it is again. Back just of encouragement. I don't want to just be ordinary Because of who has made me, he's made me to do what? To do exceedingly abundantly above all I could think or ask. Today, do you feel encouraged? Well, come on, give God a praise then. Amen. That the gift of serving just serves Teaching? Just teach. Encourage. Just encourage. Tongues Just speak. Interpret them. Help to make sense of it. The word of God has been shared today. Amen? Come on, give God a praise. Let's stand today. Amen. And next Sunday we'll do leadership and giving and mercy. Just let you know today. I just feel like in this setting it's important for us to learn. The Word of God to be consumers of what the text is saying to us today. Come on, give God a praise in this house today Amen. Activate your spiritual gifts. It's in you. Maybe it's dormant. Maybe you've forgotten the code and the pastwork Well you know what I like about this media? You can reset your password. Amen. Either asks you some questions. Well, tell me what's what's your mama's name? What's your street name? Things that will give you a clue to reset the password, to open your gifts. Come to Jesus. Come to Jesus, come to J Come to Jesus. Come to Jesus Come to Jesus. He will save you. He will save. Any witnesses today Yes, he will. He will say that. So drawn to this text, motivated by one of our young adults And she don't mind asking, Pastor, tell me about spiritual gifts. I said, Well, let me let me help you out. So I got her a book and got her a new Bible and Just want to help her to understand. And behold, the Lord said, Well, won't you do that at church? Maybe there's somebody in church who is not real clear about their gifts. And so that was driven by having the ear for the Spirit. I guarantee it we'll all be the better when this is over. You'll find gifts that may not be on the gift list That Paul may not have written, but you are somebody in the kingdom. Did you hear that? You are special. And you have a great gift That the Lord has put in you. Use it to explore. That's bow today. Heavenly Father, we ask that we not sit on our gift But to use it to your glory. I thank you that you thought enough of us to to give us one You took a risk to give us a gift that we wouldn't mess it up or call it our own or pollute it. We thank you. Thank you, Father. I pray even now, God, for your people. Yes, Lord. They may come to the realization that I am somebody in the kingdom. That beyond these doors, I'm being used. On my job, I'm using that gift In my home, I'm using that gift. On the highways, I'm using the gift that you've given them. Maybe someone has come today, they've never given their hearts to you. Gifts don't come unless you've confessed Christ. You can't get a gift and you're not saved. You may be talented, but that's not like a gift. When the Holy Spirit infuses it, it can take your talent And begin to blow it up to the glory of God. We thank you. Thank you, Father. That your people Will come to a realization that they need you in their lives. Save someone today, God. The Bible says that thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus And believe in thine heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Save someone today, we pray In Jesus. If you're not saved today, speak the prayer. Heavenly Father, I believe you sent Jesus Christ, your son, to die for me Yes or not. I believe he died, but I believe he rose again. The Bible says if you believe that and confess that with your mouth Thy shalt be saved. We thank you, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give a better place today. I see gifts popping up everywhere. All over this place. I pray you were blessed by today's sermon. I am just so thrilled that God would use me to help you and to encourage you in the Lord. Now to find out more about our ministry, go to our website. It's www. com,thenumbertwoharvest. org. That's www. com. the number to harvest. org. Also, check out our brand new church app. It's called HCM Baltimore. That's HCM Baltimore. Go and search Google Play or iTunes and then download it and you'll be blessed immensely by this app. It'll give you devotionals, videos, prayer wall directions, and everything you will need. Again, Dr. Tim Tootin in Baltimore County, Maryland, have a great day in the Lord and thank you so much for listening.