Good day, my friends, Dr. Tim Tooten with Harvest Christian Ministries. I'm so glad you've taken time to listen to this broadcast. Today's sermon is one that will lift you up, one that will encourage you to run this race with patience, looking to Jesus Christ the author and finisher of our faith. We're a small ministry with big ideas who serve a great and mighty God. And now today's message. Amen. How much are you glad that the Lord touched you? You glad to have gotten a touch. What does that feel like to know that it was the divine who encountered you and reassured you that he was there every step of the way? Song says, oh what joy has filled my soul. Anybody got some joy this morning? Oh what joy has filled my soul And now I'm reassured that he touched me. Let's bow today all over this place and look to the Lord. Father, we thank you that you touched us. Not just once, but you keep on touching us. In fact, you know where to touch us and how long to touch us and why we need to be touched. So today, as we come, it is our prayer. Touch our lips, touch our minds, touch our hearts, and we'll be so careful to give you the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. I love the old hymns of the church. And all the new stuff, that's grandmama's hymn and Big Daddy's hymn It reminds you of the faith of the people of God. There's a word this morning that you're uh familiar with uh from last week. It's in first Corinthians 12, 8 through 10, it reads to one, there's given to the Spirit a message of wisdom To another a message of knowledge by means of the same spirit. To another faith by the same Spirit, to another gifts of healing by that one Spirit. To another miraculous powers, to another prophecy, to another distinguishing between spirits. To another speaking in different kinds of tongues, and still to another, the interpretation of tongues. Aren't you glad to be and another? That means that that is you and it is me. I want to share again from Zononic title, activate your spiritual gift. Part two. Activate your spiritual gift. Part two. When was the last time you received a gift? Don't think too long, but I mean a special gift. The kind you have to unwrap and the kind you have to look in the card and I laugh even at my My late father, he would get a card and the first thing he would do, he would shake it. He wouldn't read it, he'd shake it But from the time you laid eyes on that gift, uh there's some excitement. I don't care who you are, I love getting gifts And I love giving gifts, but it gives you a certain kind of anticipation, a certain kind of excitement. Once you connect it with that gift, then there's a response There's a smile, there's a hug, uh, there's something to say, thank you for the gift that you've given me. Over the next uh few weeks we'll be talking about uh a different kind of gift. gift, a spiritual gift that's given by the Holy Spirit, that is the power of God. And you hear me say this every Sunday over and over again. If you've confessed Jesus Christ as your personal Savior Here, you have at least one spiritual gift. It'll sound like a broken record because I'll say it every week. If you know that you're saved, you have at least the one. Amen. And when your spiritual gift is activated, when it's turned on, it can bless you, but more so the people around you That the fact that you have a gift and the fact that you activate that gift, others are blessed. You may not know uh it may not be a survey, hey did you get blessed by my gift But people have come up to you and say, Do you remember the time you and you say, Who are you? And in some way, you have allowed the Spirit of God to use your gifts to bless someone else. We began on last time unpacking this first letter that Paul's right to the church at Corinth. And he's saying just that: to another, one has the gift of wisdom. We talked about that. Well it means not just to say I I'm wise, but it's based on what God has given me. We talked about the gift of knowledge Whether you got one degree or no degree, uh you get in that word and you become uh the kind of person who can share and break and rightly divide the word of truth with anybody In fact, our forefathers, many of them didn't have any education, but they knew that word. And they lived that word. And they carried that word with them wherever they would go. And then there was a gift of faith How we can really believe that all things are possible through our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. We're going to move a little further today in verses 9 and 10, and we're going to pick up uh talking more about the gifts of healing. And miraculous powers, the gift of prophecy, and the gift of distinguishing between spirits. And we'll drop our anchor right there. Let's start off with healing. When it comes to the gift of healing, uh no, first and foremost, a good number of biblical scholars tend to agree that the gift of healing is given not to the person who's healed necessarily. But it is a gift. Now I gotta tell you, in my time of study, many of the scholars, I don't know them personally, they're just scholars. I mean they Written something and they've done deep study, they begin to question whether or not there is still a gift of healing. I thought about that. I said, well You know, I I'd like to see what uh this one is saying and that saying, but the Holy Spirit revealed to me that if it's in the Bible, I believe it's true. So if he gave out the gift of healing then, what's to say that he can't give it out now? That's pretty elementary, wasn't it? I don't need anybody to figure that out for me. I said if you believe the word of God, then my God, there's a possibility of healing in your hands and healing in your tongues and healing in your speech. That's all possible In fact, in the early part of the first church, I like this passage in Acts 5 and 15 where it says that Peter would just walk down the street And that folk would lay on the ground and his shadow, uh oh, they would get healed by his shadow. Isn't that amazing that Peter just said, I'm living for the Lord, and that folk would come in his presence by way of the Spirit and get healed by a shadow Oh, you didn't really get that thing. I'm saying, you mean I didn't do anything? No, just the shadow. But isn't it great that God can still use us? And packed in that is also miraculous powers. You can't have one without the other. I think the fact that healing is a gift and is available is miraculous. Do you? How many folk believe in miracles? I do And and and fact that you know today that you are a miracle? The fact that you got up this morning and the fact that God started you on your way and the fact that you my God, you a miracle And so really when you talk about this gift of healing, it I think in the same context, we're talking about miraculous. Can you believe? Did it just happen? Didn't God do it? There is miraculous power, but he gives it to another. And that's what blows my mind is that he gives you a gift. Now I've never witnessed a healing or a miraculous power uh in my own I know I that I can look at it Is that one? I've never gone around and said, let me take a picture and see if that's really one. But I do know that God is able. And that maybe you have said, oh Rabbit, I've seen it Yeah. I've seen a miracle. What how many folk have seen a real miracle at work and say, Look, look that's a miracle That is the hand of God at work. It's not hocus polus. It's not turn the other eye. But it is actually just that That God can do the miraculous and he can do it through you. That always amazes me here takes these mortal bodies and use us to his glory Truth be told, none of us are all of that. But my God, I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. Miraculous power Miracles bear witness to the presence of God and the truth of His proclaimed word. I believe in miracles. Let's move on now to the gift of prophecy. It is the ability to receive and proclaim a message from God. This could involve forth telling. It can involve future events, though its primary purpose is forthelling. Now, this is someone who prophesies and speaks encouragement. And they speak consolation. They don't speak foolishness Let me back that up for a second. Doc, I want to prophesy over you and let's say, well, you know, that's some foolishness there. You would know if it's of God. And I can say without a shadow of a doubt that my late aunt had the gift. A prophecy. I saw that work. I mean, you'd walk on her ground and she'd get filled with the Holy Ghost. Oh Lord, she got excited for Jesus. And she starts speaking in tongues. But I remember. The day I called her on the phone and said, How you doing today? We called her Ain't City. I might as well just call the name that the country folk called her. So how you doing? What's wrong? Shaxy, that little old boy, he's so busy. I said, what little old boy? He's that little boy. I can't hardly hold it. I said, you got the wrong family I said uh well not to my knowledge, it's just two girls. And it wasn't known by the grace of God. There was a little boy, uh he's somewhere in here, uh Tim Jr. And six months later, she had been put in a medical facility And I drove down and walked in that room holding that baby boy say, This is the one that you prophesied. This is the one we thought you had lost your mind about. This is the one. It is a gift. And without calling a name, I know somebody in the here and now who has the gift of prophecy. I'll talk to that brother and he'll start looking off and I'll be saying, Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, you own something. He'll begin to ask me questions. I'll say, Yeah, yeah, you that's right. I can confirm it. It is a gift But it's not to be shopped around, not to be, you know, there were folk who followed the disciples uh working magic But it wasn't a real thing. They wanted to get what they had. But when God gives you a gift, you use that gift and you protect that gift and you use it to the glory of God. It's not some sideshow, but use it. To the glory of God. This is not poem reading, not Sister Rose. This is the power of the Holy Spirit at work The Bible says that no one knows the day nor the hour when the Son of Man shall come, not even the angels. A couple years ago and years before that, folks, all the world go in. And folks start saying, let me get my pet taken care of. And folk made money. Folks, oh yeah, bring your dog on now. The world goes in and they made money. Folk don't know, but the Lord knows. This gift of prophecy Not just healing and miraculous power, but there's also the gift of discerning between spirits. I love the word of God. I love to encounter the word because it's all in the text. Now, scholars say this is the ability to discern the spirit of truth and the spirit of error. Love first John four one and two. It says, Beloved, believe not every spirit. But try the spirit whether they are of God. Because many false prophets are going out into the world. Hereby we know the Spirit of God. Every spirit that confesseth that Jesus Christ is come of the flesh is of God. Some folk have some strange spirits about them. And you can feel 'em. That's some some tough out there that you gotta be real careful of who you slept in time with. And be careful, you say praise the Lord with. That just something peculiar. Oh some of y'all know about that. Yeah, I don't know about that. That didn't seem quite right. So there's a gift of discerning between spirits that your mom and dad in them had. There's something about that fella that don't seem right. You don't know them. They may not have the gift, but they asked the whole school knowledge. And I always tried to impress the parents Oh temptuole, we know who you are. I was almost a nice guy, but they were discerning. I'll testify my spirit at the time Oh no not none of y'all. Okay. Amen. Amen. But thank God for the Holy Spirit that now resides in me. And with this gift, one can distinguish between the reality versus a counterfeit. The divine versus the demonic. The true versus false teaching. There is false teaching in the land. Amen. And that's why if I believe the Bible, I want to stay in the Bible. Amen? And try to teach and preach the truth, but more so to live the word that I preach. Isn't that good news? I may know two pastors, but can I live? The thing that I actually share. I want to urge you to just use the gift. And whatever that gift is, I don't need to know. I don't need to tell me Reverend Hitting, no, you it's between you and the Lord. But whatever you do, activate that gift and use it. Old song says, Use me in thy service. Draw me nearer every day. I am willing, Lord, to run All the way. Well, you don't hear that much anymore. I'll run halfway, but I don't know about all the way, Lord. It was the prophet Isaiah who raised the question And raised his hands by saying, I'll go. God said, Is there one who will go for me? Is there one I can send? I just says, Lord, here I am, send me. But he qualifies by saying, now you gotta realize I got some baggage. I'm a man of unclean lips. And I I got submission. Anybody can you relate to Isaiah? That he I can use it, but you know, my my my background's a little shady, but but but I'm willing. I messed up along the way, but I'm willing. You you want to use me, uh I'm willing. And so that's what God does He meets you right where you are. He fills you with this Holy Spirit. He gives you, and then he uses you. Anybody want to be used today? Oh, use me, use me, Lord. Until that service. I remember when I played basketball in high school. I was not like some of you stars. I didn't get to start. I was a bitch warmer. And uh I was maybe the uh I'm dressing it up the seventh man, uh uh sixth man uh eight eighth eighth man But anyway, I made sure the coach uh had my eye that when the starter messed up Now was I hoping they mess up. I I I said but whenever the starter missed the ball or whenever the starter fumbled, he would look down the bench and say And I'll be like this. Already had my hand on my warm-up. Tutin, get in. And all I was hoping was, I'm available if you want to use me. All I was saying was, if you need me, I can give you some backup I may not have all the skill set, but I'll get you a skill. I'll file I'll file somebody, but get me in the how many folk want to be used by the Lord today Now these gifts are not just for you to plunk, but you ought to be on the bench and say, here I am. I can't wait to get in the game. Come on, call me, Lord. There's somebody who needs the word. Call me Somebody needs a handshake, call me. Somebody needs a hug. Call me. I'm ready. And I'm willing to be used by the Lord. When I got in the game, I was a happy somebody. Man, I was all over the court. Why? I was being used. Somebody said, didn't he see you last night? Yeah, I was at the game, man. Yeah, I was in there. And don't let me score one basket. Oh Lord. And when you score a basket, you reach one for Jesus. That if one soul says, oh, I believe you just score. If one person said, you know what, I'll thank you for what you've done. You've just scored. If one person said, you know what, I feel better, so much better, all because you just shared with me, my God, I'm going for a win. He used me. I allowed him to use me in a whole different arena to preach the gospel. I thank him that he blessed me and then used me. It's great to be chosen, to be used In the service of the Lord. There's no greater privilege to say you want to use me. Isn't it great when you realize that you've got value, that God still wants to use you? What I'm most glad about Is that he saved me when he activated my faith. Something happened on the inside that allowed me to say, you know what, Lord, I thank you that you're using me to your glory. And when the activation came, I realized that something had happened on an old rugged cross. That one day there was an activation When he went to that cross, they hug him high, but it was an activation. When he went and he held his hands out and they pierced him in the side My faith was being activated, and so was yours. Isn't that great news today to say that I am being used by the Master? The gift of healing, another gift of miraculous powers And another. The gift of prophecy and another. The gift of discerning between. spirits. Oh next week we'll go to Romans and talk about the gift of service. And teaching and exhortation. That is the word of God today. It's already less. Come on, stand today all over this place. Activate That gift. Turn it on and see what he'll do through you and through me. I'm excited about that. I'm still thinking about that game. Man, I was a happy somebody. Nothing worse than having somebody show for the game and then you don't get to play. You did good in warm-ups. I know I'm getting in the game for Jesus. He's gifted you for that purpose. Yes, that's your Come in the Ever left. Right now. No need to fix up and dress up and try to pull yourself together. Just come on. Comedy, comedy As you look at this gift list, how how many are there, Reverend? I'm just saying what's recorded in the text Look at Revelation says, and greater things shall you do. So there's some stuff that may not be in Paul's Writings that he's already using you to do by way of a spiritual gift. So don't limit to I'm not on the list. Well, yes, you are. You're on the master's list And he still wants to use you for the glory of God. If you're here today, you don't know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior I want to just offer him to you. I'm just an ambassador of faith. Just taking the message from the master and passing it along to you. And that is, he will save your soul. The Bible says if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, the Bible says, Thy shalt be saved. As you bow today, I want to pray for you. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. If there's one Who's never opened their hearts to you, be it in this sanctuary or be it by way of social media, allow them today to open their mouths and say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. I need your salvation. May they say, I believe God that you sent your son and that he died on an old rugged cross. And I believe. That he was buried, but he rose again on the third day with all power in his hands. Today, if you prayed that prayer, you confess with your mind. The Bible says, Thou shalt be saved As those hands remain bowed today, if you're here today, receive Jesus Christ. Receive Him into your heart today. And life will be brand new Do it we pray in Jesus. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Amen I pray you were blessed by today's sermon. I am just so thrilled that God would use me to help you and to encourage you in the Lord. Now to find out more about our ministry, go to our website. It's www. comthenumbertwoharvest. org. That's www. comthenumbertwoharvest. org. Also Check out our brand new church app. It's called HCM Baltimore. That's HCM Baltimore. Go and search Google Play or iTunes and then download it and you'll be blessed immensely by this app. It'll give you devotionals, videos, prayer wall directions, and everything you will need. Again, Dr. Tim Tootin in Baltimore County, Maryland. Have a great day in the Lord and thank you so much for listening.