Good day, my friends, Dr. Tim Tooten with Harvest Christian Ministries. I'm so glad you've taken time to listen to this broadcast Today's sermon is one that will lift you up, one that will encourage you to run this race with patience, looking to Jesus Christ. the author and finisher of our faith. We're a small ministry with big ideas who serve a great and mighty God. And now today's message. Amen. How many can say that today, Lord? I am available. I'm not on vacation. I've not put out the do not disturb sign. But I'm available to you to use me any way you please. Anybody feel that way today? I may not have much to offer, but whatever you would have me to do I'm handy, and I'll do it to your glory. That is the clarion call to all believers today. You'll be amazed at what you do that can bless others It may seem small to you, but sometimes just a kind smile can go a long way in lifting somebody's day. Let's look to the Lord today as we bow forward a prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you that you would choose folk like us. To share such a powerful word. It is our prayer today that we might decrease and that you might increase Save someone today. Encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name all the praise and all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. My storage is empty and I'm available. Yes, indeed. This is the day the Lord has made that Rejoice and be glad in the day. Let me just let me just before I get the engine started. How many folk are glad to be in the house today? Amen Amen. You just happen. Just happy to be one in the number. There's a word of the Lord that comes from the book of Romans, 12th chapter. We're going to look at verse number 8 as we uh wrap up our preachment and this series in particular. And it says, if it is to encourage, then give encouragement. If it is giving, then give generously. If it is to lead, do it diligently. If it is to show mercy, do it cheerfully. What a preach from the Samonic title: Activate your spiritual gift, part number four. Activate your spiritual gift, heart number four. At the end of service on last week, I got a chance chance to speak with one of our members and I was reminded of something that perhaps otherwise I may have overlooked as it relates to activating one's spiritual gift. For three weeks now I've been saying to you the importance of knowing what your spiritual gift is That as a believer in Jesus Christ, you have at least one. And to take the steps necessary to put that gift to work. After all, how simple is it? You got a gift? Just use it. But right in front of me I began to think about this truth, one that followed me around all week long, a truth that kept tapping me on my shoulder and here is that truth even though we have come to realize that the Holy Spirit has given us a spiritual gift Somewhere between the gift and the activation, there is fear. There is hesitation. There is a reluctancy to use the gift. The debate is not whether you have a gift or not But there's something that gets tween you and the activation. There's something that flips the switch. There's something that knocks you off balance. Perhaps it's people, places, or things, but it's within. I know I'm gifted, but I'm having a hard time getting from having the gift. And using the gift. Am I talking to a church this morning? Know anything about that? There's this internal struggle to use what God has given you. I don't know how I miss that. The enemy is always busy. Why would he want you to use your spiritual gift? Well my God, you might bless somebody if you've really activated that thing Why do you think he's gonna sit on the side and let us say, oh yeah, go for it? There's always opposition when you're about a good work When you mean well, when you want to do that which pleases the Lord, there's always somebody trying to trip the switch. Perhaps caused by fear, perhaps caused by the unknown, but activation is still possible. Now that said, I want to go and deal with the final three gifts that we've talked about over the past few weeks. And to this point, uh the Apostle Paul both in 1 Corinthians Corinthians and in Romans has listed a number of spiritual gifts. As I've said to you before, that's just Paul's list. That there's a gift that's not even been identified yet that the Lord wants to activate in you. It might be a ministry, it might be something that you feel drawn to, but don't ever allow what you've read to be the end of it. The Bible even says that beyond what was written in this Bible, there are greater things you should do. That there are greater miracles that can take place. Now, because the Holy Spirit is constantly stirring up gifts in you. There's something at work in you, and know that the Lord will allow it to come. It may not be in four weeks. But Reverend, I had four weeks, it still ain't worked yet. You keep praying You keep on laboring before the Lord, and before you know it, that gift will be on, and folk will be blessed, and the body of Christ will be the better So we've talked about the gift of knowledge and the gift of wisdom and the gift of faith. We've discussed the gift of healing and the gift of miraculous powers and the gift of certain between spirits. We've lifted up the gift of prophecy and the gift of speaking in tongues and the gift of interpreting tongues. And last week we shifted And talked about this letter to the church at Rome, and we talked about the gift of serving and the gift of teaching And the gift that makes me smile, the gift of encouragement. Amen? Whereby I go, I try to use that to the glory of God. I'll start something I'll order a coffee just to start something and say, praise the Lord. And so whatever your gift might be, the Lord wants to use it to your uh leading. So today we're going to tie up this particular series by looking at the gift of giving, the gift of leading And the gift of mercy, all now with new filters. Because now we realize that as we're talking about this, there's always something trying to short-circuit your gift. The gift of giving. You know, givers are generous people. Givers are trusting people. They give with simplicity. And as Paul wrote this letter, he was really talking to the leadership of the church, saying, there are some things that you have to do. It is your duty to impart and to distribute to the the needs of the saints. That's why the first deacons came along because there was so much going on they needed somebody who didn't mind saying, I'll take care of this. I'll give. I'll take up my time to minister unto someone else. And it's a gift that's done just Generously. That means you don't mind doing it. Uh, that you just do it just because the Lord has blessed you. It may be your gift of time, it also may be the gift of money Amen. And that we may say, you know what? God has blessed me. I'm going to give because the Lord has given me, and I've seen it come back. Amen. Praise God, I know folk don't want to talk about money in the church, but money is real. Amen. Praise God. We all want money. We don't work for free, we want to get paid. But when you begin to invest in God's kingdom, won't it come back to you? I've seen it happen time and time again So what is it then that blocks you from being the giver that God wants you to be? Maybe it's your believing that you don't possess anything Reverend I I don't have anything to give in terms of my time or my talent. Uh I don't have anything to give in terms of my research Well, that's a lie from the enemy. God has given you everything that you need. If you've got the gift of giving, you'll be giving out joy and peace and love. Amen It is not based on material things, but God is faithful. Can I just drop in tithing? I may as well. Trusting God with your resources The government takes the money before it gets to you. You don't get to say, wait a minute now. And so it they'll just take it. But when you trust God in tithing When it gets from your head to your heart. You're not doing it for a reward, but God will keep you. He will allow you to have resources. Just because you trusted him With your money. Amen? Praise God. But sometimes you feel like, well, if I made more, I'd give more. We told our kids you tithe on what you're getting. Amen? And see if God won't do it. Want to open up the window of heaven and pour you out a blessing? There won't be room to receive it. So your gift may be, Reverend, I love to give I love to give in the service of the Lord. I love to give financially. I love giving my time. And that's a blessing. Not everybody is wired that way. Praise God. Open the gospel of Luke, Jesus said to his disciples, He says what? Give and you will receive. Your gift will return to you in full. Pressed down, shaken together to make room for more, running over, and poured into your lap Amen. The amount you give will determine the amount you get back. I'm not much on the stock market, but I know some of y'all watch the Dow Jones Industrial to see how what your stocks have done. You can't worry about that when you start giving to God's kingdom. Amen. I love what the Method edition says. It says, give away your life. You will find life given back. But not merely given back, but given back with a bonus and a blessing. Giving, not getting is the way. Generosity begets generosity. So maybe you've got the gift of giving. But not just that, there's also the gift of leading. It is to lead, then do it diligently. To lead, do it diligently. Now leaders are typically good managers. They're good organizers. Thank God for marriage Because usually in that marriage, one is one a good manager and one is not. I'm not telling you which one I am. Amen But if somebody got the better gift of of managing things, let them manage that. That wasn't Paul's list. That was my list I always tell young couples, you do what you do well, and allow your spouse to do what they do well, and you become a team. Sound like a little counseling session, praise the Lord. But it is to be given authority, it is to be trusted when you lead a people in the world particular and to be a leader don't mean you gotta say hey I'm a leader folks who lead just do it uh they just do what needs to be done uh they don't grumble about it they they lead by example The book in the leading by example. Praise God. Look at that. Little little promo in there. But effective leadership goes beyond whether you look like a leader Or whether you act like a leader. It goes beyond that. It is what we do in helping to transform the lives of others. It's good to have somebody to follow. What if everybody wanted to be a leader? You'd have a little short circuit there. But if you find that there's God-given leadership, follow that leadership And to do it diligently. Do it with passion. Do it with desire. So what gets in the way What blocks our becoming the leader that God may have gifted us to be? Perhaps we fail to lead because we have trouble following. You can't leave because you won't follow. I always said that a good leader is Amen. I hear some military talking back there, Amen But that's so important, is that if you say I ain't following nobody, and yet you want to lead somebody? You know, I remember that little game the kids played. It was called what? Follow the leader. You all line up behind the one leader and then you move around and whatever the leader do, you do. Praise the Lord? Praise the Lord. Give him praise, give him praise. Look at y'all. And so you begin to mimic the leader. But you have followed someone who stepped out and they've been trusted to lead. Praise God. That becomes so important. Anyone who fails to lead are ones who've not taken time to follow. Amen. We all need persons within our experience who don't mind. And one thing about leaders, they don't mind making a mistake Okay, I blew it, but let's go, let's pick it up. You know, let's not let dwell on that. Let's keep leading. I like what the Apostle Paul says in one of his letters. He said, you know what? Follow me as I follow Christ. I start acting crazy, don't follow me. I start doing crazy stuff, you know, but let Christ be the example. That when folks see Christ in you, they'll follow you If they see something in your life that is contradictory, they may say, you know what, I won't follow them. Why? Didn't your parents tell you that? To be a follower. You be a leader. We didn't always listen till we get to the wrong point of life, but it's so important that God gives out that gift of saying, I have the gift of leading. And then there's the gift of mercy. It is to show mercy than to do it cheerfully. Yeah, mercy. Mercy suits my case. You know, caring people are people who have mercy. Folk who don't mind caring for the poor, caring for the sick. Or caring for the suffering, it is the duty of the leader to have mercy. When I think about this in real time, I think about persons within our own family, it may even be you. That you have been designated as a caregiver. That's such a powerful ministry. Sometimes within a family setting, some take up that role and some don't. But what joy it is to have the kind of mercy that you would care for someone that you love so dearly. It takes a special person to say, you know what? I've got patience on top of patience. Why? Because God has given me the gift of love. Mercy. I don't need a pat on the back. I don't need a rewards points. But many of you who sit here today are currently caring for someone in your family. family. It is a ministry. It is a load. And I always say, always support persons who are caregiving My God, I just try to move on from that. But it is a a labor of love to care for those who you love and those who have been important in your life And folk who are going through, you just say, wait a minute, I care and I show that I care. Amen. So so what blocks you then from having the gift of mercy? Perhaps you believe that you're inadequate. You believe that, hey, you know, I might fail at this. Uh maybe I can't do all that I'm doing, but my God, if you do a little that and someone else do a little this, you'll be amazed at what it can mean to a family member, what it can mean to a fellow believer, what it can mean to an employee. When you've got the gift of mercy. Like what Ephesians writes, it says, but because of his great love, meaning Jesus for us Who is rich in mercy. Everything that we have gift-wise, it comes from the gift house. Amen. From heaven's gift store Some of y'all love the shawl. It comes to heaven. And he gives us the gifts and gives them to us severally. And it is by grace we have been saved. It's because of the mercy of the Lord. You've heard folks say, Lord, have mercy on me. That means we've missed the margin. We don't deserve it. Aren't you glad that mercy suits your case? That what if God was not merciful? What if he gave us everything that we deserve? We'd be in bad shape. Weren't you glad that when you come before him, you say, Well, you know, I have mercy on you. And something about his grace and his mercy, those two twins, making oh I'm feeling my help come right now. I'm talking about to have a God who's so merciful, and yet sometimes we can't be merciful to other folk Amen. But you may just have that gift that you know I don't care. I'm just gonna care for the person. I don't care what they've done, I still gotta care for 'em. I don't care what you say about them, but God has given me that special gift. I don't mind just caring and loving on folk. Amen. Amen. Isn't it good to love on people? Everybody else is beating them down. But you say, you know what? I have the gift of mercy. I'll just put my arms around you and let you know everything is going to be all right. Mercy is so important. He sees us in the light. And Jesus Christ Was the greatest gift ever given? That God so loved us that He sent not a secondhand gift Uh not a a re-gift gift. Some of y'all do that. You'll you'll get something and say, wait a minute, now I don't I don't need this, but let me We gift it and give it to someone else. But he gave us his very best by giving us his only begotten son My God, I'm glad about that today. And when I think about what I may possess gift-wise, I can never lose sight of Jesus Christ, who gave his very best just for us It is the gift that keeps on giving. Every time you turn around, he's giving. Every time you find yourself between a rock and a hard place, he's giving Every time you find yourself depressed, he's giving. Every time you think you can't make him, he's giving. Every time you're going through, hell and high water, he continues to give And we've got to have that kind of love that you know what? I'm gonna give whatever I got. I may not be able to find my real gift, but I'm gonna give. You begin to allow the Spirit of God to leave. And you know what? One thing I like about the Lord, He will activate the gift. But you've got to give him permission. You've got to say, you know what? Use me. The choir saying it. Use me to your will. And the fact that you have it, he wants your permission. To turn it on. He wants your permission to use that gift to the glory of God. He gives us free will. He won't force you to use your gift He won't stall on you. So you better use I know you got a gift in you. But he will just continue to love on you. But my God, the results will come that you have followed the user's manual. I I was thinking about children at a young age will say to them Show me your mouth. And they'll say, mouth. You'll say, show me your ear. What's she did? They get excited. And we're just like that. That God has given us all of these many gifts. He's given us, he says, use your mind. The Bible says, Let this mind be in you that was also in Christ Jesus, who humbled himself even to the death of the cross. Use your ears to listen, he that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches. Use your eyes. Amen. You might miss something I will look to the hills from which cometh my help. All of my help cometh from the Lord. What you looking at? I'm looking at God working this thing out. I'm looking at how He's going to bring me out. I'm looking at how He's going to get me over this next hurdle. And then use your voice to tell somebody that the Lord will make a way somehow. Amen. Let somebody know, child, I've been through the same thing But can I give you my testimony of what God, oh you've got a testimony, what God will bring you through. Just use your voice. Amen. Use it to declare to someone that I know that he's able. And to use your heart to love people. Amen. Anybody ever say you got a good heart? You're a good-hearted person, and sometimes folk took advantage of you, but my God, you use the heart that God has given you. Give me a clean heart that I might do what? I might love on folk. Use me to your glory. And use my hands. To lift up praise. Use my hands to let somebody know that the Lord will bring you through. Amen. Aren't you glad you can lift those hands in the air and say, Lord, I can't say nothing, I can just wave my hands. I don't have anything powerful to say, but I can say, you know what? You sure brought me out. You made a way out of nowhere. Something about, you know the song? He's got the whole world in his hands Aren't you glad today that you're in the hands of the Lord? Use my knees to bow down and to pray. I know they may hurt, but my God, it's because of neology, most of us are where we are today Somebody prayed for you and had you on their mind. It was because they used their knees. I'm okay with standing every now and then. It may take you a minute to get up, but get on down on your knees and Lord our Father, which are in heaven. That God has given you all of these things and given you feet to run. Amen. To walk in the spirit that you don't fulfill the lust of the flesh. So you got the whole package today Just go to your users, man. If you ever get bottled up, say, God, I know you've given me something to use, and I want to be used by you. Amen. Anybody want to be used today by the Lord Said Lord however you want to use me, I'm available for you. And that's what it all comes down to. Well, I'm still trying to get my gift survey. No, just say, Lord, use me And he'll use you and use every part of you the good, the bad, and the ugly. The lying and the backbiting, he has a way of transforming us and using, even in your mess, he can still use you Not the goody two shoe you, but the you who done blew it. And the you who said, you know what, had it not been for the Lord or must, he wouldn't use that you The not to shoot you, but the youth says, you know what, I don't look like much, but God won't use you. He'll work on the inside And something can happen on the inside. In fact, right now, you ought to feel it and say, oh, I just felt the activation. I just feel like I've been used of God And to stand before you today, I'm just saying of faith. I'm being used to preach the gospel. You mean Tim Tootin? Hallelujah. I don't know much, but I serve a risen Savior. And he's in the world today, and his name is Jesus. I don't know much, but I know that Jesus will make a way. And allow him to take whatever is in you and to use you up. Don't just summon, but use you up. That means pardon me. Well I used to use for the world. Use it now for ministry. Oh, you got a sharp tongue. Yeah. He'll change that tongue. If you got some sneaky background, he'll use you to reach another sneaky person. Amen. Yeah. Uh-huh. He'll use you in the spirit to relate to someone who God is yet delivering My God has been sad. You can't relate to somebody on the corner who's been drinking. Oh no, or you've been there. God will give you a slur, slurry spirit, so you might reach somebody for the glory of God. Don't limit yourself on how you can be used. My God, I feel him right now using me, all of me, to the glory of God. Act to vain. Your gift. And don't let anything block you. Oh you ain't got oh yes I do have it. No no no you you oh yes I can tell the enemy he's a liar but I'm I know what's in between but you keep on pressing That God desires to use each of us. Aren't you glad to be used today? Come on, stand today. And give God a praise. Lord, I was not the most likely. But you saw something in me that I couldn't see. Something in my walk that I didn't see. Something in my talk that I would have never discovered. But I had to come not fixed up, but to come just the way I am. Broke down. Just the way I am. He'll do the fixing. Just come. Just like you are. There's that spirit again. There you are from a sweet compreh Is that you today? You've been limiting yourself about well I'm not ready. Uncle Sam won't you. Come see Comedy He'll do it today. Today living water and As we come for the invitation Those things that have sought to keep you from your activation. God is moving them today. In your full potential. It's not evident. You know what I'm looking out today? It's just a four-part series, so it's not by four you ought to have it. But when you think about how valuable you are The world has told you that you you didn't have it. That what you do in going to church? Well you you can't help anybody But in the spirit realm, the Lord has so much He wants to do through you. And that's what's powerful What he does through us if we become available. And I'm so happy today because I've got new vigor now as an encourager. I was in Hampton this past week on the way back. I stopped at a Dunkin' Donuts to get coffee. And I ordered my coffee and I saw the young lady, she said, That's how you do it You know, like I said, you know what? God has great things in store for you. I said, Duncan is just a stepping stone, she's like I said yeah, I I believe. I've been never see you again. But God has something in you that He wants to work through you. Yeah, yeah. And you too, you other your working partner. Yeah, y'all. It's about men y'all. They were like, who are you? I took my carpet to the truck and you know what I did? Came back with a car. Now, let me give you this. Here thou app and go on there and And uh check us out. But I may not ever stop at that dungeon again. But wherever you are, and whatever your gift is, use it. That God wants to, He desires to use us to His glory. And so once you start operating in your gift, oh my Lord, things will begin, and you'll feel better So much, but you know what? I'm doing what I'm supposed to be doing. That's all I've been trying to say for the last few weeks. I want to pray with you. This becomes the altar right where we are today. I want to pray for you right now Father, we come in the name of Jesus. And we thank you for pulling back the covers on this area of our spiritual journey. That we don't just exist to be existing, but we've got purpose. There's something that we do well in the spirit. That no one else may do it like us Because he who forgot a good works in us will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. It is my prayer today, God, for every person under the sound of my voice. That it may just one thing just click. Then all of a sudden you say, uh oh, I think that was it. Use them God. But most of all, you get the glory From what they're doing. We come against frustration. We come against fear. We come against those things that would tell us, well, that wasn't really a gift. Yes, it was. Because the Holy Ghost gave it to me And God, I know that harvest will be the better. And homes will be the better. And relationships will be the better just because we're operating. We thank you, God. And we count it done in Jesus' name. Amen? Amen. Maybe you've come today. You desire to be a part of this fellowship. Call Harvest I pray you were blessed by today's sermon. I am just so thrilled that God would use me to help you and to encourage you in the Lord. Now to find out more about our ministry, go to our website. It's www. comthenumbertwoharvest. org. That's www. comthenumbertwharvest. org. Also Check out our brand new church app. It's called HCM Baltimore. That's HCM Baltimore. Go and search Google Play or iTunes. and then download it and you'll be blessed immensely by this app. It'll give you devotionals, videos, prayer wall directions, and everything you will need. Again, Dr. Tip Tootin in Baltimore County, Maryland. Have a great day in the Lord and thank you so much for listening.