Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvard's Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. I think somebody knows that today But you run out of adults. Hey hey. Ah, you know it today. Glory, glory. That's it. Hallelujah. Let the redeemed of the Lord say so. Yeah. My, my, my. Father, we come today with that word on our lips. Awesome, incredible, great. And greatly to be praised in the city of our God. As we come today, God, we we stand because of an awesome God. We preach because of an awesome God. We serve because of an awesome God. As we stand today, may we decrease. And may you increase. Save somebody today. Encourage another And we'll be glad to give your name the praise in Jesus' name. Amen. And the sweet spirit in this place. And we know it's the Spirit of the Lord. There's a word that comes from the Gospel of Luke, 18th chapter, verses 15 through 17. People were also bringing babies to Jesus for him to place his hands on them. When the disciples saw this, they rebuked them, but Jesus called the children to him and said, Let the little children come to me, and do not hinder them, for the kingdom of God belongs to such as these. Verse 17, truly I tell you, anyone who will not receive the kingdom of God like a little child will never enter it. I want to preach today. from the Semonic title All My Children. One of the proudest moments that me and my wife have is the fact that we are called parents. And we have three wonderful children. Isn't that what parents are supposed to say? You may have been a rascal. But let's say I got three wonderful children. They are now adults and we have extended family and grants now, but we realize that children are a blessing from the Lord. They're not mistakes. They're not accidents. Psalm 127 and 3 says that they are a heritage from the Lord. As we come about this new school here here in the mid-Atlantic, because some of our viewers have already been in school two weeks, God bless them. But they'll get out sooner. But we know that our educators and our colleges and universities and the like are preparing for students to come back and they always look for the best in children. You might be 22, a freshman, or not so old, and I guess you'll be a senior by then. Uh you're still a child. And if someone trying to pour into you, I believe that when you say you want the best for children, it's not just a model. But it is something that we embrace is that we're always pushing them to become better than who they currently are. I'm honored to be the baby brother of two retired school teachers. Apolline, I'm sorry, I still can't write cursive. I have a sister-in-law who's a retired educator and a daughter who's currently in the classroom. So I got a little credibility when it comes to at least talking education. But there is one who knows all about children, and that is the person of Jesus Christ. The Bible says, for God so loved the world that he sent his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him would not perish, but have everlasting life. John 3 16 Today we come to a powerful story, put on your spiritual imagination, that we see Jesus coming in contact with children. You may say now, he's not a father, maybe not an earthly father. Don't worry about what you've seen in Hollywood. He is a spiritual father. God in three persons. God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. I like what writer Max Lacato says in his book, God Came Near. He talked about Mary raising Jesus. And he said, I wonder if she ever accidentally called him father. That even though that was her boy, he was also her father. Even though that was her son, he was also her Savior. Jesus was no ordinary child. Wise beyond his years, a mixture of homeschooling and gifted and talented altogether with honors. He remembered the time he was there in Jerusalem at the age of twelve. Mom and daddy realized they left him behind, came back to find him sitting with the educated folk The professors and the lawyers and the doctors, they were confounded because they didn't know how much he knew. He had that kind of wisdom he was able to share with them. He was an unusual child. And this Jesus we see today is now in his 30s, beginning his ministry. And I think that what we ought to see as being is the importance of being selected. And corrected. And connected. Verse 15 says, people were also bringing babies to Jesus. For him to place his hands on them, when the disciples saw this, they rebuked him The the parents also. That meant that he had to deal with some other stuff before the parents got there. Deal with some other questions and concerns. But this was important to him, and it was traditional in part to bring your child to be blessed. But on this day, it wasn't an ordinary rabbi. They brought their children to Jesus. I mean, after all, they're all his children. Parents were selective. It mattered who touched them. It matters who pronounced blessings over them. It ought to matter for us. And I don't say go to school and hassle your teacher now, but go and be nice to the teacher. And go to back to school night and go to teacher conference night and and you might strike a relationship with some of y'all tried that. Yeah, you you don't believe what Junior said. You you went there and you met the teacher. Amen. But Jesus, there must have been something about his touch. His resume said that he touched a man with leprosy. He was healed. He touched a 12-year-old girl and she got up from the dead. He touched a blind man. He touched the deaf. And yet there was tension because His disciples saw this and they wanted to guard Jesus' time. And we all need somebody like that. He's busy, can't talk now. We all need a front person. Otherwise we'll get nothing done But this was so important to Jesus to make sure that he rebuked them and said, hold on, these are important times and these are all my children. Matthew 18 and 3 talks about how the disciples on one occasion were arguing about who was the greatest. No man me, no, no, me. No, me, me. And Jesus got wind of say, hey, bring a child over here and let me place the child here. Now this Is the greatest. Isn't that something? The example that he uses. But there was a selective spirit about what he saw, what the parents expected, and what the parents wanted. Now here's the tension in the text. Verse 16. There was a time of correction. But Jesus called the children to him, in spite of what the disciples had done, and said, Let the children come to me and do not hinder them for the kingdom of God belongs to such as these educators it was a teachable moment A time of correction. A time to make right. Jesus called the children If you let them come to me because they are important. Disciples, I appreciate you. But step back Back off. Don't mess with them. They are important. Don't get in the way of them receiving the blessing. You know, we we can do that sometimes, meaning well. We can get in the way of the blessing that God wants to bestow upon his children. Yeah, we we we don't mean to, but we have to let them go. But but but sometimes we block What God wants to do. I know I'm going out of the realm of education. I'm going to your house now. Amen. I'm going to your community. Amen. And I'm helping me. That we have to listen to God, whatever you want to do with them. And so when he calls them, he says Leave them alone. Why the kingdom of God belongs to such as these Ephesians 5. 1. But follow God's example. Be imitators as God. Look at this. As dearly beloved children. I told you they're all his children. He loves them in that way that there's a correction he has to make in what the disciples are doing, and oftentimes he's got to correct us. Amen? Don't you love a corrected paper? I used to love to try to fool my professor as if I was like, I mean unpacking is a nice try, Tim. I didn't know the answer, but I was writing some stuff, man. Like I believe that the mean that yeah no no. It was corrected. Thank God I passed. A time of correction A time of selection. But then verse 17, I see a time of connection. Verse 17 says, Truly, I tell you, anyone who will not receive the kingdom of God like A little child would never enter it. He helps the adult to make the connection You will not receive the kingdom of God unless you come like a child. You will not enter. That doesn't mean that you won't be saved. But you won't have that childlike spirit. In other words, don't come grown up to me. Sometimes become too grown up to God. I'm I'm grown. No, you're not. I'm just your child with all your children. If you come that way in a childlike spirit, that things will open up. Because why a child is innocent. There's humility. There's simple confidence in a child until we spoil them. Side note for another day. But he does not let parents off the hook. Now now if you keep reading in the text and to other places He does not say, okay, end of story, they need to come, they come, I want to bless them, but I don't believe that parents are off the hook That there are things that we have to do. Properse 22:6. Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old, he will not depart from it. He may get the wrong path every now and then because we did that. But once you put the stuff in them, how many folk know that the stuff was in you? Oh, you were a slick somebody. You were a quiet rascal, but because your parents put some stuff in you. On your hard drive, you didn't get so far. Amen. There is a connection between his love for children and what we have to do in terms of responsibility. Deuteronomy 6. 9 always talks about the Shema. It is that we got to live it in front of them. Talk about it when they go to bed and when they get up. Don't be afraid to say, no, I'm not. No, no, no, no, no. You you you can talk about the Lord. If you believe him and you trust him, why are you afraid to talk about the Lord? Amen. That's so important. But you know, for a moment, take your grown-up mask off and become a chow. And it will help us to embrace what 1 John 3 and 1 says. See what great love the Father has lavished on us that we should be called, there it is again, the children of God. Matthew 5 and 9, blessed are the peacemakers, for they will be called, that is again, the children of God. All his children. If anybody asks you who I am, don't tell them Tim Tootin. Don't tell him the preacher up at the theater. Don't tell them the guy from TV. Tell them I'm a child of God. Now I like that. And if anybody asks you who you are, I don't need your resume and your credentials. But I just trust in the Lord. Anybody asks you who I am, I'm just a country fellow. Amen. Trying to trust him. Folk ought to know that you are a child of God. We don't always act it, but we're still children of God. With all of our mess-ups, we're all his children in the family because he died for us. Invited to the reunion because we are family. There ought to be a theme song when all God's children get together. What a time, what a time. We're gonna sit down by the banks of the river. Oh, what a time. And talk about how he brought you over. And talk about how he's provided for you, and talk about how he makes a way out of nowhere, and talk about how he's a rock in a weary land, and talk about how he will keep you with all his children. It won't be a time about race, creed or color, middle class, lower class, higher class, party affiliation, denomination. We're all His I don't think you feel that thing, yes. We're all his children. No need for a birth certificate. Your name is redeemed. Your dad is God the Father. You were born the time when you accepted him. No need for footprints. Why? You're walking in the newness of life. Walk in the light. The beautiful light. Come where the dew drops of mercy shine bright. Walk all around them by day and by night. Jesus, the light. of the world. If we're all his children, then we can. I thought you look like somebody I know. What? We as children. I no you you act like Our daddy. You you talk like our daddy. You you serve like our daddy. We must be kids. All his children. That's the word of God today. It's already blessed. Come on, stand today all over this place. All my Children. What a great God we serve. That you've been included. You're special. And that's why we can come to him today. It's easy to become a part of the family. Just give your heart to Jesus. But you gotta come though. He won't sit out a purple fusinel worker trying to find you and say now you ain't in school. You're not giving your life, but he's waiting for us. To open our hearts to him. Let's take a little bit of that today. Come to Jesus. Just come to Gome to G. You know when I think about the fact that I'm accepted, it's it's it's awesome because I know I don't deserve it I missed the mark and so have you. But the fact that there is a a living savior. I was talking to a friend of mine and we meet people and say, oh no, I don't I don't believe in that in that principle. Okay. I'm an atheist. All right. But for me, it's it's the person. I I believe in Jesus. I believe not in a set of rules. I believe in the word, but I believe in he who breathed on those who wrote the word. Does that make sense? So I'm more into the person than the process. And what the person did for me is they saved me from my sins. And that made me new. As you bow your heads today, Father, we come in the name of Jesus. That that there might be somebody who needs to meet the person of Jesus Christ. The family. Welcome committee who wants to invite them in. Your word says if you shall confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, the Bible says, Thou shalt be saved. Father, we pray today. Touch that heart and do it even now in Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God the praise today. Amen. Give him the honor Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. comtoharvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.