If you have your Bibles today or your tablets, whatever you may be using, turn to Psalm 27. We'll do verses 13 and 14. Psalm 27 Here's how it reads. I remain confident of this. I will see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. Verse number 14 Says, wait for the Lord. Be strong and take heart and wait for the Lord. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, almost. Almost. The word almost is full. It is packed with meaning. Almost means that just about nearly, close to, as we stand on the border of 2021, there's a need to take a closer closer look, brother, at our almost moments. For so many of us, it's been a year of disappointment. A year of loss. year of pain and struggle and a year of stress, but also a year of opportunity In twenty twenty, you almost gave up. You almost threw in the towel. You almost quit. But I stopped by this morning to reassure you, to convince you, to remind you that you're almost is a lot closer to where God wants to take you. In your faith, in your career, in your relationships, in your personal life, you're at an almost moment. And David stops by to help us to understand that today. He knows a lot about almost. In this 27th division of Psalms, it gives us an idea of what he is facing. That very first verse says, The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life, and whom shall I be afraid? David was dealing with some real issues. Enemies were trying to take him out. Both were double-crossing him, but he knew that God has his back. Do you know that today that when it seems like everybody is against you and you got a half a friend, God has your back. Now persons may tell you, I've got you And they mean well, but you know, God really does have you. David is the kind of person who is able to share that God you will take care of me. God you will deliver me. God you will protect me. And he shows us In the form of anticipation and expectation and preparation. There in verse 13 he says, I remain confident of this. That lets me know that he's already experienced a sense of confidence. Keep in mind that David was a shepherd boy. who watched his father's sheep, and then he protected them from the bears and from the lions, and then he takes out Goliath That big giant, that Philistine giant. So he's already showing that God will take care of him. To anticipate means that a person is certain that something will take place. He can envision it. That was David's prayer that I really want to be in your presence. I remain confident. He knew that there was one thing he desired of the Lord. If you go back to verse number four in Psalm 27, he says, one thing I really want. That is, I seek that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life and to gaze on the beauty of the Lord and to seek him in his temple. Now, some scholars uh have said already that they believe what David was saying is that I want to get back into the temple to praise God In other words, we can relate to that because so many of us have not been in a physical building because of the pandemic And David said, I'm confident that one day I'm going to get into the place of worship because I'm a worshiper and I'll be able to do it in your presence. Yes, you can do it at home. Oh yes you can but there's something about coming together as the body of Christ. And I believe that when the Lord says so, when it's safe we can return to in-person worship. David had a sense of confidence. He had a sense of belief that things will get better in my situation. Isn't it great to have a hope in your life? that you know persons may tell you, well you're never gonna make it or they may tell you, well that's not uh what you're cut out to be and they'll tell you You know that this is not something that has been a part of your family. People are downlers. They will down you in a heartbeat and not even realize. That's why there are some folk you have to just avoid. Amen Avoid their texts, avoid their messengers, uh, avoid their phone calls and say, you know what, I'll get back with you. But David was excited about knowing that one day I will get back in the presence of the Lord. Now, 1 Corinthians 15, 58, a support scripture. One of my favorites, it says, Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. For as much as you know your labor in the Lord is not in vain. You cannot give up. God has got you in a almost moment Embrace that moment and know that he will come through. I believe that today, amen. Has he ever come through for you? that you were in a place that you just anticipated. I really want you to do this, God. I really want this to happen. And before you knew it, he allowed this thing to come Anticipation, but there's also expectation. He says, I remain confident of this that I will see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. He believed something. He was bold about it. And sometimes when you speak it, if you just keep it to yourself is one thing, when you tell somebody, child, I'm coming out I'm coming out and then to folk who see you go in the wilderness, they see you come out giving God the praise. David expected to see the goodness of the Lord While he was yet alive. Amen. Not in the hereafter. He's saying, I expect God to do something right now That's why I always talk about resolutions and if you make them, that's great. Whatever works for you. But I don't ever let the count dot out and say, I can't wait The 2021 come. I'm tired of 2020. And while you're saying that, how many days are left? You are missing what God can do for you in 2020. Amen. You saying He can't do it? Oh yes, He can He will do it in the here and now. He expected something to happen. Do you expect God to to bring you through A predicament in your own life is personal for you. It's a situation that you have been struggling with. Do you believe that God can do it? See, you you know stranger to God, always contend that we have history with God. If you look over your life There's gotta be something. There's gotta be a God moment where God brought you through something. I know you thought it was you. And you thought it was that you played your cards right, and you thought that you uh it was your good looks and your education, but can you think of a moment, not just in 2020, but a moment Where God brought you through, you expected something to happen, and God allowed okay can I get specific? Your hoopty was breaking down. You expected God to give you the right payment To get a ride. Amen. Your house, you have been renting forever. I think something's gonna happen. And we look at this sense of expectation, believing that God can do anything First Corinthians 2 and 9 another support scripture. It says, for it is written, I has not seen nor ear heard. Nor have it entered into the heart of man the things which God has prepared for those and here's the catch Those who love him. Yeah. You gotta be connected. Amen. You don't just show up, you know, at meal time. God here I am. There's got to be a relationship, and whatever that is, you ought to know that you can come to God in your own way In your own time, but make sure he he knows your name. Make sure he said, wait a minute. Uh is that Tutan? Uh yeah, I bet I know him. The Bible says the earth is the Lord's And the fullness thereof and those who dwell therein, that there's a sense of expectation that I believe, even though I can't see it, I'm living a life of almost I'm almost there. I ran track back in the day. And Lord have mercy. You know, the first race was a a one-mile you know run, four times around And then I did run a two-mile, some of y'all saying I I I did run that back. I got friends to tell you I did that. And there was something about that last 100 yards. Focus screen come on. Because there's some guy right behind you. Maybe you were in second or third place But you were trying to get to the finish line and they expected you would cross the line. You didn't worry about the time, but you made it I think of my grandson, he's a runner. By God, he gets out there, he he rolling. He looks so comfortable when he's doing it. You know, it makes it look like it's easy. But you have to say, God, I spake I'm gonna finish this race. I'm gonna run this race with patience, looking under Jesus Christ, the author and the finisher of our faith. Yes, sir. A sense of Expectation, anticipation, but it also has to be a time of preparation. Amen. And verse 14 says, wait on the Lord Be strong and take hard and wait on the Lord. We are some impatient folks. We don't like to wait. Waiting for that online order that didn't come for Christmas. You mad at the carrier. It should have been here. Wait, it's coming. You got another gift You can put under the tree after Christmas, amen. We don't like waiting for our food order. We'll get an attitude in a heartbeat. We don't like waiting for traffic, but David is an example of what it means to wake. He was not just talking about it. He wrote this thing twice for a reason. David was anointed king at the age of 16 High school, so to speak. He didn't become king until he was 30 years old. Pokey up saying, David, I thought you're gonna be king. I heard that is that true? And he continued to wait on the Lord because these were times of preparation Some things you're just not ready for. You think you are, but you're not ready for them. You may have been in an almost state for for years now. And you say, well, I'm just gonna give up. Yeah, no, don't give up. Prepare by waiting on the Lord. What is God preparing you for? Amen? That requires you to wait. I know you get antsy. I know you're gonna fix it yourself. I know you got a plan C But continue to wait on the Lord as He takes you to the place that He wants to take you. Amen. Psalm 41 says, What? How did I wait? I waited patiently for the Lord. He turned to me and he heard my cry. Can anybody testify that the Lord listened to your prayer? It wasn't the best-sounding prayer. It wasn't uh often as it should have been, but God, so you just keep on waiting. Your day is coming. Don't worry about focus. They've counted you out already. Amen. You're on the map of life. But all of a sudden in the twelfth round. God allows you to get up. I just stopped by to tell you to hang in there. Amen? God's got this and He's got you. You know, check the record. He proved his love for you by sending his son Jesus Christ. He kept his word. Jesus came, he died, but he rose again, and he's sitting at the right hand of the Father, making intercession for the saints. Came across this song that was popular back in 2004. I almost let go. Now now the writer Kirk Carr was saying that he had about to where he thought about Taking his life. He says I felt like I couldn't take it anymore. Depression held me down, but God kept me so I would not Let go. Don't let go. Don't let go. Back in the eighties, I went to Paris, Island, South Carolina. I did a behind the scenes on what it's like to be a Marine. You Marines know. I was all dressed up in my camis and uh cameraman there. He said, okay, now I'm gonna go up. I've got everything rolling And the drill sergeant told me says, now when you get to the top of this rappel, uh on the wall, said now you just gotta hold on Right? He said don't let go. And he said just hold on to it. And then he says at some point you loosen it. And when you do that, you're coming down further and further. Well I didn't listen. I got up there on that thing and I can look down and see the cameraman. He was smiling. I started dangling and and I just said, you know what? For a moment, just hold on. Just don't let go. When I got enough confidence, I loosened it and I said, now cut that part out. You saw me dangling up there, but thank God for Jesus, I did not let go And the Lord will keep his word. 2 Peter 3 and 9 says, the Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count straightness, but he is long-suffering toward us. Not willing that any should perish, that they might come to repentance. Maybe you avoid it All year alone, giving your heart to Jesus Christ. Everything else got ahead of you, and you say, Well, I'll get to it. Maybe you've told yourself, I'm gonna do better in 2021 And folk used to say, I'm going to church in 2021. But guess what? It's been a little hard to do that in person. So maybe when the doors open back up again, we'll all be excited You know, back in the book of Acts 26, Paul writes a very profound statement. He's locked up, he goes before the Jewish leaders. And as he goes before them, he begins to make his case. Say, here's what the Lord has done for me. I used to be a rascal. I used to chase Christians and get a bounty for it. And he went before the leaders. And Paul was was he was giving his testimony. You ever done that for somebody? Show let me tell you where God has brought me from. He talked about the Damascus road and how God brought him through. And he came to a point Even in that sharing, that King Agrippa, the big king, says, you know what, Paul? You almost persuaded me. I almost started to believe that. You know what? Almost. I pray that in your almost that you might start by giving your heart to Jesus Christ. Don't get so close. It's I'm almost there, but open your heart today begin to run to him, say, I yield, I yield. What must I do to be saved? That is the word of God today. It's already blessed. It may be today you have put off a real decision about Jesus Christ. Yeah, you've heard about him, but sometimes hard times can become an eye-opener Sometimes a struggle will draw you closer. Truth be told, many of us, we were fine the way we were, so we thought Until hard times came along. Today, don't be an almost believer, but take the step today. Take the step to give your heart to Jesus Christ. Well, Reverend, how do I do that? You lay something out before me. Well, the Bible says it very clearly. Thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised them from the dead. Thou shalt be saved. So I believe the Christmas story. Yes, I do. Well God sent his son. That's the story. But that same son died for you and me. I want to say today that the Lord Jesus Christ. Is prepared and waiting for you. He's just waiting for you to make a decision today. I feel like a country lawyer in the courtroom. I'm no Perry Mason, but can I tell you today that one day He came into my life. Oh yeah, I knew a little something, but not enough. But when I fully opened my heart to Jesus Christ, there's no going back now. He's been too good. Listen, Father, I come in the name of Jesus and I thank you for this word of encouragement. There's some things we just have to wait on. And you've waited for us. So for that young man, that young lady. That child did God today