Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits. and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries It's already in progress. Your grace And your mercy. Those twins looked out for you. That's your testimony today. Tell them all your story. And you don't know my story. But when you hear something that meets your need and your situation, it's okay to say, Lord, thank you. So I'm gonna leave 30 seconds out there. Just for you to think about the goodness of the Lord. I'm gonna leave 30 seconds out there for you to say, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. It really was his grace and his mercy And when you think about the goodness of the Lord and all that He's done for you, your soul ought to cry out. Hallelujah. I don't know. What he's done for you. Let's bow even now. Heavenly Father, we come in the name of Jesus. There's no other name. By which men can be saved but at the name of Jesus. Every niche about Every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God. Father, as we stand today with your word. We thank you for your word, God. Your word makes the difference. Even now, may we decrease. May you increase. Save someone today. Encourage another When this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. He is the center of our joy. There's a worship of the Lord from the Gospel of Matthew, and gospel simply means good news. The sixth chapter will take up verses five through eight. Here's how it reads. And when you pray, do not be like the hypocrites. Yeah. For they love to pray standing in the synagogues and on the street corners to be seen by others. Truly I tell you, they've received their reward in full. Verse 6, but when you pray Go into your room, close the door, and pray to your father who is unseen. Then your father, who sees what is done in secret, will reward you. And when you pray Do not keep on babbling like the pagans, for they think they will be heard because of their many words. Do not be like them, for your father knows what you need. Before you ask him. I want to preach from the Semonic title today, An Attitude Adjustment. And attitude adjustment. The story is told of a man who visits a church in the countryside of Kentucky. And when he gets there, right in the middle of service, everybody's attention is drawn to one family with children. As the service goes along, it's obvious that this child has become uncomfortable and rowdy, and people are still looking as if they didn't see it. And the father rose up like some of our fathers and mothers, picked the child up, and started heading toward the exit. Now I would imagine he probably did this as well. And at that moment members of the church turned toward that scene. And this young child with the Kentucky drawl says this Y'all pray for me now as he walked through the door. I would guess he probably got an attitude adjustment Perhaps the father talked with him. Perhaps the father tried to reason with him. Perhaps the father says, hear your choices in case you do this next time Isn't that what your parents did? No, they didn't. They gave you more than a good talking. I want to recommend this morning that we need to adjust. Our attitude when it comes to prayer, and to see prayer as an adventure and not as a burden. In the Gospel of Matthew, chapters 5 through 7 is considered what we call the Sermon on the Mount. That means that Jesus went up on the mountainside with his disciples, got away from the crowd, and began to preach and to teach them. It is believed this was one of the greatest sermons ever preached. Can you imagine having that kind of access to Jesus himself? When in fact you do. Every time you pray, you have access to Jesus Christ Himself. And so during this time of engaging with his disciples, he covers a number of topics in his presentation. He talks about salt and about light. He talks about anger and about murder. He talks about divorce and marriage loving your enemies and giving to the needy just some of the topics covered in this Sermon on the Mount. And for our purposes, he talks about how to pray. He begins to share with them what essentially is some of the do's and the don'ts of prayer. He lays it out. He makes it plain. He talks with them about prayer. I mean, they they knew that prayer made the difference. Why? They watched him pray They they walk with him and they talk with him. Prayer is what drove the ministry of Jesus Christ. I don't know about you, but without prayer, there's nothing we could do. My God, there was something you prayed about this week. You tried to let it go. But every time you thought about it and you realized you couldn't fix it and you had your own uh alternative motives, you just said, Lord, help me. Has that been your testimony this week? Has there been one thing that you've been praying for over and over again this week? And as you prayed, your attitude about prayer was adjusted. I want to talk today about the motive involved in praying. The method and the mixed messages. Verse five says, and when you pray Do not be like the hypocrites. They've got a motive, for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and on the street corners and seen by others and says, truly I tell you, they have received their reward in full. A motive is a reason for doing something. Especially one that is hidden and not obvious. A motive is the why. Why do you do what you do? Why do I do what I do? There's always a motive. And Jesus says, don't be like The hypocrites. These were religious folk who loved to follow Jesus and start trouble. There are a person that puts up a false appearance But scholars give it another outlook. They say Jesus used the term hypocrite to describe religious phonies. Those who pretend to be something that they're not to impress other people. You know anybody like that? Me too? That was me one day and that was you one day. You had some of that in you. Oh y'all know you've been hypocritical. My God was sitting up today as Dr. Charles Booth always says, proud as a peacock. And this text speaks just to us. That many of us have worn that label of having a motive. Being a hypocrite. The difference is now the Holy Spirit will pull you up. Oh yes he will before you didn't care. That's why I feel I'll leave it alone. But now you get back in your car, you go to your next assignment, and the Spirit of God is working on you. You say, you know what? That was not holy. And he says, these are folk who love to stand in the synagogues and on the street corners, saying, look at me. Saying watch me. Did you hear me pray today? I'm praying, so you'll hear me. On the beltway. I'm I'm praying that you'll hear me and see me on Bel Air Road. It's really all about me. He says, I tell you, they've already received their reward. Why? They've been seen. There was a motive in prayer. They knew how to pray, but they used it in the wrong way. But I like when it says when you pray. Proverbs 3 and 34 says, He mocks proud mockers, but shows favor to the humble and the oppressed. You know, life will humble you. Life will bring you down and we've all had the big head a time or two and thought we knew it all, but Mike, aren't you glad that the Lord humbled you? Oh you'll sound like you're with me today. Oh you all that. Folk will know you in the world. Oh man, they gave you a label. But thank God for Jesus. Now he's changed your life around and you will pray in a minute. And you know what prayer can do. There was a motive used by those who were hypocritical, but there was also a method. But when you pray. I like that. The assumption is made that you pray. Can I take a poll today? How many folk pray? That wasn't a fair poll, was it? Because I know everybody prayed. Yes Lord, the things in life that will make you pray day in and day out. But that was a method. He said, but when you pray, not if you pray, go into your room Close the door and pray to your father who is unseen. Why? God is the Spirit. Those who worship him must do it. in spirit and in truth, for the Father seeketh such. Then your father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. A method. It's a procedure. It's a technique. It's a way of doing something. You don't pray like I pray. I don't pray like you pray, but aren't you glad that God answers prayer? My God, let me just push that thing a little further. No matter how you pray, do you know what answer prayer looks like? Have you seen it up close and personal? When God answers your prayer, you grin it from ear to ear, saying, Lord, thank you. Why? You prayed it, and he answered it. He continues to answer prayer. When you go in your room Or in your closet and close the door. This is not a literal, although some of y'all got a closet, y'all go to. And some of y'all have a room when you want to get by yourself and say, excuse me Do not disturb. I was out of town this week and I just kept it on all week. I don't need but a couple times. Do not disturb And sometimes you've got to pull away and put up your holy, do not disturb sign. Why? I'm praying. Excuse me? You need something to hang around your door to let folk know that right now I'm spending time with the master. You see, every Jewish home had a porch that really had a kind of a a secret place. And that's where he was referring to. There's a a small room near the porch But we need someplace that we can go to spend time with God. Amen. You gotta just grab a moment. I'm not gonna call a name, but I was out this week, one of my brothers who's in here this morning. I was out getting my walk on. I passed by him, he was running and praising I mean it was a run praise. And I would look and I looked over, I could still see him just giving God the praise I might have to put a trademark on that. Exercise and pray at the uh oh, y'all missed that. At the same time. Burn calories and get in touch with heaven. But whatever method you have Pray unto him. And re expect results. Don't pray saying, well, Lord, if you get around to it, we'll be happy. You don't, then I ain't lost nothing. No, no, I mean look, I'm I'm praying because I believe that you will come through. The prayer might be one that I'm asking for something. The answer might be yes. It might be no. Why he knows best. Or it might be wait. We don't like wait. Wait on the Lord and be of good courage and he'll do what? He will strengthen thine heart. David says, wait, I say on the Lord. Yeah. Find you a secret place. Let me let me ask you, how many folk have a have a secret place? How how many folk have a a war room someone just said? Uh oh, look out. I'm about to go to war. And tell the devil that greater is he that is within me than he that is within the world. You got to put on your armor and fight in your secret place. Psalm 91 and 1 says, He that dwelleth in the secret place of the most high shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. Don't that sound Nice. Can't you picture that? Excuse me. I'm just trying to get in a place where God can hear me. Amen. So there's a method in praying. There is a motive, but then verse seven there is a mixed message. Verse 7 says, And again, when you pray Do not keep babbling like pagans, for they think they will be heard because there are many words. Use not vain repetitions Shh, you're talking too much. Not giving God a chance to answer anything. But but but the mixed message means that it's contradictory. It's inconsistent, it's unclear. And Babylon is not using a few words, but a lot of words. It's repeating, but keep in mind though that he's talking about pagans. Not the hypocrites, but pagans. A hypocrite can't be a pagan. A pagan can be a hypocrite. A pagan is someone who does not believe in the power of God A pagan is a non-Christian person who just says, you know what? I don't believe. And how many folk know somebody who still don't believe in the Lord our God? My God, with all that He's done for you, and you still don't get it? Some of us have to get beaten up in the back alley in the spirit to be finally got it, but thank God we got it now. We know there is a time though and place for long prayers Now don't say but reverends say keep it short. No, I I don't know what your need is. You might be in there for an hour and you're not babbling, but you're talking about What the Lord can do for you, and part of that is you listen to what He's saying back to you and you are praying in the Spirit and you are using the Word of God to make contact with He who is in heaven But Jesus prayed all night long. And sometimes I get like that. You go to bed praying. Wake up praying. At lunch, you pray. On the way home from work, you pray. When you get over supper, you pray. Anybody have that narrative today? There's some things that cause you to pray To steal away and to give God the glory. Oh Saints would say, Teach me how to pray. And what to pray for. And when you go into prayer, allow him to take over When you go into prayer, throw your agenda away. When you go into prayer, bowl up your prayer list. When you go into prayer, listen to what God is saying to you. Every now and then you got your agenda out. God I'm gonna tell you right now, here are my five things. And once you get in there and get in the spirit, God will change that thing around all of a sudden you realize, oh I didn't mean to pray for that. Why? You are praying in the spirit. Paul says we don't know what we ought to pray for as we ought, but the Spirit maketh intercession for us with groanings that cannot even you might just groan sometimes And the Holy Spirit knows what's in. Oh, y'all won't feel me today. He knows what's in your heart. And so even if you don't have a prayer manuscript, know that God will Take care of you. I didn't write it down, but God just blessed me when I didn't deserve to be blessed. Amen. It's the important. And then verse 8 There on the end. It gives some follow instructions on this particular topic. And there again, Jesus says not, do not Be like them. Jesus is trying to make a point. I'm trying to help you. Don't be like them. There's some folks you ought not be like. Don't be like them, don't talk like them, don't walk like them, don't live like them, don't give like them. He says there are some folk I don't want you to be like. For your father knows what you need before you ask him. You you you mean even before I got in my secret place, yeah? Even before I had my thing all together, he already knew why? He knows what's on your mind. He knows your thoughts from afar off. He knows your down sittings. He knows your uprising. And so when you come to pray, he's not killing him anything new. He just wants you to come and sup with him. Jesus knows all about my struggles. He will guide me till the day is done. There's not a friend like the Lord. He already knows. He's omniscient. You didn't think you were informing him, did you? You didn't think that you were bringing him up to date, did you? He scooped up the dust. He put the stars in the sky. He formed the moon. He brought the waters. And you thought you told him something new? He already knows What's on your mind? That's helping me out today. You mean, you mean, you mean you mean Yeah. I knew. And I've got you in my presence. Whisper a prayer in the morning. Whisper a prayer at noon Whisper a prayer in the evening and keep your heart in tune. But can I replace it by saying keep your heart adjusted? Keep your attitude adjusted. God answers prayer in the morning. God answers prayer. At noon. God answers prayer in the evening to do what? To keep your heart in tune to adjust you so that you're living right. Jesus may come in the morning. He may come at noon during your lunch break. He may come in the evening to do what? To help to keep you in tune. Well when you adjust your attitude, hold on to scriptures like 2 Chronicles 7 and 14. If my people which are called by my name will humble themselves and pray. And seek my face and turn from their wicked ways. Then will I hear from heaven the conditions I will forgive their sin, I will heal their land. Well, can I add to this? He won't just heal the land. He'll heal your mind. He'll heal your body. Can I can I call a few witnesses today? The man at the pool of Bethesda. Had been there for 37 long years and could never get in the pool to get healed, but one day Jesus stopped by and said, Do you want to be healed? Pick up your bed and walk. The woman with the issue of blood has been in that condition for twelve long years and has spent everything she had. Her C D Her 401k, her retirement, but one day she heard about that man from Galilee and she said if I could just get to him I I know you got crowd control. I know you've got a balance of bed. I can touch the hill of this government. I'll be made whole. Blind Bottom made us say I I I I heard that Jesus It's coming past you. I can't see, but I heard. And all of a sudden, Jesus comes by and he says, son of David Have mercy on me and Jesus stopped and turned it. Go go go get him. And when you bring him here, he said, now what do you want? There he is again. There's my Jesus. He already know what you want, but sometimes he gotta ask you what you want so you can verbalize what it is that you need. Jarrus' daughter was dead and Jesus raised her from the dead. The boy having epileptic fits and God changed his life. Ten lepers Were healed. And only one came back. He had an adjustment. He said, Lord, I want to just thank you. As I adjust my attitude, I want to say that this past week, on a Thursday God stopped by a hospital called Shans. And he raised my mother. Off of that day. It gave me new hope and it gave me new faith because she spent time in intensive care. And of course, God is God. It could have gone either way, but God spared her. And so he raised her and she's now on the road to recovery. Can I tell you that God is in the raising business? He'll raise you from where you are right now. He'll raise you from despair. He'll raise you from depression. He'll raise you from hurt. He is the kind of God who's able to say, I will answer prayer. Won't he answer prayer? Has he answered your prayer, my God? Since you came today. While we were preaching, you brought to mind something. You say, you know what? What can I do about it now? And so in the here and now, you begin to pray in the church house. Are you following me here? Other words, you were praying in the service During the sermon, you might have missed some of what I said. What? You were in prayer. You were having an attitude adjustment. And guess what? In the moment, don't you know God can answer your prayer right now in the house? In the place? If you know it to be true, come on and give God The glory. And come on and give God the praise that whatever you need, God's got it. You need joy God's data. You need peace. God's got it. You need love. God's gathered. You need knowledge. God's gathered. You need wisdom. God's you need understanding God's got it. Don't you know he's got it? As you begin to adjust, you're at a tune in prayer. You're off balance You out of sync. You ever have a car that needed an alignment? And you trying to style with one hand and the car? Come on now, y'all y'all know what I'm talking about. But once you got to the dealership, hey, and he began to adjust the car. And now you're riding the right way. He wants to adjust your prayer life. Just like that. Anybody need an adjustment today? Come on, give him praise. Come on, give him glory. Come on, thank him today. Come on, lift him up today. Come on, say hallelujah. I need my attitude That is the word of God. It's already blessed. How many folks are just satisfied today with our state? Good on stand today and give God the praise and give him the glory. When you pray. Not here. When you pray, don't be like them hypocrites. Want to be seen. Don't be like them pagans. But still away today. And you'll find satisfaction. In the Savior. That very thing you've been praying for in service. God has worked it out. Or you ever have. I believe that today. If you haven't done it, just pick that one thing. Just pray for it right now. And see if God won't work it out. Now And this moment I am still sad is time. Yeah. So satisfied with my save. He needs, he needs so much more to you. He means more to me than anything, in anything that good words could ever hold. So I am I am so satisfied oh satisfied I satisfy So satisfied oh satisfied with my He means more to me than anything. My God, as we come today. What a word. of refreshment and a word of instruction. And what God will do in the midst of the preachment, His Holy Spirit will Reveal other things. And for me, the takeaway was not when I get home and pray. Not when I pray later. But I can whisper a prayer right. now in the place in the moment and see if God won't do it in the here and now. Can I say it again? In other words, there's something that is burdening you right now, and you're gonna deal with it later, but but right now, all over this place, beginning to bow your heads And begin to pray right now for that thing, that situation that has been burdening you down. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. Coming to this place is all for the spirit of heaviness. And we pray today we stand in the gap. For families who are going through and for situations that seem out of our control. We're going to pray for it right now, God. Asking that you might hear our prayer now. God And give us the wisdom that we need. Yes, Lord. Praying for that mother. Praying for that father. Yeah. Praying for that child, that co-worker. Praying for that neighbor. God, in the name of Jesus. In the name of Jesus. We believe it as we pray today. We do, Father. We're in our closet right now. This is our secret place. Because we know nobody understands us the way you do. Do it today, God, we pray. Yes, Lord. In Jesus' name. In the name of Jesus. As you keep your eyes closed and your heads bowed to the Father, even now, if there's one in this place who knows you not, who's never confessed you as their Lord and Savior, I pray now, God That by your spirit that you might save them. Only you can save them. The Bible says if you confess with your mouth, the Lord Jesus. And believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. The Bible says, thou shalt be saved. Do it today, God. Yes, Lord. In Jesus' name. Come on, give that a praise today. Amen. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired Of course, by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.