Good day, my dear friends. I pray that your day is well. I'm Dr. Tim Tooden, the founder and pastor of Harvest Christian Ministries, right here. in Baltimore County, Maryland. It is my prayer that you're having a blessed day. You know, this is the day that the Lord has made we can rejoice. and be glad in it. So glad that you've been able to join this broadcast. Want to just give you a minute or two just to check out other people who may not be tuned in, uh give them a call, text them and say Harvest Christian Ministries is on the air live. Let someone know. Always a blessing to our friends in Florida, Indiana, West Virginia. uh throughout the Baltimore region and beyond, I'm so glad that you could join us today for what I believe will be a word of encouragement in the times in which we are living. I pray your week has been great as you take time with your families. There's nothing like being on the Lord's side and knowing that he will take care of you. Let's take a moment even now to have a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come today and we do thank you for everything that you've done. We do realize that in you we live and we breathe. And we have our beings. So God, we thank you, and that you've given us life. And you've given us life more abundantly I pray for now as we unpack your word that someone might be blessed by the word. The Bible says that one planteth, another watereth, but that God gives the increase Bless our time together now we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Well God bless you. It's certainly a great day to be on the Lord's side. I want to just thank all of you for tuning in. I know you're still tuning in. And want to thank God for my invisible production crew behind the scenes. You don't see them But they're making things happen. I thank my family locally and abroad just for their support. Well, there's a word from the Lord today that comes from the Gospel of Luke. And gospel simply means good news. It is Luke 19. Luke 19, verses 1 through 10. If you have your Bibles, open them up. If you uh have your tablet, that'll work too. If you have your phone, whatever device that you have, I want to give you a minute to look at the Gospel of Luke That's Matthew, Mark, Luke, Amen, all you Bible students. It is a part of the Synoptic Gospels. Luke 19 verses 1 through 10 and of course we'll zoom in on one particular area. If you're ready, I'm ready. Give me a thumbs up or give me a smile if you are ready for this word. Amen. I assume that you are now ready. Luke 19, verses 1 through 10. It reads, Jesus entered Jericho and was passing through. A man was there by the name of Zacchaeus. He was the chief tax collector and was wealthy. He wanted to see who Jesus was. But because he was short, he could not see over the crowd. Verse 4. So he ran ahead and climbed the sycamore fig tree to see him since Jesus was coming that way. When Jesus reached the spot, he looked up and said to Zacchaeus, Come down immediately. I must stay at your house today. So he came down at once and welcomed him gladly. All the people saw this and began to mutter, he has gone to be with the guest of a setter But Zacchaeus stood up and said to the Lord, Look, Lord, here now I give half of my possessions to the poor, and if I have cheated anybody out of anything I will pay back four times the amount. Jesus said to him, Today salvation has come to this house, because this man too is a son of Abraham. For the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost. Luke 19, 1 through 2. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, An Unexpected Guest an unexpected guest. Over the last few weeks, uh, our government officials around the country have strongly encouraged us to stay home. They've told us that it is best to certainly not be out if we don't have to. Most of the businesses are closed all because of coronavirus There are some persons who are able to still go to work, and that's the blessing to still have some place to go. But for the most part, home has become the new place. the place for us to to shelter. And certainly even now we lift up and continue to pray for all those persons who are affected one way or the other. You know, home is a familiar place. It's a place that we can come to relax, to enjoy our families, if we live alone. It's just something about being home. It's been said that a man's home is his castle. I believe that, that it comes a time that you can unwind, feel comfortable, because what? Your home. You know, nowadays, uh times have changed. You know, back in the day, and I'm being country for a minute, uh people would just stop by your house. Ever have that happen? They would just show up. If the screen door was open, they may walk in. Of course you must know them. But gone are those days when somebody just showed up unexpected Uh we have peep holes now we can look out and see who's at your door. Uh we have other devices that we can talk to persons, even though we're not physically in the home. Because we don't expect anybody just to show up at our home. Well, don't panic. I want to say to you today that an unexpected guest is about to come to your house. Can I say that again? An unexpected guest is about to come to your house. I guess you know by now who that might be. And can I say from the beginning, let him in. As we look at our text today, we're looking at the Gospel of Luke 19, but we begin kind of with the 18th chapter because Jesus has a lot to accomplish as he's heading toward the cross. A lot to do. He's talking with his disciples. His itinerary is full, talking with them, and said, for the third time, I'm predicting my death. I'll be brutalized. I'll be beaten. I'll be killed. But I will rise again on the third day with all power in my hand. He shares with them. He talks about what the future holds as he is on this journey. And then on the way into the city of Jericho, He is stopped by a man who is blind and who's begging. He recognizes that Jesus is near. How powerful is that? And he begins to scream out. Son of David, have mercy on me. And the disciples of Jesus tried to quiet him down. But Jesus calls for this man to come forth. And he says, what do you want me to do for you? He heals him on the spot. He's going into Jericho. And by the time of this text, he's heading into the city. He's on his way to this historical place. We think of Jericho, we think of the place of the Israelites when they got into the promised land when they crossed the Jordan. They were in Jericho and the Bible says they were directed to walk around that wall. you know, and saying and praise God and blow the trumpet so that those walls would come tumbling down. So Jesus finds himself there in Jericho. And as we talk about Zacchaeus, he is the person who's the biblical character at the center of our text today. What do we know about him? First of all, we know that he was conflicted. Verse 1 says, Jesus entered Jericho and was passing through a man was there by the name of Zacchaeus. He was a chief tax collector and was wealthy. He wanted to see who Jesus was, but because he was short, he could not see over the crowd Verse 4, so he ran ahead, climbed the sycamore tree, and to see Jesus. He knew that Jesus was coming that way. First of all, a little resume on Zacchaeus. He is a tax collector. He's also a cheat. He's also crooked. And everybody in town knew that was his story. But the fact that he wanted to see Jesus means something. He wanted to know who was this Jesus that I've been hearing about. And these passages tell us who he was as a person and why he did what he did. He was conflicted. He was trapped between who he was and who he desired to become Now before you pass judgment, there's some zacchaeus in all of us. Oh yes, you may not do taxes, but in your own life experience, we all have a reputation that God has allowed us to overcome. He was so desperate, the Bible says, he climbed up a sycamore fig tree. Now, in my younger days, I would climb a tree. A pecan tree, I would climb a pear tree in our yard. My father would say, listen, go up and you shake the tree. And so while you were in the tree, up top, the pears would fall down. Now it didn't look so ridiculous then, but to have a grown man, somebody who has status in the community, So desperate to see Jesus, he climbs up a sycamore fig tree to get a better look. Now look at this. The fig tree represents the sycamore tree, it represents eternity. It represents strength. So he was connecting with something that would really foretell who he would become. That he went to the right kind of tree. The Bible does not say there were other trees available. He needed to be seen by the Savior. Conflicted, not knowing what to do. But thank God he knew he had a need. Matthew 7 and 7 says Ask and it shall be given you. Seek and you shall find. Knock and it shall be open unto you. Can we become that you this morning? I want you to just walk on this journey. He was conflicted, but he was also called. Verse 5 says, when Jesus reached the spot, I got excited about that. When Jesus reaches the spot. in your life. When Jesus reaches that place of your greatest need, he looked up and said to him, Zacchaeus, Come down immediately. And here it is. I must stay at your house today. So he came down at once and welcomed Jesus gladly. He called them by his name. There's no intel to say that Jesus knew that Zacchaeus was going to be there. But he he walks into a town and says, hey, have you seen Tutan? I'm looking for Tim Tootin. And when I get in town, he may not know, but I'll find him. He's hanging up in a place. He wants to get a better view of me, but he calls him by his name. And look at this His very name Zacchaeus means clean and pure, something he had not yet become as this biblical character. And don't you know that Jesus knows our name? Oh yes, he does. I know you might do a little initial, just call me, you know, T. L. Tutin or TL. No matter what you go by in the street or in your community, Jesus knows your real name. He knows the real you. He knows your nickname. He knows what your friends call you and your family members call you. And he says to them, I want you to come down out of the tree right away. Don't make an excuse. Don't pass go and collect $200 or y'all played Monopoly. A lot of that during this time of year. But he says, I want you to come down. He didn't ask him. He says, I must go to your house today. I must be an unexpected guest. He is insisting that Zacchaeus come down and he did not ask him. I mean, can you imagine that? Somebody will tell you, hey, I'm going to your house today. I have to laugh about this. And guys, you know what I mean. I was saying now, do I have time to call Ms. Ichaeus? And tell him we haven't guest honey? No, no. There's no time to put anything away. There's no time to fix up and put stuff in the closet. Why? He was heading that way And Zacchaeus did not fight him. He knew he had a need. But I still am thinking about this. He tells him, not tomorrow, but today, I'm going to your address. Don't look now, but he may be at your front door even right now and he desires to come in because somebody has said, yes, you can come into my house, you can come into my heart. He was called Called by his name. Isn't that great that he identifies us for who we are? Matthew 11, 28 says, Come to me. All you who are weary, heavy laden and burden, and I will give you rest. Cold. I remember the days when my father would come at the end of Martin Street And call my name loud and clear. He would say, Timmy. And from down the street, I would hear him. There was no other Timmy on Martin Street. There was no other Timmy that I knew of in the immediate area, so I knew he called my name. And when Jesus calls your name, come down from your high place. Come down from where you are and respond and show him the way to your house. This unexpected guest, conflicted, called, but he was also converted. Verse 7 says, all the people saw this and began to mutter. He is gone to be a guest of a sinner. Look at that. But Zacchaeus stood up. He said, Lord, here now I give half my possessions to the poor. And if I've cheated anybody out of anything, I will pay it back four times the amount To be converted is to be changed. People knew the old Zacchaeus. They knew he was a cheat. They knew he was a swindler. They knew he was wealthy. So it was probably a very nice house because of all the money he had stolen from people. He had a bad reputation, but people at the moment they saw him leaving with Jesus, they muttered. Mutter means to grumble under your breath. OMG, can you believe that Jesus is going to the house of that rascal? Well my God, the same can be said for us. Can you believe that Jesus is coming to your house? You ought to be blessed that he even wants to stop by your place for a little time. And 2 Corinthians says to us about this sense of being converted and changed, if any person be in Christ, they are a new creature. All things are passed away, all things become new. People still won't let you forget the old you. But don't you know the Lord Jesus Christ can convert you even now? Remember those tours from back in the day, you would take them and change them. It could be a car. They were transformers, a car at one moment, and they could be a fighter the next moment. And when you're in the hands of the Lord He's constantly shaping you and transforming you and converting you to be who he's called you to be. And look at this. There's evidence that something happened in the life of Zacchaeus. There's evidence that Jesus was shown off in his house. He said, look, Lord, here and now I give half of all my possessions. And believe me, Zacchaeus had bank. If I cheated anyone out of anything, I will pay back four times the amount He comes clean. There's some stuff we ought to do when our guest comes. There ought to be a revelation of some things that you know God, you know, I ain't I ain't been right. You ought to know that. He was converted. And what if we declare unto the Lord? What are we not going to do that we've been doing since we've been confined to our house A lot of time to think about what God has done in your life. A lot of time to reflect on what He's doing. It's something about when that house guest shows up. Converted, called, conflicted, and confirmed. Verse 9 and 10, Luke 19. Jesus said to him, Today salvation has come. to this house, because this man too is a son of Abraham. Verse 10, for the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost My God, what a way for this story to end. That salvation is coming to your house. That means that salvation was not there previously And salvation means the saving of our souls from death and separation from God by way of Jesus Christ. His death and his resurrection. Son of Abraham simply remind him of his bloodline, of his heritage, who he was. But he obeyed God. He obeyed the guest. They didn't have something to have somebody come to your house and have such an influence on you that your life changes right on the spot in your own house, but more so in your own heart. I'm getting excited about that. But I would imagine that it wasn't just Zacchaeus I would imagine that people in his house had to get some of what he got. I imagine there was a testimony service. Said, now Papa Zacchaeus, you ain't the only one. I cheated too. I messed around with some stuff. I'm also going to give back restitution. Isn't that amazing? I mean, to see the response from the people he had cheated And stole money from and he said, listen, Lord, I'm I'm gonna give back stuff. I mean that's like a stimulus check. You mean all that you stole from me Folk were a little, they were curious, they were a little apprehensive, but the fact that he had been confirmed, sealed, signed, sealed, and delivered, that's good. But as I look at this text overall It occurs to me that the unexpected guest, Jesus Christ, Lord of Lords, Kings of Kings, he is homeless. The very one who visits your home, who visits your heart, is homeless. Luke 9. 58 says, foxes have holes. Birds of the air have nests, but the son of man has nowhere to lay his head. He didn't have a place No modern-day shelter, but he comes into your house and comes into my house, this house, and he changes us for the good. Well, he's still making house calls even today. Oh yes, he is. Mark 129 talks about how he went to the home of Simon and Andrew. And Simon's mother-in-law was ill. He came in the house, spoke a word on her. She gets up in the house and says, Jesus, can I serve you? My God, look what happens when Jesus comes into your house Luke 8. He goes to the home of Jarius, a church leader. And Jarius' daughter is near death. That was the word. By the time Jesus got there, she passed. And folk were already starting the morning. It's time to clear out. He goes and touches that girl. She gets up and she's got an appetite. He says, get her something to eat. Jesus on this journey toward Calvary. goes to the home of Lazarus and Mary and Martha, his friends And he spends time with them, he is still making house calls. And in Revelation 3. 20 says, behold, I stand at the door and knock If any man hear my voice and open the door, there's the key. I will come in. I won't force my way in. I won't break in, but I will sup with him and he with me. Don't look now. But there's somebody at your door. Not at the door of your home necessarily, but at the door of your heart. I'm so glad he made his way into my heart. I'm so glad he transformed me and converted me and changed me. What a wonderful change in my life has been, Rod, since Jesus came into my heart. Floods of joy o'er my soul like a sea bill of royal since Jesus came into my heart. I'm not talking about the old me, but this do you feel that newness today That he's done something in your life, that he's doing something in your life. What's happened in your life since Jesus came in? Can you answer that question today? If you can't answer the sense question, that means I must tell you about this guest. This unexpected guest. The Bible says in Romans 10 and 9, for thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus. And believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. What a word of promise today. Yeah, I'm home. Yes, I can't get out much. But while I'm home, I must keep an eye out for the unexpected visitor, the savior of the world. Did I just hear your doorbell ring? Let's bow for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this word today. We feel like Zacchaeus. And we hear your voice saying, today I must go to your house. Immediately, not later, but now. And then when I get there, you'll confess to me And salvation will come to your house. Father, I thank you even now. May this word be an encouragement for someone today. Especially that person who's not giving their life to you. In Jesus' name. Amen. All right. That's a word of God today. I pray you were blessed. I pray that you will be helped in some way. And of course, even after this is broadcast, you can go to our website and log on to Come to Harvest. uh org slash watch dash live. I make sure I get all that stuff together. And you'll find uh not just The word, but you'll find other information about our ministry. And I pray for so many of the pastors and ministers out there who are who are going through because they need support. Businesses need support. Everybody needs support. But the house of God needs support as well. If you want to plant a seed into this ministry, there's a way you can do it. By going to our website, you will find the instructions there. I'm so excited to have spent time with you today. I'm so excited about what God has in store for you this week. Now, since I've said this, let me peep into the curtain now. You want to see who's I heard somebody out there, who's out there, but no, can I let you know the secret He's already in because you've allowed the word of God to come into your home. That means he's already there. God bless you. We love you. We thank you in the Lord. From Harvest Christian Ministries, be blessed So