It's time now for the broadcast ministry of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of this work. I pray your day is already off to a great start. I want you to come inside our sanctuary for a service that's already in progress. Isaiah 96. Well I walk down the woman to have the family and the government will be on the shoulders and people will be trouble on the other hand. Mighty God, everlasting Lord, in the name of peace. Amen. You may be seated in this place. And we do continue our Samonic presentation. And his name shall be called. And his name shall be called today. We pick up another name for the coming team. And that is mighty God. Mighty God. You know, I can think back to my childhood days. When on Saturday morning I would get up, get me a big bowl of corn plates, I would pull up in front of the one television we had in map in color the boys we really were high on the hall and I would sit there and watch uh these superheroes superman spider man I would watch and become really uh just curious about how they got this power And they would meet up with someone before it was all said and done, they got the victory. They have a special power. Now for you it may have been Captain America. It may have been the Incredible Hulk. It may have been Wonder Woman. You're looking at me like y'all watch TV. I'm not the only one that will watch some of those old uh characters they brought back now, but they always have a way of saving the day. And the part that got me is I had to wait a whole week to see another show. I mean nowadays you just pull up demand and get what you want, but back then you had to go and make a cake Amen. Or pretend you're one of those characters and use your imagination until the following week. But I serve a God and so do you who has almighty power. A God who is strong, a God who is victorious and we can claim him as our father. And so if we come today His name shall be called Mighty God. And mighty itself really talks about this sense of strength That is seen in he who made the heavens and who made the earth. It's so appropriate that Isaiah would be the one writing this text, Isaiah the prophet. He had history with God. A few chapters back, Isaiah was the one who had been serving King Isaiah. And the Bible says, in the year that King Uzziah died, Isaiah said, I saw the Lord. High lifted up, and his frame filled the temple. And then God says, Is there one who will go for me? And I'll just say, well, you know, I'm a man of unclean lips, but if you give me a shot, I'll try. Isn't the kind of God we serve, the kind of God that takes a chance on us? Amen. When the world Counting you out. God comes along and says, wait a minute, let me get uh uh let me change your lips, let me let me touch your lips, let me make you worthy, and the fact that he's still transforming us And so I writes and talks about uh the coming king, uh talks about the savior who will come, uh talks about the one who will save the people from their sins. That still amazes me that in prophecy he knew because God had spoken to him long before that this day would come. Aren't you glad that God has your best interest in hand? He's able to know now what your tomorrow holds. He knows what your next week holds. He knows what your next year holds. Amen. I'm glad. He controls my future. And to be mighty is to be impressive. It is to have power and to have strength. Now not as the world is. The world will give you a position and power and then take it from you. But not the God that we serve. And so really when I talk about Isaiah, how he's sharing, he really kind of goes, and we're going to talk about how he lays out this text. El or L is the root meaning for the Hebrew word might, strength, and power. And they can be expressed in different ways So firstly, let's see the soon-coming king as El Gabor. El Gabor means warrior and champion. I got that I got one word today, Reverend. I can go say El Gamor. And folk will know that I I'm talking about a God who is a warrior And a God who is a champion. Everybody wants to be a champion. Oh, yes, we do. Your team may have lost. You say, you know what? If we can be a champion, that would be important. You know, if you watch the Olympics, I'm always amazed, uh, Deacon Roy. That there's certain events that catch my attention that are memorable. And that's when the guys and the ladies lift up this incredible amount of weight. I mean to become a champion, they're doing, and you can tell I've not been to the gym lately, I think it's called the deadlift, where they bend down and can move an enormous amount of weight. God that we serve is that kind of God who can lift you and give you what you need. Has he done it for you? Has he been a warrior in your life? Is he your champion? Is your admiral? And I find that beyond even the spiritual, that when you go to the gym, and some of y'all been, it's important to have someone to spot you. That means that the weight is too heavy, but somebody comes along and says, You know what? I got you. And as you begin to press your weight They just touch the bar of the Ain't waiting now. I know I've been in gym for a while. One or two folk in with me this morning, but a scholar will help you to bear that Burdenless. And in life situations, it's good to know that I've got someone who would not just fight for my cause. I'm not just one who would champion the things that I know that will help me, but to have a God who's a God of strength Yeah. Amen. Don't you feel good about that? Your spiritual notes are going to be pudding up right now because of who you serve and because of who you trust. I like what Paul says in 2 Corinthians 12 and 10. He says, therefore I take pleasure in infirmities. Wherever he says I wrestle against flesh and blood. Ephesians 6:12. But what? Against principalities. Powers rulers the darkness in this world and spiritual wickedness in high places, but God Takes care of all of that. Hope's been messing with you. It's not because of what you've done. Hope you've been messing with you, but you've got God on your side. He is El Gamora. He's also El El Yon. El El Young. He is the strongest one. He is the one who stands tall. He's the one who can't be defeated. And you know, that's good news to me, that I serve a God, that as he comes by way of a babe, wrapped in swathing, clothed, and lying in a manger, that really he is stronger than the others. Aren't you glad you serve that kind of God? That when you become weak in life's circumstances, he is strong. He brings me through. He makes a way. He gives me joy. He gives me hope. I'm talking about L Yon, the strong one who is on my side. That when I am indeed weak That God is going. You see, maybe you have never found yourself. You've always carried yourself that you had it all together. I'm always on. I'm never down. I've got my best game space on, but you need God. To bring you through. You need God to guide you along your journey. LL Young is there for me as the one Who is the strongest one? And what I was trying to say earlier was this passage. 2 Corinthians 12 and 10. Therefore, I take pleasure in my infirmities. That in my reproaches, in my persecutions, in distresses, for Christ's sake, for when I am weak, I'm strong. Remember, I don't get that. Well, that's my weakest point in battling life challenges. I'm really at my strongest. Why? Because of whom I serve. That folk may call you weak in the world, yeah, but you don't understand what I'm working with. You don't understand who I serve today, that I am the kind of person, L Young. The strong one. Anybody got a strong God today? Amen. Love that passage where Elijah stands at Mount Carmel. He's up against the prophets of Baal. And they've been talking stuff all day. Oh yeah, my God is rough. Let me go ahead and die. I ain't got much. He went ahead and prepared the area. They had their little sacrifice all made and they were calling on their God. Did God never show no? He started scratching the wrist, about to commit suicide, and all of a sudden lies his God came down with fire. Don't you discover God is a God who has fire, a God who's strong? I'm glad he is my mighty God, warrior champion of the Lord. Strong one, El L Yah. But also, he is El Roy. Amen. I thought about Roy Marx who said that. I felt the same. El Roy That means that God sees me. God sees me. Just when you thought that nobody cared about you Just when you thought that the world had picked on you, that he comes alone and the word declares that God sees me. This was really shared in Jesus by Hagar. Found herself out in the wilderness and heard her son Ishmael out there about to die in the wilderness. Yes, there have put them out. That's some rough talk there. But she saw God work. And realized that God could see all that she was going through. And we give God human attributes. So that we can say, you know what? The hand of the Lord. Yes. The eyes of the Lord. But I am faithful today that God sees all of me. In my neighborhood There was a person who kept eye on everybody. Her name was Mr. Becca Dobbins on the corner of West and Martin Street. And you could not get away with anything. She didn't need a cell phone. It didn't exist back then. But she had all the details Of what you have done wrong. And so Miss Garley could see. And maybe in your neighborhood You knew someone, or they just came to mind, didn't they? Who kept an eye on the whole community and they would tell Mama and Dad Back in the day when you were to leave adults. But maybe you've become a Ms. Government. And maybe you've become a Mr. Government who's always looking. But more so know that the Lord sees you. That helps me to live right. Knowing that I serve the God who sees the right. That makes me want to live a life that's pleasing to him, knowing that I serve a mighty God who also appeared eyes that can see everything that I'm doing. The good And the bad and the shaking and the sneaky. Come on, church. That puts you last that defends this package of who God is as the mighty God He's a God who sees. Psalm 34 says, and the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous. And his ears are attentive to their cry. That we serve a God. We expect a Savior who is mighty. And that gives me strength today for my journey. Knowing that the God that I serve cannot be defeated. Just when you thought it was time to throw your towel in Hope comes along by way of a faith. And so don't lose sight of that when you get in your best cell and folk cut you off at the parking lot and give you the dirty eyes and you know what? I serve a mighty God. Let them know I serve a God. God who's bigger than this day, but if God takes care of my everyday, he's that kind of God. And you know how we can think about in the Hebrews so many names that describe this God Elbiyah, God of knowledge. El Hagadal, the great God. El Hagabad, the God of glory. El Hagadash, the holy God. El Honora, the Austin God, El Hashiyam, the God of the heavens, El Shachon, the gracious God, El Sali, the God of Spring. El Rakan, the God of Confession. El Phanon, the Jewish God, El Shaddai, God Almighty. What's you last today? That you serve a God who showed a witness. Almighty God we serve. Do you know Almighty God? Angel Bow people. Having her adoring. Oh, what a mighty God we serve. And did you know that Jesus is that mighty God? Or you don't know? And that's why angels have come out. And that's why earth is heaven up to recognize that I serve This kind of God. You are feeling mighty good. Are you feeling mighty nice today, knowing that you serve a mighty God? Or you know a God who sent Jesus by will. a virgin named Mary, a God who was raised, sent Jesus to be born in Bethlehem. A God who went to a place called Gargotha where he died. But he rose again, that's still the same mighty God. A mighty God who was raised from the dead with all power in his hands. I don't know about you, but I'm still feeling mighty good. And I'm feeling mighty nice. Why? Because he got me up this morning. I'm feeling mighty good. And I'm feeling mighty nice. Lord, he saved my soul from feeling mighty good. And I'm feeling money night. Father, thou raised me. I'm feeling mighty good. And I'm feeling mighty night. And so he's got my back. I'm feeling money. And I'm feeling money. He's so and he's body. Are you feeling money? Are you feeling right? I'm doing my eyes. Almighty God is the short being like war in my kid. He's the God! He's the strongest one! And watch for me! He's the God! who see everything. Tell you you picking on me will get my God after you. You won't stop bothering me. I won't call on the God of Abraham. the God of Jacob. And the God of Alice. I will call on that God to come to my rescue. His name shall Be called wonderful counselor mighty God. That is the word of God. I ain't still killing today. I'm still killing. My God I am mighty night with those of whom I serve. I'm not saying the day will offer this Christ to you. saying well now how do I reach it what's his phone number is there an email address is he on Twitter Snapchat or Instagram or Facebook. No, no, no. He's here right now. All you gotta do is just open your heart today and allow him to come in. He wants to come in. But he won't force his way. As strong as he is, he will press the door now. As pretty good as he is, he gives us time to make a decision. And so we come today. Let's just put a little bit of this today. It's the best all we're going, you know? Come fresh together. Oh my god, beautiful yeah, yeah. What do we do? I bought me. Come on, let's think about your old testimony today. And the day you took up that offer. Say it together. We are the price to you. Everybody comes through. Oh my brother. We are right to you. Oh my sister. Here's the promise. Oh, he will give you a life of life. I want to take a minute to offer Christ to you, whether you're here at In the Harvard congregation of whether you are on the Internet. Sing a Miss Church Reverend. Well, perhaps you're whole And you're one of your lowest points. I just stop by letting you know that the Lord Jesus Christ loves you. And maybe you've not heard that for a long time. Somebody loves me, and they know me, and know my background and know my track right yeah yeah even with that he comes to save us and so if you come today and you don't know Jesus Christ in the pardon of your sins This is the most important time of the worship experience. Why? Because you've heard about this mighty God and this becoming king, but you can take him home with you today. You know what? I'll deliver that in three days. So I've got to wait. But today you can receive Christ right where you are and live with him in your heart. Just like that. If you come today. And you don't know Jesus, it's nothing to be ashamed of. You can receive him today into your life. That's about the day. Heavenly Father, we come. Why? Because there's one who has never confessed to you. As Christ. Your word says, if I confess with my mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in my heart that God has raised him from the dead, I shall be saved. Not might. But will be. Save that soul today. During this season. The less we get caught up on the manger too much. We know that the God that we serve is mighty and mighty in battle. Word says, lift up your head, o ye gates, and me lift up the everlasting doors, and the king of glory shall come in. Who's the king of glory? The Lord, strong and mighty. And lighty in battle, do it today we pray in Jesus' name. We give a day. You've never given your life to Christ I want to just share him with you. Isn't it a great feeling to know that Christ lives in you? Isn't it a great feeling to know that the redeemer? And the world by way of the Holy Spirit is embedded in this vessel. It's amazing. Maybe you've come today, you desire to be a part of Harvest Christian ministries. The doors are always open. You to walk for the Lord today. day to connect with us. You're on Facebook, you want to join us. We can't see the plane together, but you're in Baltimore, come on. Baltimore, DC, we're at 7660, Bel Air Road. To God be the glory. That's the word praise tonight. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Good days. Good days. And next week we'll move on to everlasting. Amen. May your day be blessed. Thank you for being here today. Your presence means so much that you come to give God the praise. Give yourself a hand today. Amen. Praise God. We're not preparing to leave this place to end the broad. We thank God for you. I pray this message blessed you. We'd love to hear from you, but be sure to share this word with someone that you know. Reach us at www. comthenumber2harvest. org. That's www. comthe number two harvest. All get a hold of us at come the number to harvest at gmail. com I'm thankful that you took time to tune in. Be sure to join us every Sunday for Facebook Live at about 9. 20, right from the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries. And don't forget. We have seeds of encouragement. You can get them every day by going to our Facebook page at Harvest Christian Ministries or at iTunes. or simply go to our website as well. Boy, I've given you a lot of information. I pray your day is blessed. Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Have a great day in the Lord.