Good day, my dear friend. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I pray your day is off I want to invite you inside of our sanctuary for our morning worship experience. We're located at 7660 Bel Air Road in Baltimore. County. And now today's message. Just smile one or two times. Let me know you're out there. God is so faithful, isn't he? No matter what you're going through, he's still God. So we bless. Come on, give God a hand, praise today. Amen. So grateful to be able to Be here with you and we're thankful to have those who are joining us on Facebook Live and close to a thousand of you last week tuned in during the course of the week and so We're going to make you harvest. You're a part of our congregation. Let's bow together today. Heavenly Father, we do come and we bless your name. We thank you that you sent your Son Jesus Christ to die for us. And he died and yet rose again. And because of that, we have life eternal. It is our prayer today that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. In Jesus' name. Amen. How many folk are just glad to be in church today? Amen. Let's share together our passage that we've been using for the last couple of weeks from Isaiah 9 and 6. Isaiah nine and six, let's say it together real loud and proud. Amen. For one child is born to us. And then you will go out of the council by my father, please. Praise God. We're going to continue from our Samonic texts and from the series we've been preaching, and his name shall be called part number three. Amen. Part number three. You know, if I were to follow you home today, I would be able to go to your closet with your permission. And find things in your closet that are probably labeled everlasting. And I say that because there are things that I'm sure that you've not gotten rid of. There are things that probably don't fit anymore. There are things that are barely hanging on the closet, but you have labeled them everlasting. I hope I'm not by myself today. If you follow me home, that suit used to fit. I think one day I'll get back in it It's a three-piece, but right now it's in the everlasting category. Do I have a witness? But not just clothing when it comes to our cars. Some of you are driving hoopties even now. Because you refuse to change that car to you is everlasting. It's barely passing inspection. The light is out. The radio is not working. There's a hole in the floorboard. But you see that as everlasting. Amen. And these bodies that we have Uh as we look at these temples that God has given us, uh we're not what we used to be, some of us. Thank God for beauty cream But that won't change how we age and we know to just age gracefully. But these bodies are not everlasting, but God has given them to us. I'm so thankful with John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he did what? His only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him would not perish but have Everlasting life. So even after this is all said and done, there's a new building not made by hand There's a new body all prepared for you on that day. But in the meantime, let's take care of this everlasting kind of sort of frame that God has given us. If there's anyone who's qualified to say that it is God Himself, one we consider the everlasting Father. Everlasting Father. Everlasting meaning the Father of Eternity. Everlasting means that he never goes out of style. Everlasting means he's always in charge. Everlasting means he's God all by himself. Aren't you glad to serve that kind of God? who never wears out, who continues to be relevant even now in our lives. And there was an occasion when the disciples were with Jesus. And he had been saying often about my father. And so one day they were curious. Got to give it to him. They say, you know what? Show us the father. You've been talking about him You pray to him, you talk about him often. And he says, when you have seen me, you have seen the Father. Kind of messed them up. What do you mean? Yeah, well when you when you've seen me, you really see my father in me because God is in three persons God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, and they begin to try and process that. But don't you know that as God sends his only begotten Son, He's really ascending himself. Amen. And there at the Jordan River, this is the one time we see all together. That Jesus is baptized by John. He comes up out the water. The Holy Spirit rests upon him. And God the Father speaks from heaven. This is my beloved Son, and whom I am well pleased. I don't know about you, but I like having a God in three persons. A God I can depend on, the Holy Spirit who empowers me. Jesus Christ who sits at the right hand of the Father making intercession for the saints and God Almighty, the one who is a father to the Fatherless. And because he is our father, that means that we're kin. Y'all don't sound like my cousins. The fact that we have the same Father means that we are related in the Lord. Y'all still didn't feel me. I'm really y'all's people. And that's great to know that no matter what may divide us, at the end of the day, we have the same Heavenly Father. I know your daddy. Some of y'all grew up in the country and folk will look at you and tell you who your parents were. Why you favored them. And you ought to have the favor of God. You ought to favor God. Amen. Because I can be the kind of person who can say he is my everlasting father. And you know that's Christ apart from anyone else. Because he's my father, he first and foremost is also my provider. You know, as an earthly father, I can say I'm the breadwinner. I bring home the bacon. Some of you all bringing the bacon home. And that is something that even my wife says she's thankful for, as I've translated that. But even as men, just go down here, let me go down the street for a minute Uh men who are here, uh you may have a spouse who works, but at the end of the day, you want to be the man. Can I do a man seminar for a minute? I mean the man is supposed to get out there and hit it. Amen? And bring it home for mama. Uh-oh. I'm gonna get some uh later on here some of that. But but but but that's the role You may not like it, but that it it's biblical. But my father Jim Tootin would always say, Hoss, I'm the boss And he would back it up by saying, I pay the cost to be the boss. I use that sometimes But my Heavenly Father provides for me. He takes care of me spiritually. He takes care of me emotionally. He takes care of me physically. And I'm glad to call him my father. Because he does all of that. He takes good care of me. There are almost 170 verses in the Bible that really talk about how God provides for us. It's great to know that we serve a God who provides for us. Let me ask you: Is he providing for you? Or do you think you're doing it all on your own? Is he making ends meet in your house? Amen. Money gets funny and all of a sudden God comes along and He makes the difference in your life. He blesses you. I love the Malachi text that says, Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse that there might be meat in mine house. Amen. Said, trust me in this, amen. And see if I won't open up the windows of heaven and pour you out a blessing. There won't be room enough to receive it. Can I just shift for a minute? You give unto God, He'll give back to you Oh, yes, he will provide for you. I know he'll do it. I'm a witness today. Philippians 4:19 says, but my God shall supply All your need according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus. He will do it. Every last one of your needs, because he's your boy Amen. Every time. He will do it. I I don't want to move until I can sense that you got this thing, that he really is my provider. He really is my father, and I'm thankful for that. But as everlasting father, he's also my protector. He's my guardian. He looks out for me. He takes up for me. He shoulders for my problems. He is the one who is there just for me. Don't pick on me. I got I got God who's got my back. And you can't fight all the battles in life. You can try, but God will come along and He will protect you I know you're big and bad and don't need anyone, but how many folk know that God will fight your battle? If you would just keep still Take your hand off your hip and just say, Lord, I'm gonna go ahead and trust you to work it out. Won't he work it out? Has he worked it out in your life that's something you're going through right now and you still trying to fix it? But as your protector, he's got your best interests at hand. Thankful to have covered a number of precedents. I've noticed that when a president shows up, whether it was President Carter or whether it was going to the White House not knowing how to get there, whether it was uh President Reagan, uh Bush, or Bush Or Clinton or Obama or Trump. Whenever they go someplace, there is the Secret Service. And they have to make sure that the person who holds that office is safe. It goes down to even the governor's mansion. It goes down to the mayor's office. A few weeks ago I was in a store shopping and I I noticed a brother just looking clean with an earpiece there near the salad box. He must be important I looked over, and there's the Merrillette shopping. But somebody was protecting her, or in case somebody came along the produce saying he was ready. And God will protect you. Yes, he will. He'll give you not executive protection. He'll give you heavenly protection. Will he do it? He says goodness And mercy shall follow you all the days of your life. Don't look now, but he's protecting you. You can let folks know that I'm in good hands. I don't need the slowman shield. I don't need some of the other things. I don't want to get in trouble naming all these companies. That's free advertisement, but I know that the Lord will take care of me. Do you feel safe in who you are? Do you feel safe where you are in the Lord? Are you comfortable knowing that He is my Heavenly Father? Oh I don't hear that. I mean do you really feel like you're secure? That I'm secure in him because he is my heavenly father. Over in Psalm 91 and 7, David says a thousand may fall at your side, and ten thousand at your right hand, but it shall not come near you. That's some stuff where folk were trying to get you this week. But it failed. There were folk who have set you up, have a plan to take you out. And all of a sudden, it failed. Why? Because the Lord said, I got you. Aren't you glad you have that kind of protection? He is one who protects us as I am a blessing, Father. He is one who provides for us, but also he is a perfecter. That just as we are, we're okay. But he comes along to make us better. I thought you liked yourself pretty good. But because he's the Heavenly Father, he can see things that the world cannot see. Some areas of improvement you should make. He can make you better. He comes and he sends Christ to a broken humanity. That's why Jesus came. The world was such a mess, he had to send his best to come and to connect with his people. And you know he is still in charge? He's still keeping us. He's still making us. I don't know about you, but I want to be better. Ever got in the paper in school if you thought you had aced that test? And when you looked at the last page, you didn't read the paper, you went to the last page, and it was a score you did not want. But it says, you know, needs improvement. Oh, you got mad about that. You thought you had this thing down, but do you know I'm glad that God issues this kind of warning and this report that says need improvement And said, I'm trying to make you a better you as you represent me. That won't sound like y'all like that. Amen. I mean, somebody who says, you know what, you alright, but I can make you better. He is the perfecter. The Bible says over in Hebrews that fixing our eyes upon him, Jesus the pioneer and the perfecter of our faith. That what we believe. He he perfects and makes better our understanding of the Word of God. See with the word you can't make it. So this is something that's a process that I begin to study the word of God, begin to live it, that he helps me, because all scripture is given by his grace and God It is for reproof. It is for correction so that the sons and daughters of God might be thoroughly furnished unto good works. That word has a place. That word is to improve. You anybody that like the word of God today? Oh, you still don't feel me this way. How many folk got a Bible? Do you like the Word? Do you read it every now and then? And that word will show you areas that you can be better. And so he comes and he sends that in the beginning was the word. And the word was God, and the word is God. It is about being a perfecter. He's not done with me yet. I love that song. Please be patient with me. God is not through with me. Am I alone today? When God gets through with me, I will come forth as pure gold. He's an everlasting father who cares about me, really cares about me. He is someone who comforts me as a father. You know, the modern father may miss your ball game The modern father may not get to your concert. The modern father may miss back to school night. The modern father may miss your little lead game, but this father is always on the job Amen. He's always fair. He's always faithful. He's someone you can depend on. I can depend on God. Through the rain and through the storm, through sickness and through pain, I can depend on. Can y'all depend on y'all's father I'm talking about y'all's daddy, the same one who's my daddy. Can you really depend on him to be your heavenless father? He's on time He's an on-time God. And right now, it's time. It's time to give him some praise. Right now it's time to give him some praise. Yeah, if you know He's been good to you. It's time to say, Lord, I want to say I appreciate all that you have done just for me, the one who came. The one who went to that old rugged cross, the one who died, the one Who rose again with all power in his. I just love that because that's just the meat and the potatoes of our faith. Do I believe that God sent him? I believe he healed and taught. I believe that he was beaten and double crossed. I believe he went to the cross. I believe they putting in the side and thorns. I believe he died. I believe he rose again with all power in his hand I believe that. But you know what? That cross part has me kind of excited because I feel like I'm getting a real good deal here. And the hip mother says, Must Jesus bear the cross alone? And all the world go free. No, there's a cross for me. And there's a cross for everyone. The consecrated cross I bear. Till death shall set me free. And then go home my crown to wear, and there's a crown for me. Aren't you glad today that your father will be saying, You've made it over? He'd been saying you come on the other side now, and there is a crown just for you. And his name shall be called Wonderful counselor. Mighty God. Prince of peace. Ah, that's it. Everlasting Father. To God be the glory. That's the word of God today. It's already come on stand today all over this place as we give God the praise today. Thanking him for just looking out for our best interest. That he's someone you can depend on. Ever had a friend to let you down? They promised. But something happened. And maybe in your own life you may have lost your earthly father. But this father is always around, always available, never too busy He's the kind of God who is our everlasting Father. As we come today and as our choir prepares, maybe you've never met this Father. He's available for you. Just call his name today and he'll bless you. Our choir is going to stay and just open the doors up to the church. Hear our own Facebook. Take this in and prepare your heart. Fouille-le It surrender to a manger he belongs He came in love so tender So all the world would know. Does save yourself from an admiral. Jesus border. Does say you said the Baba. Jesus Bow down. And worship him. As we come to offer Christ to you, don't get caught up in the manger or the Christmas decoration Or the coupon you got in the mail. What really counts is that you accept Christ as your personal Savior I'm so glad that he came. And because he came We have life everlasting, but if we but accept it. A pastor can't save you. A deacon can't save you. No one can save you but the Lord Jesus Christ. Today, the Bible says that thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in thine heart that God has raised him from the dead, the Bible says, Thou shalt be saved. I did that one day and my life has never been the same. So perhaps you've come to the day in. You've never done that, never said, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. I believe you came and that you died, that you rose again. I believe it in my heart. Today take a moment and take inventory. Whether you're here in the sanctuary Whether you're listening by way of Facebook, just pause wherever you are and ask the question, am I saved? And then begin to ask him to save you from your sins. Just take a moment right now that Lord Jesus, you can save and you will save. Save the lost. Bring them to a saving knowledge of who you are. Everlasting Father. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Let's give God a praise today. Amen. I want to personally thank you for joining us today. I pray you were blessed. I pray you were uplifted. When you hear this message. Share with someone else you think may need to be uplifted today. Again, thanks for joining us at Harvest Christian Ministry. Stop in and see us if you can. In Baltimore County, we're at 766 Bel Air Road, exit 32A, off of the Baltimore Beltway. In the meantime, check us out daily for our seeds of encouragement. You can find those on our website at www. comthenumber to harvest dot org. And join us weekly on Facebook Live. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin. Have a great day in the Lord.