Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. This beauty in my brokenness. I've got you love instead of pain. Since freedom though you've captured me, I've got joy instead of more ornate. This beauty. This beauty in my brokenness I've got true love instead of pain This freedom though you've captured me captured me I got joy instead of morning Can you give me joy down deep in my soul down deep in my soul down deep in my soul So you give me joy down deep in my soul, down deep in my soul, down deep in my soul, there's beauty, there's beauty in my broken. I've got you love Oh instead of faith This freedom though you've captured me I've got you instead of more oil You give me joy down deep in my soul, down deep in my soul, down deep in my soul, oh everlasting joy, down deep in my soul. So doubt it in myself Oh Cause I've never been so free carding you love for me I've never been more secure Knowing your heart Lord I've never been so free coding you love me And never been more secure knowing your you give me joy that deep in My soul, down here in my soul, oh you give me joy in my soul. So you give me joy don't deep in my soul Don't deep in my soul Don't deep in my soul Give me everlasting joy Jand deep in my soul, so, so, so soul You give me joy dandy my soul dandep. In my soul, you give me everlasting joy, Lord. In my soul, you give me joy. How many folk have joy today? Joy deep down in my soul. Now let me just rewind. How many folk have joy? Today. The Bible says that weeping may endure for a night, but that joy cometh in the morning. The joy of the Lord is my strength. As we bow today all over this place, I want you just to prepare for your holy week. No matter what's been going on in your life over these past months, it's it's our holy week. He walked those dusty roads on our behalf. Let's bow today. Heavenly Father, we come and we're so grateful that you've given us an opportunity just to stand. And to proclaim the good news. As we come today, it is our prayer that we might decrease. And that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name all the praise All the glory in Jesus' name. Somebody give God a real praise. Yeah, a real, a real thunderous. I'm excited for Jesus. Praise already. Lord, I wouldn't have made it without you kind of praise. Amen There's a word from the Lord today that comes from the Gospel of Luke there in the 19th chapter of verses 37 through 40 And it reads, when he came near the place where the road goes down the Mount of Olives, the whole crowd of disciples began joyfully to praise God in loud voices for all the miracles they had seen. Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord. Peace in heaven and glory in the highest. Some of the Pharisees in the crowd said to Jesus, teacher, rebuke your disciples. I tell you, he replied, if they keep quiet, the stones will cry out. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, Are You a Fan or a Follower? Are you a fan or a follower? Home run Three-point play. Touchdown. I made the goal. A hole and one. Ace. Now the average sports fan uh can become a bit undone with any of those. Some of y'all would get away and say, go ol' Whatever your team is, that you get excited about your team, it causes you to scream sometimes louder than church or shout. Why? It's your team. You are a fan and sometimes you are a fanatic. Are there any fanatics in the house today? Go on a minute. You love your team just that much. Amen. And that's great, but it goes beyond just the enthusiasm for a sports team. It might be a particular player on the team that you really like. And say, I'm putting it for that person. I don't know what the score is, but I'm watching to see how many LeBron I'm gonna put in today. Will there be a home run? It may be your band That you really like, a certain genre, a book that gets you excited, a movie, or maybe an entertainer. You are a part of a larger fan base You can use this file stand. Why? They're wearing some kind of apparel. Either a hat or a hoodie or they're wearing a t-shirt, a keychain, something's on their license plate It might be a tattoo. Fans a little crazy, right? Are there any real fans in the house today? Anybody cheer for anybody? Oh my goodness. We'll say, well, Reverend, who's your team? I'm real careful about that. I say the team that you cheered for, that's my team. I've lived in a couple different places, and so I I cheer for all of them. God protect all the teams, but we all have favorites. But A follower is someone who travels behind someone or something. They agree with certain opinions or the teachings of that person. There's someone who will chase behind a thought. That's what a true follower is. And of course in this context I mean a true person of Jesus Christ. We recall some years ago and this is way back, it might have to Google this, when the whole Jim Jones fiasco happened. Folk were following someone who had all the trappings and he said just drink the Kool-Aid. And folk did and they died So be careful who you follow. I want to suggest this morning that we can find both groups, fan and follower, in the Bible, as Jesus heads into this final week of his earthly life. Now, the text we find Jesus wrapping up a three-year ministry. He always made the headlines. Jesus was always the subject of breaking news. Amen? He came to save the lost. He came to help the hopeless. He came to be that person who would lift someone up. And that's why folk followed him for the most part. Now there were fans who loved a show. And so they would follow Jesus just because there were miracles. And maybe a fish sandwich somewhere in between. But their whole goal was we are fans of Jesus. Go, Jesus. But you know, when it comes to followers, he picked those initial 12 disciples, but it went beyond that. There were many folk who followed him, mission-minded. Jesus was on his way to Jerusalem to die. And we call this Palm Sunday because We think of the scene of his coming down the hill, and folk are excited to see Jesus. Now, fans are a little funny Fans will probably turn on him. They were putting out the cloaks and clothes on the road. They were waving the palm branches. And Jesus knew the difference between a fan and a follower. Amen. He could spot a fan right away. He knew a true follower when he saw one, he knew the difference. And the question is, which are you today? It may depend on your volume. Verse 27 says, when he came near the place where the road goes down the Mount of Olives, the whole crowd of disciples Began to joyfully praise God in loud voices for all the miracles they had seen. It was loud. The disciples said, Let's pump up the volume. Some of y'all are too young to know what it was like before you could pump the volume up. My mother had a four with a little Delco radio and you pump it up, you'll blow the speakers out. And in college I had about two big speakers. I would pump the volume up. Amen. Anybody ever pumped the volume up? They were loud on that day They got attention. There's an old proverb that says the squeaky wheel gets the grease or gets the oil. They got attention. This fan base was off the chain They were noticeable. They were the loudest, but the followers were following for a purpose. It was because they had seen the miracles that Jesus has done. They have a point as to why they were getting loud. Folk may ask you why are you so happy? It's Monday. Don't you have a final exam today? You say, well, I'm gonna praise God anyhow Amen. I'm still happy. I don't have studied, but I'm ready to go. I got a big job I got to do on the project today. But but anyway, you get excited because you've seen What the Lord has done in your life. Can I get about two witnesses who know that God will work a miracle in your life? About three who will say, My God, I remember when I was between A rock and a hard place and he came right in between and blessed me. How many folk had to go through health issues and God came around? Come preach for a moment who said, Let me bless you. I'm talking about a miracle, not hocus pocus. Not magician, but and there were some in the Bible, but they pumped up the volume because of what the Lord Had done in their life. I love Psalm 100. Make a joyful noise. Anybody got some can I push you up? Let me let me turn you up a little bit. Anybody in the house Amen. So somebody said, can you turn that down, please? No. He's been too good to me. They had volume But those disciples, even before they got down the mountain, had already started giving God the praise. They'd already said, Oh, we excited, we getting ready to go into Jerusalem. Come on, y'all. And they began to pump the volume up. Real followers. Amen? But you must be aware of the view as to why they did what they did. Verse 48 says, Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord. Peace in heaven and glory in heaven to the highest. Everything was going well, wasn't it? Praise the Lord, everybody going good. And they had something to talk about. They didn't just say anything. Here's the word. But then there's a Debbie Downer Some of the Pharisees, some of the big shots, some of the, it don't take all of that. Say, wait a minute now, Jesus, won't you rebuke these boys? They're a little loud. Talking that king talk. And they came in to try to throw water on the prey. Anybody you know like that? You tell them how great things are going. Okay, great. And all they give you is a thumb on Facebook. Now call me up and you really my homemade say I'm proud. I'm happy for you. But there were folk who were like that. They had a real problem because what they were sharing in that chant was biblical. It was out of Psalm 118 and 26. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. It was based on what they had experienced. The religious leaders were concerned about the one word in the chant. They called him king. And they got worked up about that. Well, well, we got our own king. And those who were in the crowd was saying, that's right, he's a king. But the followers have a better idea of what was really going on at this time. They were afraid. Amen. That Jesus had to rebuke them. Tell them to keep it down. Tell them to be quiet and tell them it don't take All the screaming and too loud. Sometimes your praise is like that. Amen. I'll go to some quiet churches. I can't even get an amen. It's all right. I'll go into places where I can't even get the word and focus on they enjoying the Lord because of me. But they're thinking about the goodness of Jesus And all he's done for them, you know, you gotta shout in you right now. God, you brought me through. God, you made a way. They did it based on informed information. They had information that allowed them to say, we're not just screaming, but there's some word in our screaming. That makes sense Thank you, Lord. That's the word in your praise. Help me, Jesus. That's the word in your shout. Amen. The fans were just shouting and did not know why. Turn the volume up. They had a view and you begin to separate now the real fans from the followers. And because of the victory. So Jesus always responds. I tell you, he replied, if they keep quiet, the stones will cry out. If you shut down the party now, it's gonna still go on. If you turn the light out and say everybody out, some of y'all know what I'm talking about. Amen. The party is yet continuing. His critics were a little man. Why? They were like fans. They didn't win this year. Father Coach. Yeah, I'll spend all my money. They're lousy there in last place. That's what fans will do. They'll leave you hanging. But a real follower will say, no matter what, I'm gonna stand for Jesus. No matter how high the situation may be, I am a real follower. Have you made the distinction yet as to where you fit in? I hope to God that by now you say, Reverend, I'm a follower. That was the intent. Now, if you came in as a fan, you've switched on the other side now and said, you know what? I've decided to follow Jesus. But but this part of the text says, if these are quiet The very stones will cry how what are you being funny to G how how in the world a stone crow? It's possible. You know why? The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. And those who dwell with He can make a stone shout. He can make a stone cry. Amen. Won't he do it? And and you know what? Because of what you've gone through, you've seen some stones cry in your own situation. It's been hard for you and the hills have been hard to climb, and in the midst of what you're going through, a stone will move. Seemingly all creation is saying, I'm with you and I got you. He didn't hurt for any praisers. Amen. He didn't have a problem trying to find somebody. He didn't need their shout. Amen Because he is God by way of Christ all by himself. Amen. If you ever allow those hard and stony places to break you, let them know that Jesus is alive. And well. Made my mind up now. I'm I'm clearly a follower. I've answered the question about who am I? Don't just say, Well you know, you you you know, no. I go to church. Yeah, but are you a fan or a follower? You know I got my Bible But are you a fan or a follower? You are sometimes I'll praise you when I need you. Uh-oh. Or am I like, whatever? Batized. I'm still gonna trust him. Amen? You know I I I turned my fan card in, I'm a follower. But you know that there's a uh something I came across on last night And author S. I McMillan, in his book, None of These Diseases, tells the story of a young woman who wanted to go to college. But her heart sank when she read the question on the application that said, are you a leader? Being honest, conscientious, she wrote, no, I'm not a leader, but I'm returning the application anyway And she expected the worst. Like, oh God, I told them really that I'm not a leader. I was honest. And then she got a letter back from the college. Dear applicant, a study of the application process reveals that this year our college will have 1,452 new leaders We are accepting you because we feel it's imperative that we have at least one follower. Isn't that good news? Are you that one follower? Who is not ashamed to call Jesus Lord? Are you that one follower who believes He's able to keep you? Are you that one follower who says, Come and see? I've met a man who told me all about myself Are you the one follow who says, I serve an everlasting Savior? I serve a faithful God who's good all the time? Are you that one follower who says, you know what? He's my healer. He gives me joy. He keeps me and gives me his love and his peace. And you know, maybe that's what you are saying as a follower. Where he leads me, I will follow. Amen. I'll go with him. With him all the way. I'll go with him To the water. I'll go with him in the garden. I'll go with him to hell in the high water. I'll go with him when trouble is on every hand. How many folk want to go with him You know where he's headed, right? He's headed to an old rugged cross. Now do you still want to go with him? Only John went with him Amen. Everybody else scattered. But I'm so glad today that I've made it known and plain I am a follower. Got my follower badge on. Amen. Yeah, I got my follower certificate in my wallet. I'm a bona fide follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. If you don't follow that, come on, stand and give God the praise. That is the word of God. It is already blessed. Yeah, that I don't want to have to guess Are you a fan? A follower. I made my mind up today that I'm gonna follow him. Even though I know that times may still be a little rough. But He claimed the victory at a place called Calvary. He died, but he rose again. Let's take a little bit of this. I have decided. I have decided To follow Jesus. Have you decided today? I have decided to fall no turning back. No turning Feel alone sometimes, though no one joined me. Oh no one joined. Still Though no one still Oh no one join, still I will find no turning back. You know when I saw this, I'll say, well, Christian, well, Reverend, you you know what I am. But sometimes we can find ourselves falling into fan mode But never forget that he's called you not to lead him, but for you to follow. I pray to God today that everyone in the house is turning in their paying card and getting a card that says, I follow Jesus. Let's bow today over this place. And even over the internet, Father God, we come in the name of Jesus. It was a question worth asking. Who are you? Are you the same crowd that was saying later crucify him? Or will you stay with them to the end? I come now, God, and I offer you to those who may not know you. They're fans. But today they can become followers by opening their heart to you. The Bible says, if thou shalt confess with thy heart the Lord Jesus and believe that God has raised him from the dead, speak it. The word says that Your confession of faith will save you from the penalty of sin. I believe that today for you Whisper that prayer today, God, I believe you sent Jesus. I believe he died. I believe he arose again. Thank God for salvation. Salvation is free. Touch the heart today, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Somebody give God a praise today. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.