I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen. Whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website. I really do believe that God has a special message just for you. A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries for a worship experience already in progress. Amen. As we come today, let's bow our heads all over this place today. Father, we thank you. From the rising of the sun to the going down of the same, your name is worthy. As we come today, God, we decrease. Ask that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another in this setting. And when it's all said and done, may we give your name the praise. And the glory. It is in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. Praise the Lord. How many folk are just glad to be on the Lord's side? Not something that we take lightly. There's a word from the Lord today, from the prophet Isaiah. We shared it earlier today. We want to be able to share that word with you again, but we'll give you the title first. Living on borrowed time. Are you living on borrowed time? There in Isaiah 38. 1 it says, in those days Hezekiah became ill and was at the point of death. The prophet Isaiah, son of Amaz, went to him and said, This is what the Lord says, put your house in order because you're going to die. You will not recover. Verse 2, Hezekiah turned his face to the wall and prayed to the Lord. Remember, Lord, how I have walked before you faithfully and with wholehearted devotion, and have done what is good in your eyes. And Hezekiah wept bitterly. Verse number four, then the word of the Lord came to Isaiah, go and tell Hezekiah This is what the Lord the God your father David says. I have heard your prayers and seen your tears, I will add fifteen years to your life. Are you living on borrowed time? If today were your last day, if it was the last day of your life, Will I want to do what I am about to do today? And whenever the answer has been no, for too many days in a row, I know I need to change something. These were the words of Steve Jobs, the former CEO of Apple. I've got a few of his products. iPhone, iPad, I this, I that. He shared these words during a graduation speech there at Stanford University about 10 years ago, and at the time Even he was living on borrowed time. Now when I say borrowed time, here's what I mean. I'm talking about an uncertain usually limited period of time extending beyond our postponing the occurrence of something that's inevitable In 17th century England, it was rather common to describe the first 11 days of May as borrowed days, because in the old-style calendar They actually belong to April. Every time I preach a funeral, a homegoing service, I'm reminded that my time is not long. Every time I visit a clinical care unit to visit with a family, I realize that soon and very soon we're all going to see the king. What about you? Have you ever pondered that that day would come when the Lord would call you home? And we sing the songs of Zion all the time when we get over yonder. And the truth of the matter is, if we keep on living, one day we'll be able to see our Savior But when it comes to the here and the now, we're living on borrowed time. If there's anyone who knows something about this, it is the biblical character, Hezekiah. He was a king who had a close relationship with God, someone that God knew, someone that God was able to dialogue with. He was someone who did what was right before the Lord. And that's not always the case. There were some mean kings in the Bible. Some real rascals, but every now and then we come across and we see the example of godliness. He was someone I believe had a lot of responsibility. He became king at twenty-five, and for some of us who are a little older than that, twenty-five, man, you're not even living yet. You still wet behind the ears at twenty-five, but he led a great nation. And by our standards, he is the guy you would want as your next door neighbor. Hezekiah, his very name meant strong. He encounters a God who is holy. The Bible says that his father, Ahaz, was a mean somebody who actually worshipped pagan gods. But even from the ashes of generation to generation, God is always raising the standard. If I would question you, we all got somebody in our family we don't bring up uh somebody in the family that we don't bother to mention their names. But out of that, God can still do a great work. And so for a little while this morning, I want you to step out of your world and step into Hezekiah's world. He's a world where he has to deal with his own predicament. He shares his own prayer, and then we see God's promises fulfilled Predicament, prayer, promise. As we look at the text, let's talk about its predicament It says, in those days, Hezekiah became ill and was at the point of death. And the prophet Isaiah shows up. To bring him some not-so-good news. His predicament, his situation, his dilemma was very grave. Someone living on borrowed time. Let me set the scene. Theologians say that he was diagnosed with some sort of a growth or a boil of sort, and that he was going to die, but look at God. While he's sitting in a waiting room, God sends someone by to share the larger picture of where he is. Let me just say this. Death will come. Satan is saying, when the Lord gets ready, you got to move. But just knowing and preparing that when that time comes, that I will be ready. He tells him, uh, Hezekiah, God told me to tell you to put your house in order. Put your ducks in a row. Get your act together. And you know, the old saints would do that. They say, let me tell you. You ain't living right And they would have you shaking in your boots. And I don't know about you, but I'll confess there were times I didn't want to see uh Sister Garvin uh They want to see one of them old deacons. Why? They didn't know my business, but I was living in such a way that I figure they have already called me out Already peeped my whole card and sometimes you think I do that, but I don't. It's the word of God. Put your house in order because he was at a point at just 39 that there was no one to succeed him. And yet he gets a waiting room visit from Isaiah. Nobody wants an Isaiah to stop by their house. Nobody wants an Isaiah to come and to bring that kind of news About what God has said about your future. All week long I was reading this word and thinking about this word and getting into this word saying, you know None of us know the day nor the hour, but but that day will surely come. I don't want to let this be a morbid sermon, but I want you to know that we're all living on borrowed time. Every minute, every second that you have, do your best to do right by God. Amen? For so long we have thought that, well, I'm young. I've got my whole life in front of me, but none of us know. I was sharing with my wife, I said, uh when you've been on a job for almost thirty years, people you came with, their hair are great too. And the conversation goes from not just family but retirement talk. Man, how many of you got in When you think about leaving, I don't know, what about you? And some of us who are over a certain age, it's an old school type of conversation. And we want to do all that we can do because we all knew somebody who stayed on that job too long. Amen? It's not a seminar. I'm just saying that we are on borrowed time. Like what Paul says over in the. A Psalm brother says, thou wilt show me the path of life in the presence, in the fullness of joy, and thy right hand there are pleasures for everyone. Our predicament is so peculiar. The things that we run across. It talks about even being in Ephesians being careful how you live. Making sure that you are wise, you're not living like a fool, but take every opportunity to do right. So God has given you that chance today to make some things right in your own life. To make some things right in your family, we're living on borrowed time. But not just the predicament, but then comes the prayer. Hezekiah, once he heard this word, turns his face to the wall and prays to the Lord. He doesn't say, you know what? You tell God I say it. Isaiah get out of my face. Isaiah, I don't want to hear it. He does that we something we should do. Upon that kind of news, he turns his face to the wall. He turns away from the messenger and turned toward him who can make a difference. And so often we turn to people, but people can't help us. But right away, without hesitating, he said, Can I have a minute? I need a private moment with God. He turns away, changes his focus, and he goes to God, the one who can make a difference. But what do you what do you say to God? In a situation like that. I just got the news, this just then. And so what do you pray back to God? And he says it. He said, remember, Lord, I have walked before you faithfully and with wholehearted devotion Check my record. You remember me, God, I've lived the best I can. This brother was pleading for his life. Amen. Y'all found yourself in a situation, Lord, I just need to you know, I've been messing up, I missed the mark, but I'm pleading today. I'm praying to you very specifically We got a relationship, God, so therefore I'm coming to you saying, don't forget me. He didn't pray to say, Lord, Kill me. He just said, don't forget me. He didn't say it's not fair. He said, Lord, remember your servant. I've done some good stuff. I've done what's good in your eyes He didn't say, Lord, that's not right. And we look at this prayer and we see what God has done through us. That's the prayer God, I I I I want to live right. God, I've tried to do my best. Is that your testimony? Oh, we all miss the mark, we all blow it, but God, you know deep down inside where my heart is, and so I Zaab brings the news, but Hezekiah says, right away I'm going to go before him. He wept bitterly. He believed and realized that you know what, I'm even I'm not worthy to be praying this prayer, but I just want to come to you. And what I'm saying is that in those situations in life Whatever that might be, instead of running to someone, we gotta run to God. How often do you say, wait a minute, let me let me text my friend. Let me post it on Facebook first Let me email that no God, you know me. Why? Because you made me. You know all about me, and so therefore I just got some news I can't handle, and therefore I'm coming to come and just break it down to bite size. Maybe you say, I don't want to have a death prayer, but maybe you got some bad news in other areas of life Did that sound better than swallow? And so God, you know what my bills will do. God you know I got trouble in my home. God you know I got some situation on the job, but yet I'm turning to you And so often as simple as that seems, we forget to to turn to the wall. We forget to go to God for I'm guilty Let me work this thing out first, and then I'll go to God. He prayed unto God. Very simple passage in First Thessalonians. It says, pray without ceasing. That's the whole verse. That's the easy memory verse. Praying without ceasing. Does that mean I gotta be praying the whole time, brother? On the every minute? No, it's not possible to pray the whole time, but to have a God consciousness. God, you own my mind. God, I'm thinking about you because you're thinking about me. God helped me to be in the straight and the narrow. And so even as he comes to this place, he is praying How do you frame your prayer when you've gotten bad news? How do you frame your prayer when what comes to you is a predicament that you can't even begin to fathom? You go to God in prayer. That's what he does in this situation. He goes to God. Here's my predicament. I just got the news. Right away, I'm praying. And then God has a promise. Here's what I like about this. It's before he could get done praying good enough to prayer. Isaiah had left. Before Isaiah could even get out the door good, God's Isaiah, go back Uh-huh. Go back to Hezekiah, this is what the Lord, God of your father David, he gave the whole ancestral peace. I have heard your prayer. Don't just want to make you shout right there, God. You've done what? I heard you. I've heard your prayer. And I've seen I can just stop right there. I've heard your prayer. I've seen your tears. I've seen your tears. I've heard your prayer. I've heard your prayer. I've seen your tears. In the minute I've I I I've seen him and so go back and tell him I see it. I heard his prayer. I've seen your tears. And then the promise piece. I will add fifteen years to your life. Oh, you did the math. He said, no, let me see here. 15 on top of where I am now. Got Medicaid. Okay? Lord about me, you know, I can do fifteen. I can do one, whatever your desire would be, but this promise of fifteen really exceeds what he didn't even ask. God give me five. No. God give me one. No. But because God knew what he had to do, he gave him fifteen years. And fifteen in the Bible represents rest. It represents deliverance. It represents a new direction. Fifteen Years O Tampa thirty nine Let me do the math now. That was not my favorite subject. But he got more time. But he's still living on borrowed time. He depends on the Lord, and God will be with us. Like what says over in Deuteronomy, be strong. Courageous. Don't be afraid and terrified because the folk for the Lord is with you. He'll never leave you. He will never forsake you. 15 extra years. Theologically, I came across something that I did not really know. I said, wow. It's called divine accommodation. It's where God reaches his hand down into human affairs. And change stuff. Just when Booker counted you out, God said, Well man. I say, wow. Sits high, looks low. Takes time to put his holy arm down in your situation. Without your permission and adj adjust your life. I've been in a hurry all week. Say, oh man, you've got to do some stuff. Time is winding up. You hear that? But there's something God has for you to do. And we're all living on time from minute to minute, from day to day. Prayer still matters. Abraham prayed for a son. Centurion prayed for his servant. The disciples prayed for boldness. David prayed for repentance. Elijah prayed for rain. Habakkuk prayed for justice. Hannah prayed over and over again for a son. Japez prayed for prosperity and didn't he get it? Jeremiah prayed for mercy. The leper says, I need a healing. Moses says, God give me a successor. Paul says, deliverance. Rebecca for wisdom, Samson for strength, Solomon for wisdom, and Jesus praying for you And he prayed for me. He prayed on the cross for not just his followers, but he prayed for his enemies. You know, I I I uh I came across this again. It's something that always blesses my life. You ever told a story? You don't always get it right. You tell parts of it and say, well, people are blessed by the little piece of it. But there's a story that I'm gonna close with. Some years ago Motivational speaker Les Brown wrote these words that always causes me to take inventory of my life and to think about borrowed time. Brown writes, and I quoted, imagine if you were on your deathbed and standing around your bed with a ghost of ideas. the dreams, the abilities, the talents given to you by life. And that for whatever reason, you never acted on any of the ideas Never pursued any of the dreams, never used any of your talents, never saw your leadership, never used your voice, never wrote a book out, I'm working on one. And they're standing around your bed, looking at you with large, angry eyes, these ghosts are saying, We came to you. Only you could have given us life. But now we must die with you forever. The question is, if you die today, what ideas? What dreams? What abilities? What talents? What gifts? Will die with you. That so convicted me. I said, you know what? He who began to get work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. Don't put off what God has told you to do. Don't say, oh, I get around to it I was so convicted again this week, saying, God, give me a minute. And he says, I'm giving you extra time, but there are things that God has put in you. There are things that God has given you in terms of talent, and I see that picture of all these ideas around said it's not right. Hm. We got to go with you. You never developed us. You wasted your time. And now in the cemetery are ideas, books, screenplays all of the great stuff. Why? Because we have not used, we, we, we, our time. Wisely. Do you feel convicted? I do. I that stuff this week I need to get done. Why? I don't know what tomorrow holds, and neither do you Hezekiah got fifteen. But what did he do in that time? He ended up having a son who came after him And he lived before the Lord, but what are you doing with your time? I'm helping me. God has given each of us gifts. He gives them separately But are you living on borrowed time? Time out for the excuses. I got some of those in my bag well over there if you want some. I'm talking about using your God given talents. Anybody get that today? I got that. Old song says I got a new home over in Zion. It's mine. But what am I doing in the here and the now? Hezekiah, thank you. He said, I I prayed. I didn't know what the outcome was going to be, but I got fifteen. Maybe we've got fifteen seconds. Fifteen minutes. Fifteen days. Fifteen months. Maybe 15 years. But what are you doing with the time that God has given you? I don't want to put on you what he put on me. I'm gonna let that thing ride you all week long. What you gonna do? With the time that you have. How will you be able to help someone? Pray for me. I've got about three books in me I'm working on them, but now is the time to use your God given abilities. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. Amen. Come on, stand today all over this place. Let's stand before the Lord. It's your time. How many know today that right now it's your time to do those things that God has put before you? Those dreams, those ideas, those talents that will bless other people. As we come today in this place, I want to challenge you. As I challenged me. I couldn't have changed sermons if I wanted to this week. Let me bifurcy something else, but that thing was so weighing on me. What's your excuse? One more of those in the car. How many years? Conversation, but what do you have to show? See what you have, others need. It's not really about you, it's about what God wants to do through you. That that that book That thing that God has taught is not for you, it's for someone else. Now let me really get personal. Well, I worked with my doctorate degree All the advisors kept saying, Doc, man, this project will help people. I said, Man, they're just talking that stuff. Say, man, what you got will be a help. I couldn't wait to finish But that document is on my shelf now. And I've been looking past it. So I'm holding my own self accountable. But there are things that God has put in you. That he wants you to use. I want to pray with you today as we even call for invitation, but I want that just to rest on you the way it's rested on me all week. I want you to be so convicted That you start pulling your pad out now and start jotting things down. Because why? Time is winding up. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. As we come today, there may be one in this place who has been putting off, putting you first. Say I'll do it next Sunday. I'll do it next week. I'll do it in the fall. I'll do it when I get myself together. But God is saying now is the time of salvation. It is my prayer today that you might hear the voice of God. He's speaking to you right now as he's spoken to all of us. And the prayer he wants to hear from the sitter is: I repent. I give my heart to you. I believe you died. And rose again. Open your heart today to Jesus and let him in. There's still time for you to do what God has called you to do. Open your hearts today if you're here and you're not saved. And you've been putting this thing off. What if he came today? What if he called your name today? Would you be ready to go back with him That's the question today. Take a moment even now, and you have to pray the prayer. The Bible says, You confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God is raised from the dead. The Bible says, Thou shalt be saved. Yes. Only you know today whether you're saved. Yes or no? The preacher don't know. Deacons don't know. Your neighbor don't know, but only you know. Give your heart to Jesus today. If you're here today, do that even now. Allow him to come into your heart. Praise God. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D. But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.