Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress I will bless the law at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth I will bless the Lord just wait. His grace shall continually be in my mouth. In my mouth In my mind, his praise shall continually Be in my mouth, in my mo, in my mind. His grace shall continually let's say it again. I will bless Make a person of the day and all time Israel shall continually In my mouth, I will bless it all down. His praise shall continually be in my mouth In my mind, in my His grace shall continually be in my mouth, in my mouth, in my mouth. His praise shall continually be in mind. Let's bow to thee all over this place. That is our prayer today. That every chance we get, we might praise you. That is to say, how grateful we are that you are our God. And God, we thank you that you've given us the ability to praise you in spirit and in truth. The Bible says, for the Father seeketh such And so we come today as praisers, thanking you for the rising of the sun this morning, and thanking you, dear God, that you've kept us to this present time. And we thank you for your precious Holy Spirit, the power that allows us to declare your word with clarity. As we come today, God, it is our prayer that we might decrease And that you might increase. Save someone today. Empower another. And when this time is done We'll be so careful to give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Praise God. Even while you remain standing, we want to prepare our hearts even now for the Word of God. There in the book of Romans, twelfth chapter, verses one and two. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice wholly acceptable unto God which is your reasonable service and be not conformed to this world but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. You may take your seats and May find your way back to where God has placed you this morning. We're so thankful to be able to join you here in Baltimore and around the world where God has allowed uh technology to reach those who either could not make it or those who couldn't get up by choice. But nevertheless, we call that bedside Baptist Church. But nevertheless, we're thankful. I want to share today from a sermonic title that's very simple, Are You Ready? for your change? Are you ready for your change? This cold weather has forced me uh out of the cold and over to the local gym. There was a day during the warmer months I would get out and walk my two miles in the neighborhood, but when the Hulk showed up I had to go back to plan A. And so over the last week or two, and I may not look like it yet But I've made my way back to the gym. I have not forgotten a way. That has not changed. Uh once I got there, it was a familiar place. Some of the same folk were still there. Uh some of the regulars were glad to see me and they wanted to know where I'd been. I said, well where have you been? I said, we just missed each other Uh but we thank God that the equipment is about the same. I'm lifting about what I was lifting before, uh no more, no less. And as I begin to walk around the track, I noticed that another thing had not changed. On this particular day it was raining, and as a result of the rain, the roof was leaking. It was leaking a couple years ago, and the custodial staff would bring out two trash cans to catch the water, and this were doing that. As I made my way around, one of my good friends who was a mainstay at the gym looked at me and we both laughed and said, You know, some things just don't change. As I walked further, he said, and some people don't change. And that helped me this week as God planted that into my spirit about this sense of changing. And so I want to raise the question this morning. Are you ready for your change? I didn't say resolution. I didn't say the promise, but really, are you ready to be a different person than you were not last year, but maybe last week? I don't know about you, but there's nothing wrong with changing. I don't believe that you ought to be such a new person that nobody knows who you are, but there's this certain personality we have. But does anybody think that they can change? Anybody open to change? Anybody want to know that God can change people? He can change places, he can change situations in life. If there's one who knows about that well, it is the person who writes the letter today in the book of Romans, the person of Paul. Paul was formerly Saul, and with that name he was known as a persecutor. In other words, Saul was a bad, mean somebody who chased after Christians. And they called him Saul. Now they called you something before you got saved. And they called me some names before I got saved. Can I just be real this morning? Oh, we all got a street name. If I went back to your neighborhood and called your nation, who? Oh, you mean Lil Willie? And so they would know that name, but isn't it great that as God transforms us, that we're able to change And so Paul writes from Corinth in the dead of winter to about five churches that he had been a part of to encourage them in the Lord. Paul was one who in his letter talked really about who God is Of what God has done and who Jesus Christ is in our lives. And the word also helps us. I love that. But the word of God is designed To change us. The Word of God is designed to strengthen us. It's not just the bestseller, but it will help you and help me in our process of changing. You may say, Reverend, I'm not changing. I like who I am. I've been this way all my life, and I'm not changing for anybody. And sometimes we expect people to change, but we don't want to change. If they would just do better, but you're not willing to cross the line. Am I talking to a church that might know about this this morning? That you want everybody to change But you are not prepared, or you don't want to make a change in your own life And so Paul talks really in that first verse about this sense of body. He talks about the physical man that, you know, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you might do what? Present yourself as a living sacrifice holy and acceptable unto God, which is your what it's the least you can do is to present yourself to God in such a way. But it's in that second verse that we really begin to unpack and we set the tone for the text. And it says, but be not conformed to this world. But be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may do what? Prove Amen. I praise God. I'll let y'all cheat. I got the up on the screen. But it's something about getting that word in you. And so I begin look at this text. There's some things that I think will help us. First of all, there has to be a choice to change. And be not conform to this world and this world system. It says, don't copy the world's pattern. Don't copy the world's behaviors. Don't copy the world's customs. And I love what the young folks say. You got to get in where you fit in. In other words, we kind of adapt to the world. Amen. I've said on many occasions, folk know you don't belong in certain places. You don't even look right in that club anymore. You don't look right at that place that you frequent it. I know I'm not on anybody's street. But when God changes us, the things that we used to do, places we used to go, that's the old school testimony, we we don't go anymore, we don't participate anymore. And those who know us will know that something has changed about us. You know, I allowed the world to shake me. I didn't mind being conformed to the world. You know, I didn't want to change. I wanted to play both sides. Do I have a witness? That I could give you the church look on Sunday and turn around on Monday and be one other place and one other way. I'm by myself today. But God is so faithful that I have to make a choice to change, not make over, but change who I am. To the glory of God. Have you allowed the world to shape you? Allow the world to set the course for your life? Everybody wants to be kind of in the know But when you become a follower of Jesus Christ, folk ought to be looking at you as being the model. Amen? Do we want to change? And what I like about God, many things, he will not force you to change. He won't grab you by your arm and twist you. So you're going to change today. But we have free will. Change if you want to change. Amen. And when you surrender to God, it makes a real difference. And be not conform to this world. I like what the Gospel of Mark says, Mark 8. 36, but what shall it profit a man or a woman to gain the whole world and lose your soul. That you were the popular person. Everybody loved you. Everybody followed you on Facebook and everybody was with you on Instagram. You were just somebody. You were the king In the court in high school. You were the beauty queen. And you were just a popular person. But we've got to be willing to break out of that and desire to follow the Lord Jesus Christ. Anybody believe that today? It it's a gradual thing. We've all known people that you know they go to one church service and get saved and then they all of a sudden they uh you know they hyperluting They're so heavily minded they're no earthly good. They don't laugh no more. They don't want to go to the movies. They don't want to do anything. And that's such a big jump, but don't allow the world to shape you But you ought to be shaping the world for the cause of Christ. Make a choice to change, but also give yourself a chance to change. It says, but be ye or be you or be me transformed. Ah, you know, it says, but is a conjunction used to introduce something or to contrast something that's already been mentioned. So be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed. How many of y'all remember back in the early 80s these new toys came out? They were transformers. Amen. Some of y'all still got them. I know you do. And and you had to basically, you could change it up that the toy, one minute, might be a warrior. And the next minute it would be a piece of equipment or a truck. Look at that. Somebody know that thing. And the next minute It might be a you know a vehicle, but to transform is to transfigure that we allow ourselves by way of this word to change by way of transformation. Transformers. And or you could be a conformer. Which are you? Are you willing to be so open to the Spirit of God that you allow the Lord to shape you? It may not feel good, but when you see yourself making progress, pat yourself on the back, and I'm not the mean rascal I used to be, I'm not the liar, God get real this morning. Not the lie I used to be. I don't cheat like I used to cheat. You know, I'm a better person now. Maybe not overnight. And sometimes we ask folk to get saved and and make them think that overnight we just changed up. Oh no, there's the old man and there's the old woman that it'll rise up. And you have to slay that person daily. Praise God. And so give yourself a chance to change by being transformed. You know, I used to just conform. I used to just want to say, you know what, I want to I don't want to look out of place. I don't want folk to know that I don't know something. I want to be able to have the same verbiage as someone else. Ever been your case that you just felt like, you know, I know I'm in church and I'm saved, but you know, and God will do that. And so it becomes an individual mandate that I will allow the Lord to just kind of fix me up. And fill some of the holes in and make me a better me to the glory of God. We can make a decision in that very way And so in our own lives, we have to choose whether or not we would allow our lives to be reshaped. And changed and to be transformed in him. It's no easy thing. Nobody really wants to change. But when you see God give you just that much more, you want to shout because of that. So, oh Lord, there was a day I would have done this, but because God is working in me, I'm not perfect, but I'm better. Maybe that'll help a little bit. Maybe I I don't want to take you to think the rebel won't mean to go from here to here in sixty minutes. No, I'm saying can we get better at who we are? Can we compromise a little bit? Can we apologize every now and then? And you're not gonna change you're not gonna change grown folk. You sit in your ways, and they sit in their ways, and nobody wants to change. But let God be the one to do the changing in your life today. Like what Paul writes of the Corinth church in Corinth 2 Corinthians 5. 17. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, a new creature, all things are passed away. Behold, all things become new. I've made a choice that I'm going to be a little better. If nothing but that much, you know, I'm not going to be asworldly. I'm going to make sure that I've got the opportunity, I've got a chance, so I'll let myself get bent a little bit to shape to where God can use me to his glory. But finally, you may say, well, how do you change? How? How is that possible to change? It says by the renewing of your mind You mean that's it? Yeah, yeah. We change by our mind changing that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. You know To be renewed is to be made new again. You can't be transformed in the mind unless you're using another mind technique. Not change your mind in 30 days, but the word of God is what changes your mind It has to be divine. It has to be the word of God that renews you, the holy text, the scriptures. What you get in a devotional for that day might help you to change. Someone might call you and give you a word of encouragement and pray with you. All that helps us to change to the glory of God. Memorizing a verse or two. Amen. But if I look at the text, as Paul wrote this in the Roman Church, he said to renew your mind Which tells me that they had history with the word. That they knew something, but maybe they were a little lax Maybe they stopped going to Bible study. Maybe they stopped coming to church. Maybe they stopped praying. And he says, let me help you to become who God has already made you. Don't you feel anew this morning that yeah, I'm the old person, but God has changed my thinking. Amen. As he shifted who I am I don't know about you, but I used to have stinking thinking. Amen? The things that I thought were not holy things, am I by myself today? That you found that some things that have entered into your mind and to your space have not been holy things? Oh we've become the church now, everybody is so cool. No. We've all thought some stuff. And the enemy will bring some stuff to your mind when you pray. Amen. He'll bring stuff to you in church that you remember when, but if you keep your focus on the Lord Jesus Christ, Keep the word operating in your life. And I tell you, garbage in, garbage out. Now if you take stuff in, take in negative conversations. Watch certain programming that does not lift you you you start think think think think thinking that way. It's just to show But after a while, if you're not careful, that'll begin to eat up all the space in your. I'm just talking. But God is able to do that in my life and in your life as well There's that old saying that you are what you eat. You are what you think. And so find opportunity to allow the Word of God, just eat some daily And you will find that your life will be changed. Philippians 4. 8, Paul said, let me give you some ideas here. Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true Honest, just sure, lovely, good report, any virtue, praise to think on these things. Maybe you ought to just have some thinking time I'm going to turn everything down and allow myself just to focus and to think on these things. And when you do that, God will allow His Holy Spirit to give you so much joy When you begin to think of him and allow your life to be transformed, all that will happen. And then the end result is this. You'll be able to test and approve what God's will is. You won't be confused about what should I do? Should I not? Should I? Could have maybe, but when you spend time with God in prayer and spend time with the scriptures, you come away with some direction. Ever happened to you that you have a big decision to make? So let me just pray about this thing. And I'm gonna read my little daily devotional today. And isn't that something that devotional is what I needed for the day Can I get an amen today? It wasn't but a little page, but it gave me what I need to make it. That is what he was sharing with them. And this change in my life has allowed me to say, I'm satisfied with Jesus. I think of a song of the old choir number one down home. That's the old rocking choir. They would sing, Satisfied with Jesus. He said it would be my comforter, he said it would be my guide. They would say I looked at my hands, and my hands looked new I looked at my feet and they did too. Ever since that wonderful day, my soul has been satisfied, what do you mean by being satisfied? And as a kid I was like, you mean your hand ain't new? That means that your hands don't do things they used to do. And your feet don't take you places that you used to go. And so well instead when I look at my hand. My hand looked new When I looked at my feet, they did too. Ever since that wonderful day, I've been satisfied. He's still working on me, but I'm glad to see a little change in my life. Aren't you today? He won't just Be satisfied, but you'll be sanctified. You'll be set aside for a good work. And you'll be secure, and who you are, you will be sold out for the Lord, and you will not be the same. Love that hymn. What a wonderful change in my life has been wrought since Jesus came into my heart. I have light in my soul for which long I have sought Since Jesus came into my heart. Since Jesus came into my heart. Floods of joy, O my soul, like the sea bill of roll. Since Jesus, I feel like I've been changed today. You know that just talking about change. I since God right now is already starting to work on me a little bit I got some rough edges. What about you? You allow yourself to say, you know what? I volunteer, God, for you to change me from the inside out. And a change will allow you to walk right And to talk right, and to serve right, and to give right, and to love right, if I but allow myself to be Transformed in him. And so the question on the table is this: Are you ready for your change? Are you prepared to say, you know what? It is about time for me to do better. Yeah, I'm okay like I am, but I am open to what God wants to do, and it happens by way of his word. This all started with a walk around the track at a gym with a leaky roof, and my dues may go up if they hear it on Facebook. But to God be the glory, God is constantly giving you opportunity. To see him at work. Everywhere you look, God is saying that's the beginning of your change. As we stand today Come just as you are. And we try to fix ourselves up. Wait a minute, give me about two more days to get my act together. And then I'll be ready. God is prepared right now to make the change in your life. Only if you want to submit and give him full control. Are you prepared today to just come with all your issues and your baggage and say, Lord Work on me. Tune me up. Fix me up. And I'll be the better. And I'll serve you. Come just as you are. Come today. I wanna change buttons Come and speak. Comedy for just as you are just as you are. Do you hear him today? Come and see, come with me. Come with me, come and That's performance today. It'll be nice. For today And today you can take that first step. Reverend, give me about one more week. Get my stuff together. And then I'll change. Today can be that new opportunity for you and for you. To say it's my time to change. You know, sometimes it just takes a first step. And the first stuff can be the hardest step. I'll give you ten excuses why I like me. I'll give you 20 why it's not time yet. But when you open your heart to Jesus Christ and allow him in, he'll do the rest. See, we can't fix ourselves. We can't transform ourselves. But he can. And don't you know this week I was thinking about Them buckets at the gym, and how maybe I should be the one open enough to change my view and have the view of Christ In your own homes, this discord, because you're gonna change him. No, she's gonna change you. I tell couples all the time when I counsel them for marriage that now don't you think You're gonna change bruh. Sis. Bruh, you're not gonna change her because you both bring issues And if my issues can deal with your issues, we're gonna be alright. Long as God is in the middle. So I'm helping somebody today. But as you come today, perhaps you've not given your life to Jesus Christ. You've come close and you've changed some way, but you've not changed the inner man, the inner woman. Today can be that day I mean real change. Not a resolution, but a transformation. As those hands are bowed today, I want to pray for you. Lord Jesus, we thank you for dying for us on that old rugged cross. God, we thank you that on the third day morning as promised you rose with all power in your hand. I thank you for that today, God. And you study the word that if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart That God has raised him from the dead. The Bible says, Thou shalt be saved. If you're able to get that into who you are, that gives God the license to change your heart. And maybe folk will recognize it. But it's not really about them. When you look into the mirror, you're saying, you know what? I'm not who I used to be. To God be the glory If there's one today, God, touch that heart. If they confess, you can come in right where you are. In this place or through any medium The word of God will go to the uttermost parts of the world. I thank you in Jesus' name. While those heads about you here today, you're not sure whether you're saved. I want to pray with you today. I don't want you to leave and say, Well, I didn't take anything away. But maybe there's one thing you take away from the service that will help you in your daily walk That's what it's all about. What's the takeaway? Had a professor of preaching said that, Reverend, there's got to be a takeaway They may not remember all three points, but what's the one thing that impacted you today? So you know what? I got that. And that's for me Take that piece today. Amen. Maybe you've come and you desire to be a part of this fellowship today. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.