I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen, whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, Podcast, or our website I really do believe that God has a special message just for you. A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries for a worship experience already in progress. How many feel like going on? Your road has been rough And your heels have been hard to climb, and you might give out. But yet, this song reminds us We can still go on and still make it. As you bow your heads today in this place, it's always best to follow the Spirit of God. Always best to be obedient to him. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. As we come today, we thank you for your word. It's rich. It's sharper than any two-edged sword. May we be helped today by your word. I ask even now that I might decrease and that you might increase Save a soul today. Encourage another. But when this time is done, we'll be so careful to give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. We bless God today. Nothing wrong with squeezing everything in. Sometimes the spirit will just say, hey, it's time We come today to bring a word to you from the Lord from Psalms 24, 1 and 2. The earth is the Lord's. And everything in it, the world and all who live in it. For he founded it on the seas. and established it on the waters. I want to preach today from the Samonic Title, simply, as the World Turns As the world turns. Some of y'all who are seasoned know it's not the soap opera It's the world that we live in. And being mindful of what we just celebrated, songs like America the Beautiful, the Battle of the Hymn Republic. God bless America, the Star Spring Banner, the Pledge of Allegiance. These are all songs and sayings that remind us of the birth of our nation. And that's well the late Clarence Benson, who was a Christian educator, once said that the earth is the theater of the universe. Other scholars say that God chose a planet and a people in which to send his son Send him to preach and to live and to be an example, and he sent him to die, but to be risen on the third day morning. But we can't lose sight of the fact that we are holy citizens. Amen. We operate on a different wavelength than other people because we're saved. The Bible says that we're peculiar people. We're a holy nation. And so we come today knowing that God is God of the whole wide world. Amen. I love the flag. I love everything associated with this country. But don't you know that God is bigger than where you are? Amen. I want to suggest this morning that God is still at the controls. The world may be going around and you may have your opinion about the world, but never lose sight of the fact that God is still making sure everything is running. The song will come up in the morning and the moon will come out and he placed the stars in the sky. And that was not a computer that did that. Our God is still alive and well. And so this morning we're going to talk about the fact that God is able to claim ownership of the world. He's able to promote workmanship. And he calls us to be in relationship with him. Amen? Ownership, workmanship, relationship, God has this all figured out. Aren't you glad about that? The Bible says he neither sleeps nor slumber. He's never caught off guard. He's never asleep at the wheel. But the God that you and I serve is very much tuned in to all that's going on. So we come today really from the book of Psalms. And the Psalm is nothing more than a poetry or songs that are written for the purpose of instruments. There are 150 Psalms. And if you know those, you know in Psalm 1 and 1 See, blessed is a man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. And then there's Psalm 150. It talks about what Praise ye the Lord. Praise him in his sanctuary. Praise him in the firmament of his spirit. So really that whole section we call the Psalms, and of course most of us know Uh recite the 23rd Psalms, have we not? Oh give me a little piece of it then. The Lord is my shepherd. If you got that, that's good. Amen. I shall not want And so we learn and we memorize these particular psalms, but they're there for a purpose. The Word of God is here for a purpose to build us up. And to help us. So we come today from Psalm 24, written by David. It is a psalm. Theologians believe it is a song that really sets the pace for the entrance of the Lord's presence. Every psalm has a purpose to it. Every psalm has something to do. Psalm 8, the Lord is a strong tower. Psalm 34, I will bless the Lord as all times. His praise is continually being in my mouth All through the book, these are all words that encourage us for our journey in the Lord. How many folks are on a journey and you know that you need the Lord to guide you every step of the way? And no matter what's happening on the outside, no matter what's happening in the world, God is yet in control. That would sound like a broken record, Reverend. I got that for the day that you think you're in control, but you're not. Amen. But God is yet on the scene. He loves his people. He cares about them. And yet man, well-meaning, believes he's in control. Amen. So we come today to really look at the larger piece of as the world turns, as it seems that things are running out of control. God yet sits high and he looks low. So really we talk about ownership. It says the earth is the Lord's and everything in it. He owns it. He's large and in charge. My dad would always say, Hoss, I'm the boss. I pay the cost to be the boss. God owns everything. You say, Reverend, I own my home. And I own my car. And I own my clothes. Well, don't you know that you may own your home, but God made the wood that built your home? And to keep your car running, God mix everything that allows you to have fuel and your c house and your house and your car and your clothes look good. It's the cotton that grows in the field that gives you look look at the label And see that God is yet in charge. And so he's saying by way of David that I want you to be reminded that the earth belongs to me. I own it. Recently I have gone out of town and when I do that I will rent an automobile and I'll get the nicest one they have at the right price. And in doing so, I'll drive that thing, man, and style it. But I don't own it. Amen. It got the real keys in my hand. When I bring it back I say thank you, I pay the bill, here is your car. And you know what? You don't even own yourself That God is the one that in spite of a world that seems to be running out of control, he reminds us that I am the owner. That there are just material possessions that we have, but those things will wear out. And they'll get too small. And they will be things that you can no longer use. But aren't you glad today that you serve a God who says, I got it all, I made it, I own it, and so therefore I can let you know that as this world turns, I am well aware. And we have all of our opinions about what the court said, our opinions about what Congress said, but the book stops with God And sometimes we fail to realize that. It's not fair. But listen to me, God owns it. Amen? And he is my heavenly father, and he's your heavenly father, and he hath cattle on what a thousand hills. And so therefore, he owns everything And so as you go about your daily living, don't lose sight of the fact that God owns it. And when you own something, there's a label on it. God made. And listen to this. Over in the very first book of the Bible, in the beginning, Genesis 1 and 1, when you open it up, it's the first thing you read. God created the heavens and the earth. He did it. And because he did it, I guess what I'm trying to say, church, is aren't you glad to be associated with somebody who owns everything? That's what I'm kind of getting at. You say, okay, that's good. No, no. No, but the one who owns everything is my heavenly father. Are y'all kin to him? And so the fact that he owns everything and made everything, it lets me know that no matter what happens in the world, that God is yet in control. But I've been down, Reverend. He's in control. It's not fact. He's in control and he owns it. So the next time you start bragging about what you own And your little possessions and your stocks and bonds. Don't you know God or ch and God don't need no market. He'll just do what he wants to. Why? He's sovereign and he's God. In the midst of a turning world, there's not just ownership, but there's also this sense of workmanship. The earth is the Lord's and everything in it, the world, and all who live In it. Where you live, Reverend? Baltimore County in Maryland. Okay. Don't you know that no matter where you are, that he owns everything and he also owns you? Uh-oh, you don't like that. Because we're independent. But the fact that we know that we are his creation and the fact that all who live in his world, he owns it. And the fact that the world is going and tossing and turning, it gives you peace that passeth all understanding. And knowing that I am made by him, I have his label in my life, I am his workmanship, that gives me reason to be excited. You know what? And because of that I'm somebody. I'm not bragging or anything, but the fact that I'm something that someone that made by him, it gives me extra value Can I encourage you in the Lord today? You're looking a little looking at me kind of funny today. I want to let you know. Don't you know he made you just the way you are and you look good too? That's right. He shaped you and made you from the dust of the earth, and you look marvelous You are his workmanship as you walk out here and say, you know what? I'm somebody. I am a child of the king. I'm from royalty, and no matter what happens in the world I am made I am made by him. I know you might have a horde and you might have a Lexus and a Bima. Don't you know that you are God's holy creation? Oh you still don't have that thing yet. I don't think you've really got that thing yet. Don't you know you're somebody? If you know your son by the couple will give God some praise. Yeah, I'm just trying to I'm trying to encourage you in the Lord That I am his workmanship, no matter what folk may say about you, at the end of the day, you are somebody. Oh you still don't feel that thing yet. You are somebody. You are God's workmanship. Oh you still don't feel it yet. You don't feel it yet Now you look it around at other folk, but you know what? Look here, you somebody. And no matter what the world may say to you and how they may beat you down Don't you know that God is the one that m made you and fitted you and gave you your hands to move and gave you your ears to hear and gave you your eyes to see? He is the one You are made and you're labeled. Ooh, that's exciting to me. To know that he made the world and I'm in it. Holding up my own little space. Get a wide shot from the satellite, and you can't even find me. But I'm here and I'm accounted for because of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. There's a word over in the book of Ephesians. He says, for we are God's handiwork. We are God's masterpiece. created in Christ Jesus to do good works which God prepared in advance for us to do. You are top of the line Amen. You're God's handiwork. He's proud. You are his greatest creation when he made you. And the fact that you belong to him and He belongs to you and he's already got something for you to do. I'm still trying to find what my skill set is. Your skill set might just be giving God the praise Amen. Might be encouraging somebody along your way. He's done some stuff before you even born. He made you somebody I'm stuck right there. You don't think you somebody? I'm letting you know if you remember nothing else today that I said that God told me to tell you that you're somebody. Amen. I'm trying to move on. It's not even in this realm. I can't move from here because I don't think you felt yet that you're somebody And so can I just lift you up before the Lord today and let you know that God has a special thing for you to do in this life? Amen? And so don't limit yourself. Why? You were made by Him. May I tell you I feel better just talking about that. It's not my name, not my occupation, not who I know. Who are you? I'm a child of God I'm his workmanship that no matter what happens in this world, he made the world and put me in it. Amen. For a season and for such a time as this Workmanship, ownership, and relationship. It says in verse two, for he founded it on the seas and established it on the waters. That God created this world on what scholars say is a slippery place. Who in the world builds anything on the sea? On something that's not stable, God has that ability. His main goal really is what? For relationship. He did all of this because he wants to get closer to you. Amen. Oftentimes we pray and we say, Lord, I don't think you know what I'm going through. He said, Oh yes, I do. But the fact that you're going through something means you've got to come to me. And he really desires to sup with you and to fellowship with you and to bring you into closer relationships. Sometimes in our struggles, our struggles will bring us closer. Amen. And so the fact that he said, I have built this world that's turning around on a place that you would think was crazy. I built it on stuff that was moving. I built it on things that were going about. I built this world on what? I built it on the seas, but on the seas moving all the time, and I've established it on the waters. Only he can do that. Why? He made everything And therefore, he wants to build in your life, building into your life on some areas that you might think are not stable. Amen. And the fact that the world is turning, and he has you in the world, he has you in a place that he wants to draw you close to. Now there's a time I didn't want to get closer. Oh y'all have heard that testimony. And you've got one too. I want it just enough. Don't give me too much Jesus now. Don't don't get too heavy on me. I want to look apart enough to say, well, he he looked kinda like he's a church guy. He he he kinda looked apart But one day somebody got a hold of me and I said, okay, I can't play any longer. He's drawn me to him, that even where I was in life, he took where I was, shaking uh you know sometiming and made something out of me. Am I by myself this morning? Anyone ever found themselves wanting to get just enough, but not too much, but you found yourself in a situation where God said, I want to bring you in the closer Relationship. Can we talk? He ever pulled you up and pulled you behind closed doors and said, look here, it's just me and you Now I I know the real you. I know what you're going through. I named you, and I want to let you know that I want to be in a relationship with you. Amen. I ain't talking about cording and winging your eyes there. I'm talking about getting to a real relationship with the Lord. Anybody want to go there today? And say, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ. There's the power of God under salvation to everyone that believes. He says it's all about really bringing you closer. And when life is shaky, like over in this situation where he had the guys on the boat. They said, you know what, the winds and the Everything is moving, Lord. What are you gonna do? Mark 439 says he got up, rebuked the wind, and said to the waves, be still. Then the wind died. It became calm. That God will bring calmness into your life. He will bring some peace in your life. See, Reverend, you don't know my life is shaky and it's rocky, and I can't make it. You know what? I got the solution for that. That as your world is destroyed destroyed. As your world is turning, God is still God. Aren't you glad he's still God today? And there's no one like him He will keep you and life will take you on a loop. I was back home and I was at my old recreation center and I remember the day. I was like, you know what? There's that that merry-go-round thing. I used to get on it and I'd get on it and I ride. We didn't know any better. Just kept going around. Who wants to go in a circle? And once you got off, you were doing like this You are busy and life has thrown you that kind of curve. You've been on a roller coaster, not going anywhere fast, but once you get all these, wait a minute, I'm trying to get my balance. Don't you know the Lord will keep you? And he will protect you. He'll do it by way of his word. He will anchor you in your understanding of him. Anybody want to be anchored in the Lord today? Amen. And I done a few things now. I say, you know what? He'll keep you in times of adversity. He'll keep you when things are between and betwixt. He'll keep you in the midst of controversy. He'll keep you when there's danger. He'll keep you when everybody has left you, even though they promised to be with you. He will keep you when you're fearful Because he knows he's an all-knowing God. He's gone before us. He's capable. He's dependable. He's qualified. He's everlasting. He's faithful. And that's why I can depend on him. Can you depend on God today that no matter what is happening around you, that He'll hold you and keep you by His anchor? And that's why He sent Jesus And that's why he sent his son. Why? To be that anchor. In my life, mission accomplished. I finally got this thing. That he's real in my life. And no matter what happens around me, I'm going to stand for the Lord. And when the storms of life come, I'm still anchored. Are you anchored today? I mean something that the life may push you and Push you around, but you say, you know what? My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood, his righteousness. I dare not trust the sweetest frame, but holy lean on Jesus, on Christ The solid rock is he a rock in your life today? He's a rock in a weary land. He's a shelf in the time of storm. And no matter what happens in life. You still got me. But everything around me is moving. No, no, you just be still and know that I'm God. But you know, Robert, I got a move. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. As the world turns, he's right there. Remember, he owns everything. As the world turns, know that you're his special workmanship. As the world turns, know he built it all. He's never caught off guard. But I I I can't stop it. No, you can. But put your trust in the Lord. Brethren, the world is so a mess. It's elegant. I don't know what's wrong with people. Ah, but what's the matter with Jesus? He's alright. Is he alright today? That no matter what's happening in your life, he's alright And I'm going to stand on he who will keep you by his power. Can somebody stop this, no? He's yet with you. Have you ever lost control? I mean you lost it. And you thought you could keep everything in check and but you couldn't? And the world seems to be turning around you and and don't you know that he's got you in the palm of his hands. And that's the word of God. It is already blessed. Stand all over this place today and say, you know what? As the world turns I can't keep up. It's turning. He's got you. You leave this place today. I really want to to drop this nugget on you that I've been sharing all day. As I came by your seat this morning, I prayed on every seat. Amen. And I prayed on your seat I prayed for your healing. It might be physical. It might be emotional. I prayed that God might deliver you today. Amen. And just know this, as the old song would say He's got the whole world in his hand. I've stopped by this morning to appeal to you, to let you know that God Is yet in charge. Reverend, you said that already, but I want you to believe it and receive it in your heart today. He sent his best. He sent his only son to die for us. And all we have to do is to accept him, to believe that God, I believe that you sent your son Jesus Christ. I believe that he died, that he shed his blood, and I believe that he was buried in a tube, but by faith I believe that he got up. with all power in his hand. And the Bible says, if you believe that God sent his son, if you believe that he died and rose again, If you confess that and believe it in your heart, the Bible says, thou shalt be saved. Can I tell you about salvation? It is something that is amazing. Why? Because with all that we have done, he still accepts us. And he loves us unconditionally. That's what blows me away with all of my mess. You still love me? With all that I've done, you'll still keep me in your care? Yes, he will. He's that kind of God. As you bow all over this place today, I want to offer Christ to you. Father, I come in the name of Jesus. There's no other name on the earth by which men can be saved, but at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow, every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God. I pray today, God, for that person who walked into this building, still unsure about their eternal destination. We know, God, that as we accept you as our Savior, you said that you've gone to prepare a place for us that where you are, we will be also. I pray today, God, that if that person would hear your voice, not the preacher's voice, but your voice, saying, I yield, I yield, what must I do to be saved? Save that person today. If they confess you and believe it in their hearts, the Bible says, not might, but shall be saved. We thank you. And we believe that if you're here today while those heads are bowed and you're not sure about your salvation, I want to offer Christ to you even now. And as you open your own mouth and accept him, he'll come in and he'll suck with you. And he'll change your life. It's such a mystery of how he'll come in and change your very life. Even now, you can take a moment to yourself and recite a prayer, something like this, Heavenly Father, I am a sinner. I believe that you sent your son Jesus Christ to die for me. I believe that he died, but that he rose again. I want you to come into my life and to change my heart. And the Bible says he would do that. So even where you are today, if you pray the prayer of something like that, the Lord can come in right now and save you to the opposite the most. Is there one today while the heads are still bowed? Is there one today who's not sure? I can always meet with you afterwards and explain the plan of salvation. I don't mind doing that. I'm just trying to reach one for Jesus. That's my goal. Can I reach one for the Lord? Amen. One, one. Not thousands, but one Lord. If there's one in this place today, might they accept you as their personal Savior? In Jesus' name. Amen? If you've come today, you desire to be a part of this place called Harvest. The doors are open for you to come into fellowship. Uh we open our hearts to you. We're a loving people. And we'll pick on you. We'll love you. We'll hug you. And I think church ought to be a place where you ought to be able to know that someone genuinely loves And cares about you. Amen. Amen. If we don't have love involved in it, then nothing more. I pray you are helped in some way by this message. Be sure to follow Harvest Christian Ministries on radio, CD, podcast, or over our new website. It's come to harvest. org. That's come to harvest, C-O-M-E, the number two, and harvest. org Take time to experience the website and all that we have to offer as a ministry. In the meantime, pray that God will continue to allow us to reach a community for Christ for the cause of the kingdom. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin. Have a great day in the Lord.