That you're greatly to be praised in the city of our God. As we come today, Father, we ask even now that we might sit down and That you might stand up, dear God, that we might decrease, so that you might increase. And in the midst of what we share from your word, that somebody might be saved. Someone might be encouraged and someone might get the notion they can run to the end because you're on their side. Now bless your word, we pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen Blessed be to God. This is always the moment. From week to week when we stand to proclaim the word of God, my wife would often ask me, she said, Are you ready? And my reply is You're never ready until you stand in the place and you ask the Holy Ghost to guide you. There in the gospel is pinned by Mark. Mark the 9th chapter, verses 21 through 24 for our reading today. If you have your Bibles, I pray you do Just turn to that so you can follow along word by word and verse by verse. There in Mark 9, 21, 24, it says Jesus asked the boy's father, how long has he been like this? From childhood, he answered. It has often thrown him into the fire or water to kill him. But if you can do anything, take pity on us and help us. Verse 23. If you can, said Jesus, everything is possible for one who believes. Immediately the boy's father exclaimed, I do believe Help me overcome my unbelief. I want to preach today from the Samonic title at the intersection of faith and doubt. At the intersection of faith and doubt. If you've been driving for any period of time, at some point you've come to an intersection. That's where two roads meet. And usually when you get there, whether you're in the city, uh in the country, uh in Maybury, wherever that may be, uh an action has to be taken. And you're likely to see a stop sign, a traffic light, or a traffic circle. Now that's uh can be a little difficult at times. I recall in my early years uh using somebody else's car there in Washington DC and thought I was really somebody and I got in one of those circles I went around, not sure how to get out of it, and thought I'd really done something until I realized I'd passed the embassy twice. I said, well now you just left the embassy role and even now you you know you do. When you get to one of those circles, you watch it to see uh who's gonna do what. They're pretty simple, but some of them can be very, very tight. Amen. But on the road of life, that is the life that we live, sometimes we get stalled at life's intersection. Just run out of juice, just lose it to the point that we have to either turn left or turn right. uh to move forward or to go backwards. And and that's what faith really is, the Bible in Hebrews 11 and 1 says faith is the substance of things hoped for and the evidence of things not seen. And then James, the half-brother of Jesus, talks about this over In the book of James 1 and 6, he talks about doubt. He says, you can't be double-minded. If you doubt, it's like going in the wind. You know, find some place to be secure. And so when we get to the text this morning, we're really getting to what I want to say is a collision between faith and doubt. There's an accident. There's an incident. And this all takes place as something major is happening on the top of the mountain. Jesus has taken Peter, James, and John with him, some of his closest persons in the community of faith, and they've gone to what we call the Mount of Transfiguration. And they get there. And Jesus is transformed. His raiment turns colors. And he speaks with Moses and Elijah. And it's a high time. They went there to pray. It is so good to Peter, you know, Peter always speaks up. He says, oh Lord, this is nice. We ought to just be able to build some tents right here and just stay here for a while. But you can't always stay on the mountaintop Sometimes you have to come down and deal with the real issues of life. So by the time they came down from that high moment There's some rumble going on. And we learn that there's a man whose son is demon-possessed. And he's asked the disciples who were there, those who were down below, to heal his son And they could not do it. And so he files a complaint. And Jesus shows up, not like the insurance company. He shows up and does an incident report. And he begins to ask the father questions just right here in the text. He says to him, okay, how long has he been like this? Jesus asking the question. First of all, I would get excited that Jesus has spoken to me. He says, from childhood. And there's some things that you may be dealing with from childhood that God is trying to bring you through from childhood that you maybe have not let go. And the conversation continues. He he responds to Jesus. He says often this spirit throws him to the fire. Or the water to try and kill him. I mean that's that's pretty challenging all along, but if you can do anything, take pity on us and help us. But again, I'm just thinking about the dialogue, the fact that we can dialogue with the Lord Jesus Christ, which is pretty amazing. But this sense of of what Christ says in response in verse 23 He says, if you can. I would love to see uh the expression of the Messiah. If if you can Was it a if you can, or was it, are you kidding? Or was it are you real? And we find that sometimes. He says, everything is possible For one who believes. Let me just uh pause the everything, not some things, and you know we sometimes uh run across things that are just so hard, we say, Lord, I need you. Other times We think we can handle it. Oh, I know we do. So we we got this. But he says everything is possible. Nothing is off the table. Everything, every situation you're going through, every challenge you're facing. Amen? Every sickness you're dealing with is that it's possible for me to change that situation for one who believes. one who believes at the intersection of of faith and doubt. And this father helps us, I believe, in the text to see some few things. He he makes an honest admission. Amen. He makes an honest admission after he talks about his shortcomings of oh I I I believe help my unbelief. But he does some things. He makes an honest uh uh uh confession. He confesses. And then he comes along and I think makes a very profound admission. And then Jesus leaves this impression. Amen? See, we got it. And a confession, an admission, the impression. I love to have the words go like that. It's verse 24 says, immediately That means right away the boy's father exclaimed, I do believe. Amen? And what he's saying there, he's very honest. I believe he's saying this in response to the question from Jesus. He's keeping it real. He's not trying to sugarcoat it and sometimes we'll profess, oh yeah, you know, Doc, it was just the Lord, it was faith But he would say, no, I believe, uh and we're all kind of guilty of sugarcoating things every now and then, and he didn't care that anyone was listening to this conversation I do believe. He has a face-to-face with the master. And he says, I do believe semicolon. That means that that's setting up something else. It sets up an independent clause. And there's a new thought coming after this when he says, I do believe. And you know, this is something that Jesus' own disciples struggled with when it came to faith. Yes, they followed him and they got on the bandwagon and Already they had an issue down at the bottom of the mountain because uh their faith some things come by prayer and fasting. They were not prepared to deal with the situation there. And you remember that boat trip they took Open Matthew 8, where they got on the boat, Jesus sent them there, and he was certainly in the in the part of the ship taking a nap. And the wind comes and they say, oh my God, we're not gonna make it. Can somebody go wake up Jesus? That's a good thing. Can you go get him up from a nap? I don't know about you, but I love a nap any time of the day. Jesus gets up and he says, you know, like what's the big deal? He says, ye of little faith, why are you so afraid? So it wasn't just this father. It wasn't just you, but the very ones who he had called to follow him were the ones also guilty of what Knowing that their faith was lacking. Matthew thirteen fifty eight says and he did not he did many miracles. He couldn't do miracles in in Nazareth because people didn't believe. That he left town and said I only could heal a few people because what? They were at the intersection of faith and doubt. Some did not believe. It was an honest confession. And we have to make an honest confession. We don't have to dress it up and pretend our faith is all big and bad, but be like this man. But there was also a heartfelt admission. Amen. It says, I do believe. Help me overcome my unbelief. Help me overcome my unbelief. He he admitted something. He had to go to the faith department, never gone to the store and You needed somebody over in appliances. You said, I need some help over here. I'm trying to find this toaster that was advertised. You're in the parts department trying to find a particular tool. Is that you asked for help Amen. You find somebody who has on the uniform. You say, hey, can you help me, please? I'm trying to find out about this item. And so what this man is saying, he's saying, help my unbelief, help me to overcome, I admit that I I don't get it. I admit that my faith is not strong. I admit that this situation has been going on so long. Until maybe I have some faith and I've lost some of it. Can I stop there for a moment? There's some things we've been faithful in, but we have waned and said, God, can you still do this? Is there anything too hard for God? Amen? Help me to overcome my unbelief. And there again, the disciples can relate to this. They even said, Lord, please increase our faith. Luke 17, 5 and 6. And he says, if you have faith the size of a mustard seed, You can speak some stuff now. You see the mustard seeds, not very big at all. That you gotta admit that I struggle It's okay to admit that I don't have it all together, and I need you in this moment, in this situation, to do something. Help me, please. And there was a woman who had approached Jesus and she said the very thing, Lord, help me. Her daughter also was facing a similar situation as the father in this text. uh that the possessed by demonic spirits and she says, you know what, I need help. Matthew 15, 28. And then Jesus said to her, Why? Because she wouldn't give up. Woman You have great faith. Your request is granted. Amen. You ever had a request granted in the Lord Jesus Christ? And you knew it was him, it wasn't luck, it wasn't a roll of the dice, but it was the Lord Jesus Christ coming through for you. Maybe it happened this week That you were praying about something and you've been laboring in prayer about it, and all of a sudden you realize that God had answered your prayer. It may have been something small to somebody else, but it was a big deal for you. Amen? And did the same thing for this father. There was a a heartfelt admission, an honest confession, but Jesus left a holy impression. If you keep reading into the story, around about verse 27 But Jesus took him, that is the boy, by the hand, just a touch all by itself, and lifted him to his feet And he stood up. That when Jesus comes into your situation, when you display that I've got some faith, but I'm also trying to avoid this doubt, he knows I can't see how This father's faith was not increased as a result. And there's some things that God has done for you that cause your faith to increase. You went from pre-K to about middle school overnight. Amen? And God came along, you went from middle school to high school as you've grown in your faith. Why? Because you've been through So many things. You have history with God and you know what He can do. There's no secret in the words of my mama of what God can do. What He's done for others, He will do for you. Our salvation is based on faith. Paul writes in the church at Ephesus, Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, for it is by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not from yourselves lest anyone should boast. Amen. So the next time you come to the intersection of faith and doubt, Keep your eyes on the light. I don't mean the flashing light, the yellow light. I don't mean the flashing red light or the green light. But when the next time you come, you might be there right now at the intersection of faith and doubt Look for the light of Jesus. Amen. That's the light you want to obey. The other light sometimes can can mess up on you. I was driving the other night and that one light for you to go straight just was not working. And I took a U-turn where it was not supposed to be a U-turn because I realized I was going nowhere fast. But walk in the light, the beautiful light Come with the dew drops of mercy shine bright. Walk all around us by day and by night. Jesus Is the light of the world. Amen. I'm glad about that today. This same light who went to the cross, this same light who was buried, this same light who rose on the third day morning. with all power in his head. Can't you see? It may have been a LED light shining on that cross. I've told this story before, but it's certainly meaningful to me The late Benny Graham shares how they in northern England, Belize is on his beat, and he comes to a dark corner. He finds a little boy there. And he's shivering. He says, What what's wrong, son? He says, I'm trying to get home. He had lost his way. And so the policeman said, let's see here now, uh, can you get me a street name? The boy couldn't remember the street he lived on. Say, is it near the mall? Can you give me, you know what we do, we say, here's a landmark. And he could not come up with anything. And then the police officer looked and said, wait a minute, there is a church right in the middle of town. They're over there. Now Now do you recognize that? And the boy said, if you can get me to the cross, I can get home. Amen. Must Jesus bear the cross alone? And all the world go free. No, there's a cross for everyone, and there's a cross for me. So when you get to that intersection And the world want to make you go over the doubt. Put it down in a new gear. It says, no, I'm going toward faith. Amen? You might try to stall there in this lane of faith. Just change lanes and know that God will bring you through and you're on your way. And we all will have this intersection But make the choice today. Make Jesus your choice at the intersection of faith and doubt. Let's pray today Heavenly Father, as we come, we thank you for the narrative of the Father. And we see ourselves in him. He's very honest about where he was. Didn't mind coming clean and said, listen, I'm struggling in this area. And because of his little faith, the Lord did something with it. And so you can come to Jesus Christ today in faith, believing you can change your life around. Believing he can save your soul and which he will do. You have to just submit to him. He says, you know what? I believe a little bit what grandma told me. But I've not fully embraced you. I pray today that someone might embrace the love of Jesus Christ by giving their heart to him. The Bible says, if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart That God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Today, I pray that you might make that major decision and come on the Lord's side. Every day with Jesus is sweeter than the day before. We believe it done in Jesus' name. Amen. Oh, blessed be to the Lord today. We thank you for just joining us. We thank you for what you have done by way of the building fund. We're totally excited. Faith is coming to fruition. uh with this project 4318 50th avenue. It's coming together. Yeah, I was at the road of doubt too. I had to make sure I took the left lane and not the right one. And God is yet showing himself faithful. He brought us to this place a place that's flowing with milk and honey. And here's how you can do it. And many of you have and we appreciate from the least to the largest. We thank you because it's really in how you give it. You're not giving to Tim Tutin's church. You're giving to the work of the ministry, and you're sowing a seed in faith, believing that In doing so, this ministry will reach someone for Christ. Amen. That's what it's all about. So go to carmdeharvest. org slash building fund and we thank you for what you have done already.