No, it's not a snowfall or a snow event or it's not what's going on down at Baltimore City School Headquarters. It is a C4 show, and I am pleased to have in studio somebody that we all have looked to for just a few years. I'm not going to age you out, okay, Dr. Tut. I'm not going to age you out. Well, just a few years to bring us that sense of calm, that sense uh professionalism with all the other events I just mentioned. But I want to talk with Dr. Tim Tutin Sr. Is that good to get that out right? Dr. Tim Tutin Sr. But like like Steve Smith Sr. Dr. Tim Tootin, Sr. , who joins me here in studio from WBAL TV, top education reporter, we know all that. I wanted to have him in here though today, and I'm pleased to have him in and talk about his new book, Leading by Example, A Parental Guide to Teaching. and modeling Christian faith at home because it's bigger than just that thou the for those of you don't know, I know this because of his trip that he made to Liberia to Africa when he went there. But he is also the minister of his church, the pastor of his church, Harvest Christian Ministries. So with that big intro, Dr. Tim Tootin, welcome aboard. Man, it's great to be here. And I tell you, we talk in the parking lot all the time, but now we can be a one- I've arrived. Well, no, no, no, sir. I've arrested respect for you and I I appreciate your Allowing me to be here. Well I think what you write about here and and a lot of people might say, Oh, here we go, let a Christian talk. I think the principles though that you write about in here, they they go beyond just Christian. They go beyond just the church. They go to where we are, Dr. Tim Tooten, societally in terms of a lack of respect and a lack of honoring those tried and true principles. that help raise you up to where you are, that helped raise me up. And we're watching the day we had State's Attorney Merlin Mosby on the show earlier in studio. And we're watching the type of carnage and violence where a book like this is really necessary right now. If you can, what motivated you to write this book at this particular time? You know you say that because I it came out of my doctoral work down at Virginia University of Lynchburg. And all the professors said, we need this book. But when I would come to my fellowship on Sundays, and parents would say to me, Reverend, you have all the answers. Tell my eight-year-old what this means. I began to say, well what if you could tell 'cause I believe that parents still have influence. Absolutely. And so we pulled together a group, we did a study, and once we begin to help parents to understand what they may have forgotten and was afraid to ask They then could go home and they could become the teachers. And you have a step-by-step approach to it. Yeah. In the back of the book, you have a whole step-by-step approach. Because I I still believe that parents have influence And the home is still the place. Well, you may send your kids to school or to church, but when they're home, that ought to be the place that you said uh as your parents told you Don't you go out here and embarrass me. Uh you whose name you care about? Now we have lost though that sense of honoring that tradition of not embarrassing the name, but also not embarrassing your parents, your grandparents, the rest of that How how do we regain it? How do we get to the principle you actually have a school that you also run with young people that you write about here in the book where you ins incorporate those very principles. How do we do that? How do we get back to that? I think it it really has to be one parent, one family at a time. And you know, it's not so much what the structures. We know families are not structured and they're blended and it's different. All of that. That's fine. But I think that when I talk about teaching Teaching can be many ways. I think children still watch us. They model behavior. They still hold fast what we believe is important. And so we've got to be consistent as adults about what we do. But I really do believe that a difference can be made. This guy really said to parents, hey. Here's five lessons for you to go over before you get to the kids. And then try them. Family activities. We know that you got practice and this and that, but take time to sit down with your child. And I think kids welcome that. Something is easy as easy as eating dinner together. I mean, we don't even eat dinner together to the same extent anymore. And at the dinner table we learn so many lessons. Dr. Tim Tooten who joins us here in studio talking about his new book, Leading by Example, that that there are just many subtle things that we societally that we've abandoned that that no longer exist in the family structure. Yeah, we're we're both getting up there. I've got grandkids now. Mm-hmm. And to watch my daughter, her husband, and the grandkids is to see some of what we put in them. I I just uh you call me an optimist, call me Mr. Faith. I just still believe that if you take time to hone in on the things you may not know the whole Bible. You may not have read the whole Bible. But there's some things that the good yeah, the good the good in you to say, wait, wait a minute Uh this is how it's done. And always know that you're being looked at. And I think sometimes with the school system, I mean that's I'm the education guy, we put a lot of pet pressure on the school system. Teachers cannot do what we ask them to do. We're asking teachers to be the parents, the social worker, the police officer. Think about what we ask of teachers to do on a regular basis. And that's amazing. But I'm I'm really excited about this because I I I found out that it's not just for people whose kids are three to twelve. But I think sometimes along the way, uh, you can go back and say, wait a minute, I understand this within my faith system. and what's important to me. I really do believe that things that happen at home uh you take with you. Absolutely. And so th that was my inspiration with this. And we tried it in my church with about a dozen parents. Mm-hmm. And when they got done, they came away saying, you know what? I feel pretty good that I could do this. And that was the whole goal. Let me just ask you Dr. Tim too. Not just, you know, in the church, but in the community. The minister had a certain role in the community. In politics, while the minister wasn't running for office, the minister made elected officials kind of respond to them. We have now seen a lot of dynamic of the role of ministers in the church and the community really be pushed down. And about that. It's the way it's come about for me. I I never had a plan to become a pastor slash reporter, but I have maybe eighty, ninety people in my congregation and I feel a sense of responsibility. You're the shepherd. That if if they call the pastor, I don't care what time of day it is I would do my best to help them out. And that's the way I was raised. I do believe there's a role. You're not just the theologian in the house. Right. You ought to know it. But you ought to be able to set some moral standards. And you can't get so big that you can't be reached. Now don't have a megachurch. Don't need that. But I think that people know genuinely when you when you care about them. When it comes to our children and really a lot of you folk focus a lot on children and their lack of respect for institutions I believe with like you, the institution first is the family. The institution first is mom and dad. Where that doesn't exist and you've acknowledged that. We don't have for the first time in the history of the United States, uh, Doctor Tim Tootin, we now have more children being raised in households that are not married and also don't have two parents and for the first time majority of the households for children like that. How do how do we structure how can you get structure out of that? You know, we're talking about the village. Yes. I mean we certainly knew kids growing up. who was were raised by their grandparents and uncles. And they were the most disciplined. Because they were you know there were twenty people who had they had to be accountable to. And I I know that the struggle of parents who are raising kids, of single parents, and there's nothing we can do to change that. It already exists, but what can we do to empower that person and not judge them. Extended family, community. A lot of that stuff doesn't exist. I mean a lot of children I talk to today, uh Tim Tootin, don't even know their grandparents to a certain extent, don't know their cousins. I mean There's a disconnect generationally that is also at play. I mean so many that's why a book like this, leading by example, is so important because I think foundationally there's certain things that go through time that there's no time frame associated with. And and that's okay. And I I really do believe that when we look at uh the school system, we look at you know, I I remember having to ride home with the principal. Uh that's a long run. That's a long run. And I know we talk about i You throw back. But I think sometimes and we we're mass media people that if you're not careful, I'm sure with you in your you go to dinner Put your cell phones down. Right, right, right. We all got cell phones and we're all looking at it. Exactly. And I think we have to take time to be intentional about really saying for the moment that I this is what's important. And and and you'll be amazed for kids to say years later, mm-hmm a after they get out of college, you become wiser what that meant to them. Absolutely. Even it they don't express it. My kid told me one time, my daughter said, Dad, uh, did you read the Bible every day? I was like, Well uh well why do you expect me to? Wow. But what she was watching she was watching you my action And I think that that is why when we we when we see the violence that we're seeing right now in the streets, a lot of this is mild behavior. The children are seeing violence And they're repeating what they see. They really are, in many ways. And when it comes to approaching them, uh many, many years ago, me and my photographer Rob Uncherry Hill And the young man was in the office. We said, Young man, we gave him the old, you gotta respect right. The teacher said, wait a minute. He just witnessed violence in his home twice. in one week. And we had to go back and say, wait a minute, you can't take a a a a cookie cutter approach because you don't know what that child has gone through. But they respect you saying to them, How are you doing today? Well you hold up a standard. Yeah. But at the same time you gotta understand that these children are witnessing the type of violence almost, uh, Dr. Tim Tootin, from a country like Iraq or Afghanistan, when you think about the day-to-day violence they witness You've got to be able to reach them there. Hold the standard up here. But reach and then bring them up to that standard. And not try to be cool. Right, exactly. Exactly. And I tell you though, but this work was one that I I feel really good about and I keep saying to parents that It's so important at whatever level you're at to really you be the one to influence. Charles Barker took a lot of heat many years ago about a role model. Role model. Yeah. And you know, I get now people saying, Hello Mr. Tim too, no, hello Uncle Tim. Nieces and nephews who I knew not of. There you go. Uh but I I really feel passionate about this. I think that that we cannot ever give up on a generation can ever give up on parents who are struggling and we don't know their story. Right. We have no idea. You know, I think sometimes we say, well, I don't know how that's happening. You've not walked in their shoes. Coming up in the next segment, we're going to have Dr. Tim Tootin Sr. , author of Leading by Example, 1411 segment. I want to ask you about the fine line that the church has to walk. with the education community we have out here and it's difficult to try to incorporate some things because it might have Christian in front of it. W well we know we work. We know some of the stuff we work in school but how do you walk that line? How do you bring some of that into these settings 410-467-WBAL. How do we save so many of these children? Stay here. Leading by example, it's not just a book, but it really is a lesson plan as to how we teach and model certain behaviors. In this instance, it's Christian faith, but certain behaviors with our children and our families. It's a book written by Dr. Tim Tutan Sr. We all know him and love him as the educational reporter at WBL TV, but he also has his doctorate in what again? Doctor of Ministry. Doctor of Ministry. He runs his church, uh Harvest Christian Ministries. He is the pastor there as well. And and one of the things I asked you going into the break, because I really think this is important is particularly since your education reporter that we know so well, Tim Tootin, and that is how do we get some of these principals into schools that really, really need we all know they really, really need them. Absolutely. But the resistance is Uh oh that's Christian or uh oh I mean bec because it's th there's this wall that's put up that says it must be secular. It can't be coming from that place. How do we walk that line? You know, I think you gotta build relationships. I mean I think that when you come into a setting uh and you allow persons to see that what is my role? Right. What is my intent? Am I coming in? My intent is to come in And to be helpful. Right. I come in and volunteer. I just got a text from what one of my one of my young people who just passed her a defense And she let her pastor no. Because I stay in touch with her. Well. But I think that when it comes to going to the schools, that there has to be this level of of respect and not coming in bulldozing my particular physical. Yes. But I think that When people see that you really want to build a relationship, that you really do care about kids, whether you're enclergy or not, and we really want to help. Give me a mop as opposed to saying uh or or give me some chalk well I didn't use chalk anymore. Right. But I I think there is that line to walk, but I think it can be walked because again people want to see if there by the way Reverend Dr. Tim Tutan about a school uh a church where my children went to school at Mount Royal Elementary School, Brown Memorial Church, which is right around the corner from from uh Mount Royal always served as the place where children went during the bomb, you know, uh evacuation, whatever situation. And the relationship that the church had with the school was such that You weren't looking at the church in a way that was religious, so to speak, or a Christian, but you were looking at the church as another part of the community that was respected, a hub. And that relationship I think is kind of what you're talking about where it wasn't just one time, it was a continuous relationship with the church. And I think that principals and I don't know what the policies are, right, but I don't think that a leader of the school would welcome as long as they know your agenda. Right, right, right. They would welcome you in, men in particular, sure come in. Right. But just know that you can't hand out tracks. Right. You can't pull Johnny aside and and press him right but he'll see you or see her as the person who genuinely comes and they're concerned and they care And kids know when you care. They they pick that up right away. You know, when it comes to what you witness, because you report on our schools better than anybody, you see how horrible some some of the conditions some of our children, not in the school but what they're coming from and living in. Um th it almost becomes overwhelming to even deal with that. Uh w how do you see this whole book playing in I mean this is what you did with your church and with your book. How could they we transfer some of this to really help these kids who really need it? I try to make the lessons easy enough that if you are not real sure about what some of the basics of your faith would be, right, it lays it out. It's fill in the blank. Uh, if it's easy enough that once you grasp it because kids ask the best question. Mm-hmm. And the hard questions. They do. And then be able to take that. The book is big enough if you want to take it and say, you know what? It really is. I'm I'm gonna use this. Yes. And it you know, and here's a word puzzle. Mm. Kids still love the color. Yep. And so as you begin to talk with them, their family activities, I think it can be modeled almost anywhere And I was able to go to St. Mary's uh ecumenical institute and I was singing the year earlier. And I I loved that because it was ecumenical, which meant that you know as a Christian, a Jew, a Muslim All welcome. Yeah. And we could discuss and we had a place that we could agree on and have same things in common without me judging. So I think that a work like this can be something my mother's eighty seven says, you know what? Bless you. I understand this. She loves puzzles too. And she's eighty seven down in Florida But it is something I believe that at least get the conversation started. I was at a Christian school last week. Mm-hmm. And the principal of that school says, you know what? You're paid to send your kids here. But what about when they get home? Mm-hmm. That yeah, we'll we'll we'll take your money for letting you come and we'll give them all the principles that you're paying for. But what's being reinforced at home. But when you go home What are you doing and what are you trying and I think that we cannot give up on this generation. We cannot give up because we still see all those bright spots. I agree with you. Hello, hello Mr. Mitchell. Like who are you? Exactly. You said something to them Twenty years ago that you forgot. And it stay and stayed with the I I just I really feel we're in a time and place, uh, Tim Tootin, where there's this antagonism towards religion or towards belief. I don't want to say religion. Towards people who believe. And and to me we've got to get beyond that because uh you know, our children need to believe in something greater than themselves, whatever they want to call it. But right now they don't believe in things, which is why I think they strike out angrily. And they do certain things violently. I really believe that. You know, and there was a time too when there were parents who just sent the kids to church. Right. Or to the synagogue. I'm not going. You go. And once they see it it's not important to you, it's not important to them And I think that we have to continue to uplift those values that make a difference. It's made us who we are today, even with your listeners. I mean they're I mean you can protect the home. That's the one place It's the one place you can let your hair down. Let it down in a way that your kids know where you stand. You look you've developed already a reputation for somebody who cares, somebody who who's really uh cares, loves and cares about children Do people kinda when they hear Reverend Dr. Tim too, do they kind of push back a little bit immediately or or because of what you've established, they allow you in because I I found that as soon as people bring in their religious components, Oh Reverend. There you go. I mean really I think that's it. You know, I uh people still remember me from the hats. There you go. I've always remembered that Trump's even rebbing too. Good and good. When it comes to you're the man who wore the hats and told us that I had this power that I could shut down schools. There you go. I don't I always thought you did, but anyway. But I but I think people um want to know you for who you are. Um, you know, and because I'm bi vocational. That's what Paul did. He was a tin maker. And he also had a church. I'm thankful that I can still do both. I love being able to be in the marketplace. Mm-hmm. And so I can be around people and I love Sunday morning. In the world, out of the world. Oh man, you just quoted a major scripture. Come on. And the thing is is letting your light shine. At the end of the day you can do a whole lot of talking, but people want to see you at all facets. Will they catch you on a bad day? And also you're you're not reviving them too. Uh but I I'm just I'm thankful to be able to do both roles and they're really a one. Because I think if I can help a school or a mother in that community, uh that's ministry. Well that's what this is. This book actually becomes an extension of what she said because if somebody were to take this, they could actually use this as a blueprint to do exactly what you're saying, which is to go beyond just your words. Let me ask you the last minute and a half we have with you because I'm always called the eternal optimist. I've called to call in And say there's C4. I'm not sure if you're not going to be able to do that. I do. I live in the city. I'm not leaving the city Just give me your take on how we how we move forward. I mean your view. In terms of the school system. In terms of the school system, in terms of the positives, in terms of where we are in the city. the can was being kicked down the road. So at least for a couple of years it should not be right an issue about everybody agrees. State city agreed we should do it. Every year. But I think What I did yesterday I went in the uh James McHenry Elementary School. Yes, I saw that story. And m what I saw there were teachers who wanted to be there. Working through the summer for kids. Yeah, yeah. And and plus they say, I've been here for twelve years and I want to work in an environment where I can, you know, work with kids who need extra help. And make a difference. And so you can walk into the school in Baltimore City and walk into a school in Baltimore County or Howard and what you notice is the leader. They set the tone. Yep. And you can tell if the kids are running down the hallway. Right. It's an issue. Right. And but I really do believe that Baltimore City Teachers work as hard as anybody. You know the secret is? If you worked in Baltimore City, anybody will hire you because you've always You know, you've got Yeah, you if you view if you do Baltimore City, you're gonna I I just believe that when I see the city, when I see the mayor and people may say, Well, you know, I live in the suburbs. Okay, no. I'm Baltimore City guy. Mm-hmm. And people I'll never forget during the whole ride situation, I was at an event and the person said to me, I said, Well, where are you from? It was an out of town photographer. She says, Baltimore. I said, really where? Towson. You're not from Baltimore. No, that's Towson. Right, right, right. I said, because I come into the city every day I feel uh an allegiance to Baltimore City. My zip code may be different, but I have as much hope for Baltimore City as anybody. And don't you talk about Baltimore City. Don't you talk about well I can tell you one thing. We know we know that when it comes to education, Dr. Tim Tutin Sr. loves Baltimore City and Baltimore City education. You've established that I want you to know, leading by example. You can get this book now. I got I gotta throw in that two cents. A parental guide to teaching about the Christian faith at home where then? Amazon, uh Barnes and Noble, iBooks Tim Tootin. We'll have a connect. Go to the C4 show on Facebook. We'll make sure to have the information on Facebook. I needed this. It's been my pleasure, man. After all the stuff we've been through, I needed this discussion. Bless you, sir. God bless you, my friend