Race is my gracefulness, all that is my father. There is no shadow altering with me. Thou changed when I come back. They will not have been thou forever wilt me. Is thy faithfulness, praise thy faithfulness, warning my warning to my fingers. All I have need for The Lord has to be. Winter, springtime and moon and star, and there's more than I went for nature and manifold with nest to my great handfulness referring the hand. Wait is thy faithfulness, Win is thy faithfulness, morning my own. I know different to shear and to die, spring for today, and my tone for tomorrow. Let me warn I would be thy wake the dead Pray in thy I pay for me. Amen. How many can testify to that? That the Lord is great. We're not preparing for the Word of God. Let's bow. Heavenly Father, as we come today, it is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today, encourage another, and when this time is done, we will give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. There's a word from the Lord today in the book of Lamentations. Lamentations 3, 22, and 23. Lamentations 3, 22, and 23. And it reads this way in verse 22, because of the Lord's great love, we are not consumed. For his compassions never fail. They are new every morning. Great is your faithfulness. I want to preach today. From the Simonic title and to continue our series, Brand New Part 2. Brand New Part 2 In the world of advertising, be it television, radio, a newspaper, or even over the internet, we often will hear these words, new and improved. New and improved. And that means that companies have a particular product that they've introduced a new version It happens that way with telephones and so many other things. And the idea is, is that they're putting out before you and I Something that has improvements allegedly. Every now and then you bought a product that was billed, is new and improved, and it was worse than what you had before. Amen I believe the Lord Jesus Christ is calling each of us to a brand new, new and improved life. In other words, to have a brand new mindset. In our text today, we meet the biblical character, Jeremiah. He is one who writes the book of Lamentations. What is lamentations? What does it mean? It means to lament or to express great sorrow. It is a sad book for a sad time. Let's face it, we're going through some sad times in our world today. But as Jeremiah sees it, from his perspective, the temple has been destroyed. Jerusalem as a city has been destroyed. The people have been taken captive by the Babylonians all because they rebelled against God. Now that's not to be overlooked that they find themselves in a situation because of their disobedience Can I be honest today? Sometimes we find ourselves in dire situations because of our disobedience to God. And scholars agree when they see the Book of Lamentations, they say that you see, you hear, and you feel the tears that are flowing down the face of the prophet Isaiah. Jeremiah rather, and he as a prophet is sitting in a cave overlooking Jerusalem, where he sees the rubble Where he smells the stench of decaying bodies, where he hears the cries of the people unto God. He had warned them before to repent and seek God. You know, we look at the weather and we say, well, here's a long-range forecast. I can plan what's going to happen supposedly in the next five to seven days. God sends messengers by to give us a long-range forecast, a warning of what to expect if we don't do this. Amen. And I believe that as Jeremiah looks at the situation, his cheer for depression is to look up. I love what David says in Psalm 121. I will look unto the hills from which cometh my help. All of my help cometh from the Lord, which made heaven and earth. I believe that Jeremiah hears the word from God. It is to recognize that God will make the old brand new. He writes that God is a God of love. That God is a God of compassion. That God is a God who's the creator of anything that is brand new. Let's unpack these. God's love. Because of the Lord's great love, we are not consumed. Now, because is a huge word. Because means that for this reason Because what? Because of the Lord's great love toward us. We should never forget how much God loves us. That's why he sent his only begotten son, Jesus Christ, to die for us. And so I want you today to sense the love of God. Maybe folk told you they don't love you anymore. Well, God bless them But God loves you with a great and everlasting love. And it's because of his great love And I laughed. It took me a long time to understand what goat meant. I said, why people putting a goat on on the internet? Greatest of all time. That's all I I got that. Somebody called me a goat one time. Wait a minute. I'm not a goat now. But don't you know that God is the greatest of all time? Because he made time. Because he is the beginning and the end. He is the first and the last. He's Alpha and Omega. That is the one that we serve today. God loves us and it says we are not consumed. We're not done away with. We're not discarded because love intervenes. Love breaks into our situations and wait a minute. These persons belong to me He steps in to a people who are rebellious. They had turned their backs on God. Does that sound familiar? He's always receiving us back into our own but let's let's let's face it. Let's admit it. We we we're some rebellious Can I say it another way? We're some hard-headed people that God has to come and He provides mercy, that is, love, provides mercy toward us. Hebrews 4 and 16 says, Let us therefore Come boldly to the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help us in our time of need. God is love in the midst of our trials and tribulations. God is love in the midst of a pandemic. God is love in the midst of raging fires. God is love in the midst of floods. God is, not was, God is love. He's also compassionate, for his compassions never fail or fail not. Now to have compassion is to be compassionate towards someone. It means, and this is the dictionary version, that you have a feeling of deep sympathy and sorrow for another person who is stricken by misfortune to the point that you have a strong desire to alleviate their suffering. Does that sound familiar? God's compassions are not like man's compassions. God feels what we feel. I've said it before. Persons will tell you, I feel you. Yeah, you but you don't feel me like that. Only God can feel what we are going through, the pain and the sorrow and the tough times. He has compassion upon us And we have to receive that compassion on our way to becoming new in him. Can I just testify? God has stepped in so many times in my own life and shown compassion. Has he done it for you today? Or you ought to just give me a thumbs up if he's come along and had some real mercy upon you But every now and then he would just blow our minds. But we fail to remember sometimes we have amnesia, uh-oh, but he is compassionate Hebrews 4, 15 says, For we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling. of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted as we are without sin, that that he understands He understands when no one else understands what you're going through. He understands. I love the picture that's often painted in Christendom of Jesus who sits at the right hand of the Father making intercession for the saints and and this is not necessarily biblical but when we pray That that that that Jesus is there to to receive the prayer in Jesus' name and he turns to the Father and says, I know what they're going through. I I know what it means to be double-crossed. I know what it means to have folk talk and put a knife in your back. He said, I understand that. And so we have a high priest who gets it A high priest who understands us and his compassions never fail. There's no failure in God. I'm excited about that today, that I may fail, you know, government may fail, programs may fail, but God never fails. He is so compassionate. Can you feel it today that he cares so much about you? And that's why we're sheep and he's the shepherd when it comes to Jesus Christ. He's compassionate. He's love, but he's also the creator of the brand new. It says Because of the Lord's great love, we are not consumed, for his compassions fell not. They are new every morning. Great is your faithfulness or thy faithfulness. God's love and God's compassion are new every every morning. Reminded of the people who were there in the wilderness And God said, I'll provide for you. He says, don't y'all try to hoard that manner. I'm going to bring fresh manner to you every day. What do folk do? They try to hide it and save some and it started to sink He says, I got you. Amen? Our mercies that we receive are new every morning. They never expire. They never run out. Amen. If we buy food or buy drink, we're looking at the expiration date. You'll probably throw it away. I often debate about uh well it says today. My wife tells me you got one more day on it Because I'm getting ready to throw it out like the day it says it expired. But God will not throw us away He sees too much in us. The enemy may come against us, but he's always, that is God, renewing us no matter what. Psalm 51 and 10, David realizes he's created me a clean heart and renew a right spirit within me. Renew, renew. Renew Romans 12 and 2. And be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. Do you feel new? It is to make new again. Jeremiah declares, great is thy faithfulness. And then when we say God is faithful, that means that God is reliable. That he's steadfast, that he's unwavering, and he takes care of us every time. But our role And our responsibility is to humble ourselves, therefore, into the mighty hand of God, knowing that He will exalt us in due time and to repent of our sins. To turn away from the way that we're living and to turn away from the way that we're thinking and know that God wants to make us brand new. This past week I took a trip uh for an assignment uh here in Maryland and I uh started on my journey heading to a little town called Denton on the Eastern Shore. Man, I was excited, the weather was nice. And I decided to go a different route, not my traditional route. As I went alone, I put the app in, I wanted to be in, and the app took me with directions to different places. I declare I went through some towns I'd never been in in my 33 years of being in Maryland, but I just played it cool. I was following the voice on the map telling me where to go. Well thank God I I reached my destination. And as I was heading back, I said, well, you know what? I can't retrace. I didn't leave breadcrumbs, so I'm gonna go back hopefully the same way. But the app sent me on a different route. Heading back home. And I began to follow that and it didn't feel right. And you know how you get when you think you're almost lost? I began to follow. I took some back roads with some cornfields, places that I knew not of, but I continued to follow. It was new, a new territory for me. And the lessons on that trip is that sometimes the new is unfamiliar. It can cause you to become unsure and uneasy as you travel this new path in life as you travel this new way that God has made for you. Can I recommend that you get a riding partner to go with you? Along the way. Take Jesus with you. I love that old song of the church. Take the Lord with you. Children, everywhere you go. in the streets, in a crowd, in your home all alone, on the highway. I've been there. On the byway, take the Lord with you everywhere you go. It may be new to you, but it's not new to him. Your situation may seem unsurmountable, but God knows where the destination is. Amen. One day Jesus took a road trip to Calvary Went up that steep hill, and that's where he nailed my sins and yours to the cross. Amen? And because of that We can live. We can have a brand new experience. I'm so excited today. I can say, oh, oh, oh, what he's done for me. Amen. He's done great things for me. And don't you feel new today when the Word of God begins to settle in you and you begin to feel And to recognize and to walk in the truths of God. My God, you ought to think different. You ought to act different. You ought to be new. For gonna say, wait a minute, there's something peculiar about you. Why? I've been spending time with Jesus. Amen. I love when Moses went up before God. And as he went before God, he spent time with God, so much that when he came down from the mountain, he looked new To the point that the people say, now Moses, your face is too bright. Your countenance is too strong. Can you put a veil on? Can you mask up for a minute? Because we can't stand to see your face. But it's not about his face because there came a time when Moses got busy with the people. He kept the mask on, but he was not spending time. But God wants to make your life brand new. Come from behind your mask and give God the glory. Come from behind your situation and let you know that he can make you brand new. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. Brand new. And we need God today in every situation. You can't make it by yourself. You're stuck in yesteryear, and he is desiring to do something new. But he won't force himself on you. He won't make you brand new unless you want to become brand new. That's the word that I feel in my spirit today. I'm so glad that he has shaped me and continues to Fix me in such a way that I can become a follower of Christ. Even today, let us bow. Heavenly Father, we come in the name of Jesus as we come today, God. We thank you for reminders always that much like the people of Israel, we've lost our way. We're stuck in yesterday, but thank God that He looks upon our situation And promises us a new way, a new way of walking, a new way of talking. But it all starts with our commitment to confess Jesus Christ. What does that mean? It means that I believe, as Romans 10 says, that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus And believe in my heart that God has raised him from the dead. The Bible says, thou shalt be saved. Save someone today through this. particular platform. Save them today. Only you can save. The preacher can't save. Parents you can't save. It has to be a personal decision. I trust even now that someone has turned from their way and accepted you. We ask it all now in the strong name of Jesus Christ. Praise God. What a day, what a time, and we we just bless the Lord. I'm always grateful and always better because of that. Well we know that there are so many things that are happening in our communities. We want to let you know that you can be updated. You can be on our update list. You can find out all that's happening in the days and the months ahead. We're staying on our knees asking God to show us. And we also want to say to you as well that we thank you for your giving. You've been faithful not just individual harvest members, but all across the country. God has led you to plant seeds into this ministry. And we appreciate you can do online giving right now. Amen. On our app You'll find everything you need on our Facebook page. I think I just misspoke. Not your Facebook page, but right there on our homepage, comethenumber2harvest. org. Amen. And always we want to be praying for you and your family. There's so much to be praying about. And we don't have to know people to pray for them. We know that the Lord knows them. He knows their situation Rejoice Musical Soul Food Network. If you want good gospel music, traditional, non-traditional, all day long at any time. I want to advise you to check out my good friend Mike Chandler on Rejoice Musical Soul Food Network. You can find a link on our page Well, you've been watching the news, you've been hearing about ballots, you got to vote. Amen. Well you don't have to vote, but can I recommend that you vote? Amen. Amen. And whoever you want to vote for, that's your choice. Yeah, I know you say I vote for Jesus. Yeah, but Jesus gives you wisdom to vote for people that you will hold accountable who will make a difference. Amen. As always, we want to say that we have a resource for you uh that we promote uh week in and week out uh for those who have uh home school or those who are having to navigate uh through lessons at home. Amen. Well you can use this book called Leading by Example, Parental Guide to Teaching and Modeling Christian Faith at Home. It gives you everything you need, gives you lesson plans in the life that you might add God into your curriculum. People say they took God out of schools. Well, God is not in the empty building. God is in your home now, and you can also trust. Amen. Amen.