God bless the quietness, holy quietness. I love the hymns of the church. Thank God for the praise team and what they're doing with this technology amazes me. You gotta have a little rhythm, you gotta be in touch And we thank them for what they're doing as it relates to getting words to encourage you by way of song. Well, we're always excited about the Word of God and uh we thank Him for giving us uh something that we can pass along to you. The Bible says the Word is important is for correction, for reproof, that the man and woman of God might be fairly furnished unto good works. Well, I don't know about you, but I'm feeling real happy today. We're going to throw back today one of the throwback songs of my praise team. Do we win them within this? Is it the first thing? Is it just a distinct Oh happy day, oh happy day in love with me to I am I'll be allowed. Oh happy day, oh happy day, oh happy day, happy, oh happy day. Amen. Oh happy day. We blessed the Lord today. The Edmund Hawkins singers, oh happy day, and that's One of the songs from back in the day, Amen. We give God the praise. Let's bow we're not preparing for our Sermon today. Bow your heads once again. Heavenly Father, as we come, we ask even now that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today Encourage another, and when this time is done, we'll be so careful to give your name the praise and the glory In Jesus' name, Amen. There's a word that comes today from the book of Revelation there in the 21st chapter, and there are five verses we want to uh bring to your attention today. Of course if you're there and you can share this with someone uh that you know need a word today, just go right ahead and share it if you would like. Revelation twenty-one one through five it says then I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and there was no longer any sea. I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down out of the heaven from God, prepared as a bride, beautifully dressed. for a husband. Verse 3 says, and I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Look, God's dwelling place is now among the people And he will dwell with them. They will be his people, and God himself will be with them and be their God. He will wipe every tear from their eyes. There will be no more death or mourning or crying or pain, for the old order of things has passed away. Verse 5 reads He who has seated on the throne said, I am making everything new. Then he said, Write this down, for these words are trustworthy. and true. I want to preach today from the Samonic title Brand New Part 3. Brand New Part 3. Some weeks ago we began this preaching series trying to encourage you as it relates to the brand new thing that God is doing. Let's recap On week one, we looked at Lamentations 3, 22, 23. Because of the Lord's great love, we are not consumed. For his compassions never fail. They are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. And of course, Isaiah. We spent some time with Isaiah 43. 18 and 19. Forget the former things. Do not dwell on the past. See, I am doing a new thing. Now it springs up. Do you not perceive it? I'm making a way in the wilderness and streams in the wasteland. Brand new We're beginning our final installment of this series and going to the very last book of the Bible. That's easy to find. Just go to the very end. There's Genesis to Revelation It says, the Book of Revelation, as we know it, is a book that has, I believe, two primary goals. One is to encourage Christians to do what? To live righteous and holy lives in light of the prophetic timetable that is to come. Revelation is also important and key. It should challenge unbelievers about the judgment that is to come. if they reject Jesus Christ. And you know that people, yes, they're accepting Jesus Christ. There are also those who have rejected him. That's why we have to continue to spread the good news of Jesus Christ. Revelation comes from the pen of the Apostle John, one of the twelve disciples who followed Jesus Christ spreading the good news near and far. But today he is exiled on the Isle of Patmos, a small Greek island in the Aegean Sea. Why? Because he spoke the gospel message. And not everybody wants to hear the truth. Not everybody wants to hear what you have to say about Jesus. It was on the island that John received messages from on high. He got visions from Jesus to pass along to the seven churches there in Revelation. Some years ago I was very thankful to be able to visit five of those cities where the churches are located, Eficitts being among them. The revelation is filled with mysteries about things to come. It is the final warning that the world will surely end and judgment will come. Revelation also gives us a glimpse of heaven, all the glories that are awaiting us who keep our robes white. You know, uh this is heavy stuff, it's important stuff that We're here and the here and now, but it won't always be this way. Don't you know that at some point we all will run our race with patience looking under Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith. And that's why you have to do what you got to do right now in terms of living for the Lord Revelation also talks about a new heaven and a new earth. But before that can happen, major events will take place. the rapture and the second coming of Jesus Christ. Both are end-time events. The rapture is the return of Christ. in the clouds to remove all the believers. The dead in Christ shall rise first, and those who are alive will be caught up to meet him in the sky. First Thessalonians 4 And then there's the second coming of Jesus, when he returns to defeat the Antichrist, throws the Antichrist in the lake of fire. Satan will be bound for a thousand years The second coming is described in Revelation 19. After this judgment, after these events, then there will be a new heaven and a new earth. Can I just say brand new? Well righteousness will be the norm. Well righteousness will be the key for the day. But righteousness won't be something that you've got to choose. You will be righteous. Amen. We will have this, a new address, new associations, and new assurances. Let's talk about a brand new address. Verse 21 says, and this is John speaking, then I saw a new heaven and a new earth. The vision he received. For the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and there was no longer any sea. I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven From God, prepared as a bride beautifully prepares for a husband. What a imagery there that John uses to describe this. And you really need a spiritual imagination to see what John sees from this island. He sees that brand new heaven in that brand new earth. He says the first earth, which we are living on right now, it will pass away. Isn't that something that as much as you love the earth, it will at some point, when the Lord says so, That's why you can't get too attached to people, places, and things, because the Lord will come back as he promised. John describes this holy city as something to be whole. You know, when you see the bride coming down and and looking good and I've done a few weddings. I've also married too, and you say, I need to see my bride. Well, John gives this picture, and if we remain faithful unto God, we too will have a brand new address. a new place in which to live. My God, if your postal carrier is not saved, they will be scrambling to figure out where have you moved? They want to know that your residence has changed. Why you found a new place where the streets are paved with gold? We're talking about a brand new address. Yeah, I I I love where I live and you love where you live, but don't don't don't get too close to that because something is going to happen. John 14 and 2 says, in my father's house There are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you and I go to prepare a place for you. Just process that for a moment. That even in the life that we live, this is not the end of the story. Amen. This is not a sequel that he is going to do something brand new And all won't we behold that to the glory of God? A brand new address, but also brand new associations. Verse 3 says And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Look, God's dwelling place is now among the people. and he will dwell with them, they will be his people, and God himself will be with them and be their God. And I love this. He will wipe every tear from their eyes. There will be no more death or mourning or crying or pain, for the old order of things has passed away. John records not just what he sees. But what he hears, he said there was a loud voice and there was an exclamation mark means that it was loud, that God was speaking to him there on the aisle. He says you will be my people often kid and I know you do as well for your cousins, your family. You are my people. Ever going to a reunion? And everybody there you know has to be kin to you in some kind of way. And this is cousin Joe and Aunt Jane and if you look around and say, you know what These are my people. Amen. The word says, my people who are called by my name shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from the wicked ways. Then I will hear from heaven, forgive their sin and heal their land. But once you associate yourself with the Lord Jesus Christ, that that's good news. And you you want to be new? Hook up with Jesus. Amen. And we always talk about the associations and who we know You know, we we know somebody famous and we say, you know what, uh, that's my cousin's uncle's third cousin's brothers, neighbors, aunt And you you put that say that you know somebody, but let me tell you, I know a man from Galilee. If you in sin, he will surely set you. Oh Do you know him? I'm glad today. Can I get excited for a moment? I'm glad today that I know him in the pardon of my sins. being associated with them and associated with God. Look at this. No more mourning. No more crying and think of the tears we've shed on this end. the tears and the pain you've gone through. You may be in the midst of that right now. This won't last forever. I'm so glad. Trouble won't I feel like singing today. Trouble won't last always. Amen And so you have these new associations. Uh the old order will pass. Everything will be brand new. Well. Out out the package. Romans 6 and 4 says, therefore we are buried with him by baptism into death. That like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of God even so we shall walk in the newness of life. This is not the end, folks. Yeah, this is not the end. There's a promise Of a brand new earth and a brand new heaven. New associations, new address, and brand new assurances. Verse 5 says, He who was seated on the throne said, I am making everything new. He didn't get permission from anybody. John tell him I am making everything new. And then he said to John And in case you you might forget this, write this down, for these words are trustworthy and they are true. These new assurances can only come from Jesus, the one who's seated at the right hand of God. I'm making everything new. And so don't don't don't worry because the Lord is in control. And these new assurances is coming from the Lord Jesus Christ and he always has the last word, no matter what people say. Listen to what God is saying. Remember the commercial when E. F. Hudden speaks, people listen. I guess they still run that commercial, but there are things that will cause you to stop. and turn an ear to. But when you hear the word of God being taught, preached, and you see it being lived, pause for a moment and take notice. He says everything is in process. It's going to happen. This is not a roll of the dice. This is not possible. This is not let's wait and see. Can I get excited about that? That a brand new heaven And earth will take but it is within your reach. John document this. Revelation documents All that we've been talking about, it's a good read. Don't be afraid of the book of Revelation. Embrace it. It lets you know what's going to happen. And check this out. Along with the brand new heaven And along with a brand new earth, you will have a new glorified body. Now that got your attention, didn't it? I know you love your body and you love yourself, but what this will all change And no more pain in that body. I know you're good looking now, but my God, once you get the glory of God on you, you're gonna look like somebody Hallelujah, amen. The magazine, they kind of mess it up a little bit and make you look younger, but you will have this new body in this new heaven, in this new earth. Amen. 2 Corinthians 5 and 1 says, For we know that if this earthly tent we live in is destroyed, we have a building from God. an eternal house in heaven not built by human hands. But right now, use the body that you have. Use the breath that you have and use the voice that you have to tell somebody about Jesus. My God, don't go ahead of yourself now. In the here and now tell somebody that Jesus Christ is Lord. Let somebody know where He's brought you from. Let someone know that yes, I believe that He died But that he rose again, and there he is speaking to a John on an island. This is the same Savior. Aren't you glad that you know the Savior today? I am. Spread the good news. Extra, extra. Read all about it. The Lord is the Lord of Lords. The Lord is the King of Kings. The Lord is Alpha and Omega. The Lord is the beginning. In the end, in the words of the late Mahalia Jackson, soon we will be done with the troubles of this world. going home to live with God. But in the meantime, j just hold to his hand. Hold to God's unchanging hand. Amen. I love that today that I feel brand new amen I feel excited today I feel encouraged today why because of the promise I got a new address Look at that. That's my street right there. That's where I live. New associations. Yeah, I know you may not like all your neighbors now, but my God, everybody be giving God the praise And new assurances that every day he'll be speaking a truth into you that you'll be able to give God the praise and the glory and to worship him. Amen. Aren't you excited yet? About the new that he has in store for you. My God, I thank the Lord today. That is the word of God It is already blessed. Amen. Even right now, take a moment to think about What the Lord is going to do. And maybe this is all foreign to you, and maybe you didn't know it. Connect today with the Lord Jesus Christ. My the the promises are right here. You're tired of your situation, and you're tired of this earth and you complaining. Thank God for the moment. Because this is not it. Amen. Amen. Coming soon. He's coming soon. Just like he said he was. Let's bow today. Maybe you've tuned in and maybe you don't know the Lord Jesus Christ. And the pardon of your sins. Today you can know him. The Bible says in Romans 10, 9 and 10, that thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart That God has raised them from the dead, thou shalt be saved. It's something you have to do. I can't do it for you. Mama, father can't do it for you. You have to confess it with your own mouth. Lord Jesus I'm a sinner, but I want to be saved today. I want to be in the number when the saints go marching in. Do it today, we pray, God. In Jesus' precious name. Amen. Oh, let's bless the Lord today. It's been a great day in the Lord. Amen. Who needs God? I do. I sure do. I need him every day. I need thee every hour. Want to just let you know some things that are important to us that if you want to be updated, we got things going on, but you can get the very latest right on your phone and your email. Go to our site. Come to harvest. Amen. And if you are one who wants to plant seeds into this ministry, You can do it right now by going on our webpage, amen, and being able to give online. You can find all this at Come to Harvest. uh amen and of course if you have a prayer request today uh be sure to send it in to us we want to be praying for you for the lord is so good i'm excited amen Always want to let you know, if you want to hear music all day long, anytime, any device, check out the Rejoice Musical Food Network. That's my good friend Mike Chandler And we're on uh three or four days a week with seeds of encouragement. We thank God for that today. Here's important information. You ought to vote. Amen? And I I'd say it's your choice, but if you want to have a voice in in this old earth about what happens right now, you need to make sure that you go and don't let nobody stop you from registering or from getting your brother. Whatever you got to do, you do it. Amen As always, even as parents are going through and uh spreading good news to their children and you're doing the synchronous learning and asynchronous learning, all those big words, uh you know that you may need this to assist you. Take a break. And check out the Word of God, my new book, uh Leading by Example, Parental Guide to Teaching and Modeling Christian Faith at Home. It gives you materials and lesson plans and functions. You can call it