Praise you the Lord Jesus Christ is the way, and we thank the Lord today. We thank you for joining us by way of uh Facebook, by way of our streaming apparatus, and wherever you are today, uh let someone know the heart. Broadcast is on. The word is about to be declared today. Amen. Let's have a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come today and we thank you for your goodness and for your mercy. We thank you that you got us up this morning and that you started us on our way. God, we don't take that for granted. As we come today to declare your word, it is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. praise and we'll be so careful and give your name the praise in Jesus name, Amen. There's a word from the Lord today uh in the book of Isaiah the prophet Isaiah is the forty-third chapter uh verses eighteen and nineteen if you have it Uh say amen. I know that even though we are people with electronics, uh some folks just love to touch the Bible and feel it. And there's nothing wrong with that. It is the word of God. And you found it, say amen. It reads Isaiah 43, 18 and 19. It says, forget the former things. Do not dwell on the past. See, I am doing a new thing. Now it springs up. Do you not perceive it? I'm making a way in the wilderness and streams in the wasteland. I'm going to preach today from the Samonic title, Brand New Part one. Brand new part one. As a culture, as a society, as a people, we like new things. If you are one of those persons, just give me a thumbs up. When we see something, when we see it really as something having the potential to reward us in some way. But this is not limited just to the material. We like new experiences. We like learning new languages, some of us. Uh listening to new music, watching new movies. or learning a new skill. Now sometimes we call that getting everything in to place those desires on our bucket list. Now of course a bucket list is a list of things, a collection of goals and dreams and aspirations that we all hope to accomplish in our lifetime. But I believe that in order for us to embrace the brand new, we have to be willing to let go of the old Be willing to let go of the worn out, be willing to let go of the secondhand and the used The Apostle Paul says it well there in 2 Corinthians. He says, if any person be in Christ, they are a new creature. All things are passed away. Behold, all things become new. Let news settle in your spirit today. And in this pandemic, instead of us saying I cannot wait until things get back to normal. Have you heard that? Maybe you've even said it Oh, we're getting ready for a new moment. Can I let you in on the secret today? Things won't be the way they were. In our text today, we meet the prophet Isaiah. He's speaking to a people facing a lot of issues. They're in bondage, they're in Babylon, and they're hoping for a breakthrough, much like we're doing, praying that God might do something great in our experience. Isaiah is someone who has credibility. It's good to listen to someone who's been through something, someone who has a testimony. And back in the sixth chapter of Isaiah, we know that he says, In the year that King Isaiah died, I saw the Lord, high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple. He also knew that being in the presence of God, it did something to him, and it ought to do something uh to us as well. God proclaims, is there one I can send. Who will go for me? Isaiah says, I I am prepared. I think I am. I'm kinda ready. Here I am, send me. But but he admitted that I'm not A man who is quite there. I'm a man of unclean lips. And didn't God take care of that? We've all had some unclean lips, but he allowed this uh heavenly being to place coals on his lips. And so Isaiah. Is proclaiming the good news of Jesus Christ. Now, I believe today that to embrace God's brand new, we need to change our perspective Pay attention to his promises and make this experience personal. Let's talk about the right perspective. Verse eighteen says, Forget the former things. Do not dwell on the past. God needed the people as he needs us to change how we view our current circumstances. If you dwell too much on the past, you'll get depressed, you'll become upset, you will just about lose your mind. God tells them to forget the former things. Don't keep talking about uh the way it used to be. Amen. Don't get me wrong, there's some great days that God has brought us through. We all have a history with God, and to God be the glory. That is your testimony. But we put too much stock, I believe in our memory, uh too much stock in our flashback moments, in our highlight reels, in our past, good, bad, or indifferent. God wants us to place our attention and our eyes On a new thing he's about to do. But you know God is new. That God is current, that God is not some historical figure that you may have in your imagination, somebody with a long beard who's old. No, no, no, no. God is the throne. He knows exactly what's happening. He never sleeps nor slumber. In some ways we are stuck in what used to be and will never go forward to embrace the new thing that God has for us. And that's what faith is, is not being able to see it, but believing as the old saints would say that brighter days are ahead. How many believe that today? That brighter days really are ahead. Yes. Philippians 3 13 and 14, Paul says, Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this I do, forgetting what was behind. And pressing forward to what is new, I press toward the Lord for the prize of the high calling in Jesus Christ. Change your glasses. Get a new perspective on what God is going to do in the new. But also, you gotta pay attention. Verse 19 says, see, I am doing a new thing. Exclamation mark. Now it springs up. Do you not perceive it? God is saying I'm about to do something new over over here. Hey babe, we still have focused on yes, the old. The Lord have mercy. He's saying, Hey, how about over here? Amen? To see what I am doing, we have to pay attention in the spirit to what God is doing. Don't let your current situation block what God has in store for us and for you. Replace your old way of thinking. And we can get stuck. In the old way, the old sayings, uh the old way of analyzing life, we need a new awareness. I I don't know about you, but I'm I'm feeling some brand new today in the Lord. I I'm just feeling like uh the way things are now Now God's gonna do some new stuff. His word says it. He promised it. It says, now it springs up. Now that's movement. It springs up, means I've got to look up. The Bible says I will look to the hills, for which cometh my help. All of my help cometh from the Lord who made heaven and earth. He says, can't you see it? You ever had something and you just couldn't see it? Everybody said, you know, look, don't you see it? I I'm always amazed by some of these uh pictures that come up and says What is that? Is that a man? Is that an animal? I can never figure those things out because your eyes are trying to connect with what you see. But you heard of the old saying that you can't see the forest For the trees. Now we are involved in the details of our problems and predicaments that we miss the breakthrough that God is about to do. My God, I could shout on that. Right here in Studio C that He is about to break through and yet we've got to pay attention not to what the world is saying not to what comes on television and our work on television but keep our focus on the Lord. Isaiah 40, 28, 31 says, but they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. That means at some point they had some strength. At some point, things were on the mountaintop for you. At some point, things were alright. But he wants to do that over again. He wants to renew Your script. How many people want their strip renewed today? Amen. If you drive a car, you gotta renew your registration every so often. You got a driver's license. I know you might look good in another old picture. You gotta renew that license with a new picture. At some point, we are in a brand new season. God is about to do something brand new. We just have to Pay attention. We've just got to not be sleep on the job. We've got to be open to what God is saying. And that comes by way of His Holy Word. It comes by way of his Holy Spirit. And so make sure today you may be walking down the street and the Lord will speak to you and you are paused for a moment and you're here Amen. The Bible talks about the church that he that hath it ear let him hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches. Pay attention. Have a new perspective, but know also this is personal. God is a God of detail, he says in another part of that 19th verse. I am. Look at that. And not not somebody else, you know, not Congress Not the White House, uh not your boss. I am making a way in the wilderness, and some of us are there right now, and streams in the wasteland. And this is personal. It was personal for every family. Even though I just spoke to a larger group, that thing ought to hit home. Amen. What does it mean for me? It's a kitchen table uh uh issue. For every person who believed that God could and would do something random, you ought to make this personal for you. So you know what? I in my house, uh I'm gonna put on the door, brand new. Wherever I go this week at the kitchen table as I'm going through say, uh honey, are you ready for something brand new? You ought to speak that thing this week Brand new details he gives I will make a way in the wilderness. The people of God knew that in their return There were over a hundred miles of some rough road. Amen. Some wilderness. He said, guess what? I can take care of that. That you may be in a wilderness state of mind. But God says, I will make a road. in the wilderness. I'll make an interstate in your wilderness moments. I'll make a beltway in your wilderness moments. Some of y'all in D C Baltimore, in your city, there's a beltway. You love it, but my God every now and then You are glad there's a beltway and not the back row. That God promises streams or rivers in a dry place. Isn't that amazing? That you say, how in the world can he do that? And sometimes we're stuck on what he did. before when he brought the people over on dry land through the Red Sea. And we sometimes will handcuff God. Yeah, I know what you did before. He said this thing is new. Right where you are, I'm gonna bring streams through your dry moment. Oh God. Lord have mercy. I will. And you know what I just believe because we are people sometimes that we just need a good song. That's what key y'all and uh you know Some of y'all are shower singers, and some of you sing in your car when nobody can hear you. And some of y'all go on TikTok. God bless y'all. Amen. But Isaiah 4210 says, Sing unto the Lord unless you're New song. My God. In other words, there ought to be a new song in your spirit today. Can I beat Tim Tootin, the DJ from Live Oak, Florida? I love playing a new song. I love playing it first. But after a while, the new song. It came a throwback or an oldie goldy, but there was always a new song. Jesus wants to do something new in your experience, something above you, something bigger than you, something current. He wants to do something creative in you, something cutting edge. He wants to do something different, something effective. He wants to do something far beyond your reach, something great, something that's higher than you, something In spite of you, something large and something mighty, something never seen before, and something original. He wants to do something powerful in your life, something unfamiliar, something unique, something unusual. Usual something up to date, my God, He wants to do a new thing in you. I'm not in the automobile business, but I got a good friend of mine who is. I love him too. But when you buy a new vehicle They'll ask you, and he can correct me, do you have a trade-in? What hoopti did you bring with you today? God wants to trade in the old you for a new you. Oh God. Yes he does. He wants To trade you in and don't worry about the sticker price. You know where I'm going now. Jesus paid it all. Yeah, and all to him I owe. Sin is not a Christian's thing. He's done what? He washed me Whiter than snow. Jesus went to an old red cross. Died on the cross. was buried, but got up on the third day with all power in his hand. That is Ram W. I can see the choir now at the Springfield Baptist Church with my mama. I think she may have led this. My siblings will correct me. It was called Satisfied with Jesus. He said he would be my comfort. He said he would be my guide. I looked at my hands and they looked new. I I looked at my feet and they did too ever since that wonderful day, my soul Has been satisfied. Anybody satisfied with Jesus today, amen. He will bring you through any circumstance. He'll bring you through seen and unseen dangers. Can I get excited about Jesus today? He will do just that. And the question. The question is, are you satisfied with the brand new, or would you rather settle For the old. I'm about to do a new thing. Hey, you might want to catch this. I'm anticipating the new thing he's doing. He who has begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. My God, I got excited today. I'm excited in Jesus. We're going to come back for a special invitation. Right now, here's a song to encourage you. Oh my god, it's a little bit. My we exalt the Lord today. And maybe you've come this way by way of uh internet. Uh wherever you find yourself today, I want to just offer Christ to you. And who is this? Who needs God? That's a good question. Who needs God? Ask yourself that question today. Do you need God? And so when you think about your needing God, know that no one can come to the Father except by Jesus Christ. There's no shortcut. This is about today. Father God, we come. in the name of Jesus. And your word says if you shall confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised them from the dead, the Bible says that shall be saved. Today Day even now, in this moment, if there's one listening, watching, who's never confessed you, may this be their day. They've tried everything else, and now they realize that life eternal. Eternal comes by way of committing their lives to you. Touch that heart today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. God bless you. We even will say to you, if you're looking for some place. Place to worship for the time being virtually. I pray harvest in that place we want to update you if you uh are not on our list of Happenings of update harvest, you can find that on our website come toharvest. org slash updates. Can I just say that? And we'll be sure to put you on the list to keep you updated. And we thank you in such a real way for your giving online. That is your giving it as unto the Lord into this ministry I believe it is good soil and so we appreciate all that you do if you're being blessed you can do that right now you can go right to our site And you can give online even as we speak to God be the glory. If you have a prayer request, we want to be able to meet that for you. We want to be able to partner with you in prayer because we know that prayer makes a difference in the life of the believer. Let me just say this as well. If you want to find good gospel music all day long, can I suggest you go and you find a link on my page to Rejoice Musical Network? Amen. You'll find music all day long. I have it on my phone. time and you'll also find seeds of encouragement. I can't say this enough. Vote. You can debate, you can talk, you can get mad, but are you voting? And if you're not voting, I find my way to register. If you're not registered I mean, excuse me. Make your voice heard today. And it is time for back to school in the Maryland area. Some of you uh have already started school. I pray God has been with you uh during these times where we're praying for administrators. And we're praying for teachers, and we're praying for custodians, we're praying for everyone, parents, guardians, and for our children May they be covered. Amen. And in case you want something to help you out, you need a break, they're tired of math, and they're tired of English for the moment, you can also get this book that we can provide for you leading by example. a peremptive guide to teaching and modeling Christian faith at home. It's a guide. It gives you a way to pass along Christian principles to your family. Amen. Well, guess what? Next week, brand new Part two. I'm excited about the Lord and what he has in store for us. Now, on behalf of our entire broadcast team, I can I just say I think they're the best anywhere in Yeah, we thank them for taking time to work out some of the behind the scenes issues that you never didn't know. But God is so faithful. Until next time, share this word with somebody. Say child the word today is brand new. May you be blessed from part of Christian ministry.