Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits. and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvard's Christian Ministries. Let's bow We come today humbled to be in your presence. God, we thank you for who you are. We thank you for your many blessings. Thank you, Lord. And you really didn't have to get us up this morning, but you did. And we bless your name for that. As we stand today to proclaim your word, may we decrease. And may you increase. Save someone today, encourage another, and when this time is done, we'll give your name. All the praise and all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to bring your attention to the book of Jeremiah. 18th chapter, verses 1 through 6. It reads, this is the word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord. Go down to the potter's house, and there I will give you my message. So I went down to the potter's house and I saw him working at the wheel. But the pot he was shaping from the clay was marred in his hands. So the potter formed it into another pot, shaping it as seemed best to him. Then the word of the Lord came to me. He said, Can I not do with you, Israel, as this potter does? declares the Lord, like clay in the hand of the potter, so are you in my hand, Israel. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, Broken Vessels. Broken vessels. Most of us are familiar with the popular nursery rhyme from many, many, many moons ago, Humpty Dumpty. A character portrayed as a personified aide. He's not described as such, but we all know the story, I assume. Humpty Dumpty Humpty Dumpty all the all could not All right. But something happened last week. I was asked to read to children at the mall and I gathered around the little reading tent and I had brought my own book with me and they say, Well you've run out of your book. Here's another book. And this book was called After the Fall, How Humpty Dumpty Got Back Up Again. And I was floored. I said, you mean that's another sequel? To Humpty Dumpty, Arthur Dan Santat had written this book. If you could have seen my face I'm thinking now this is a new Humpty. This is a a heeled Humpty Dumpty in a new world. And he has been put back together again. Humpty Dumpty is as brand new Well, I don't want to spoil the story for you. It's a good book to get. It blew me away. But this Story has spiritual meaning, I believe, because there's some Humpty Dumpty in all of us Would you agree with that today? Some of us have come to church today broken and bleeding. And cracked all in need of a level of comfort that only comes from the Lord Jesus Christ. In our text today, God sends a message to the people of Israel by way of the prophet Jeremiah. He picked Jeremiah to go and to tell the people that I will take care of them. We see that over and over again in the text And you know God can use, and in fact desires to use each of us to be our own Jeremiah's. Whether it's telling someone in our home or someone on the job or someone in the neighborhood what God can do. Do you have a message? From the Lord? Do you have something that God has given you and at the right time He would want you to share that with someone? That you're not keeping everything to yourself? It's kind of selfish in you Get all that word in you and you say I'm just gonna keep this for me. But somebody that you bump into this week may need to hear the word that you may be a broken vessel But God can put you back together again. Do you believe that today? I think first of all we have to admit that there's some broken areas in our lives. You can't see them. They're not visible. And you may not know, but all of us are going through something. When I first started preaching, someone said to me, always assume that somebody shows up in church and they're on the ledge. And they're about to jump unless they hear a word from the Lord. And so as you come today, know that God is Abel. He's a God who brings us instruction. He's a God that does inspections. He's a God that gives us a connection. So let's unpack these verses today. And then the first verse it says, this is the word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord. He says, go down to the potter's house, and there will I give you my message. So I went down to the potter's house, and I saw him working at the wheel. And first of all, it looks like Jeremiah was obedient. Now, if God had told you to go to some place, you say, why? Why should I go? Why can't you tell me now? Why do I have to go to some place out the way to hear your message But it comes from obedience. God may be sending you someplace in order to speak to you specifically. You ever went someplace and the word that you had been running from caught you in another place? By another person, and that word comes over and over again. No doubt Jeremiah had been down to the potter's house before. Nothing new about that pottery was real big uh industry there in the Near East. So there was a chance he'd gone by the potter's house But God is sending him there in order for him to receive a message. Don't come out where God wants to speak to you. Is this making sense today? You you you may think that you will never do it here. And he will catch you at the place that you least expected. So always have your ears on. You remember those CB days, those CB radios, and your ears on? Always have your ears on It was Charles Edward Jefferson, a clergyman, who said God reveals Himself in strange places. And in unexpected seasons, God is sending you to a place to get a message. That was the instruction. When you're broken, go to where he's sending you. Isaiah 6 and 8. Isaiah the prophet said, first of all, I'm not worthy. I'm a man of unclean lifts. And God asks, is there one who will go for me? Is there one who won't talk back? Is there one who won't be hard-headed? Is there one who won't try to figure me out? Oh some of us have been there before. We thought we had it all together. And I there says, here I am God, send me. Anybody want to be sent today? I don't see one hand. I mean, send me, Lord. I don't know quite what to say, but if you send me, I will go. And when you go, the message will be waiting for you. There is an instruction. So he goes to the potter's house. And then there is an inspection that he observes. It says, but the pot He was shaping from the clay was marred in his hands. So the potter formed it in another pot, shaping it as what seemed best. For him. And there's Jeremiah checking out the whole thing. God, you sent me here. Is there something I'm supposed to see? Is there something I'm supposed to catch? Ever found yourself in that situation? You ended up in a place and I don't know why I'm here. But once you get there, God reveals to you what he wants you to hear in the most strange way. I have. I may not tell it, but have you? And oftentimes we're running from something and we run into something. There is an inspection going on. He watched this potter On the wheel, he sees something that is broken. And it's customary for the potters that when a piece of clay has been marred, You don't throw it away. And the world wants to throw us away. We messed up. And you and I sometimes won't give folk the benefit of the doubt. Oh we holy. He said, well they got what they deserve. They need to get it. But thank God that he's still at the Potter's will. Oh, I was broken one day and I was marred, but thank God he didn't give up on me. Did he give up on you? You're still here today because he took time to do what? To take the crushed parts of your life. And the broken parts and the disappointed parts. And as Jeremiah looked at that wheel and saw the potter, he could see himself in what He was sent to observe. You and I are on that wheel. The power gave the broken pot some attention. We throw stuff away, don't we? Quickly, West, it don't look like it's right. Shh. Recycling, glass, throw it away. And the devil has tried to throw us away. But thank God for Jesus, and he sees something in us. He sees a broken vessel that's worthy of saving. That makes me feel good. Because for a long time we can wear some cracks real well and some deformities real well. But thank God that he sees through it. He shaped it and he made it right. God is yet transforming us. Do you feel transformed? That every now and then you feel the presence and the hand of God just on you because there's been an inspection done and everything that's there. See, some of y'all are too young to know back in the days when they had the inspection stations. Had him in Florida. You couldn't drive on bad tires. You couldn't drive if your light didn't work. Now you'll get pulled over. But back then They gave a full inspection of your vehicle. If you didn't make it, you didn't get your sticker. But thank God I got a sticker today. That he's past me and to use me for his glory. Jesus said it very well in Matthew 11, 28, come unto me, all you who labor in the heavy laden, and I will Give you rest under inspection in the spotlight Sent to a place to make sense out of what is the ordinary. But finally, he sees this connection. Then the word of the Lord came to me. So Isaiah's talking now. He said, Can I not do with you, Israel, as this potter does? declares the Lord, like clay in the hand of the potter, so are you in my hand, Israel. Jeremiah gets it. He knows why he's been sent there. It's starting to make sense now, and he seemingly repeats what God tells him. Okay, the word came to me, and he says, Can I not do it? I mean, would you argue with God? Oh, I don't know God. No, if you say so, I believe it. And he was showing him an illustration, and life is full of illustrations. in the ordinary, simple things of life about what God wants to do with us. You may be broken, but you're not done There might be broken areas of your life, but you're not to be thrown away. God has a purpose for you. He wants to use. Oh, I'm excited about that. To his glory. Don't count me out. Don't kick me to the curb. I'm broken, but I've been shaped again by the hand of The master. Restoration. Put back together again. Humpty dumpty after the fall. John 10, 28, and this passage is so important. He says, and I give unto them Eternal life. And they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my Hand. Once saved, always saved. And once you are in the hands of the master The world may try as much as it can, but you're safe in the hands of God. Do you believe that today? That with all that's happening, I have found a safe place in him. Psalm 3418, the Lord is close to the brokenhearted, and save those who are crushed. In spirit. You see, he was broken on our behalf. He was crucified for our sins. He was humbled that we might be healed. He was punished that we might have peace today, the kind of peace that passeth all understanding. He was wounded, so that we might Be healed and restored and made new. He was made poor that we might become rich not in money, but in spirit, in joy, in love. He tasted death so that we might share in this new life. He died for our deliverance. He rose that we might have redemption. I'm so glad he got up. Are you glad that he got up with all power in his hands? And because He lives. I can face tomorrow. Because he lives, all fear is gone. I know he holds my future and life. is worth the living just because he lives. My broken, cracked, marred, not meeting the standard self, no That I serve a risen Savior and His name is Jesus. Don't throw me away. Don't trade me in Don't exchange me. Don't put me out for recycling. God is yet doing something in the life of his people. Amen. I believe that today that man there's so much value in you because he who begun a good work in you Shall what perform it is perfected until the day of Jesus Christ? Oh, you ought to feel new right now. You came in and some chips had been missing. You came in and had been beaten, been battered, but now You've gone to the potter's house. You came in disappointed, upset, depressed, about to cash it in, but now you leave this place today. Oh new. Renovated and renewed in the Spirit of God. I feel good today. Why? I feel that way. I feel that he's continuing to do this in my life and in yours. He knows your future. Jeremiah says later, for I know the plans I have for you. The world may not know them. Plans to prosper you, not to harm you, to give you hope, and to give you a future. No matter your age, I'm too young to be marred. I'm too young to be broken. Not so. But thank God for Jesus today that you're on That wheel. And what would happen is, is they would use the foot and shape the pottery. Your life is important. Do you feel the hand of God on you right now, just shaping some of those rough edges you walked in with? He'll never leave you nor forsake you. Broken vessels restored. That is the word of God today. It's already blessed. Come on, stand today, all over this place. Yes, I. Was broken. But thank God for the heavenly potter Yeah. The one who says that nothing is wasted. Even when we tried to waste our own lives, he came alone. And took what was there and put us back together again. Do you feel put back together again? Do you feel new? Do you feel restored? He's doing it right now. In case you have Welling by the wayside of life. Through the broken inside. You don't have to stay in the shape that you're in the power walk to put you. back together again. Oh the battle wants to put you back together again. If your situation is turned upside down and all that you've accomplished is now on the ground. You ever been there? You don't have to play in the shape that you're in. The powder won't put you back. Together again. The pile put you back together again. Oh the battle. Together. Maybe you've come today and your life is in shambles. And you just say to yourself, I just I don't know what I'm going to do. Well you and the Jeremiah today who comes to the father's house. And see in that your own life. And when you put together again, no force In the world can crack you. Let's bow our heads today. Heavenly Father is there. One today in this house, broken, crushed, disappointed, depressed. Let them know today that you have Healing power, restoring power. I pray in the name of Jesus. If there's one who knows you not, May they make an appointment today with the potter. The Bible says, You confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead by shop. Shall be saved, restored. Do it today, God. Touch that heart. Do it today, we pray. If you've come today and you don't know Jesus, you can meet him today by confessing your sins unto him. I'm a sinner in need of a Savior. Do it today we pray in Jesus' name. Somebody give God a praise today. Thank you for listening to the Leading by Example broadcast. To learn more about our ministry and to pick up your copy of my brand new book entitled Leading by Example, A Parental Guide to Teaching and Modeling Christian Faith at Home, Go to our website. It's www. cometoharvest. org. That's www. comthenumbervest. org. Have a great day in the Lord