Good day, my dear friends. I'm so glad you've taken time to listen to this broadcast. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Join our worship service already in progress. Oh, come on, let's praise the Lord today. How many folks are free today? Are you free today? Are you free in Jesus today? How many folk want to be free today? I mean free to worship, free to praise God Free to shout hallelujah. Now that sounded okay. How many folk are glad to be free in the Lord today? Amen. You know what? That's a that's a nice baseball game. Applause. But when you think of the goodness of Jesus, anybody got any crazy praise today? Come on, give God some crazy praise today. When you think about what He's brought you through. Give him crazy praise. What he's done in your life, give him crazy praise. What he's brought you through this week. He deserves more than a clap. He deserves glory. Why? He thought you were worth it. Amen. Oh, we bless God. Yes, we serve a great And a living God today. And all you have to do is think back to to yesterday. You thought you'd made it on your own? Had the Lord not kept you? My God, think of where we would be if he not watched out for us. I know I'm I'm trying to get to the preaching, but you know, all I'm saying is that what if he did not keep you? From seen and unseen dangers. I'm trying to shift gears, but I want you to think about the goodness of Jesus. And maybe it's that one thing he did this week. Nobody may not know. It's not a part of your testimony, but he did one thing for you this week. What is your one thing? And once you bring it to mind, bless God for the one thing. As we bow today, Heavenly Father, we're grateful. Just to think how life could have been. And the fact that you have kept us. We stand even now to declare your word. It is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today Encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. But praise be to God. There's a word from the Lord today that comes from the gospel of Matthew, and gospel simply means good news. And Matthew was one of those good news writers. There in Matthew 28, 9 and 10, it reads, suddenly Jesus met them. Greetings, he said. They came to him, clasped his feet, and worshiped him. Then Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid. Go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee, there they will see me. We're going to preach today from the Samonic title by appointment only. By appointment only. A few months ago I got an email from my barber informing me that he would no longer do walk-ins. A walk is when you come to the barbershop or beauty parlor and you take a seat and you hope that you're next. Over time I would simply either call him the day before I wanted to cut or text him and say, Can you fit me in? But he told me that he had a new system in place, one in which you could go online. You could select the day you wanted to come and the time you want it to come and the cut you wanted, which mine hasn't changed over the years. And this system will actually remind you you got a haircut appointment on tomorrow. And on the morning of, it will text you and say, hey, you got a cut in a half an hour. But thank God for that kind of technology. We have become an appointment-only society. We make our doctor's appointments. We make our eye appointment. We make our car service appointment. Amen? And we expect that it will stay in place all because we have an app or something of that sort. But Jesus has been in the appointment business for a long time This is nothing new to him. Long before technology, Jesus Christ was making appointments. Well, let me set the scene. A familiar story that we all know about. The Bible says on the morning of his resurrection that Mary Magdalene and Mary, the mother of James, They came to the tomb looking for Jesus. They had heard the word and didn't know what to expect. The earth shook. And when they showed up, they're met by an angel. He said, I know who you are looking for, but he's not here. He's already risen as he said he was. He said, in fact, come with me and I will show you the proof. But he says to them, Don't be afraid. Why? Because he has risen Now go and tell his disciples to meet him in Galilee. He will be there. Not long after that, they continue to walk. And imagine what they're going through They come upon Jesus himself. And that may not seem like a big deal to our modern mind. Okay, I was walking along and I bumped into Jesus. But they see the risen Savior. And immediately they grab him and they begin to worship him And that's what we ought to do anytime we come in the presence of a living God. Don't you know that He's still the same yesterday, today, forevermore? And he greets them by really saying hello. Now I know some folk don't speak and you don't speak, but when Jesus says hello, my God, it could change your whole life. When Jesus greets you, that could mean the healing is on the way. When Jesus greets you, your life will change like you would never believe. They were shocked to see him And then he gives them a message. Go tell my brothers to meet me in Galilee. So Jesus essentially selects the people. He selects the place. He selects the plan in which he will use. Go tell my brothers. Go tell the fellows I hung out with. Go tell the ones who followed me that I have an assignment from them. Understand With all that has happened, we can see why they were in hiding. Now some of y'all are like you're begging bad and you don't get scared But if they take Jesus away and and you're with Jesus and you're a follower, they went into hiding. Even John who was there at the cross But they were in a remote location in hiding. Tell my my people. Can I get country? You've been to a family reunion lately? And you have cousin Susie and Cousin John and Uncle Ray and Aunt Bessie and your people say you know everybody here, these are your people. How many know you got cousins you didn't know you had? Amen. Because you favor them, but he's saying, I'm trying to reach those I know. Tell my brothers, tell my people, I want to see them. And he sends the message by the women. So you can never know how the Lord will reach you, and sometimes we'll dismiss the messenger. You know, I mean he could send an alcoholic by and give you a word that will blow your socks off. Amen. The person you don't think is worthy of knowing Jesus could bring a word on you and you won't even know that it's from the Lord So don't dismiss the messenger, but make sure you embrace the message. I've got an appointment, but let my brothers know I need to see them And there's something about being in the body of Christ. The Bible says that we are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood. Do you feel royal today? You are really somebody. You are also a peculiar people. You're a holy nation. And you know that he's brought you out of darkness. into the marvelous light. Well you didn't catch that. You were in darkness at one point. And so was I. Amen. Yeah, I was talking to someone the other day, you know, I like to put my DJ in here. And old Clarence Carter said meeting at the dark end of the street. Deacon Roy know that. Y'all gotta Google, that's old school. But he brought us from a dark place and has transformed each of our lives and so today we can declare that we are children of God. Anybody know that you're in God's family? Amen. And so what does that mean that I'm his people and the sheep of his pasture that makes me feel special? I may never make a top ten. I may never make Forbes a list. I'm close though. But whatever that may be, that you are still the people of God. So he says, tell the brothers, but then here's the part that got me excited all week. There is a place, he's specific, tell my brothers to go to Galilee. The region of Galilee was an important region to the ministry of Jesus. He performed some twenty-five miracles there, the very first being turning water into wine. And Cana of Galilee there at the wedding when they thought the wine had run out. And the Mary said, you better go see Jesus and tell him what to do But he also took time to find his disciples there along the sea of Galilee. As he's walking, he sees Peter and Andrew And they're casting their nets. He sees John and James on their father's Zebedee boat, and they're mending their nets. He says, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. Galilee is an important place. He told very uh various stories in Galilee, parables which are earthly stories with heavenly meanings, but when it came down to me, I've never been to Galilee, but don't you know that God has given you a Galilee? Do you follow me today? That place of miracles becomes your Galilee. That place of healing becomes your Galilee. And so he says, Meet me in Galilee. You know, he's calling us to meet him at a particular place. It's not just location, but to step up and meet him and sup with him And fellowship with him. He's always calling us. So there is a place that the Lord wants to meet us. In this case, it is in Galilee. Amen. How many folks have never been to Galilee? And when you saw the sign saying harvest, harvest may be your Galilee. Amen? The place where God shows himself. The place where God sits high and looks low, it becomes so important. Have you kept your appointment lately? I went to Galilee, but I didn't see nobody. I heard what they said, but I was getting around to it. We've all procrastinated in the spirit. But Jesus was very specific about I will be there waiting for you. And don't you know he's waiting for you? And waiting for me. It is in our Galilee. In that place, he has called us. And that's good news today. It's good to be in a place where God can use you. How many folk didn't know you'd end up where you are today? Didn't have any idea? I was a country boy. All I'd been on was the Greyhound bus. I thought I was in first class. But in the bus to DC and then from DC to West Virginia and West Virginia to Maryland, if you had told me I'd be in Mar, I said, no, you got the wrong guy I'm not going anywhere, but God has a place for you. Praise be to God. There's a place, there is a people, but there's also a plan. He says to them, There will you see me. So by the time the boys get to Galilee On the mountaintop, Jesus is already there. You know, he's every place at the same time. He's already waiting for them, and the Bible says they worship him That can't be dismissed. Every time you come into the presence of the Spirit of God, it is a worshipful moment. Amen? I may try to prompt you. I may run around and say, praise the Lord. And I may wave my hand. That's just me. But whatever you do, just make sure that you give God some praise. Make sure that you worship him for who he is. He is worthy of all praise and all glory. He meets them there, but theologically we can't leave out Thomas. John writes that Thomas is not there. And there's some Thomas in all of us. Thomas missed the appointment. Amen. But he comes back later and is able, because he doubted, to actually make connection with Jesus. Being able to put his hand in his side. And to know that now I believe. And maybe you need some boosting along the way to really believe that he is who he says he is. Amen. Oh, I want to see him. And we talk about this sense of coming into it. Reverend, how do we see him? We we we give ourselves eyes. We see in the Spirit. You read the Word of God, you see it. You feel the Spirit of God, you see it. Amen. You never know even on the road to Emmaus. Those boys didn't even know who they were hanging out with. Just a traveler, but it's all did our hearts not burn. Jesus didn't want to just see them, but he said something to them. Go ye therefore. And teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the earth. Just seeing him was one thing, but don't you know he's got an assignment for each of us today? There's something that we need to do. He kept his appointment, and now we're gonna keep ours Set an appointment with the lost. Make an appointment with the lowly in your community. Make an appointment with the hurting. Make an appointment with the homeless and the downtrodden and the destitute. You are called to do what? To be the hands of Jesus. In the eyes of Jesus and the ears of Jesus, there is something for us to do. And when you meet that person, let them know that Jesus Is the answer for the world today? See, don't be afraid of them. Sometimes we freeze up. But they're gonna bite you. Say, here's who I believe. Here's what he's done for me. And you will be amazed what your testimony can do for someone else. Make an appointment to bump into somebody. Make an appointment to be in the break room at a certain time, warming up your leftovers. Make an appointment to be at the bus stop at a certain time. So you know I'm gonna see that brother and sister and I'm gonna tell them about Jesus. By appointment only. Jesus continues to make appointments in our life. But to reach him now, unlike those disciples, it's all long distance now. Some of y'all remember long distance when you had to do person to person. Hope Big Mama accepted it on the other line. Amen. What you need in this walk is really a password And the password in all caps is Jesus. Amen? Jesus, the lily of the valley. Jesus the bright and the morning star. And there's something about that name. Songwater says, there's a name that I love. To hear. I love to sing its work. It sounds like music in my ear, the sweetest name on earth. Have I told you lately all how I love Jesus? I'm just talking about me now. I I really love him. Why? He first loved me. I I I really love him because of where he's brought me from. I really love him because of what he's kept me from. Anybody love Jesus today There's something about this name Jesus. At the name of Jesus, every knee shall bow. Every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. At the name of Jesus, the very demons in hell will tremble. See, you've not been using that password. Amen. You've been fighting back, but you've not been using the password You've been saying you wait till Monday, but you've not been using the password. You say, wait a minute, I'm not going to take for so much stuff, but you've not been using the password. The password is Jesus That's the password. That's all you need is Jesus in your life. And see, before I showed up for my appointment, before I rescheduled and before I ducked out and before I canceled, I realized in my life that I Was sinking deep in sin. Can't just talk about me today. I don't want to bring you into this if you don't want to be in this. I was thinking deep in sin. And that's then, uh far from the peaceful shore. Very deeply staying within. Now don't don't leave me by myself now. Has that been your story? Very deeply staying within. Very deeply staying within. But but Jesus heard my despairing cry And from the waters he lifted me, and now safe am I. It was love that lifted me. It was love that shifted me. It was love that saved me. So now what you're seeing is the after. Not the before, but the after. He who's begun a good work in you will perform it to the day of Jesus Christ. But you gotta keep your appointment. Amen. He's been trying to reach you, but you won't pick up. He's been trying to call you, but you put him on new one. He's got an appointment. He wants to meet you in your Galilee. He's waiting for you. It's not just a disciple's word. Every time you drive down the road, it won't say Towson, it'll say Galilee. Every time you go, but How how many miles? To Galilee? Wait a minute. Are we getting closer to kids? Are we there yet? Have you made it to your Galilee? That is the place of your appointment. It's the place of your deliverance But you got to keep your appointment. That is the word of God today. It's like come on stand today. He's constantly trying to reach us. J just checking in with your secretary, because you're important now. Have him get back with me later. Uh have his people call call my people. But I come today to tell you that Jesus wants to see you. In that place of deliverance. And he's well. And he's waiting for each of us today. He wants to talk with you. He wants to hear you out. He knows about your problems already. He'll put you on the couch and you won't be the same when you leave. Tell somebody he's alive today. And he's well. Glad about that today. Come on, sing with us as you know the sin. Sin is son. That's right. Yes, he did. How many believe that today? Yes. Come on, sing it like you mean it today. Because Yeah, yeah. I can take the Whatever's ahead of you next week. Oh yes. I know you know. Oh yes he does. Even now. What you find is over time on life's journey, songs have meaning. Why? Because somebody who wrote that song was writing not just to be putting down something on paper. They were writing from their experiences. And you may have never written a hymn, but your life is a hymn. God has brought you through so much. And what worship is sometimes it is a reminder Of what God has done. And so we come today just to do what? To celebrate his life. I can't thank you enough for taking time out of your busy schedule to listen to our broadcast. To find out more about our ministry, Harvest Christian Ministries, it's very simple. Go to our website. It's www. com, the number two harvest. That's www. comthenumber 2harvest. org. You'll find more about us there.