Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvard's Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. How many hope Lord today to be true? Now unto him Who's able to keep you from falling and present you faultless? Amen. We bless God today. Lord, we come because we know that you're able. Not in our strength. But in your strength today. As we bring your word today, God, you're able to have it to go out. And not return void. You're able to keep the word that it might fall on the right ear. Might touch the right heart. You are able. Now if we stand to proclaim your word, might we decrease? And you increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. We'll give your name the praise in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. The Lord is good. There's a word from the Lord today. It comes from the book of Hebrews. Fourth chapter, verse number twelve. It says, for the word of God is alive. And active, sharper than any double-edged sword, it penetrates even to dividing soul and spirit, joints and marrow. It judges the thoughts and attitudes of the heart. What a preach today from the Samonic title, Buy the Book. by the book. When someone says that they are saying to you essentially that there is a standard procedure. You can't go rogue. That there's something that we're called to do and to do it with an acceptable standard. In other words, there are rules and regulations that we have to follow. There are laws we have to abide by. There's an old saying, if you get in trouble, say, well the judge threw the book at him. That meant there were so many things that you had lost in terms of not following because you didn't do it by the book. That means these are things that are written in actual book form, societal norms that are widely accepted. And when you do something by the book, there's not much wiggle room. There's not much leeway. It's all by the book. You know, there are people who are people who do it by the book. And there are people who love to read books. I thought about that over the course of this week. I try to keep at least one book going with two open. If I can't get them in paper, I'll have them on Kindle. I may have one on Kindle and one on audio So that when I'm driving to work, I'm constantly trying to learn and to grow. And that's because We may have book sense, but when it comes to this book, we need some common spiritual sense. Amen? There's a study that came out not long ago that said that we watch more TV, play more video games, stay on the internet much longer than we actually read. Would it surprise you that the average American spends about seventeen minutes, maybe a day, reading, and that's about it? But I want to talk today about what is not your average book. I want to talk about this book. Been called the good book, the holy writ, the word of God, the sacred scriptures, and mind how they have survived over time. That this is the word of God. I remember my very first seminary class, and I may have shared this with you, I showed up. uh to class that night and uh the lecturer said the bible he says this is alive He was loud and excited and I said, well I guess he's got a point. It is alive. Professor Ebelezer, a fool But Martin Luther says that the Bible speaks to me, it has feet. It runs after me. It has hands, it lays on me. The great Charles Spurgeon said, the book has wrestled with me. The book has smitten me. The book has comforted me. The book has smiled on me. The book Has frowned on me, the book weeks with me, the book sings with me, it whispers to me, it preaches to me, it maps my way. By the book. It has a pulse. It has the mind of God. It speaks to us. It's never empty. It is never lifeless. It's never flat. It's never tired. It's never. sluggish. Second Timothy three sixteen seventeen says all scripture Is given by inspiration of God. It is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. that the man and woman of God might be perfect, thoroughly furnished on to good works. And tell folks who say to you, man wrote the Bible, say you are right Man wrote it, but man was inspired by God. Man wrote it, but God breathed on it. Amen? And how many folks know that this word makes a difference? How many have tried this word and said, you know what? I had one Sunday school Bible verse, and that's all I knew. But I took that with me, and maybe it was Jesus. Well if he wept, then I can weep, but he wept because he was concerned about his friend. You ought to have one scripture But I came out now to say this is a sticker. Do you have one? You ought to be able to produce by memory at least One passage of scripture from the book, even if it's James 1 and 22. Amen? I believe this morning we must live life by the book when that book is the Bible, mindful of What is it? What it does and what it reveals. So, verse 12 says, for the word of God is alive and Active, sharper than any double-edged sword. Can you see that in your your mind's eye? It's alive. That means it is not dead. Other books have gone out of print. There have been 45 editions, but the word of God is alive. It is active because it is still moving on the hearts of men and women. There's nothing powerful about the scriptures. And then the writer of Hebrews, some say it may have been Paul, but he says, it is sharper than any two-edged sword. Not the kitchen knife that cuts your finger, not your pocket knife, not your blade, but but this is a double-edged Sword. That's how the word is described. Because soldiers of that day had to have something that they got the enemy. They couldn't work in one way, but both ways. So when they were in a fight, if I can't get you here, I'll get you there. And that's what the Word of God does. It is like a double ouch-edged sword. And when you read that word, it won't always make you smile. It will always make you say, Praise the Lord, but the word ought to hurt. You ought to feel that word convicting you. You ought to feel that word pulling you up. Amen. The Bible itself is described as the sword of the Spirit. Paul talks in Ephesians 6. 17 about what? Putting on the whole armor of God. That you might be able to withstand the enemy because he will come after you. And you can't say leave me alone, I'm going to get my big brother. Uh you said wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, let me get some word out here He says, and what that is the sword of the Spirit is the word of God, doing it by the book. Yeah, you begin to open that book up every now and then and I guarantee if you just open up and flip it somewhere, there'll be something on that page. That will help you. Amen. In the midnight hour, when you're struggling, get up and just say, Let me eat one. Let me just get a passage that I know has got me through every situation. That's what it is. But but what is the purpose of the word? What it does, it penetrates even to dividing soul and spirit. Joint and marrow. Why do we need the word? What is it good for? It is to help us to grow. It is to comfort us. And this word will cut deep. Real deep. And as you hear how he describes it, it's not just it'll poke you. It says it will go deep down in you and work at those places that you still need some work. In those areas where I still need some work, it says it'll go deep. It won't just crush the surface, but the word of God will pull you off. It will get in your business. It will hurt your feelings. It will make you mad and then give you joy is when you do it by the book. But that there's something about this book. And that might sound pretty grappy. What what do you mean? That sounds like that blood is coming next. Well that's what Jesus did He went to the cross, he died, he shed his blood just for you, but his word is supposed to get up in your face. Amen. As the word that would have done that to you. You went to the word for one thing and it flipped on you. And told you what you need to do, how you need to live, what you need to say, how you need to walk Whatever affects you physically will affect you emotionally and will affect you spiritually, but the work begins when he just can I get country? He starts to jug you. That there you are one foot in the world and one foot In the church, and he said, uh, huh? Have you ever felt that word when it corrects you? And that word when he takes it and twists it in you, that you'll be better. And when your parents say it's gonna hurt you, hurt me more than it's gonna hurt you. Can I say that when he begins to lay that word on you, it all hurt you out? No band-aid for it. You have to to want it. 1 Peter 2 and 2 says, as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word that you might grow thereby. I'm not growing. You're not in the word I'm the same person I was before. You're not a you're not growing. You you gotta be like a baby. I I I want more of the word in my life. So so we know What it is, that this book, and what it does, but then it goes a bit further. It reveals something about us. The last part of verse 12 says, it judges the thoughts and attitudes of the heart. And to reveal something is to make it known to others, or make it known to you. And the Holy Spirit will do this: it will pull back the covers of our lives. We've been Mr. and Mrs. Undercover. Mr. and Mrs. Secret on the side But the word of God will pull you up. It will discern some things about you. It will reveal some has it ever revealed some things to you? I mean you just was messing around with the word and it just went, wow. That sounds like me. No, that's not Peter, and that's not John. No, no, no, no, no, that's me. It's exposing my innermost thoughts. In desires, in my intentions. It reveals my thoughts and my hopes. It reveals my dreams. The Bible can do all that if we but do it by. The book. David says in Psalm 139 and 1, He said, Oh Lord, thou search me. You patted me down. Lord, you put the spotlight on me and you know me. You you know my down settings and you know my uprising and you know my thoughts from afar in any time we think we are getting away with something he he revealed what he charges us. The old son of the church, search me, Lord. If you find anything that shouldn't be, take it out and strengthen me. I want to be right. I want to be saved. I want to be whole. In June of nineteen sixty-five, I received Christ as my personal Savior at the age of six. Got baptized at the Douglas Pool. Got the right hand of fellowship and my my godmother, who I call Aunt Dolly It was Margaret Scott. But she gave me my my first brand new Bible with my name in it. But J. B. And I kept that Bible, but in life I didn't always read that Bible. I grew up, started smelling myself. Did not read as often as I should have, but but a thing came around again to where I realized that I needed the Word of God. And so 18 years ago when I stood to proclaim my first sermon, I I dug up $8 Bible. And I brought it to the pulpit and I began to read from that little Bible. In fact now I would need a magnifying glass Plus glasses to read it. But there was something in that Bible that made a difference to me. And there's something about getting the word of God in you. It has power. Amen. Isaiah says in forty and eight, the grass withers and the flower fade, but the word of God will stand forever. Isaiah 55, 11 says, so shall thy word that goes out of my mouth will return To me. It won't be empty. Jeremiah 29. But his word was in my heart as a burning fire, shut up in my bones. I couldn't keep quiet about it. Psalm 119. 11 says, I have stored up your word in my heart, that book, that I might not sin against you. Psalm 119 for the own says the word is a lamp unto my feet, a light to my path. Romans 10. 17, so faith comes by hearing And hearing by the word of God, and this is the one you know, James 122. Do not merely listen to the word And so deceive yourself. Do what it said. Jesus spoke his own word because he was the word. Devil tried to approach him, Matthew four and four. He says, Man shall not live by bread alone, but every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God Matthew 7, 24. Everyone who hears the word of mine and does what it says will be like a man who builds his house on the rock. Matthew 24, 25. Heaven and earth. Will pass away, but my my word, my my book will not pass away. John fifteen, seven, if you abide in me. And my word abide in you. You can ask what you will, and it will be given unto you. In other words, there's something on the inside. That's working on the outside. Oh, what a change in my life. There's joy on the inside. And it's working on the outside. Oh, what a change in my life. That there's peace on the inside. And it's working on the outside. Oh, what a change in my life. There's Jesus on the inside, and he's working on the outside. Oh, what a change in my life. There's the Holy Ghost working on the inside And what is going forward? Oh, what a change in my life. You know what? My life is so much better since I started reading this book and living this book Since Jesus came into my heart. Floods of joy. Oh my soul. Like the sea bill a roll. Since Jesus came in to my life. And you know, I thank God for this book. For this book Has helped me through some tough situations. I'm talking about this book. Has dried my tears. I'm talking about This book has made me love my enemies. I'm saying that this book has shown me how to love. Everybody, this book has given me faith. This book has given me hope. Yes. I'm a Bible carrying, Bible thumping Christian field. I love the Lord. He heard my cry. And every day I live, I'm just trying to live by the book. Are you living by the book? Are you living by the book? Live by the book, yeah. Thank you. That is the word of God. It's already the come on stand today. Buy the book Even the dollar store sell them for a dollar. Get the book! It's an app that's free. Get the book. Give yourself away today. Put them other books down. Them them steamy books. Them them fictional books. Get the real book. Yes, he's a mighty good God. How many won't just give themselves away today? I mean just surrender Yeah. Yeah. Give myself away. Give myself away. Let me get right to the point. You can't make it without this book. And this book says in Romans 10, 9 and 10, that thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus. And believe in my heart that God has raised him from the dead. The book says, Thou shalt be saved. The book says, weeping may endure for a night, but joy comes in the morning. The book says, greater is he that's in me. Than he that's in the word. Let's bow to the Father. We come in the name of Jesus. I can't add to your word. I can't add to the book. The book's already spoken. I pray, even now, God, there's one in this place that they may get the book into their hearts today. Save someone, we pray. All they have to do is just go to the book and confess their sins today. Oh God, do it today. Only you can. The preacher can't save. The deacon can't save. The choir can't save. Only you. Touch that heart today We pray in Jesus' name. Come on, give God a praise today. Maybe you've come today. You desire to be a part of this fellowship. The doors are always open For you. Come on, give God a praise, amen. Amen. Amen. Thanks so much for listening I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's come the number twoharvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.