Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. We'll know that we are Christians. This is the day the Lord has made. In fact, the Bible says that to make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands, to serve the Lord with gladness, to come before his presence with singing, know ye that the Lord He is God. It is he who hath made us, and not we ourselves. We're his people, and the sheep of his pasture. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, into his courts with praise. Be thankful unto him For the Lord is good. His mercy is everlasting. His truth endureth to all generations. Somebody give God a hand praise today. Let's bow today. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day that you've given us As we stand to proclaim your word, might we decrease and may you increase. May your word speak through this preacher. May someone be encouraged. May someone come to know you. And we'll be careful to give your name the praise in Jesus' name. Amen. Praise God. There's a word that comes from the Acts of the Apostles there in the 11th chapter, verses 25 and 26 Acts 11, 25, and 26. It reads, then Barnabas went to Tarsus to look for Saul And when he found him, he brought him to Antioch. So for a whole year, Barnabas and Saul met with the church and taught great numbers of people. The disciples were called Christians first at Antioch. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, Call Me by My Name. Call me by my name. Frank Binnick, the executive vice chairman and former CEO of the Hearst Corporation, a company that I worked for now for more than 30 years just published a book called Leave Something on the Table and I started reading that book but there was something that caught my attention right in the prologue. It was something he said, and I will quote him. It says, it isn't what you know. And how hard you work, and how clever you are. It's not even who you know, it's how other people Know you. It's who you are. And I'll go a step further. It's also what folk call you. That being the case, we live in a culture uh where people have been known to give each other nicknames. I would not dare ask you what your nickname is. But if I followed you back to your hometown where folk really know you They will call you a different name, and you will be compelled to respond. So often nicknames were used to insult people or to make fun of someone, but we all have one. Can I take a poll today? I don't think there's a person in here that does not have or possessed at one point a nickname. Don't tell me what it is. But you know, nicknames are not all bad. In our text today it is Luke who writes uh to the church and he uh lets us know, I believe, that nicknames can also become known names. as it relates to reaching someone for the cause of the kingdom. In our text today, it is the Acts of the Apostles. And often describe this as the highlight reel of the early church. For it tells the journey and the struggle of the Christian church Right from the start, Acts 1 and 8, we know that Jesus, before he returns to glory, says to his disciples, That I will do what? I will let you know that you will receive power when the Holy Ghost has come, and you shall be my witnesses. In Jerusalem, in Judea, in Samaria, and to the uttermost parts of the world. God just say, even in Baltimore, He has called you to be a witness Wherever you may be watching today, it is our responsibility, once we receive the assignment and the power of God, to leave this place and to share the good news of Jesus Christ. And so this particular text takes us to Antioch. And there on the mission field, we find one by the name of Barnab. And look at this. He has a nickname. He's called the Son of Encouragement. And Barnabas is there in Antioch. He's sharing with the people. He is connected with the church. But what he realizes is this job is too big. Amen. He admits that I need some help. And what he does, he He leaves Antioch and he seeks out one by the name of Saul, who is now Paul. Now, Saul was a persecutor of the church. He was a hit man, but isn't it amazing how God can change your life around? Don't make me call your nickname and also what you did back in the day or I did back in the day. But it's great to know that God is a God who will change your situation. Oh, you know it There are folk who call you by your nickname based on something, but he goes out and he finds Paul because Paul is gifted in teaching So together they form a tag team. And for a whole year, the text says, they are in Antioch witnessing to the people Maybe God has assigned you someplace. It may be your workplace. It may be your home, but you have an assignment right where you are. Can I just say that again? Uh so often uh we have to leave the church building, but wherever God has placed you, it's because He wants you to be that voice for that place. So they work for a year Teaching the people, sharing with the people, and the Bible says, after a while, the people in Antioch, seemingly trying to make fun of them, gave them the nickname Christian. That's where they were first called Christians, was at Antioch. Amen. And you know, they didn't earn the name based on how large their Bible was. They didn't earn the name Christians based on the palm branch around the rearview mirror. They didn't earn the name Christians based on the largest cross that they may have had but it was what they did. And you ever had folk call you out of your name and you didn't like it? They called you something that maybe you were not But let me just say today, it is okay. It's fine to be called a Christian. Call me by my name. They were followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I believe they earned the name Christian based on a couple of things. First of all, they were available, and they were reliable, and they were accountable. Now to be available is is to be ready. It's almost like coach put me in. Amen Uh you play sports, you're hoping you're a bench runner like me and the coach let you in, but you are always ready to go. They call your name. You're set to go. Well that's Is it that way in life? Being available. I think of this story, and I may have told it before, but it's so rich that one year growing up, me and my brother Junior. We were looking around for a job, kind of sort of looking, and my dad said to us, he said, uh, you boys have a job? It's okay. He left and came back about an hour later and says Mr. Douglas Cherry is coming tomorrow to pick y'all up. I told him I had two boys who would work. We were available, we didn't know it at the time, available to work for a living. Paul and Barnabas were available. They were at the right place in the right space to be used. One thing I know about the Lord, he will not chase you down. He will not beg you. In fact, the matter is, he could do the work without you, but he desires to use each of us If we have much to say, I am available to you. Don't look like much. Don't have much to say, but I am available. Think of Isaiah 6. When Isaiah writes in the year that King Isaiah died, I saw the Lord high and lifted up and his train filled the temple. And in that experience He knew that God had paid attention to him, but he says, really, I'm not qualified. He says, I'm a man with unclean lips. Who lives among unclean people. Amen? Now now does that sound familiar? And I don't want to put everybody in my category. I used to have unclean lips. Amen. Maybe I said some things that did not glorify God. Maybe I hung out with unclean people. But thank God for Jesus. One day He came to me and said, I could use you in spite of you because you are available. Amen. And so what happens is with Isaiah, he says Here I am, Lord, send me. How many folk know that you're not qualified? You don't have it all together. You got a shady past. But yet you are available to be used. There's something I can do for the kingdom. It may not be much. I may not talk as much as Pastor Tutin, but that's all right. But I can do something to reach why I'm a Christian. And that makes all the difference You've got to be available, but you also got to be reliable. Can God count on you or will you give him an excuse? Now I I would have said something, but it was not the right time. Or Uh I I I meant to, but something came up. Let me check my calmend. Let me pray about it. But are you reliable? Can God trust you with a Christian assignment? Can he trust you to carry the word? Can he trust you to live a holy life? Can he trust you to be what? A Christian in this moment. You know, in life We all have them. We have evaluations on the workplace. You may not like your three, but you got a three. Amen? But you know that's that's just the way it is. Are you are you reliable? And so what you try and do next time is get a four. But even in the marketplace, there's this sense of whether or not you are effective. And whether or not there's room for improvement. Can I just say today I can do better for the kingdom? I can reach more people for the kingdom. I can walk better before others. He wanted to know: are you reliable? Paul and Barnabas Hung in there for a whole year, going wherever they could go, knowing that their lives were at stake, doing it for the cause of the kingdom. Oh him says, Blessed Savior, count on me. Can I ask you a question? Can the Lord count on you? Not to be all silent at Thanksgiving where you're afraid to bless the food, you don't want to offend anybody, and you all I don't want to say anything, but folk will say anything they want to say. Let them know. I don't mind. I am a Christian. And that's what they did. That's how they reached people in that time Jesus, when he began his ministry, said it very clear. He says, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me. He can count on me to do what? To preach the gospel to the poor. To heal the brokenhearted. To preach deliverance. That's the question: are you reliable as a Christian? Can he count on you? Can he count you in for the work of ministry? Reliable. I'm here. Available Yeah, take me as I am, but also in this Christian work we've got to be accountable. In other words, we're not in charge. Amen. There have been times you have wanted to say something, but it may not have been the right time, and you ask the Spirit of God, Is this the moment? Should I approach this time? And you've got to be accountable to he who has sent you. You've got to report to someone. And we've got to report to the Lord. The Lord's in need of workers to till his field today. I said before, he does not need us, but he desires to use us. Aren't you glad that somebody came along one day? And got in your business and told you stuff you didn't like and you got mad, but it helped you. And the old mothers and old fathers, they they didn't mind telling you. Oh you you messing up. Now we don't want to offend anybody. But this is sense of who are you accountable to? Everybody ought to have an accountability partner. Someone that you know who is of like mind, someone who is not gonna sugarcoat it for you, someone who will call you up and pull you up and say, you know what, you mess it up. Or vice versa. I've got an accountability partner. Amen? Somebody I can talk with and know it's gonna stay there, but someone who helps to do what? To sharpen me Find someone today who's of a like mind that you are accountable to, but most of all we're all accountable to the Lord. He sends us out to do the work of ministry. I love the passages from the Great Commission, we call it Matthew 28, 19 and 20. Go ye therefore. Teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. And lo, I will be with you. You're not by yourself I'll be with you all the way even to the end of the earth. Anybody okay with being called a Christian? Are are you offended by it? They they didn't call you a church girl or church boy. They say no no. That that is one of those Christians Amen? I don't mind being called a Christian today. Why? I'm a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. So if anybody asks you, who am I? Don't tell 'em I'm a country boy from Lybo, Florida. Don't tell 'em I'm on TV. Don't tell them I passed it at Harvest Don't don't tell them that you know I'm a I'm a father and a husband, but tell them I'm a child of God. If anybody asks you, who is that man? He looks familiar. He sounds familiar. Who is he? I am a child of God. Anyone don't mind being identified that way That they know who you are, don't know your whole name, they just know you from a location. But what they do know, there's a certain spirit that you have that you don't mind saying, I serve a risen Savior And he's in the world today. I don't mind saying Jesus. Amen. At the name of Jesus, every knee shall bow, every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ. Yeah, I said it. Jesus. Hallelujah. I am a Christian. Are you a Christian today? And when you're a Christian, you are not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ. But it's not really about what folk call us. Our name, but it's what they call him. He's Alpha and Omega. He's the beginning and the end. He's the bread of life. He's the door. He's the good shepherd. He's the King of Kings. And he's the Lord of Lords. Amen. He is the beginning and the end. I'm glad today I serve that kind of God who's the way and the truth and the life. And no man cometh to him except by the father. But my mother would say he's a doctor in a sick room. He's a lawyer in so you've never been in trouble in a courtroom when you thought you were down for the count and your legal counsel was shaky. Didn't God work it out for you Amen. He's a battle axe in the time of battle. I want to call his name today. He's the Prince of Peace. He's almighty God. He's the everlasting Father. And I'm glad today I can serve him. As I think about my childhood, I think about a little old lady. Named Miss Rebecca Garvin. And she sat to the left part of the church with all the mothers. Y'all don't know about the mother boys. I'm not talking about computers. But the motherboard was a group of holy women dressed in white. And they didn't mind praying and they didn't mind pulling you up. But every now and then I would hear Miss Garvin pull that old hymn. I didn't know that John Wesley wrote it. I thought it was Miss Garvin's hymn. She would say a charge to keep, I have, a God to glorify. A never dying soul to save and fit it for the sky, to serve this present age, my calling to fulfill, or may it all my power engage to do my master's will And every now and then you've got to let folk know I am a Christian. Amen. You know Superman. But every now and then, let the world know I stand on the promises of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm just trying to talk to Christians today. Are you a Christian? Are you a Christian? Are you a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ? And our goal is is just to help somebody. If I could help somebody as I go along my way, then my living will not be in vain If I tell one person he's been good to me and tell another he brought me through and tell one more he healed my body, I don't mind saying I am a Christian Call me what you will or may, but I am a Christian. Anybody afraid to use the C-word? Amen. Use the C-word. He is the one who makes a way. What they call you, they call me a Christian. They were first called Christians at Antioch. That is the word of God today. It's all with the come on stand today. Call me by my name. You don't call me now. Don't call me out of my name. Call me because of who I follow. A follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. To be effective. Call me. Who are you? I'm a Christian, duh. Who I believe. That's why I come just as I am. Knowing what he's gonna do for me. How he's transformed me. Aren't you glad you're not who you used to be? Thank God he's done a new thing with you. Just as you are. Are you willing today? Come and with me coming Just as you are. No need to fix up. He's calling even now. As you are. Come and be always me coming Live forever. Life Say the living water and de Oh now's the time. As I stopped by today, think about as a new believer, I didn't mind just going to church. Reading my Bible kind of in secret. But I did not want to really be exposed as a Christian. And no matter what folk may say at the workplace, you can't do this or that, there are rules now, but never let that stop you from being Who you are. He said, Well, we don't hear much. What are you? I'm a believer. That's good. No, I'm a Christian. Because I follow Christ. So if you're offended by that, I'm sorry, but that's that's that's who I am. Time out for shy Christians. You're gonna talk a lot. But Paul and Bonabas didn't mind wearing that name Got a missing problem, but they worry. Maybe you come today. See, well I'm I'm I'm this and that, but but I can't form my mouth to say Christian. Think of one of our members. His name is Christian. Give him a leg up. What's your name? Christian. I don't know why his parents named him that, but it may have been for that reason. No, so what does that mean? I mean, I'm a Christian I know because I baptized him. Isn't God good? As you bow your heads today. Father, there's one today who has come by this place. Not really sure of their identity. They've been called many things, but because they have accepted you as their personal savior, they can go by the name Krishna. It becomes the password to life eternal. Thank God today that He sent His Son Jesus Christ to die for me. And in doing so, he rose on the third day morning with all power in his hands. This one today, Lord. May they hear your voice. May they respond. May they join the ranks of not Christian in title, but Christian indeed. We claim it now in Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Yes, indeed. So when folk ask you You know where that come from? Let me go over to Acts eleven twenty-six. I ain't got but one scripture, but the Bible says They were first called Christians at Antioch. Come on, give God a praise today. Amen. You may have come today if you desire to be a part of this fellowship. The doors are always open. We're just some Christians now. We're not perfect. You ever seen that bubble sticker? Christians are not perfect. They're forgiven. Uh-oh. I like that bumper sticker. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comethenumber to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.