Good day, my dear friend, Dr. Tim Tutin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland We are a non-traditional church with traditional values. And now join our worship experience already. in progress. I've been praying for each of you every day this week. I put 'em in my pastor's prayer pouch. So I carried with me. I know that God is answering. Let's look to the Lord now. Father, we thank you. Why because you are a prayer answering God? As we come today, it is our prayer That we might totally decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today, empower another, and we'll give your name the praise In Jesus' name, Amen. There in the Gospel of John, the 11th chapter, verses 1 through 7, it reads, Now a man named Lazarus. was sick. He was from Bethany, the village of Mary and her sister Martha. This Mary, whose brother Lazarus now lay sick, was the same one Who poured perfume on the Lord and wiped his feet with her hair. So the sisters sent word to Jesus. Lord, the one you love is sick. When he heard this, Jesus said, This sickness will not end in death No, it is for God's glory so that God's Son may be glorified through it. Now, Jesus loved Martha and her sister, and Lazarus. So when he heard that Lazarus was sick He stayed where he was two more days. And then he said to his disciples, Let's go back to Judea. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, Can You Hear Me Now? Can you hear me now? That's the script from a television commercial from a dozen years or so ago when the man would walk with his phone to his ear And he would say, Can you hear me now? He would go to remote places and just say, I want to check in to see if you can hear me In other other end, they they must have heard him because he said good. But in our own Technology. There are times when our phone will drop out. Yeah And maybe saying something you should not have been saying and the other person never said a word. Why your call dropped out. I was talking to my older sister on yesterday uh there in Orlando area and she was talking and I knew when she was a certain spot she goes out and I started laughing. Can you hear me now? Can you hear me now? Can you hear me now? And she never heard me but we laughed about it. But you know when it When it comes to our prayer life, there are times that we really believe or sense that maybe God has not answered our prayer. Have you been there before that you just if you're honest about it, you you say it don't seem like. That that God has has heard me. I prayed every which way, but somehow and maybe I'm missing it, but but there seems not to be an answer. Well, let me just say to you, the signal between earth and heaven is not dropping out. You the call has not Been lost. The God that we serve who sits on the throne still answers prayer. Let me just back up for a second. The God that we serve Still hears our prayers. He still responds to our prayers. Now here's the difficult part sometimes. His answer may be yes. And we'll shout the harvest over thank you, Lord. And then there are other times that the answer Is no. How many have had some no prayers answered and thank God that it was a no? It was something you really thought you wanted or desired, but when God came back With a no, you said, Lord, thank you. Why? You know I didn't need what I was asking for. How many trust God to know that He knows exactly what we need? Sometimes the hardest thing for the Christian is to get a weight. When when God has told us to just just wait. Yeah. We're not wired to wait. We don't want to wait in line for our number two to be ready and have it to be the wrong order. We don't want to wait. When there's a car in front of us, or y'all Holy Ghost people, and you laying on the horn, in and out of traffic, we we're not wired to wait. And we are like that even in the supermarket line. Even at the mall. We we we don't want to wait. That's a part of our makeup. It's an aspect of the Christian life. In our text today, it is one that has been shared over the centuries That Jesus had friends. And his friends were Lazarus and Mary and Martha. He he were good friends with them and he would stop into Bethany and just chill with them. He would find a place to grab a Biden. uh find a good conversation. We all need one or two friends. Amen? Somebody you can call on and you don't need anything. You can give a ring to and you're not begging for anything. He would Stop in. Can I just put the modern lenses on for a second? So the word got out that Lazarus Their brother was ill. We don't know what exactly was ailing him, but those sisters sent word to Jesus. Tell Jesus that the one he loves, Lazarus, is sick. And the word got to Jesus. And you know, maybe can I just put these lenses on that they shall attach to Jesus? Lazarus. sick. Maybe a a face with tears, an emoji. If you're out there, Jesus, your friend, you would only like it. It's sick, Lazarus. Come see about him. Maybe it was in the Instagram account that somehow Jesus heard them but did not respond when they thought he should have. Amen. And I want to suggest this morning that when it comes to waiting, waiting has a way of building Trust in God. Waiting has a way of building patience in us. Waiting has a way of building character Yeah. So how is it that waiting builds our trust? The Bible says that Jesus got the word and then he stayed in Jerusalem for two more days. Did he not hear what we what we asked him that That Lazarus, the one that you've got a relationship with, the one who you stop by and eat with, the one who you know, you know, this is Martha, this is Mary, you know us. And he takes two more days before he shows up. He could have come right away. He could have just spoke the word and Latin would have been healed. He could have just said, you know what? Let them know it's going to be alright. I'm on the way. The Bible says he stayed two more days. When we're forced to wait, we become distracted. We become confused. We become mad. We become fearful. Why? Because God did not respond when we thought he should have. And we got a little attitude with God. Why? We don't want to. That's something right now you're waiting on. I know it. I am too. You try to shift your prayer, change it around, God is awake. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. I don't get wait. We don't like to wait. There's frustration and sometimes we get beside ourselves, but waiting Grows our faith. I know you're tired seemingly, but the God that you serve will come through. Yes? He can hear you now. Proverbs 3, 5, and 6 says, Do what? Trust in the Lord with all your heart and lean not to your own understanding in all your ways, acknowledging. Him and he will direct your path. I know what the scriptures say, but I'm having a hard time on this one, God. I know the last time you came through, but on this one, my flesh. It's challenged. Am I talking to a praying church today? That say, you know what, right now I've been, I don't got an answer, Pastor. I'm just I I can't wait on this. I've been, he's building in you this Ability to trust him. Trust him, trust him, trust him. And so waiting not only builds trust But also it builds patience. Now they they waited one day and Jesus hadn't showed up Another day passed and their patience is running out. They knew what the Lord could do. They knew he could heal their brother, but they were struggling with the fact that he was not there yet. They had history with God. How many folk have seen God just work in your situation when you waited for a long time and you say Lord I and you say Lord I I see you doing this thing and and and I apologize I'm Sorry for getting a little attitude about it. Why? I know that you know what's best for us. That's from patience. Be careful when you say, Ah Lord, give me more patience. Have patience. You got to you got to endure some stuff. Be patient, you gotta take some stuff. Be patient, you gotta trust God in a new way. That they had to endure Their brother perhaps getting sicker by the day. They had to endure that the one that they talked about we know Jesus like that. He stops by the house every now and then. And well what where is he? Who can ever ask you, where is your God? Your car about to break down and they're getting ready to kick you out your house, you might praise the Lord. Huh? You're patient. But God will come through. Psalm says in 41. I waited patiently for the Lord. Had to. And what? He inclined unto me, and he heard My cry. No, don't you know he's heard your cry? Yes. That you've been pulling at God for something. He brought you up out of a horrible pit out the Maury clay and putting you on solid ground is that we gotta be patient. But again, we're not wiring. To be patient. So Side has taught us, you ain't got to wait. That's right. Just don't act. Do your thing. And so these sisters were struggling. Wanting to know, Lord, Kid, can you hear us now? We want Immediacy. We want God to respond on our oh yes we do on our timetable. Amen. Daniel was praying once and before Daniel got done praying, God answered. Now we like that kind of God, don't we? I wasn't even done praying. And the and and the doorbell rang, child. My blessing was already there. Another occasion he was praying for three weeks and nothing wasn't happening. God sent an angel to say, I was trying to get I got held up. You know the enemy don't want you to answer your prayer. The enemy's gonna give you all kind of grief. Why? He don't want you to get a breakthrough. But greater is he that's within us. That he that is within the world, we just got to be patient. Waiting builds patience. Waiting builds trust and waiting builds character. So when Jesus got good ready He said, disciples, let's head to Judea. And he went on and showed up and read the chapter. When he got there, they were hot. They gave Jesus the peace of their mind. Like you had you been here, our brother would not have died because that was already gone. He died. He already had the funeral. And and they they were upset. And you've been upset with God. If you had been here, our brother would still be well just take me the way he is. Take me over there. He was as holy man, he began to cry But then it wasn't long before he he does something. Remember the clue back in the fourth verse. He says, it's not unto death. Yeah, but He's already in the grave. Yeah, no, no, no, but it's not under death. Lazarus, come forward. Bible says he come out and they said, Loose him and let him go. Came out with grave clothes on. Why? Because the Lord had shown. But in the midst of your waiting, you were building some characters and things were happening with you while you were waiting. Not the same person you used to be. You are not one of these folks, oh, he'll do it. Yes, he will. You say no. It's been long. And been hard. And I've been struggling and in the midst of it, I have become a different person. Because waiting has changed who I am. Oh, y'all don't feel that thing today. Yeah, everything ain't just coming on a bed of road. It's when you fight and scrap and scramble and get up and down and knock up again back up, you are not the same person you were. And so when you pray again, Lord, I know what you can do. I know what you brought me through. And all of a sudden Sudden it changes. Lazarus is alive. He comes forward, and God Get the glory out of it. Well, you're not the first person to wait. And neither was Martha Or Mary. Abraham had to wait. God, you told me you'll give me a son. But when I get a hundred, I gotta wait that long, but Isaac was a son of promise. Moses We out here in the wilderness all this time, 40 years, and we could have just said, you mean if we just take in the interstate, we would have been there? But we waited for 40 years. Joseph said, I didn't do anything wrong. I got locked up. Bad information, and you think I would have made bail, but I didn't. It's been 10 years before I got released. David said, I heard you're gonna make me king. That's the one on the street. What is gonna happen? Fifteen years before I became king. How many folk are still waiting on something God has for you? There is no secret what God can do in his own time. Yes, he hears you, and he will receive. Respond it may be a way. Give it power to the faith. And then we have no might he increases to it, even the youth She'll run. But he gives us what we need. Well, perhaps or maybe. If he's making you wait There's a very good reason for it. If he's telling you no today, maybe it's because He has a better yes waiting for your tomorrow. Just maybe. If he's keeping you in the same place You've always been today. Maybe it's because he's helping to build your faith before you enter your promised land. Maybe, or perhaps If he's not healing you or bringing you victory today, maybe, just maybe, just maybe, it's because you will have a greater testimony when he waits To help you to become an overcomer on tomorrow. Don't you know God know what he's doing? And God has his own time? And God will come through knowing what he says. Why Should I feel discouraged? Why should the shadows come? Why should my heart be lonely? Longing for my heavenly home. When Jesus, who is my portion, a constant friend is he, his I It's on the sparrow. And I know he watches me. Watch me waiting. His eye is on the smallest bird there is. Oh song, what does that say? Because I'm happy. I sing because I'm free. His eye is on the sparrow and I know he watches me. I sing because he's blessed me. I shout because me good to me. I'm able to give praise because of what God has done. I know he hears me and I know he will come through. Amen. Amen. Are you still waiting for a God who always comes through? A God who will never leave you hanging. And then let me just give this tidbit. The name Lazarus in the Hebrew means God helps. So so even though he went through, your name means something. His name means God will help you. And oh didn't he help us one day? When he sent his only begotten son, he helped us. When he sent Jesus, he helped us. When Jesus went to that cross, he was helping us right in the midst. When he rose from the grave with all power in his hands, he was helping us. He hears. Your prayers. Prayers don't go unanswered. Yes. No. Can we go old school? Maybe so. But he's teaching us how to wait. Wait on the Lord and be of good courage. And he will strengthen thine heart. Wait, wait, you were just about ready to throw in. He said, I've had enough of this. I can take one more night of this. I I'm not gonna put up with one more day. You you have the towel in your hand. About to to to to throw oh you know you have Christians. Come on now. Y'all say, well no nothing not me, Reverend. Oh yes you were I I don't have enough. I'm about to throw the towel in. Yeah But he who made the hand that has the towel says, wait a minute. I will come through. I will deliver you. I will bring joy to your heart. I will bring peace to your but just wait on me. And trust me today. That is the word of God. It's already blessed. Come on, stand today. All over this place. Can you hear me now? I I think you just dropped out. But wait wait a minute. I I got my signal back again. And my signal is just wait on me. I'm gonna do it in my own time. And when I do it, You're gonna thank me? Because I am God all by myself. How many believe that today? How many have to wait? Oh, he'll do it. He'll come through. He's got a record. He's done it for others. He'll do it for you. Don't you quit. Don't you give up. You stand on the word. How many serve that kind of savior today? The Bible says we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. He's mighty sweet. I know. How many know it today? He sweet. I know. Oh yeah. Storm. Storm clouds. Mira. Oh, they'll come. And that's not all. Strong winds. Strong winds. Oh yes, they will. Who I tell tell the world. Wherever I go. Where I what's it going to tell us? I found a savior. And he's sweet. I know. And he sweet. Come on, sell that give me. Today. Oh. He's sweet. He's sweet. Ah. Do you know it today? So Clouds may rise. May. Oh, there come and some strong winds. Strong wind may How many gonna tell the world? The world. What's he gonna tell them? Where am I gonna go? That you found. Come on, give God a praise today. Let me just appeal to you for a second. Some of the most powerful blessings have come when you had to wait. The world said, child, you ought to be there by now. My five year plan is working. Yeah, but it's been ten for me. When I was twenty one I Yeah, but I'm forty one. I was already married. I'm still looking for Mr. Ryan. I'm still looking for missing. But you know what? It's all God's timing. But not for a moment is he ignoring you. He knows. What's best and when? Let's bow today. Father, we we thank you for a Bible story. Martha, Mary, Lazarus, thank you that you showed us That when you get good and ready in the spirit, you always come through. Yes, you do. Build up our faith in that God. Build our trust in you. Build our patience. In the process. says build our character God we thank you if there's one today who knows not the Savior it maybe it's been a long time he's been waiting for you He won't force himself on you. He said, I don't know why. I don't know why Tim Tootin's still shucking and jiving. I I'm waiting. And one day I came. I surrendered my life to Jesus. Maybe you've not surrendered. Today the Bible says if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Don't you stop waiting. He's waiting for you to confess and to condemn. If you're not saved today, is your head remain bow Give your heart to him today. Old song says life is filled with swift transition. Not on earth unmoved and stand. But build your hope on things eternal. Hold to God's unchanging hand. He wants to save you today. That price was already paid. Receive him today. With all that's in me, receive him. Receive him today. Make him your Lord and make him your Savior today. I beg of thee, receive him, receive him. Don't let this moment pass you. Receive him today. In Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Yeah, give him a good praise today. I pray you were blessed by the word today. To find out more about our ministry, check out our website. It is www. com, the number two harvest That's cum C O M E, the number two, harvest. org. Also, check out our app. Tap the app. In the Google store, just look for Harvest Christian Ministries. And in the Apple Store, look for HCM Baltimore. Dr. Tim Tootin here in Baltimore County, Maryland, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries. Have a great day in the Lord.