Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Amen. That is our desire. That the power and the Spirit of God might fall fresh in this place. The Bible says that We ought to desire to be filled with the Spirit. As we come today, God, I ask even now that you might fill this vessel with your power, that you might get the glory and not the preacher. Touch your heart today, save a soul today, encourage someone to the glory of God. And we'll be so carefully give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Isn't God good? Amen. My mind, you may take your seats today. Holy Spirit. That's my desire today. Yeah. Holy Spirit Ray. Your voice be heard. Hello, the Holy Spirit My Lord, couldn't you just imagine that? Having the Spirit of God to rain down on you. Some of us don't want to get caught in a shower, don't want to get wet, but mind when it's the Spirit of God that's falling down all of me, Lord. Amen? There's a word from the Lord today, and it comes from the book of Philippians, fourth chapter, verses eight and nine. Says finally, brothers and sisters, whatever is true, whatever is noble, whatever is right Whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is admirable, if anything is excellent or praiseworthy, think about such things. Verse 9 says, Whatever you have learned or received or heard from me or seen in me, put into practice. And the God of peace will be with you. I want to preach today from the money title. Very simple, Carbon Copy Living. Carbon copy living. There used to be a saying in some of our homes many years ago and it's old-fashioned. But our parents were well meaning when they told the children it to do as I say and not as I do. Say that again. Do as I say and not as I do. Well we're a different culture now and if we're not careful, uh children will tell us they'll do as they please. and say what they want. I didn't start by to conduct a parenting one-on-one class, but rather to see how this relates to the Christian. The importance of our being able to have our yay be yay and our nay nay. That people are watching us as believers. Let me qualify when I say Christian. A Christian is someone who is a Christ follower, someone who's committed their lives to the teachings of the Lord Jesus Christ. Believing that God sent Jesus, that Jesus died, and that he rose again with all power in his hand. The Christian also is called to obey the commands of God. That said, are you a Christian? That was a yes or no question. Are you a Christian? Praise God As Christians, we're also called to imitate Christ, to copy Christ. Now some years ago there was a popular uh wristband that was going around WWJD. What would Jesus do? I took issue with that. Here's why There's some things that Jesus would not do that we are doing. So we don't have to ask the question, what would he do? First of all, he would not be in the predicaments that we find ourselves sometime And so we're called to copy Christ and to copy him by our living and by our testimony. If there's one who I think stands out as an example of what it means to live this carbon copy life, it is Paul. Paul the Apostle, a one who spread the good news of Jesus Christ everywhere he would go In our text today, we find Paul writing letters. Now the epistles are prison letters. That means that Paul was locked up in Rome, locked up because of what he said, locked up because of who he followed, locked up because of the way he lived But Paul's life was transformed from being big and bad and nasty and was after Christians, but God changed his life. And so today we find Paul in prison writing to the church at Philippi. Amen? And Philippi is in modern-day Greece. Uh some years ago during my tour of this area, I got a chance to uh go to Athens. We didn't get to Philippi, but we did tour all of the area, Athens and Smyrna and Turkey the whole country as well as Istanbul. But all of this and I kept saying to myself, Paul was a bad somebody, because he had a chance to share in a place where people did not really believe in Jesus. And you may find yourself in a hostile environment where you're sharing Christ and nobody believes it. But yet you're walking and talking and trying to be an example. So Paul would go around, he would start churches, and he would leave. He had a job. He was a tent maker. And he would start churches and go and then come back. But most often he would send letters. And he would send one letter to the church to be shared. And so Paul writes to the church with all that they're facing, and this whole fourth chapter is all about joy. Now you say, Reverend, how in the world Can someone who's facing hardships and trials and tribulations can be joyful? But he says, rejoice in the Lord always. Did you all miss that? They're going through, and Paul is in prison, locked up, saying, Hey, you ought to be joyful. You ought to be happy. Why? Because the Lord Jesus Christ is with you. No one knows what you're going through, but yet you put a smile on your face. Yet you come to work every day, you press your way, and at home or in your community you may be facing a tough challenge. But this is a joy letter. Amen? And within that letter, there in the eighth verse, he's saying, here's how you ought to think. Here's what should be on your mind. And really, there's so many things that are on our minds. We have to get rid of those things that don't glorify God. Amen. Now I know that you are saved, but every now and then things will enter your mind. And you have to tell it, get out of here, get behind me, Satan, and you begin to change your thinking. And I love going to the Lansfield. One of my favorite places to get rid of things that uh have no more use. And I was at the landfill just recently and you you drive up and and you show them your ID and say, what you got? I got cardboard and I got some household trash. And they will tell you which place to go. For glass over here. For metal over here. And I found out that once you back your vehicle up and you unload it and uh you walk away and everybody's smiling because they've gotten rid of some stuff From their homes. You ought to be smiling because you've got rid of some thinking in your life. That Paul tells them that you ought to replace what's in your mind by thinking on things of the true And noble and right and pure and lovely and admirable and trustworthy. Think on these things. I know you're going through I know life has been tough for you, but begin to get rid of some other negative thinking and replay that with some positive God-filled words Have you tried it? That you mad as somebody and you think about Lord, I'm just gonna have joy anyhow. I know I should be able to put my dukes up, but right now, I just want to give you praise and glory. And folk think that you're crazy. What are you doing? You should be mad. But the the God I serve has taken care of me and I'm thankful. So let me just pose two questions Who in your life has provided the best example to help you grow in the Lord? Who is it that becomes that person who has helped you to grow? Somebody who's an example. And then there's question two. Who is watching your life and considering your example? You are striving to have a life that others might want to mimic. We all imitate people, whether they know it or not. We imitate their walk and their talk, but to imitate Christ is so important. And so today I want to talk about the importance of this sense of having a life that is worth matching, a life that is worth copying. Yes, we're the copy, Christ. But God gives you people around you that you'll respect and will be those kind of persons who you can say, you know what? They appear to me to live a godly life. Let me back it up Has that person come to mind? Yeah, you thought about the one person. If not, I'll volunteer and try and be that person for you. Amen. But what's most important, what is it that we're doing to live the kind of life that someone will not praise us? But praise God. Alright? So first off, there's this importance of having a godly process. There's a godly process. Verse 9 says, whatever you have learned or received or heard from me or seen in me to put into practice and the God of peace will be with you. Now process means that we're not there yet. I don't care how you want to be perfect. Uh every day is a day of learning. Every day is a day of growing You don't know it all. I don't know it all. Our kids will teach us. Life will teach us on how to get by. What we're trying to do is to model the life that pleases God. That somebody will say, there's something about you. That's what a disciple is. A disciple is one who takes the lead. One who lives the life, one who walks the walk, one who talks the talk, and that's what we're striving to do. Paul writes in his letter, there's some things you have learned from me. There's some knowledge you've gotten from me. And Paul was a smart somebody. He said, maybe you learned some things from my life. And so on, but we learn what not to do. Anybody know some folk that you say, you know what, I'm not doing that. That we'll learn what is not good from watching and from observing. He's saying, take time to learn on what you've seen. Life is full of potquizzes and midterns. And following exams and life will teach you, and sometimes watching other people go through, you wonder how in the world did they get through this tough place? Oh songs, how did you feel when you come out of the wilderness We've seen people go into a fiery furnace of life and then watch them come out. Amen. So my God from Zion, look at what God has done. And we learn from their example and from their faith how to get through. I pray that my life is a life that someone can say there's something about this guy, there's something about this preacher, there's something about this father, something about this husband, if it's only a small bit that might help me And then I'll switch the tables on you. What can I learn from you? I find that children will teach you day in and day out. They'll make you laugh, but they'll teach you. And they'll say things to you that you've already shared with them. Like the song earlier, please. Be patient with me. God is not through with me yet. Anybody think that they're there yet? I'm not. I'm glad that I'm still learning about the Lord and learning about myself. And then he says, also, there's some things that you, I pray, have received from me. You learned them, but It's taken great pains with me because it cost me something. I'm in prison, but I pray that when I was out, that you learn some things by way of my life. Isn't that good news today? That I pray you got it. I pray there was something that made the light go up. I pray there was a word of testimony that helped you out today Why? Because there's a process. But even though I'm not all that I should be, there'll be something in my life, in your life, that somebody can say, you know what I don't want to lift them up, but there's something that I like about their life. There's something they're doing as a discipline that really blesses me. Will you be that person? How many folk have ever modeled? I know some of you are how many people have been in a talent show? Come on now. You were in a talent show and you had your little outfit on, thought you were somebody But you were a model. You took the clothes from the store, you put them on, they worked for you, and you marched across the stage. In life, we are marching across life stage, praying that someone is blessed. Amen That you learn something and receive something. I like in this text in 1 John 3, 2. It says, Beloved, now are we the sons of God. It doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him, but we shall see him as he is. That is the standard. God is the standard, and it's a process in getting there. Amen. Hope you're following me this morning. Not just that, but having a godly perspective All in this one verse, whatever you've learned, received, or heard from me Or seen in me. Now I think Paul puts himself out there. See, listen now, I'm not everything I ought to be, but I think it's kind of risky, isn't it? To say, check me out. That that that right now, Paul, you're in prison. I don't want to be there. Okay, but your life is not, but yet, what have you heard from me? What did I say along the way that might have encouraged you? I didn't preach to you. I'm talking about just around the coffee stand I'm talking about you know on the way to the next stop. You can catch stuff just by being around someone. Now the average person talks at a rate of about 125 to 175 words per minute You all know some talkers, don't you? Reverend, that's kind of low. We may be in that category. But how much do we really understand? I was kidding this morning with uh uh some folk who were around my age, and I said, you know, uh James Brown, the Godfather of Soul, did a song years ago, so you're talking loud and you're saying nothing So sometimes just the fact that you talk a lot does not mean that what you are saying has power or use. But Paul says, hopefully You've heard some things. Hopefully the message has gotten to you. Hopefully you can say some things that I've said. Why? Because I'm trying to live this carbon-copy life There's a lot of uh times you ought to put your filter on. Amen? You ever seen somebody and you heard them and they're just talking? And uh I I I've learned in in my profession that there's fifteen seconds of fame. And so after fifteen seconds, I don't take this personal, uh I I start to shut down and wait for the next fifteen So you ever know somebody you talk with and you you go in like this, you're nodding your head like okay, I I oh y'all y'all got serious on me I I hear you and maybe you're that person. But Paul said I pray that some things that you have heard that's given you some life perspective that I may have spoken what Paul spoke was what? The word of God. Telling your old stories are great, but when you begin to share with people, even if they don't know the verse in the chapter, they'll remember. Didn't your grandmother and grandfather say something to you and you didn't know it came out of the Bible until you got it earlier? But you said, you know what, adults, you know, train the child the way he should go, and they found ways to make that word work And you heard them as a result. Amen? He says, I pray you have heard some things, and also that you've seen some things. That you check me out. I I pray that when I was getting beaten, you saw that. I pray that when I was debating on Mars Hill, you saw that. I pray that when I walked the life, you saw that People had seen the old Paul and they were skeptical of the one who chased Christians. But God had transformed his life in such a way that this new Paul now was saying, I pray That you see some things. Oh Proverb, seeing is believing. In other words, I want to see something Show me something, amen? What you're working with, have I? And that way I'll decide if I'm gonna follow you. But Know that people are looking to see whether or not they should copy and paste you. It's a new generation. I'm showing on the screen the old school carbon paper, and if y'all recognize that, then you're older than me But now we live in a generation of let me just copy and paste it. Amen? Praise God. And may your life be one that's copied and paste it. Oh my God. May somebody say there was something that I got, that I heard, that I saw in you, and that's the scripture that I love. Let your light so shine before men and women that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. Lord, help me to live a life that somebody can catch something in the process. I don't say worship me and say, man, you are bad. No, I don't want the glory, and you don't either, but maybe somebody has gained something from your life based on what you've been saying what they heard and what they seen from you. That's my prayer. Folk will catch you when you're not in your church outfit. They'll catch you or lay somebody out in line. They'll catch you anywhere. And even then, they're copying and pasting you. Your children are good at that. You say, well now I thought what you heard it from somewhere. It's not cute anymore. We are trying to live a life that pleases the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen? Like what Paul says in the letter to the church in Ephesus. He says, follow God's example as dearly beloved children. And walk in the way of love just as Christ loved us and gave himself up as a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. That Christ really is the model. He's the one who's the perfect one that makes the difference. Amen? A godly process, godly perspective. But finally, I like how this wraps up. There's this promise He says, put it into practice, and the God of peace will be with you. What's in it for me? You'll get peace. You'll get God's peace. Well, what if I don't want to live right? What if I don't want to be an example? If you do it and walk in the way that Christ has called us to walk, that the result is that the God of peace will be with you. Ma you should have just exhaled on that. Amen. The God of peace. The result of joyful thinking, the result of great thinking, that Paul says this peace won't be a hit and miss. This peace will be with you. This peace is worth copying. Do you know what peace feels like? It's when you ought to be losing your mind, but you're not. It's when you're chilling and folks saying something is wrong with them. I'm gonna trust in the Lord until I die. Amen And as a result of my being the poster boy and you being the poster girl of faith, your poster is up in the workplace. Your poster is up at home and somebody is watching you, but the result is you'll be able to sleep at night. Knowing that I've done my best to live the life that pleases God. No, I didn't do everything. But I know the God of peace will be with me, not might, but will. Amen? The kind of peace that passeth all understanding This peace that Isaiah talks about, this peace that he'll keep you in perfect peace, if your mind is stay on him. Amen. I like that. I like to talk about peace. And Jesus said in John fourteen twenty-seven, peace I leave with you. My peace, there is again, I give you. I do not give to you as the world gives. Do not let your hearts be troubled, and do not be troubled Afraid. Everybody take a deep breath and just breathe. My God, the peace of God resides in you even now. Thank God for what He did. That's a story that is connected to a very popular hymn that we sing so often. Rachel Stafford was a wealthy Chicago lawyer with a thriving legal practice. Things were going great for him, and he lost his son to a tragic illness. But God kept his practice going. He had four beautiful daughters and a wife. Then then the Chicago fire came along. If that wasn't bad, it was more tragic. And he sent his wife and daughters over for a vacation to get them away from the mayhem of Chicago. And as they were going over, their ship went down. All the children passed. The wife was able to survive. And when he had gotten the word, stories told that he got on a ship. And once he got to the place Uh the captain says this is the area where the boat went down. And he was away evangelizing the world. Hung out with D. L. Moody as one who preached so he loved the Lord. But he stopped and said, Can you just stop for a moment? I want to take a moment at this place. And to write the words. When peace like a river attendeth my way, when sorrows like sea, billows roll. Whatever my lot, thou hast taught me to say, it is well with my soul. What an example of a copied life. And Jesus Christ. Went to the cross just for you and just for me. Copy and paste that. He sacrificed his life on that cross He died, but he rose again with all power in his hands. And able to say, it's well. I'll return to claim my own. As you leave this place and go out into the world, know that all is well with your soul. That I'm trying to live this carbon copy life. And what folk may see may not be your best day. It may be your struggle that they gain Father, I pray even now that you might guide us as you bow your heads. Lord, thank you. As we come today, it's a high calling that you've selected us, believers, to walk in your way. That somebody might say, you know what? There's some things that I have seen, I've learned, I've received Because of the God that resides in that person. That's real discipleship. It's to take the lead and be the example. Father, I pray even now. That your word has found further ground. That we're challenged today to be more for you. Challenged today To intentionally live a life worth copying. We thank you for your spirit. We thank you for your love. We thank you for what you do. In Jesus' name, amen. That is the word of God it is already but stand today all over this place. Carbon, copy, living Amen. As we come today, we're reminded to come just as we are Reverend, I'll be ready to be an example, but give me one year and two months and three days and twenty-seven hours and four minutes. In two seconds and I'll be ready. But right now, I'm not the one. And what God does, He transforms you as you go. As you become available, that I'm all walk the walk And walk the talk so that I might be one that is seen as an example. Come as you are. Just the way you are. Spirit Com yes, as you are coming. I'm receiving it forever. I'm just as you are. Give the spirit call. Come that you are. Let's see, I'm receiving coming forever. And now the last name Spring for the death. Oh yeah. And then turns the game And that's what Jesus is saying to each of us today. Don't fix up. Come as you are. I'll do the fixing. I'll do the changing. Because I am God Almighty I came across this thing that I guess it may be original. It says reality is not a show. So much of what we watch. You can't tell if it's real or not. I contend that I'm a little suspect. They know the camera's on them. Are they really crying? Yeah, I'm a little skeptical. I can't watch TV with my wife. So you thinking too much. But reality is That unless you give your life to Jesus Christ, that you won't enter the kingdom of heaven. The Bible says that you must confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God Has raised him from the dead. And I believe that. I believe that if I believe that Christ came, and the resurrection is what makes the difference in our faith. Is that I don't just believe that he came, but I believe he died. And not just died, but I believe that he got up with all power in his hands. I believe that today. As you come today, maybe you've never made a confession of faith. Today I come. And I offer an example to you the day I gave my life to Jesus. What a great moment that was. It caught up with me I did it as a boy, but as I got older, I caught I reached back and caught what I had done and recommitted my life to him. And for me, life has never been the same. No turning back. It's going ahead. He's done too much for me. And shovel your heads very quickly today. I want you to think about where you are in life. What is your reality today? Is your reality one that you've given Christ your heart? In your faith, and you can say that I am a Christian. Or maybe you're still deciding how it is done. The Bible says you just take it in and believe it and confess it and say, God, I'm I'm a sinner I'm lost, but I believe you sent your son. I believe he died. And that's with the eye of faith. I believe he got up. And I got that now. I believe it. Can't put my hand on it, but I believe it. I believe you've done it. The Bible says You'll be saved. And being saved means that when he calls your name, heaven will be your home. God, we thank you for those who were here today. While those heads above If you're unsure, while heads above, just raise your hand. I want to pray with you. If you're unsure about your faith or what you believe, or if you are saved, or if your life has been changed I want to pray with you if you're not sure today. And I call you out. Pray with you. If you're not sure. If you're not sure. If you're not sure. Praise God. Let's give you all the praise today. Amen. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired. Of course, by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's cometh number to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.