Father, even now as we come to declare your truth, we pray that we might decrease and that you might increase. Say someone today. Encourage another, and when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's give a great hand for the sons of this fellow. There's a word from the Lord that comes from the Gospel of Luke. The second chapter beginning in verse number fifteen. Thank God for just setting the atmosphere. I declare if we move sometimes it can come right on in and do what he needs to do. You found it say amen. I spoiled you all over the years with audiovisual. But I declare it's always good to have your own words. That way you can find it when you go back and not rely, but I don't mind. Here in the 15th verse it says, when the angels had left them and gone into heaven, the shepherds said to one another, Let's go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has told us about. So they hurried off and found Mary and Joseph and the baby who was lying in the manger. When they had seen him, they spread the word concerning what had been told about this. child and all who heard it were amazed at what the shepherds said to them. This morning I want to preach from the Samonic title, The Cast of Christmas, Part 3. The Cast of Christmas Part 3. For the past few weeks, I've taken you behind backstage and given you VIP access. To many of the characters who make up the greatest story ever told. A story that we ought not ever forget or dismiss. So let's recap from episode two on last week where we got to meet one by the name of Gabriel. chief angel who shows up in a little town called Nazareth on assignment to reach out to a virgin named Mary Who was all set to marry Joseph the Carpenter. Let me put your modern glasses on. I imagine she had the list ready of who was about to come, I'd contacted everyone, had the venue, DJ, everybody was ready. And then Gabriel shows up, my God. And he begins to share with her from the words of Luke 128 that greed You are highly favored. The Lord is with you. Well, at that point, that's what she needed to hear to be reassured and I say again the Lord is with you. You may not feel it. You may not know it per se, but have you ever gone some places and you say, how in the world did I come out of this alive? Am I talking to the church this morning? Maybe it was not your doing, but God was with you in that moment. Can I declare that God is with you right now. Don't you feel him in this place? Ever had a moment where you realize this is a God moment because God is with me. Episode one, we focused on the prophet Isaiah. He gave humanity a heads up, albeit something that was going to happen 600 years later. He says, For unto us the child is born, unto us the son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulders. His name shall be called Wonderful Counselor. Mighty God, everlasting Father, and the Prince of Peace. Amen. So he's able to share that All behind the scenes. You feel important today that we get to go and meet the stars, or some of y'all went to a concert or two. You had a chance to meet the lead people, you thought you were somebody. Well this morning we want to go a bit further And talk about some of the often forgotten characters of the Bible. They are the shepherds. Doubtful you'll see them on the red carpet. Why? Because they're always in the field working. You've heard the old saying it was a dirty job, but somebody had to do it. Amen. And there they are out in the field. uh went their sheep. The word has it that at the age of fifteen, that was about the time you started working. And that you would be there to guard positive and valuable livestock. Amen? Amen And on one night, something very strange happened while they were out in the field The Bible says an angel appeared to them and lift the place up, so to speak, and they were terrified. They were scared to death. And the word that came was, do not be afraid. I bring you good news that will cause Great joy to all people. That sounds like somebody's speech. Amen. It says, today in the town of David, a Savior has been born He's the Messiah, the Lord. This will be assigned to you. You'll find that big rep and swaddling clothes and lying in a manger. And before the angel could finish, the mass choir showed up out of glory. A great horse singing would appear to be a song that would go down as number one for some time In the future. Glory to God in the highest heaven and on earth peace to all those whom his favor rests. So I believe that based on this experience, Based on what took place that night, let's consider this morning why it's so important in life to have a destination. And to have determination and to have the right information. Let's unpack Luke 2, 15 through 18, destination. When the angels had left. And gone into heaven, the shepherds said to one another, let's go to Bethlehem and see this thing which has happened, which the Lord has told us about. A destination is a place that you go where we choose to go. Some of y'all who served in the military know that you didn't get to pick where you went. Uncle Sam told you, oh, you're going here for basic training and you're going there. But we have the privilege nowadays to book a five-night, six-day Or in or uh wherever we want to go. Oh somebody raised their hand up, amen. Give away today. I got everybody awakening. Where where are we going? And when are we going? But in the case of the shepherds, they were directed where to go, and their destination was the town called Bethlehem. And it's a little town because the song says, oh, little town of Bethlehem. Anybody grew up with a little town, I get. Straight out of Lyboat, Florida. A little town. One high school. Trains separating the east and the west side. Not much going on, but I love myself some live oak. And so this little town. But but where is your Bethlehem today? The place where you Find Jesus. The destination was revealed by the angels. Let me ask you, do you have a Bethlehem? Do you have a place that God has directed you toward that is not necessarily a physical place, but God has directed you some places in the spirit today and said you need to go there hallelujah that's good news today and when we look at what is before us we think of Luke 10 and 1 That the Lord is the one who sins. See, some folk can send you some places that you may not need to go Right. Some places you might show up and say, Well, they've sent me here, but Luke ten and one, it says, after this the Lord appointed seventy-two others And sent them two by two to every town and place where he was about to go And so the Lord is sending us. How many folk are glad that you have a destination? Amen? That God has arranged it so that you get the squish. planes and go to a I love a non-stop, but every now and then God will put you at one destination, allow you to change up and get at the next destination. Some of y'all never rode the Greyhound bus Oh, y'all bumper before you get on the Greyhound and get off and you run in time to find the next bus. Amen. But God has a destination for us. But there has to be some determination. Verse 16. So they hurry off and found Mary Joseph and the baby who was lying in the manger. Determination. It is to have a a fixed intention. It is to be in a place that you want to achieve something, you want to see it through, you want to succeed. Bulldog tenacity. I'm not giving up without a fight I'm trying to reach the fence. Anybody ever been there just say, you know what? I'm determined. I'm gonna make it. That through hell and high water, I'm determined that I'm gonna live a life that's pleasing to the Lord. No matter who puts them trap in my way or dig a ditch for me. Anybody determined in the house today that I'm going to press forth tomorrow for the prize of the high calling in Christ Jesus, no matter what. Sometimes we give up too quick. Determination. These shepherds hurry off. Not to be distracted. By people. People will distract you. Not to be distracted by places. You've been there too long. Time to move on. Are not to be distracted by things which can get in the way. I mean, they're just possessions. Amen. But these shepherds Hurried off. They took the pedal to the metal. Amen. They hit the roll jack. They were trying to get to Bethlehem to see this great thing in which the Lord had prepared. And when was the last time you got in a hurry? I know you cool. Take your time and you get around to it, but there's some things you ought to get in a hurry about. And one of those things is trying to find purpose and what God has for you, you ought to be, let's go. And that's what they did. And I thought about this, Deacon Wall. I was reading the text. I said, wait a minute now. They were so committed to the sheep, but they must have lost them in the field. You know, I I can't say it's okay, let's take the whole fun no. They were so committed that the things that had been aspiring them were important, but they were not urgent. This was an urgent situation And the thing that you cherish the most sometimes, you get a levies. Anyone got that kind of determination? I mean again there's some people you've been hanging with, you can shake them off, eh? And keep on moving down the wall. Because God has something. Just for you. Amen? Shepherds found exactly what they were looking for: Mary, Joseph, and the baby. Have you found what you've been looking for? Yeah? I think of a fullback song. Have you seen her? You know the story about the guy who's looking anywhere for his legs? I think it's the skylights Y'all bust some view white people, amen. But this whole sense of looking And trying to find a place, trying to find what God has given. These shepherds were going to a familiar place. They knew about staples. And they will soon discover what David discovered. Psalm 23: The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not I think you determined by now determination and destination, but finally this sense of information. Verse 17 and 18 says, when they had seen him, They spread the word concerning what had been told them about this child. And all who heard it were amazed at what the shepherd said to them. Folks, this was hot off the press stuff. Based on their experience, based on what they had seen with their own eyes, but the text says based on what had been told them So they may have seen something, but they remembered that the angel says that the Messiah has been born. You can see some things and then not hear them. Well, they were able to share that information. vital information, facts, extra, extra read all about it information. Anybody ever had a paper room? That was a newspaper you delivered every week to somebody's house and they were waiting to I did the grit newspaper That's old school. Fifteen cents. You sit them a dime, you kept the nickel. I never made the right move. I always got bailed out But there's some news we can say too. I kept it in the drawer, but somehow a smithers bar or a baby roof should be that thing up. But information That was so important that all of a sudden now these shepherds had something to say. It was credible information. Some folks can give you information and they've not experienced it. Some folks can tell you some things in life that they've never been through. If you've not ever been through anything, your testimony and my testimony is limited. I was down to my last time. Have you been down to your last time before? Then you know what commodities are You know what it means to get through. They share information, not gossip, but key information. And there's something about when you have Jesus to share Amen. Not your resume, not your LinkedIn page, but I'm sharing what I know. And it may just be Romans 6. 23. But the wages of sin is death. But the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. I remember the song that said I said I wouldn't go and tell nobody But I just couldn't keep it to bestow. Y'all remember that one? I said I wasn't going to sing this song, but I just couldn't hold it. Amen I was trying to hold it, but I couldn't. You ever had something just break out on you? Maybe it's in the mall. You said, listen, I'm sorry, that's a good price, but praise the Lord. And you might allow your testimony to go different places. That you and I must share in line at the restaurant. Tell the world about the child. About Jesus, who is the reason for the season, and people will be amazed at what you share with them, and Jesus is the only source of information that we need. Okay. Here's a cheat sheet. Here's some cliff notes. Here's some talking points when it comes to Jesus. The world needs to know Who are you talking about? About Jesus. The one who was born. When was he born? More than 2,000 years ago. But today you can be born again in your heart. Where? Bethlehem. The name Bethlehem itself means house of bread. Amen. The word of God will fill you. Why why was he born? You're looking at it to save somebody who was heading straight to H-E-L-L. That ought to be your testimony. That's why he came. Amen. How was he born? It was a miracle. Amen. It was a virgin birth. Anyone willing today to play the role of the shepherd? It's not a popular role now. I mean it's not like some of the other roads, the shepherds, there's some rough tech dudes, man, and that's the top role to play. But God is calling us, Jeremiah three fifteen Says, then I will give you shepherds of my own heart. I test for that part, who will lead you in knowledge and understanding. First Peter 5 and 2, it says Be shepherds of God's flock that is under your care, watching over them, not because you must, but because you are willing and eager to serve. God just say today, I'm eager to serve. I'm excited to serve. I'm excited to tell somebody about the name of Jesus. Yeah, yeah, I I'm a big talker, but being a big talker and having information is totally different Do you have a testimony today that you can share with somebody? They're waiting to hear what you and I have to say. And we said nothing. In fact, folk will pull us up. Aren't you a church boy? What do you think? I can tell you folk come to me and say, I know what you're going to preach Sunday. How do you feel about that? And you are able to open the door and to share the good news of Jesus Christ. He went from the manger, which is nothing more than a talk. Amen. That's what the cows ate out of. We had one of them things because my daddy had cows. And they knew when to come and what time to come, and they would just feast on the word in the trunk. And so what happened is they turned it over and used it for a different purpose. Look how the creativity of God is. He says, I'm going to put my son In the place that bad people, I'm gonna put him in a manger. He went from the manger to the cross. And from the cross To the grave, and from the grave to the skies. And don't you know there's one called the Good Shepherd? Amen. Jesus says in John 10:11, I am The good shepherd. And the good shepherd gives life to the sheep. And so I want you to know as I take my sleep today Is that you ought to have a coming soon testimony? You ever going to the movie theater and you're waiting for the main attraction to come and you wade in your popcorn, half eaten, drink, almost done in the spirit? It's all we're talking about It's coming true. And you don't remember half of what they said and all the coming through. But my God, coming true, is one who died on the heart. Coming true is one who stopped for my sin delivery. Aren't you glad today? You want to have a mental testimony in what you say. What are you telling? That Jesus is on the mainland. Just tell him what you want. What are you going to tell him? Amen? That goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. Coming soon, child, you're going to get your ticket And you want to get your ticket for glory. Cast. Of course we're seeing that. Thank you, shepherds. Couldn't you see them walking up in the manger like that? Muddy. With a staff trying to find What they had been told was there. Can you see them turning the corner? Getting a look at he who would save their soul. Can't you see him? We have a role to play as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. The casting call continues. That's the word of God today. Already blessed. I was amazed at how How clear the Bible is. I don't know about those ths and thous. The Bible is hard to read But you read everything else. And the beauty of the Bible is that it changed. Pictures. It gives us a moving trailer of what's to come. It gives us a trailer of what we're going to see. Aren't you glad today that we serve a God who speaks in pictures? Yeah. Who speaks. With Dolby sound audio, who makes it clear to you and I. And one thing he makes clear, that thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus And believe in your heart that God has raised it from the dead. The Bible says, Thou shalt be saved. Clear. And your testimony can help someone today. Let's follow become In the name of Jesus, and we thank you for your word today. How we're able to find ourselves in that word. We thank you for the shepherds who you used. in that situation. Now Lord, we come. Perhaps there's one in this place who's been waiting for a testing call. Yes. Waiting for the chance to say, oh I'll try it. Your hearts might be open today. Save someone today, God, and may we as the great host. be able to encourage those persons. That is alright. It's a great thing to be a Christian. We pray even now, God, that you might touch that heart. In Jesus' name. If you've come today that you want to be a part of this fellowship, I failed to do it all last week. The doors of the church are always open for you. There's always room for ministry. So I feel like the country preacher. You walk the all if you like. Pull us up later, but we want to let you know that we love Jesus. We're not perfect. But we love Jesus. And we try and spread his love. So if you're here today and you want to be a part of this fellowship, you can come right on down. I'd be glad to greet you in this place. Amen. Oh, bless God.