Good day, my friends, Dr. Tim Tooten with Harvest Christian Ministries. I'm so glad you've taken time to listen to this broadcast Today's sermon is one that will lift you up, one that will encourage you to run this race with patience, looking to Jesus Christ. the author and finisher of our faith. We're a small ministry with big ideas who serve a great and mighty God. And now today's message Amen. Praise God. That's a request. Give me a clean heart. That I might follow you. What a request to ask of the Lord who's able to do it. Amen. We come today because this is the day that the Lord Has made. And so we can rejoice and be glad in the day. Let me say that again. This is the day that the Lord has made Let us rejoice and be glad in it. This is the day that the Lord has made Let us rejoice and be glad. This is the day that the Lord has made. Let us re this this is the day. That the Lord has made. Let us do what? Rejoice. And this is the day that the Lord. This is the day that the Lord has made Let us rejoice and be glad. I'm su this is the day that the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad. I'm trying to move on. This is the day that the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. Yeah the Holy Ghost is already moving ahead of the sermon. See, we we don't direct the Holy Spirit, it directs us. And so every now and then he'll show up at the beginning just to serve notice that I'm still the Holy Ghost. Amen. How many are glad today that you've got the Holy Ghost? That the Spirit of God lives in you. My God, isn't that exciting to know that this joy that I have, that the world didn't give it to me, and the world can't take it away? I make no apologies for getting excited out the gate. Amen. For Jesus. Let's bow. Heavenly Father, we thank you for The freshness of your spirit, how it shows up and how it moves the hearts of your people At a moment's notice. And we are the better now because we've had an encounter with your spirit. I pray now that you might bless your word, that it might help us us that we might be the better once we have digested it and then lived it. We ask it all now in the name of Jesus. Amen Don't you like how the Lord just move in and just do what he does best? Amen. Well there's a word from the Lord today that comes from uh 1 Thessalonians the fifth chapter and verse 22. This might be the shortest passage I preach for him in some Time. Reject every kind of evil. Reject every kind of evil. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, Watch Your Step. Caution, watch your step. We live in a society full of signs. As you left home this morning, perhaps you noticed the street sign in your Neighborhood. As you pulled out, if you are a law-abiding citizen, you may have seen a stop sign or at least a yield sign. Another sign may have pointed you For the interstate. Here's how you get to where you're going. And then on the interstate, there was a speed sign. Amen. And it suggests that you follow the rules of the state of Maryland in terms of how fast you are traveling. But there are specific signs that really lay out dangers ahead of us. Signs that remind us that we need to be cautious. Signs that remind us that we ought to watch our step. And none of us are exempt from warning signs None of us are all of that that we don't need to be reminded that every now and then we go down the wrong path. And we need a caution Watch your step moment. I just stop by to remind you that there are still signs from heaven that encourage us to be careful. To mind ourselves as your mother and daddy would tell you, to not get too big for your britches. Some of y'all heard that Can I go a bit further? Uh not to start smelling yourself. Now you could ask some of the adults about that, but to put our trust In the Lord Jesus Christ at all times. In our text today, it's the Apostle Paul, who writes the better part, what we call the New Testament, who's writing to a young church And that's the Lazarika. It's modern-day Greece. And the believers are new, and they're starting out, and they're excited for Jesus. But they're in an atmosphere where there are evil people operating. This letter really is kind of the do's and the don'ts of Christianity living. Things we should do, things we should be careful about, things that we should be looking out for. It's great to have reminders. Right when you think that you're all of that, sometimes life will knock you off of your high horse To the point that you will have to humble yourself, therefore, under the mighty hand of God, that he might do what? He might exalt you. Anybody ever been knocked off your high horse? You thought you were all that. And all of a sudden uh you have a misstep. And God had to bring you low, but won't he build you back up If he bends you down, if he allows it to happen, he'll build you right back up even now. But it's so important that we protect Our Christian witness. And all week long I was just kind of looking really at this one particular chapter And in this one verse, it just kept tapping me on my shoulder. What do you mean tapping you on your shoulder? Reverend, I just kept looking at that one passage and saying, Lord, there's something in here for me, and there's something in here for the church. And there in the 22nd verse. It really talks about evil. Evil. That word evil. Amen. That word that is plastered over the signs of life, evil, it is that which opposes the will of God. It has been said that evil is the result of bad actions from a bad character. We all know some bad folk And they're not just on the big screen. But we know some folk who at the drop of a hat will lay you out and do it in a mean-spirited way. There's evil in the land. Evil behavior can uh can come really in two categories. Evil as it relates to evil committed against evil Against other people, but also evil committed against God Himself. Adam and Eve know something about that. In the first book of the Bible In the book of Genesis, we know that they ate from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. The very tree that God told them to avoid. But the enemy showed up and he flipped the script. And he shows up in our experiences to do what? To try and change our minds. To try and lure us into evil actions. He's still whispering today, letting you know that you can still do your thing. I'm just trying to talk today. Because evil does exist. But we've got to be very careful that we don't miss them. Be careful that we don't slip. And you know, sometimes you'll come into a building, they'll say, watch your step. Because the floor's been mopped, and so don't you fall. And once you see that, you begin to Tiptoe a little bit. In our faith, we've got a tiptoe through life's web of evil. Amen. And so Paul writes this letter. He's trying to convince them of this sense of rejection evil Steering clear of evil in any form, stay away from any kind of evil Throw out anything that's tainted with evil. And then in the old King James Version it says, abstain from the very appearance of evil. Now to do that we gotta first of all know that there is a problem. Reject every kind of evil There were those who were negative in the church that Paul wrote to. They were just evil folk. And so they had to survive in that kind of environment, but they were trying to live for Jesus. Anytime you're going to look for Jesus, evil will show up. And he was just making sure that with all that I've said to you in this letter, make sure that you keep evil at a distance. But make sure that you say that no no no no not today. Have you ever said that to evil? Evil showed up and you had your hand on your hip And your backbone was about to slip, and you were getting ready to tell somebody out. And all of a sudden you had to say, wait, wait, wait, wait a minute. That really is not the person, but there's evil operating in the background. Call it the way it is. And Paul speaks from personal experience. Why? He was a mean somebody with the name Saul who went off to Christians and tried to bring them in. He knew what evil looked like. He had experienced being cold-blooded. He knew what it was like to try and gather up Christians, but one day Something got a hold of him onto the master's road, heading to start more trouble, and God tripped him up. And don't you know he has to do that sometimes? Because we ain't got enough sense to stop what we do. Here's a wait a minute. Let me slow you down. And so Paul is able to write from experience, not based on what he heard, but what he knew to be true. I like how honest he is. Paul, the great theologian, over in Romans 7. 19, says, For I do not do the good I want to do. But the evil I do not want to do, this I keep doing. Now if I do what I do not want to do, it is no longer I who do it, but it is sin living in me. That does it. Does that make sense? In other words, as good a too-shoe as I'm trying to be, and as much as I want to be good, there's always the problem of evil. Even on my best day, there's a streak sometime that will come over you. It is a problem. And if you're not careful, you misstep along life's journey He admits that the Lord had cleaned him up and had turned him around, but he had to say, you know, every now and then when I'm try trying to be a good Tim. When when I'm trying to be my my my best. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Like you never happen, but maybe maybe you always do good. But but every now and then there's the caution sign from heaven, is that? Watch your step. Watch it. And so that's what I had to all week. All week long. I said I'm gonna preach it, but yeah, I had to keep Watching my step. Because evil is a problem. Amen. And it's familiar because it comes To try and put the believer on the wrong path. It's a problem. That just when you said, I've had a great week And then the day is not over. But greater is He that is within you than He that is within the world. God is bigger than evil. God can conquer evil, but evil does exist. It's a problem. But there's also a perception. Reject every kind of evil Abstain from what folk may see in your life that could be perceived as evil Now now I was saying to somebody the other day that I'm I'm glad that that God allowed me to keep my personality after I got saved. I didn't become all of a sudden very deep Praise the Lord. I was still laughing and cutting up in the spirit. Amen. But I'm glad that I don't put on this person that I'm some kind of a super saint I've never done anything wrong, always cross the T's and dot the I. I don't know about you, that's not my story. But we're responsible for our actions Our Christian witness is so important. Why? The world wants to see you fail. The world enjoys when a Christian messes up. I told you so. Them church going by told you that wasn't all that. And so the world is looking at you to see what you're going to do. There will be always somebody who thinks that something that you are doing is wrong. Yeah, you Christian, they're just waiting to look at you. and to point their finger at you. But I don't spend time trying to show the world that I'm a good person. Just live for Jesus And once you live, your light will shine before men and women, and they will see your good works and they will glorify your Father in heaven. But there's a responsibility As believers, we have to make sure that we protect who we are in the Lord. We can't become a stumbling block for someone else. Because they're not sure whose side you're on. You laugh at the dirty jokes, you tell the dirty jokes, you drink more than the world drinks, you smoke more. And they can't tell whose side you on. And so we have to abstain from the look. Amen? I may as well say it. That's just how thought it. I mean, it ain't my business, but you coming out of the cut rate. Maybe you're willing to get a pack of gum But then a young believer sees you and says, Maybe it was Eccles. But maybe it wasn't. And so make sure that this perception that you give won't hurt someone else It may turn them away from the gospel just when your little light has gotten them. You try to fit in. Amen. I may as well stay there. I don't do happy hour anymore. Okay? You know happy hour. They call it happy hour. As much as I love to witness, I'm not going to go into and say, well, I'm just here for the happy hour. That's not a place for me to be. You gotta know what you can handle. Amen. But the very fact that church boy, church girl is in that environment, you have the potential of hurting somebody else Am I making sense? I'm trying to stay on this point a little longer because it's our Christian witness, but it's the perception of evil. After all, we're the salt of the earth. We're somebody. We're the light of the world. The problem of evil. The perception that it may display, but finally the practice of evil. Same passage. Reject every kind of evil. And to reject is to stay away from it. Don't practice it. You have a sports team and in the offseason, they're practicing. The game. Why? They want to get better. You can't practice evil and expect that it won't become a part of your life. You can't take part in just a little bit. of evil. And expect that your witness will not be damaged in the Lord. I like what David says over in Psalm thirty-seven, he says, and he's talking about those who are labeled as evildoers. For those who are evil will be destroyed. But those who hope in the Lord will inherit the land. That's pretty short to the point, isn't it? That if you keep practicing evil, then you become labeled as an evildoer. In other words, you do evil. But if you continue to look to the Lord And ask him to provide this way of escape for you, we can all be the better. You agree with that? That when those times come, we can say, Lord, I I'm I'm sickened with you. Lord, I'm rejected. That which might hold me back. Hope in the Lord. Inherit the land. Don't you know that you are heirs? And you are joint heirs with Jesus Christ, and you are somebody, and so therefore we have to do that which pleases the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen? Walk with the Lord. Walk in the Spirit. Look at that. There's an alternative. And you won't fulfill the lust of the flesh. There again, you won't slip more than likely if you're walking with with the Lord. Now if you're trying to play both sides, I got one foot Over here in another over there, oh some of them you you you can't you you you gotta be either cold or hot He says if you're lukewarm, I'll spew you out of my mouth. I'm just talking about what's going to help the church. I'm not picking on anybody. This word is for me too Are you consistent in your Christian wall and are you aware that we can all have a misstep with evil? Song says, walk with me, Lord, while I'm on my pilgrim journey. I want Jesus to walk with me. I don't mind if you walk with me, but I'm glad when he walks with me, right? He's got a certain pace that I need to keep up with. And that's why I need to have my walk protected. That's why it's important for me not just to say it, but to become what? A doer of the word I just want to challenge the body of Christ as I challenge myself today. Is just make sure you're walking with the right one. Eli walked with God And was no more. He was just a walking somebody. Aren't you glad the Lord walks with you? And he talks with you and he tells you that you're his own. And so think about who it is who walks with you and who keeps you. I'm glad that Jesus one day had to walk up that hill. And he didn't just walk by himself. He had to carry that old rugged cross with him. Can you imagine? That was of the day that when you were a criminal or accused as one, you carried your own cross. And so yet he kept walking and carrying and walking and carrying And walking because he was carrying my sins and and your sins. Can't you see see him struggling because he died for the whole wide world? He's just Keeping his step. He's being firm and where he's going. I'm glad today he didn't give out. I'm glad today he didn't settle, you know, well, I've had enough. But he continued to go to the cross. And as he made it to the cross, he died on that cross. What are you glad today? He didn't stay there. He was put in a bar tomb, but on the third day morning, he got up. With a new self. Amen. A new walk. Why? Because he was still about ministry. But as you walk, every now and then, I just want to take a run. My track days are over. Don't you feel like every now and then you want to get a slight jog for Jesus that walking is good, but to be able to run for the Lord? To run with him, Hebrew says, Do what? He says, We are surrounded by a great cloud of witnesses. But let us throw off every weight, and that sin that so easily besets us, and let us run. This race with patience. Looking under Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith. Caution. Watch your step. Look out Evil one is already setting up traps for you. But you being so careful in the spirit say, yeah, praise the Lord. God bless you. And you try to make sure you navigate to walk in the way of the Lord. That is the word of God today. It's already this. Come on, give God a praise today Caution. A misstep. Happen to anybody. At any time. But I know somebody who will guide you and hold you and show you the right way to go. And just come, just as you are. He's a fixer. We got to cover the deck Come and say come and speak Come receive Com and Live No need to fix up and say, When I get the better get better, I'll come. But now is the time and the moment of salvation. He's waiting just for you to commit your life to him. And my is life sweeter. On the Lord's side. That's the promise today. I want to appeal to you today. Maybe you have come today and you're not sure. About salvation. What it means, not sure about evil, good Today, I want to invite you to give your life to Jesus Christ, to give your heart to him. He'll transform you. He'll make you new again. That's not something I've heard. It's something I've experienced. See, we can't throw out all of the past. What I meant by that is keep some you. So folk know that you're not being too deep ahead. But let them see the other part of you. The one who rejects evil The one that says, no, I'm alright. The one that says, nah, I don't think I want to go there. The one that says, appreciate it, been there, but that's alright They need to see that you who rejects the notion of evil. Yeah, I know you remember the good old days, as you call them, but but you witness when you say, now That's not who I am anymore. And that new life comes when you open your heart to Jesus. That's thou today. Father, I come in the name of Jesus Declaring your truth today. Be it in this house or be it over social media. There might be somebody just tuning in who's struggling with who they are. We're having a hard time rejecting evil. I pray in the name of Jesus that they may do as the word says Confess your sins unto Him. Believing that God sent Jesus to die for you. And that He rose on the third day morning. The Bible says if you believe that Confess it and believe it in your heart, thou shalt be saved. Do it today, God, in this place. Do it today over this space That someone might get to know you not later on, but today. Today is the day of salvation. We ask it all now In the name of Jesus. Amen. If you know you are saved, come on, give God a praise today Amen. I pray you were blessed by today's sermon. I am just so thrilled that God would use me to help you and to encourage you in the Lord. Now to find out more about our ministry, go to our website. It's www. com,thenumbertwoharvest. org. That's www. com the number two harvest. org. Also, check out our brand new church app. It's called HCM Baltimore. That's HCM Baltimore. Go and search Google Play or iTunes. and then download it and you'll be blessed immensely by this app. It'll give you devotionals, videos, prayer wall directions, and everything you will need. Again, Dr. Tip Tootin in Baltimore County, Maryland. Have a great day in the Lord and thank you so much for listening.