I want to take this opportunity to first of all say Merry Christmas to you and to your family, from our family to yours, that is the Tutan family, immediate. and beyond and also the Harvest Christian Ministries family, we want to wish you a happy day as we celebrate the birth of our Lord and Savior Jesus the Christ. You know, this time of year we need encouragement, but especially since the pandemic, uh, there are times now to focus beyond the malls and beyond what you could get or not get, and to focus on Jesus Christ. And so today, that's what we're going to do. We're going to encourage you. That's my gift to you from the body of Christ is to encourage you in the Lord. So don't go away, as we say in TV, don't touch the dial. We'll be coming back to talk more about what God has in store for you. Oh Mary, did you know that your baby boy would one day walk on water? Did you know that your baby boy will save our sons and daughters? Did you know that your baby boy has Come to make you new This child that you've delivered will soon deliver you. Mary, did you know? That your baby boy would give thy chin a blind man Maybe did you know that your baby boy would come to With his hand Did you know that your baby boy has walked the angel's try when you kiss your little? Little baby, you kiss the face of God. Mary, did you know? Mary, did you know? Mary, did you know? Mary, did you know? Mary, did you know? Mary, did you know? The blind was me, the deaf was me. Will hear and the day will live again. The lame will read, the gun will take, the brain of the land. Mary, did you know that your Lord is Lord of all creation? Mary, did you know that? That your baby boy will one day wool this nation Did you know that you're baby boy in heaven perfectly? This sleeping child you're holding is the great idea. Hallelujah! We sing glory! Glory to the newborn King! Jesus! Oh what a wonderful chap! Jesus Jesus, Jesus, Jesus, Jesus, Jesus, Jesus. I can't remember Jesus, she's the highest, she the bad Jesus, she's the highest. Glory, you like the home, the whole bringing with them, should be glory, glory, glory. He was held by the angel, one and like the angel, man. And Joseph was the father. Everyone came from afar, and they were led by a shining sun. Completely where he is. In a major filled with hate her Jesus tree, Jesus S. The start of the glory of my own and on the wall to the tell until the name of the same glory. Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus Saves, more of Lady, Cape of Jesus, is that the water, Son of God, Holy Land, Central Jesus. Dima Please hold the holy mouth. Will glory, glory to the glory, glory, glory to the hill. Welcome back to the program, Dr. Tim Tuden, the founder and pastor. of Harvest Christian Ministries to so many of you I want to wish a Merry Christmas as you're up and as you open your gifts and Some of y'all may not be up yet, but I bet your children or grands have said it's time to get up to see what we have under the Christmas tree. Now for you It may be something you ask for, it may be something that surprises you, but nevertheless. Well, I thought about what I could share this day as it relates to the birth of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ and what kept coming to mind to me is John 3. 16. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him would not perish. but have everlasting life. That word lives today because we think about what this means in terms of a gift. Let's think about it. Let's unpack it. God so loved the world, and the world was in chaos then, as it is now to a great degree, but he still loved the world. So much so that it was a time of giving, that he gave the world something it did not deserve. He gave the world something that would impact them in such a special way We think about what scholars say about the writer of this book. It is John the disciple. He's the youngest disciple, and he is reflecting on his time with Jesus Christ. And he knows this truth And he holds on to it. This is a popular verse and we've seen the signs go up at football games back in the day. But what does this really mean? It really is a decision that God made in glory. For God so loved the world that he gave a gift. Amen. It wasn't wrapped up. It didn't come from uh you know Amazon, it didn't come from uh any other of these uh delivery companies, but it came straight from heaven. And we know the story so well that There would be a babe wrapped in swaddling clothes and lying in a manger. Can't you see your nativity scene right now? But let's not water this down in any way. That God so love the world that he gave something. He gave some of himself. Amen? He gave his only begotten son. And here's the larger part of this. That whoever believes. Now you got to be a believer. There's so many things that we believe in that we don't fact check. We just believe it because somebody said. But when it comes to our faith God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. It's a process It's a promise. And that becomes so key. We sometimes overlook this scripture. We're talking about the wise men and the shepherds and Mary and Joseph. But let's not lose sight of the gift that we have received. And it is a gift that keeps on giving over and over again. I'm so excited about the day that I received Christ as my personal Savior. I was but a mere six years old. I was a first grader But something happened on the inside and while I was on a first grade level, uh this thing grew. That is my faith in Christ grew over the years. I began to walk with him, I began to fall follow him and that becomes so key. And so if you only have one scripture that you memorize, only one that you know of It is the one that you ought to teach your children and your grandchildren. John 3 and 16 I believe today that as we celebrate the birth of Christ, that we not lose sight of how it's connected to life eternally. Amen? That you will have life forever. Knowing who it is that sent the gift to you. I'm so glad. Some gifts, they wear out, uh, they go out of date, you lose them, they don't fit anymore But Christ fits our situation. Christ fits our predicament right now. And so I want to say to you, take time to put this word into your spirit today. Go back and read it. It's right there. John 3. 16. It is a message of hope. It is a message of Jesus Christ. Some closing thoughts on this scripture coming up. Thanks so much for coming back to Joel. Thank you so much. I'm still thinking about this word John 3. 16. It's there on the screen. It is a word that I think is portable. My professor in seminary will always say to us in preaching class. Is the word portable? So what do you mean, Professor? Can it go? Can someone take it with them? And I pray that uh this becomes like carry out that you take this into your heart, take it into your home, that wherever you go, that becomes so important. A choir standing by to sing another song that will uplift your spirits and we'll come back. Oh Vin, the stars are brightly shine. It is the night of the Savior's word. All label world. Sin and her fight till he appeared and the small belt is work. Oh we want rejoices for your breaks on new and joyous. On your knees, oh When cry All night divorce all day. Angel Smess Oh no. When Christ was born, divine. I know all night. I'm still thinking about this word John 316. It's there on the screen. It is a word that I think is portable. My professor in seminary will always say to us in preaching class Is the word portable? So what do you mean, Professor? Can it go? Can someone take it with them? And I pray that this becomes like carry out that you take this into your heart, take it into your home, that wherever you go, that becomes so important. Our choir standing by to sing another song that will uplift your spirits and we'll come back. Thank you, Charles, Michael. I vow to worship you this Christmas day. I stand and say, Glory, glory in the highest in Excelsior's jail. I bless you, celebrate the meaning of this. holiday giving praises to the beauty of your holy name I have to wash with Christmas I wish you away from me of this holiday anyway. You will be on your holy name. What do you think I do? What anything I did, one anything I think, what you are. Morning I mean Christmas I like Morning here that I hear I live in my praise morning to love I thought you worship you this Christmas Day, I'll stand and say Glory, glory in the highest animation, unless you celebrate the meaning. What anything I may unto our worship Worthy God I like Morgan supply I like What anything that I give I will I thought you were sitting in the crimson day I'm taking Gory in the highest day. Come on now, give them praise. Giving praises to the beauty of your holy name. Giving praises to the beauty of your holy name. The beauty of the Holy Day. I worship you this wisdom. I worship you this wisdom. I give you all the crowd through I'll praise your name, war, and work, I'll praise your name, war. I have a special invitation for you today, one that will change your life. We talked about the message and what it means to you. But if you have not accepted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, you can do it. Right now on Christmas morning, all you have to do is to confess Christ, to say, I believe that God sent his only begotten Son, Jesus Christ. and that he died for me, but that he rose again. And this sounds like it's so simple. It really is something that you have to do. But if you know in your heart that you are not saved, you know in your heart, as the old saints would say, you've not been converted And it's personal, but take time today to accept Christ as your personal Savior. He's the holy God who sent his son. And so this day should not pass you Just take a moment even now where you are and just bow your heads and close your eyes and you can get away and whisper this and say, Lord Jesus. I want you to come into my heart that I believe that you came. I believe in Christmas, that you came as a babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in the manger, but I also believe today that you died on an old rugged cross and that you rose. And the Bible says, if I believe that, I shall be saved. Take a moment today, put this on your to-do list, that I made a decision. to accept Christ as my personal Savior. Some very final thoughts coming up. Hot angel says she does. Of the world for reaching new born king Jesus the light of the world we're walking In the life, you could come where the do that some mercy shall I share all us by day and my night. Jesus light of the world. Christine rise. Sang your song. Jesus light of the world. Christ is single to the light of the world. We walk in the light. You live for light, come where the news from the fai, share by my life, Jesus. Come where the truth of mercy Shah Band Bhagai I pray you've enjoyed your time with us today. Thank you for allowing me to come into your home. We invite you into our home. And yes, I got to go play with my toys upstairs. I got some gifts. Put them together. Amen. Isn't that great today that you ought to always have the joy of Christmas? You always ought to have the joy of Christ. operating in your life today. On behalf of a great team here at Harvest Christian Ministries, on behalf of our leadership, we want to thank you for taking a moment. Now share this word with someone else. I believe it's going to bless somebody. I'm Dr. Tim Toodin, founder and pastor of Harvest Christian Ministries Have a blessed day in the Lord. Joy to the world, the Lord is come. Every heart prepared and heaven is your sing, and heaven and nature sing. And hell and dangerous thing Joy to the world saving Let's Song and Lord Repeat the sound in joy, repeat the sounding joy, repeat, repeat. Because founding joy He rules the world with true land grace and make the nations grow And wonder you love, and wonder you done, and one wonders wonder.