Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. He's blessing me. Right now, even as we stand here, we're evidence of what a blessing looks like. You ever have said to someone, you know what, you are a real blessing to me. Something they may have said to you or something they may have done, where God will use you to be a blessing. It's not always what you get from God. It's what you are able to share with someone else. Let us bow today. Father, we come and we bless your name. At the name of Jesus, every knee shall bow, every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God. As we stand today, God, may we decrease. And may you increase. Lord, save somebody today. Somebody who has come to the end of their rope. Somebody who has lost hope. Somebody who's standing on the ledge of life today. Somebody who's given up. I pray in the name of Jesus that they may hear your word and make a turn towards you. As we come today, God, we don't know who we speak to. But we pray that you might speak through us. That you might get the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. worth mentioning in that regard when it happens in Hollywood it makes news when people are driven to the point where they don't want to live again. But I come to say to you that he gives life and he gives it more abundantly. Stay with Jesus. Stick with him. And your dark days will become bright. Your heavy loads will become lighter if you stick with it. There's a word today that comes from 1 John, the first chapter. Verses 8 through 10. It reads, if we claim to be without sin, we deceive ourselves. And the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just and will forgive us our sins and purify us from all unrighteousness. If we claim we have not sinned, we make him out to be a liar. And his word is not in us. I want to preach today from the Samonic title as a part of our prayer series, simply come clean. Come clean. I tend to agree with the psychologists who say that when we do something wrong, there are two typical reactions or responses. On the one hand, we try to hide or deny that we've done anything wrong. If nobody finds out, then so be it. We tell ourselves it never really happened. On the other hand, we might just want to confess. what it is that we've done wrong in the sight of God. And I guess the problem, and I'm using us all day today, and we all day today. That it gets into the open and it helps us to move forward in life and to continue on this journey. But the psychologists say there's apparently a sort of a middle ground between those two possibilities. It's called the partial confession. That's when we admit to what we did wrong, but don't admit to the full extent of it. You know it was somebody else's problem. You didn't really do a full sin, it was partial And this partial confession seems like a great compromise of sorts, and here's why. We get the benefit of admitting that we've done something wrong, but we don't have to take it to any extreme. Well well let's let's close the psychology book and pick up the good book which is the Bible, the Word of God. It considers sin as sin. Amen. It costs sin the act of breaking God's law, God's has commandments, and Many of us of a mature age now to where we don't do with the partial. We actually know when we messed up. You'll have a praying church today. Nobody has to tell you when you see it. By now you ought to have a uh a detector in your spirit to know that what you said did not honor God Or what we did did not glorify him. I'm I'm just being mature. But that's who we are. I've seen this bumper sticker that says Christians are not perfect, they're just forgiven That's with the toot on the horn as you drive by somebody. Well, and there's no category of of sin like oh, that's only a one Or that's a ten. Sin is sin. And the sooner we realize that, the better shape we're in to confess it. Now, no matter what the sin I believe we've received an invitation from heaven to come clean. And by doing so, we can receive forgiveness from the Lord Jesus Christ. In our text today, it is John the disciple, the one who hung out with Jesus, who writes today to the church. And John finds himself there on the Isle of Patmos. He's being punished for being a follower of Jesus Christ. He writes to the church. And John has quite a resume. You recall that on the Sea of Galilee that Jesus came by recruiting and came across John and his brother James. They're the sons of Zebedee. They were sitting on their father's boat, mending their nets, and they followed Jesus. And John has credibility. John has experience. Why? He says, hear the things that we have heard. Here's the things that we have seen and the things that we've looked and our hands have touched. Ever want to be with somebody who's been there? And done that. They can tell you things not that what they heard on TV or read in the magazine, but there's some life experiences that they can say, you know what? Been there, done that. Well y'all know what I'm talking about today. In short, John is the piara man. He's the front man for Jesus. He talks about the difference between light and darkness. And why it's so important for us to walk in the light. I don't mean these two lights on me right here. I mean walking in the divine light of Jesus Christ See when you walked in darkness, you know what light feels like. It's been said that when you've been in the darkness for so long, uh that you at some point think it's normal. Well let me go down memory lane for a minute to some of y'all who maybe been in the club. And when you walked in, the place seemed real dark After two dances and a beverage, all of a sudden now things lighten up. I just put that in there to make sure we got awake church. Praise God But then John goes from light and darkness to pick up the topic of confessing our sins. about coming clean. And I want to just look at this from the standpoint of what it means to have a reversal in our thinking. And to recognize there is a remedy for our condition, and to be open to allow God to reboot our circumstances. A reversal in thinking. It says if we claim to be without sin, verse number eight, we deceive ourselves. And the truth is not in us. We've got to reverse our thinking. We we, all of us have to reverse our thinking, to go in a different direction, to turn away from the very thing that we know would trip us up. Amen. There's just some things you know will get you. There's some things you know if you go down that road. It's gonna be a problem. And that's why we have to take the detour that God gives us. Bible says there's no sin that's common to man. He always provides an exit sign to say, hey You can bail out if you want to. Am I praying to anybody today? We've all deal with the old person. There's the old you and there's the new you. And they're fighting every day. See who's gonna win. Will the old Tim be out today? Or will we get the saved and the sanctified Tim? The Hallelujah Tim. Amen. And so it's a battle daily to kill the old person. And to say to have no sin, as the false teachers were teaching, it means you have no need for a savior. If you that squeaky clean, then you don't even need to be in church. Why? Because you got it like that. Not so That you need the Savior in your life in order to come clean. Reverse the mindset of I make mistakes sometimes or now you know I'm not perfect or I'm only human or the devil made me do it Amen? An excuse to defend our sinful nature and our actions, a reversal in how you think A legal U-turn that we might turn from a sinful life. Amen? Deception. Deceiving. Fooling ourselves that we are all of that. But don't you know sin is evident That's why Jesus died because of our sins. Can I just stay on our? Our sins. We've all sinned. Amen? Romans 3 23 says, all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Everybody in the house From the pulpit to the back, everybody on Facebook, Instagram have sinned. Everybody I know Have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Romans 3:10. As it is written, there is none righteous. No, not one. So if you've joined the righteous club, turn your card in. Why? You have to reverse You're thinking and coming clean about the sin that you have committed. But it's also got to be a remedy for our condition. Verse nine. I love this verse. It's the one you need in a tight place. If we confess our sins. He's faithful and just and will forgive us of our sins and do what? To cleanse us from all unrighteousness or to purify us From all unrighteousness. A remedy is a medicine. A remedy is a treatment. It's a take two and call me in the morning. We need that. It says if we It is a choice that we have to make. Shall you continue in sin? Paul says in Romans 6, that grace may abound. In other words, why should we keep on messing up? Can anybody testify today that when you messed up and you know you messed up and you say I'm not gonna do it anymore? Well there again, I'll be transparent. I've done something else, I won't do it again. And guess what? I did it again. It won't get me next time. Why I was trying to fight it in the flesh. But you need Jesus to fight your battle. You cannot Win against the devil. Amen. You have to find the remedy, and the remedy comes by way of our asking for forgiveness Don't assume that well you know God know. No, I'm talking about getting on you, Lord I I blew that. Anybody had a blew it moment this week? I I really messed up and I I really fell short, but thank God For Jesus, there is a remedy. He is faithful and just He'll forgive us. He'll make us clean again. That's one thing about our faith is that yes, we will sin But thank God for the blood of Jesus, He will wash your sins and wash my sins. I can't talk about this enough. Oh, wait. No matter what the world says, oh you'll never get no no the Savior I serve knew I messed up. I came clean with him and he made me brand new. When he promises something, he stick with it. He says, I'll clean you up. He ain't just saying nothing to be saying it. He really means what he said. God will back his word up. Proverbs twenty-eight thirteen says, Whoever conceals their sins does not prosper. It we hide them again. But the one who confesses and renounces them Finds mercy. Hallelujah. Thank you, Jesus. Come here, David. David says, You know what? I messed up. You know my story. I I should have been on the battlefield, but I was chilling on my rooftop. Happened to catch another man's wife taking a midday bath. I may as well tell you what's in the Bible. Amen. And so I I messed up And then I tried to cuddle up by taking uh her husband and saying, You need to build a front line, bruh. You you a warrior, man, knowing that he would be killed. But old Nathan came by and said, You know what? I'm a prophet. My name is Nathan. You know what? That was this man. Uh he told a story about having a sheep and David said, Oh man, you mean he said, You are that man, David? And David says, create in me a pure heart, oh God, and renew a steadfast spirit within. How many folk need to be renewed today? Amen. When your lesson runs out, you gotta renew. When your tag runs out, you gotta renew. When your membership features you gotta renew. And so we gotta renew our minds in Jesus. That is the remedy. That's the medicine. That's the Holy Ghost stab we need. For this sinful life. After we reverse it, but then finally, we've got to reboot. Verse 10. In every one of these verses, John begins, if we So in other words, he's saying, me too, Doc. He is inclusive if we claim that we've not sinned. Lord help us. We make him out to be a liar. Man, that ought to be chilling. But you're making God out to be a liar, and his word is not in us. To reboot for you computer people means sometimes acting just shut it off. Shut the power off and let it reboot. Yeah. And sometimes it acts better. Anybody does that? Had a computer you say either that or I'm gonna throw it through the wall. It acted like it's crazy. I've been hacked, I don't know what's going on. You say, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. And what you reboot it, it comes up, and so God is trying to reboot us. Amen And so to deny that we have sinned, and that's what those false teachers made them believe. That you really have never sinned. It was the lie in the garden. Amen. And the enemy is always telling you a lie. What you did wasn't that bad. I wouldn't re I wouldn't apologize. I wouldn't do I man, I wouldn't even worry. That's a lie from the devil Oh, you're not that bad. Other folk better than you. Oh, some of y'all have been there. I have. I'm doing my thing, but it ain't better as your thing. But sin is sin. Rebooting, and we deny The presence of sin. Get amnesia. We're denying God's word. And the word is not working in us. We are wordless. John 1 and 1, the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. That's why I'm always talking about Bible study. Why? You need to get the word in you. Not on you, but in you. And you do that by doing what? Taking time every day to read the scriptures Taking time every day to get something in you, whether you hear it, whether you read it, you need to get the word of God in you. Amen. Matthew 10:33 says, Whoever disowns me If you say you not sin, then you basically saying, I'm not owning up to you, God. He says, I will disown you. When you get to heaven and say you remember me, don't you? Yeah, I I did the best I could. Yeah, but I'm talking about we all gonna be judged before the Lord today. Rebooting. Reversing this life of sin and knowing that there's this remedy. You know, the same John in the Bible says that he's the one that Jesus loved. He was the youngest of all those disciples. He was the only follower who stuck with Jesus. The rest of the guys went in hiding. But John had a front-row seat. He witnessed the crucifixion. He he witnessed Jesus being pierced in the side. He saw it. He witnessed the nails going into his hands. He heard the nails. He watched Jesus die on that cross. He was there with the mother of Jesus, Mary and God said, By way of Christ, take care of my mother. This is your son, woman, and man, this is your mother. He watched all of that, and then he witnessed Jesus having already arisen from the grave. This the same John. And that's why we're able to come clean because of what happened at the cross. It was because of the blood of Jesus Christ. Oh him says, at the cross, at the cross where I first saw the light. And the burden of my heart rolled away. It was there by faith. I receive my sight and now I'm happy all the day. Come clean. What can wash away my sins? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. What can make me whole again? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. Oh, precious is the flow That that makes me white as snow. No other fount I know nothing but the blood. Anybody agree with that today? That that nothing else would do it. No one else can do it. It's only through the blood. Hebrews tell us we've got to lay aside every way and that sin that so easily beset us and to run our race with patience. Looking under Jesus the author and the finish of our faith. We have to know that He's there at the right hand of the Father making intercession for the saints. Well the story is told of an old man in Wales in England who when called to pray would always pray, Lord, clean all the cobwebs out of my life. It never failed that when he prayed, you can expect him to say the same prayer. Lord, clean all the cobwebs. out of my life. But there was one fellow in the church who got tired of hearing that prayer. He said, enough of this. Next time you pray that prayer, I'm gonna jump in and shout, Lord, kill that spider. And we're gonna kill the spiders in our life. Don't complain about the cobwebs. Those are the things that will cause us to sin. I don't want to send you home on a guilt trip. I don't want to sit at home saying, you know what, he was beating me up today. No, we beat each other up today. And the word of God is for reproof and correction that the man of God might be thoroughly furnished in the good works, it's to help us. But Forgive yourself. The Lord has forgiven you, but you've beaten yourself up. Once He forgives you, keep on moving. Don't sit there and agonize Know that the Lord is always searching. Psalm 139. He says, search me, God, and know my heart. Test me and know my anxious thoughts. See if there's any offensive way in me and lead me into the way of everlasting God will not force you to confess. He won't twist your arm. He won't step on your bad toe. He won't corner you and make you confess. It's something we have to do. Amen. James says, confess your faults one to another that you might be healed. There's an old song written by the late Reverend Thomas Dorsey. Considered to be the father of black gospel music. And I would hear my mother sing this song practically every Sunday. I say, Lord, what are they talking about? But as I got older, I realized the words had meaning. Search me Lord. Search me Lord. Turn the light from heaven on my soul. If you find anything that shouldn't be, take it out and straighten me. I want to be right I want to be saved. I want to be whole. Anybody want to be whole today? You're tired of being half and half, but you want to be whole. You want to live a life that's whole for the Master. You want to walk in a way that's whole for the Master. Why? Because of what God has done by way of Jesus Christ. My God, you want to drop some sins right now Ought to be in a confession mode that Lord I messed up, but thank God for Jesus. And thank God for what Jesus did on that old rugged cross. What he did on that tree was just for you And isn't it magical in some way that you can mess up? And knowing you mess up, but you can go to Jesus in prayer, and he'll save you and turn your life around and wipe your record clean and make you somebody folks may not know the real you, but thank God that when you come clean He'll come closer to you. Anybody want to come clean today? Come on, come on, come on, come clean. Come clean for the master. I am thine, oh Lord. I've heard thy voice. Draw me nearer Come clean. Don't come half partially Making a case that you know I didn't it was Billy's fault. If she hadn't said that to me, I wouldn't have gone there. I told her don't text me no more. And I I just had enough. I had it up to here. But then the Holy Spirit will pull you up and say, Yeah, yeah, I hear all that. But you ought to feel an uneasiness in your spirit. And me as well when we're living in sin. Confess it. Come clean. That's the word of God, it's all going to do this. Come on, stand today all over this place. And the first step It's the curtain like your who you think you fooling? Let me give me a week. Let me get myself together. And then I'll come clean. Do it even now My God, we need prayer to make it in this life. No more excuses. Just come. No need to fix up. Become exposed today Just as you are Comm Come with me Come. Just as you are. He knows the condition And he knows my condition as well. Come in. Come and live life. That's the power of God's playing. The living water. Come on, come today. The world will tell you gotta fix up. And go through a five-step plan and then a six-step plan. And then try another method. But the Bible says, Come unto me. All you who labor and a heavy laden and I will give you rest. a minute with you to talk about what the Lord will do. What stuck out to me is that we we can't deny that we're sinners. Saved by grace. And so when we come today, this word is to help us. God forbid you come to church and you don't get helped But this this word helps us out. That you're walking around with all that guilt built up. And the enemy has told you, oh, he's never gonna forgive you for that one. Guess what? That's why he's the father of lies. But if you come today clean and bring it to him just like this How many folk know he'll do it? How many have experienced the saving grace of Jesus Christ? It's that blood That covers a multitude of sins. As you come today, as you bow your heads all over this. place and by way of the media I want to pray with you. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. In our prayer is this. If we confess our sins, that you are faithful and you are just to forgive us of our sins and then cleanse us. From all unrighteousness. Lord, we need a new lease today, a new start. We messed up yesterday, in last week, in last month And this morning, but God we come today, a fresh and anew, asking for your mercy and your grace. Lord, today let your people know that they can come to you with anything. And the fact of the matter is. You already know what we have done. We come clean now. God is the one today who never given their heart to you. May they come. Confessing. The Bible says that you shall confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. The Bible says Says thy will be saved. Do it today in that life. May that person come clean with you and receive life eternal. In Jesus' name. Amen. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.