Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits. And then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Medicase. It's already in progress. Amen. Praise the Lord. You are important to me. I need you to survive. You may act like Superman, but you're not Superman. Yeah, you may act like you got it all together, but everybody needs somebody. A long life's journey, you can't make it by yourself. Let's look to the Lord today. Heavenly Father, we come even now in this hour of preaching. We pray even now, God, that you might guide us and lead us during this time. That we might decrease and that you might increase. God save someone today, encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. This is a great day in the Lord. Amen. There's a word from the Lord today that comes from the Gospel of John. And John uh is just one who wrote and documented what he witnessed. By way of the Lord Jesus Christ. In fact, uh the synoptic gospels are Matthew, Mark, and Luke. And John comes along, and a lot of times what they would do is see what was written elsewhere and then pattern that For their particular community. There in John 15, 7 it reads, If you remain in me, and my words remain in you, ask whatever you wish And it will be done for you. Conditions for answered prayer. Conditions for answered prayer. I came across a survey not long ago done by the Pew Research Group. They're known for doing all kinds of surveys. This particular one was on prayer And what it showed was that about 55% of Americans said that they prayed every day. Another 21% say they pray weekly or monthly. 21% said they seldom or never pray. I don't know about you, but I need to pray every day. Sometimes three or four times a day, depending on what you run into in the course of your day. When we speak of prayer, we think every Sunday we recite what we call the Lord's Prayer in the Gospel of Matthew 6, our Father which art in heaven. That's a great starter. All you have is that that will work to the glory of God. You know, life challenges will prompt you to pray. If you never have a reason to pray for anything, you let trouble come your way. Let somebody mess with you and fire you up. Instead of fighting you, let me just take a bathroom break for a minute. Any bathroom prayers in here? Y'all kept from hurting somebody because you wanted to pray unto the Lord. And what is so great is that when we pray to him, he hears our prayers. We're not praying to some figure who is not alive, but God is alive Oh saints, I can feel him in my hands, I can feel him in my feet, I can feel him all over me. If I want to ask you about answered prayer, you can tell me what he did not yesterday But how God answered your prayer yesterday. How he made a way out of nowhere. It's great to just stay connected to him during the course of the day. He doesn't require you to do a long prayer. He asked you for a deep prayer. The Bible says we ought to pray without ceasing. That means every time you feel the Spirit coming on you, you say, Lord, I just need to whisper a prayer in the morning. Whisper a prayer at noon, whisper a prayer in the evening to keep my heart in tune. And y'all look cool over the day. How many folks have to get a little quick prayer? I mean you won the brink And all you know was this Lord help me. And didn't he do it? Didn't he give you the peace that passeth all understanding? And so wherever you are, you can mumble something. Nobody got to know what you're praying. In fact, those things they just moan, the devil gets mad, he don't know what you're saying, but we need to pray. Wait to see the hand of God at work. And you knew that it was not you with your good-looking self You with your smart self, but it was the Lord who made a way for you because you had the secret weapon of prayer. In our text today, we look at the writings of John And John is one that was recruited by Jesus early in his ministry. You might recall that he walked along the Sea of Galilee looking for those who would join him. He finds the fishermen. He gets uh Peter and he finds Andrew. Then he goes and he finds John and James. They're there on their father-in-law's boat mending necks. He says, follow me I will make you fishes of man. So John has an inside track because what? He's been hanging out with Jesus. And so he's seen some things happen. He he's witnessed that if you pray to him, he will answer. Uh he's witnessed some things along the way. He's seen some miracles, but isn't it great to have a guy with the inside track? Some folks want to tell you something and they've been nowhere and done nothing. But no, he said I was there. And I documented what I saw by being with Jesus I would see him get up early in the morning and steal away and go pray to his father. I've seen him in the camp pray. And John was a part of that inner circle that they would hang out with Jesus. They had kind of a exclusive club, so to speak, but they were the ones who can talk about prayer. And so in this 15th chapter, the first six verses, really you have him talking about Jesus sharing with the disciples. And he gives a metaphor. He gives a parable, which is an earthly story with a heavenly meaning. I love how Jesus sees things around him. I said, wait a minute There's a great mind. Let me let me do something with this and show you how to work this. If he were here on earth, he would say, wait a minute, uh, let me use Instagram to make a message for you. Let me show you something. He takes the here and now. They were in a region where they grew lots of grapes. He says, you know what? I am the vine. And you are the branches. And my father is the gardener. And when he sees things that are not connected well, he'll prune them back, so they might do what? Have more fruit. Some of you off in the country, you know that. So watching my father go out with his knife. Why is he cutting on the grapevara? But I understood later that if he cut it back some, it'll grow. Or a fruit tree, you cut it back a little bit, and it'll grow. And so in our own lives, the Lord has to do what? He has to prune us and help us to grow. To be of good use. But as he moves on from that point, he goes right into the very next verse that's before us today, where he talks about: if you remain in me. And my words remain in you, then you will ask whatever you wish and it shall be done to you. So there are conditions. And let's talk about a couple conditions. Okay? If you remain in me, if you stay connected to me, that becomes one of the conditions for answered prayer. It means that I am connected because I've accepted him as my personal savior. He's transformed my life. From what it used to be. And so I can't go any other place because I've been out there. And I want to remain in him, remain or abide in him, so that I might grow in him Does that make sense today? That I need to have him in my life. And there really is no shortcut to this. That's a condition that you have to be with me. There's no shortcut. This this is first base in our starting out in our learning of the Lord. And here's what's important is that nothing will separate you from the love of Christ. Can't you say this theologically? You can't lose your salvation. Once saved, always saved Now you might have some things happen in life, but you don't get unsaved. Amen. The Bible says that once you're in my hand, no one can pluck you out Amen. You might not be doing all you could do, but you would you you still say Amen? And so that's what's great about he said, you gotta stick with me. I know you think you know a thing or three, but stick with me. That is a starting point. And we need to know that we have embraced the fact that he died on that cross. And that he died for our sins, and then he got up on the third day with all power in his hands. I gotta remain in him. Psalm 46 and 10 says, be still and know that I am God. That's the things that at this point of your journey you ought to know. Amen? Nobody should be able to shake you about your faith and make you doubt the Lord of your salvation. And I often talk sometimes with me, because you'll find Christian folk. Well what do you know about that They're trying to quiz you because they got two Bible verses under their belt. Oh what what about that? I said all I know is I don't know much. I knew I was lost and he found me. I knew I was a rascal, but I'm better now than what I was. So there's no need for a debate when you remain in him. That's what's important. And so that's a condition for prayer. Right place, right time, right person. I need to be in you. And your devotional life will do that. Did I just need to spend some time with you? I remember last week, knock knock who was there. That helped me all week this week, in terms of being able to stop And take time to pick up a devotional and say, I just need to spend some time with the Lord. I'm going to read this passage, and what does it say to me? It may say something different to you, but what did I walk away with? This week for me, it was about purpose. Everywhere I read, say that you know why you're here, don't you? There's a purpose for your life. Here's another condition, that's an important one. If you remain in me and my words remain in you Not our words, but his words. His doctrine, his set of beliefs, his commandments. And the Bible is the inspired word of God. It is God breathe. And so we have an instruction manual right before us. Keep the word of God in you. Amen. He who has begun a good work in you will perform until the day of Jesus Christ. And so my words have to be in you. That's the condition. Uh not your little short list of things you want. And we've all done some gimme prayers. Oh yes we have. Lord I I need this and this and this oh and this And he said, okay. Now what what is that based on? Well, I you know, I just I I need this. I remember some years ago, and I'll get in trouble again. My son, I used to like to hear children pray. They're so honest. And Tim said, thank you for my PlayStation. Thank you, Lord, for my tennis shoes. You know, I mean, but those were things that were important. Lord, I thank you for life, health, and strength. I thank you that I'm in my right mind. I thank you, dear God, that you've given me articulation of speech. I thank you. Anybody thankful today? That I can use the words he's given me, that if nothing else, I ought to have something in me that qualifies me to come to him and to ask You don't just show up and say, well, you know, it's remember me. He ought to know you. Because we take time to be with him. And the word is scripture-based. What does the word of God say about what you're asking? Uh-oh. That messes with the list. Amen? Is it something that will sustain you? Is it something that will guide you? What is it that you are using as a basis for your prayer? See he recognizes his own word. If all you know is the Lord is my shepherd. Say, Lord, this is Tim, and you're my shepherd. And I shall not walk. You make me lie down. Today, Lord, I need to lay down. Because I got problems. And so you can begin to pray his word back to him. If his word remains in you. John 1 and 1 says, Well, in the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. And we have so many ways of getting the word these days, devotionals and emails and the Bible. Getting the word in us And the world might even ask, well, do you really have more than that one scripture in you? It ought to be evidence. Of what the word has done in you. That you ought not be the same old person you were in the high school yearbook. With that afro. In the bell bottoms. Amen? That that there ought to be something in you that the world sees and says, you know what? Something a little strange about you. The word says we'll procure your people. Amen. We'll roll your priesthood that even if they don't see the Word of God, they ought to see the Word of God in you based on how you live. What you say in that's so important. If you remain in me And my words remain in you, and his the third condition. Ask whatever you wish, and it will be done For you. He issues an invitation now that you've done this. Come on. We talked about the prayer of Jabez some time ago. Just say, Lord, bless me indeed. Don't be afraid to ask. You ever go into the Lord and you like kind of you know Lord I I'm coming to you today? You know what you come to ask for. I want to pray for all everything then. Well he already knows. What you gonna ask anyway? He wants to just fellowship with you and suck with you, amen What are you going to ask? Things that line up with the Word of God. And I'm not asking for temporary stuff. Lord, make me number one in my class. Uh, you know, uh I'm praying for uh, you know, the rap is the win. I'm praying for Golden State. People ask me, what do you think, Reverend? I don't think he really is concerned about that. He's more concerned about the hearts of those who shoot. Amen. He's not concerned about oh God you with I don't think he's with a team And I love the ravens too, but he's not pulling for the ravens. Amen. Or the Orioles. He's pulling for you. That's what's good today is I'm not asking for anything that's gonna make me look good, or something that's gonna profit me or give me pleasure, but I just want to do your will. And here is the key part. He always answers. Sometimes the answer is no. Oh God, I've been praying for weeks about this. God, what what what is wrong? He knows what's best for us. Have you ever prayed for something that you really wanted? And now you are glad God didn't give it to you. I'm just saying you had to have it. Couldn't do without it, and you just pray selfishly just for that. Well, you said if I remain in you, but it was not for you, and it was no. I thank God for the no's in my life. I thank God for the uh uh uh you think you need that, but it will change you, you won't be the same, and then there's always a wait Oh, we don't like to wait. Now God and gave uh it's been over a month. I've been going to church. I've been tithing. I helped Miss Johnson with her trash the other night. You know, I mean stuff that you think you've done right. And so you you owe me this God. He does not owe you anything. He knows what's best for you. And I love the word that says, wait on the Lord. And be of good courage, and he will strengthen thine heart. He'll just pause you sometimes until you need it. Oh, I know I'm right today. I know I'm right today. Whatever you ask, he'll give it to you. But he knows what is best for you. Why? He knows our condition. He knows our frame of mind. He knows our motives. He knows why we're asking James and don't ask amiss. But ask based on what he's put in you. As a journalist, when I covered the crime beat, I would call and say, nah, somebody was shot. And they're at this hospital. I want to just call and see what their condition is. And they would say, wait a minute, let me give you the nurse on duty. And then you would say, the condition is good. Okay, this person is in good condition tonight. Or they may say the person is in fair condition. And you may not know what that means, but that means they're fair. They're hanging on. They may say the person is in serious condition. Or they may say the person is in critical condition. And you say, oh God, are they going to make it? And then there are times you call and they'll say, oh, you mean that guy? He's been treated and released. Aren't you glad today that God knows your condition so well that so that what you need is to be treated and released? what you're going through and released to do more for him. Amen. I'm glad today that he has saved me. My condition is saved. My condition is sanctified. My condition is I'm filled with the Holy Ghost. I thank God for that condition. It was not always that way. Aren't you glad you're saved today? Well I am, I am, I am, may not have any of the world's riches, but I've got salvation. I've got Jesus, and that's enough. He'll give you a cheat sheet every now and then. What am I gonna pray about? He'll give you some cliff notes. Some of y'all know about them. You didn't read the whole book. You've got some cliff notes to help you out. Second Chronicles, if my people, which are called by my name, will humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from the wicked way, then Well I hear from heaven. I will heal their land. I'll forgive their sins. He's giving you an idea of what you can ask. Ask and it shall be given to you. Not and the door shall be open, but make sure it lines up with God's word. David says, You know what? I messed up. So I need for you to clean me up. He answered it. David, a big hero in the Bible. Come here, Hannah. Hannah says, You know what? I just want a boy. I want a son and when you give him to me I'll bring him back. He answered her prayer. Elijah said, you know what? I'm just praying for rain. I know what the seven-day forecast says, but I'm praying God that you might rain down even on means of death. Anybody want to know that God will stick in there for you? Is that he'll take your condition and change you. That gives me hope today. There's an order. You don't just show up out the blue and say, it's me. You show up saying, Lord, I'm in you. And your word is in me, and therefore, based on what you put in me, I'm just giving back to you everything you know that I need and I desire and that will make me better in you. Song says, my hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and his righteousness. I dare not trust the freedom's frame. But holy lean on Jesus' name, on Christ, the solid rock I stand, all of the ground is sinking sand. Well, my prayer today is that I might grow at him. My prayer today is that I might continue to look to the hills, which cometh my hill. My prayer today is that I might share his word with his people. So can I tell you? He's answering my prayer. Here I am today, oh country boy, before you preaching the gospel, why I pray for this. Don't tell him to use you, because he'll do it. Not just behind the pulpit, but you'll be at the train system, praise the Lord. You'll be at work so thank God. He'll use you. Whatever you ask him for, he will give you just. And that's my prayer. Use me to you use me up. Use me to be a light. Use me to be a guide. Use me to be an encouragement to someone after I've met all of the conditions. I'll leave you with that today. If if if if you mean yeah if you remain in me. If you allow my word to remain in you, then you can ask whatever you wish. And it shall be done unto you. That's the word of God today. Come on, stand over this place today. Thank God for how He gives us conditions, but how He changes our condition so that we might pray for the right thing. And get this for the right person. Amen. Give us the words to pray back to you, God, even today. As we come, there may be one in this place Was never given the life to you. And that's possible. In spite of technology and 1,000 channels, folk are still missing the gospel. I pray today, God, that you might use us to be that light, to be the magnet that might draw them to a closer relationship. If someone is here today and you don't know Jesus, I mean showing up, know him, not know of him, God may you touch that heart today Your word says, if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in our hearts that God has raised him from the dead, the Bible says, thou shalt be saved. We thank you for salvation in Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Amen. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. comtoharvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.