Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Amen. How many folks? The whole saint was saved. You've got your ticket. Bound for glory. Let's bow today all over this place Heavenly Father, we thank you for who you are. Thank you for your provisions that you've made towards your children. We're not a hopeless people. We're a people of hope and of faith. As we stand today to proclaim your word, may we decrease so that you might increase. Save someone today. Empower another. We'll give your name the praise in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. The Lord is good. There's a word from the Lord that comes from the Acts of the Apostle, 2nd chapter verses 42 through 47. It reads, they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and to fellowship, to the breaking of bread and to prayer. Everyone was filled with awe at the many wonders and signs performed by the apostles. All the believers were together and had everything in common. They sold property and possessions to give to anyone who had need. Every day they continued to meet together in the temple courts. They broke bread in their homes, ate together with glad and sincere hearts. Praising God and enjoying the favor of all the people. And the Lord added to their number daily those who were being saved. We'll preach today from the Samonic title Days of Our Lives. Days of Our Lives. Like sands through the hourglass. So are the days of our lives. It is a familiar line used to describe a long-running and popular soap opera that I gather some of you may have watched a time or two. But much like the television series Our lives as we know them are not exempt from agony and anger, burdens or blind spots. drama or difficulties, heartbreak or heartache. They make up the days of our lives. And while on TV they seem to solve the problem by the commercial break, life is not like that. We'll left to figure out what to do in the next hour, in the next minute, the next second. I I start by telling you this morning that you don't have to live the days of your lives lonely or alone, in despair or depress. For God has given us something called colonia. And the Greek word that simply means fellowship. It means sharing in common. It means communion. And that was the first century church that was founded after the death, the burial, and the resurrection of Jesus Christ our Lord. Let's set the scene. There is Peter, one who was recruited by Jesus there along the Sea of Galilee, one who followed him, one who witnessed All that there was to witness when it came to the work of Jesus Christ. Also one who denied Jesus. But Peter now is on the scene. He is preaching his heart out. He is starting really the first church. And he's already preached about repentance. And I can just stop right there and say repentance. What does it mean to repent? It is to say that I am sorry for what I've done. Now I don't mean just, Lord, forgive me. I mean I'm shown up. Sorry. You ever been in a situation that you've done something in life and you felt so bad about it? I mean really bad because the Holy Spirit had worked on you in such a way that nobody had to beat you up. You knew you had blown it. Peter preached repentance, and the Bible says people accepted Christ as their personal savior and were baptized. I would need more deacons, you know why? 3,000 souls were saved. They were about to live the days of their lives. And let me just say, it was no walk in the park. We think about the lenses of the first century church. The fact that they said they were Christ's followers meant they could be stoned. beaten. But we get to walk around and say, I love the Lord. He heard my cry. We get to break off a prayer wherever we want to And dare you to confront us. But that was not the case for them. But in spite of all that they went through, they had hope, they had divine expectations because they were a practicing people. They were a practical people, and they were a praising people. The Bible says they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and to fellowship, the breaking of bread, and to prayer. Everyone was filled with awe at the many wonders and signs performed by the apostles. They they practiced what they preach. There's a very popular saying that says, you know, practice makes perfect. I beg to differ. I would say practice at best makes improvement. Amen? How many folk desire just to be better? Amen. I'm on practice keeping my mouth shut. I'm on practice not getting in folks' business I'm on practice, not doing the things I know are not good for my body. I'm on up uh I I could go on. They were practicing people, and the early church used the word of God as their guide. The word says they were taught the Word of God by those who had been with Christ and there was fellowship. Did you know that you were in a fellowship That we are one family in God. Yeah, I could start calling couldn't couldn't uh see here couldn't lee. I could call out names. Amen. And couldn't Mary. But but when we come together in Christ, we are as one body. They were people from different backgrounds because the Bible talked about on the day of Pentecost All kind of languages were going forward. But they were one, and we are one in Christ Jesus. Like it or not, you stuck with me. Amen. And I'm stuck with you. And I love you, and there's nothing you can do about it except take it. Amen. I'm gonna love you, and I'm gonna love you, and I'm gonna love you some more. The Bible says that they broke bread together. And that's where the first pot look supper came from. They spent time together eating at people's homes And scholars even suggest that a part of that meant that they ate bread as it relates to communion together. But what's important is that they were together and they were living under truth because of what was being told. No no rabbit foot in my pocket, no here's some new concept. But once we stay with the Word of God, we can't help but to live right and to live better. Why? Because prayer is key and it ought to be the trademark of the church. That I ought to be able to have the Lord pop you in my mouth and say, Oh well I wonder how they doing today. I can't call them, text them or Facebook 'em, but I can pray for them. And I know for a fact that you prayed for me during the course of the week. Because I can feel some stuff. I know somebody praying. And I'm praying for you as well. And the result was everyone was filled with awe because of what God was doing. All of that led to this, that things began to happen. I would had the time I could point out a half a dozen miracles or more right here in this place. Amen. Of the things that God continues to do, how many folk know that you are a miracle? Yes you are. You a miracle. Had it not been for the Lord on your side, but they they they stayed in that word. 2 Timothy 3. 16 and 17 says, all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for reproof. For correction that the man and woman of God might be thoroughly furnished under good works. That's what the word would do. So practice this week reading the word. Practice, practice. But they were also a practical people. All the believers were together, had everything in common. I like what you like, you like what I like. They sold property. Uh-oh. and possessions to give to those in need. Now Reverend, I I earn my own way. I ain't giving nobody nothing. If you don't earn it, but think about the old church In the old neighborhood where you could borrow a cup of sugar. Oh some of y'all are not that old, huh? Mama said she borrowed two eggs. Amen. And there was a certain kind of a fellowship that were being practical because they shared things together. I may as well tell the story. A good brother of mine I knew, uh deacon at our church, and That brother blessed me. He was practical. He knew I was struggling with my band payment. I was behind and behind some. So I called a man and said, can y'all put it at the end of the well some of y'all don't know about that. Y'all pay all bills on time, all the time. And this brother, I may as well call Deacon Charlotte and said, Reverend, I was a deacon, can I just make your car payment this month? I was like, Well, praise the Lord. He must have known a brother was struggling He didn't sell nothing, but he paid my note. God forbid we were that kind of church during the days of our lives to not be so selfish and say, you know what, I ain't got much But I'll break you a piece off. What do you need? They were practical people, sold property, gave, and every day they met in the temple courts. They were able to relate to each other Because there's nothing new under the sun. I probably haven't been through it. Maybe you've been through it. Amen. Praise God. They were ones who gave freely And that's how they got through the days of their lives. They made their way to the temple They went to church. Uh oh. I'm messing with my Facebook folk now. I love y'all. And y'all might be going later. But there's nothing like being in the house of God. There's nothing like going to church. Amen? Why? You get the fellowship when you can see somebody. I love FaceTime Live, but I'm not really real because the interruption could cut me off But thank God for Jesus. I can reach out and touch some of them. Good to see you, bro. Sis is good to see you. Amen. They were practical people who worshiped together. They came the church. Story is told of a young man who had a problem with the church. I'm tired of the church people. He went to visit an elderly man in a cabin. As he got there, a fire was going, and he walked up and told this to a dumb church people or something else. And all the seasoned man did was just took the tongues and just took a hot coal and pulled it off the fire and held it in the tongues for a while. At some point, it went to black. And then he just put it right back on, and it got hot again. Young man left. He realized it's okay to be in fellowship. Looking for a perfect church, you're not going to find it. And the Bible says in Hebrews 25, 10 and 25, that we should not giving up meeting together. As some are held in the habit of doing. And know what? Not make you go to church, but you want a woman come to church. I love Signal every week. Why? Because I know that I serve a people who love the Lord with all of their heart. They they were practical people Didn't mind sharing. They were practicing people who did their best to live by the promises of God. But I like this one. They were a praising people. Verse 47 says, praising God and enjoying the favor of all people, and the Lord added to their number daily those who would be saved. They praise God with a purpose. They praise the God who they knew. They praise the God who they serve. They praise the God who had brought them through seen and unseen dangers. They praised the God who made a way. Psalm 150 begins and let everything that has breath praise ye the Lord. Amen. This was a praising church, is a lively church. A praising church is a happy church. A praising church is a victorious church A praising church is a blessed church. A praising church is an exciting church. Aren't you glad to be in the body of Christ? Does you get to the days of your life? You with folk who don't mind praising God. Anywhere, they will praise God. Studies have shown that the average person takes about 16 breaths a minute. 960 breaths an hour. 23,040 breaths a day. Eight million four hundred thousand breaths a year. If you got breath, you ought to just praise God. Anybody breathing today? If you breathe, can we take 15 seconds and say, you know what? Praise him right now. If he's done something for you, take a praise break right now and thank him for getting you through the day Of your life. Amen. And here's the icing on the cake. It says, and the Lord added to their numbers. Let me back it up. They found favor first with God. You got some favor. He added to the church those who were saved. Well I can live the days of my life because one day Jesus died for me. I can live the days of my life because one day he got up for me I can live the days of my life because one day he's coming back. Well, how do you get to the days of your life? When struggle is on every hand, how how do you make it? Well, first of all, I I try to bow my head in prayer and say, Lord, thank you for another day. You know what bound is still in Yes, Lord. I I just want to stop for a moment. The brothers of old will just take the hat off and say, Can I just bow for a minute to thank him for all that he's ever done for me? And then you got the being Bend your knees every now and then. I love a good stand-up prayer. But there's nothing like when you get on your knees for a little kneology to oh some of y'all tried that, haven't you? Amen. On the side of the bed. It might have took you a little while to get up, but you got down on your knees. The Lord. I can make it through the days of my life because I know that you hear my prayer. Amen. And then you got to lean on the Lord. Leaning on the Lord. Oh, leaning on Him in every situation. Safe and secure from all alarms. And then you got to stretch. That's how you do to get through your days. Father, I stretch my hand for thee. No other help I know If thou withdraw thyself from thee, oh, whither shall I go? In monopoly, if you go past, you can get two hundred dollars. But when you go to Jesus You will get joy unspeakable. When you go to him, you will get joy and peace, and you'll find hope in just going to him. I go to the rock. That is higher than I am. Amen. Anybody ever gone to the rock? Bible says the stone of the builders refused became the cornerstone that he is my rock. In a weary land. He's my shelter in the time of storm. Uh oh, oh you say storm? Come here, Dorian. Dorian caused me all kind of havoc But you know, I'm from Florida. And the folk in Florida have been praying, and all of a sudden now, Dorian is recalculating and going, and that's what the Lord will do He'll get you through the days of your life if you just trust him and lean on him and bow to him and bend to him. He got up on the boat one day and says, Peace be still. That's how I can get through the days of my life. Anybody know now that you can make it and you can take it And he'll guide you and keep you all the days of my life. He will do it. Like like the sand in the hourglass. So are the days of our lives That's the word of God today is all what He does. Come on, stand today all over this place. You can make it. And you can take it. Just because We got each other. Man, I got a backup system. Mess with me? I'll call the church. Missing me? I'll call a deacon. Bother me? I'll call the associate minister. Cross me, I'll call the deacon's wives. Mess with me, I'll call the trustees. Bother me, I'll call the choir What? We are one family and we're getting through the days of our lives. Yeah, yeah. So I come by with an offer today. Offer Christ to you. He's a mighty good God, isn't he? Christ to you, my brother. We offer all of Don't want to pass this up. To give you. Yes, you will. Life of bond Oh Listen, the world will turn its back on you. But there ought to be somebody from the fellowship that you can say, you know what? I got family. During the day when I grew up, I wasn't that good a fighter. Y'all heard my story. I was a talker. My brother Junior was a fighter. So since I heard somebody was picking on Tim, that was pre-bullying. Oh, go get Junior. But before Junior got there, Pauline would whoop him. And Lois would come off the top rope. But I was my blood family. But we are the family of God And we ought to be able to get through as family. As we bow today, there might be one who looking for a home. Ain't got no family. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. The Bible says thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised them from the dead. The Bible says thou shalt be saved. By confessing unto him, it gives you a passport into the family. To the common near. Father, I pray today if there's one in this place who knows you not Who are struggling to get through the days of their lives. They may come on and be a part of your kingdom here on earth. I ask it even now, God. Do it in this place today. And we'll be so careful to give your name the praise in Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today Amen. Amen. Come on, really praise them today. Well, you got backup now. Yeah, you got people. Maybe you come today. We'll be a part of this church. The doors are always open Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you It's www. comtoharvest. org. That's come the number to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called Seeds of Encouragement. You can get them by way of iTunes from Podcasting. or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.