Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. How many persons are grateful today? He's just being ungrateful. Not thanking God for what he's done. Anybody grateful today? Amen Father, we come in the name of Jesus, and we're grateful for this opportunity just to stand to declare your truths. May we decrease. May you increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. When this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. There's a word from the Lord this morning that comes from the book of Numbers, 14th chapter. Verses 11 and 12 it reads, The Lord said to Moses, How long will these people treat me with contempt? How long would they refuse to believe in me in spite of all the signs I performed among them? I will strike them down with the plague and destroy them, but I will make you into a nation greater and stronger than they. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, Delivered but Delayed. Delivered but Delayed. It was the summer of 2007 when I hopped in my car after church to drive to Lynchburg, Virginia. It was a six-hour drive and some change. Got there, checked into the hotel room, and that Monday I joined other persons at Virginia University as we began our journey for the Doctor of Ministry program. Honestly, I didn't know what I was getting into. But all they kept saying is, you're on a journey. I kept saying one I've never been on before. But throughout that uh time of academic excellence we got to write our dissertation and then to defend it. And I understood then that the journey was almost over. I defended, crossed the stage, many of you were there. It was indeed a journey. For you, it may have been some challenge in life that you had to push away through. There were some ups and some downs and some high points and some low points, but you were trying to get through You know, when it comes to life's journey, either you were starting out on a journey, you found yourself midway your journey, or perhaps You're coming to the end of your journey. But what's most important is that you ought not to travel alone. You ought to take God with you on anything that you are attempting to do that will have any lasting effect. I know there was a day we thought we could make it. We thought we were big and bad and had our credentials, didn't need no help, but on this journey called life. You need God to guide you and to lead you. Let's recap. The last time we were together, the people of Israel had been freed from slavery. They had come to the bank to the Red Sea. They were free, but not delivered. They gave Moses a peace of their mind. We could have just stayed in Egypt and died there. Why did you set us up? But God talked with Moses and gave him instructions and he raised his staff and the Red Sea opened and they walked across on dry land. And let me fast forward. We're now at the next scene. As they cross over the Red Sea, Miriam The sister of Moses grabs a tambourine and pulls some of the women together and say, let's have a praise party. Why? God's been mighty good to us Ever come to a place in life that God has brought you over? You say, wait a minute, before I do anything, before I go to dinner, before I text it, let me just give God a praise right where I am. Is that your story today that he's brought you through something? And rather than you put it on Instagram, you would say, Let me give God some praise. And that's what they did And God moved them through the wilderness. A trip that GPS said could have taken only a few weeks. But it took them forty years to get to their promised land that God had set up for them. They were delivered, but Delayed. Along the way, God had been that cloud by day and that pillow of fire by night. When they got hungry, God dropped down sweet bread from heaven. He called manna. They were supplied. They got quailed, but yet they had not reached their destination because they were disobedient. Delivered, but delayed. In the book of Numbers, it really means census. So God had taken a census of all the people. To see how many would be available when it came to a time of war. And Moses, there in the 14th chapter, he sends over 12 spies into the promised land. Want you all go and check it out. They went over for 40 days and checked things out He says, take notes when you get there. Tell me how big they are, how bad they are, what's the land like. Bring me back a report. On what you've seen in the promised land, this land that flows with milk and honey. Ten of them came back with a bad report. They're large, they're big, we can't take them. But then there was Caleb and Joshua. They said, I believe we can take them. Aren't you glad that God has raised up some Joshuas and some Calebs, not some Debbie Downers who say, I don't know. If we can make it. Don't hang with folk like that. They just say, well, I don't know. I I I declare, but thank God there's somebody in the camp who said, you know what? I believe all things are possible. But as soon as they got back, the people turned against them. The people said, We don't believe your report. They were about to stone them. They were being rebellious. And they kept saying, you know, things would have been better in Egypt. In fact, why don't we find a new leader and go back to Egypt? Be careful about your Egypt. Be careful about mentioning how things used to be. Be mighty aware that God has brought you to a place for a reason, but yet you're still talking about Egypt. Your Egypt was the good old days. Your Egypt is where you used to live. Your Egypt is where you used to work. That's your Egypt, but God is trying to move you. From Egypt to the promised land to Canaan where he's already set things up. Oh we got thought about that. I said, Your God is trying to move you someplace And he's already provided that the place is occupied, but he's gonna let you go in and take it. He said, No, I won't go in there, but the it might be something. No, no. That thing that God is trying to get you to, it may already be occupied. But God says you can take the land. So so what's delaying you on your journey toward your promised land? There may be some clues in the text. We find evidence of disrespect, evidence of disbelief, and a disconnection. The Lord said to Moses, verse 11, how long will these people treat me with contempt? God is disappointed. God is worked up because he was being disrespected. And that's what contempt is, is that he says to Moses, how long were these hard-headed people continue to not believe me. And don't you know that in this modern era we're still dissing God? As a nation, we've disrespected him. I love the flag. My daddy fought for the flag, but God is bigger than the flag. Can I just go there for a moment? God is bigger than man. And so when you disobey God, you are disrespecting God. And God comes to the leader, Moses How is it? How long will they continue to disrespect me? That's a dangerous thing. When you get so high and mighty that you just say I don't need him. That's a scary place to be when you think that you're all of that and you that well how how do you disrespect God when you don't honor God, when you take everything Invece every anything goes, that's disrespecting God. Moses, how long? And that's why they were delayed because they were disrespecting and dishonoring God. You know what? That's major. That's bold for you to say that I'm all you who are just dust to disrespect God. You can't reach your promised land. They'd gotten the Ten Commandments. Moses had gone up and brought them back down what God had told him. Exodus 20 and 1, I am the Lord your God. Who there again kept remembering, I brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage, and you should have no other gods before me, but yet We are bowing down to other gods all the time. Disrespect. But there was also disbelief. Moses, because Moses was accountable. You brought them over, so I'm coming to you. How long will they refuse to believe in me in spite of the signs I performed? among them. How long? That means that it had been happening before. How long will you just not put your trust in the Hebrews? 11 and 1 says now faith is the substance of things hoped for and the evidence of things not seen by faith, the elders obtained a good report He says, why don't they believe me after all I have done? After all that I've brought them through. After all that I've carried them around, after all that I've blessed them with, after all that I've done, and they still don't believe me. They believe in the boogeyman, Santa Claus, and whoever else, but they don't believe God. Have you ever been in a place in life that you just didn't think it was possible? Show me. And then God showed you. And then he showed off and he showed you what it could do. Aren't you glad you served that kind of God that yeah you were kind of on the fence And that's just some old stuff mom and them talk about. That's old fogy stuff until you experience it. And all of a sudden then you've been made a believer. But God has brought them so far And they were delivered from slavery, but they were delayed and getting to the promised land. What has God brought you through? What has he delivered you from? And I think sometimes we get amnesia. We kind of forgot what he's done. I mean I mean really. He just look around where you live and say, you know what, I I remember when Look at your key before they had all of this. You had to go out there and get a jump from somebody just to get from Port. Oh I know we got some of y'all know about that. Had none but a hoop the if you had a car. But that's a material thing, but think of the joy that you have and the peace that you have because God has brought you through. Isaiah 40, 28, he says, Has thou not known Has I not heard that the everlasting God, the Lord, the creator of the ends of the earth, fainteth not, neither is he weary. There's no searching of his understanding. We got to not be a forgetful people. There was disbelief. And disrespect and a disconnection. Verse twelve God says, okay, I will strike them down with a plague and destroy them. But I will make you into a nation greater and stronger than they. See, we we say, well, I don't know about the God of the Old Testament. He's still the same God. He has had enough He's about to pull the plug. He's about to put space between himself and disobedient people. He says, I will strike them down. God is still striking down. He's not stopped striking down. He's not stopped punishing. He's not stopped getting us straight. He says because You have done this because you have disobeyed me. I'm going to replace you. He makes mention of another generation, a generation 20 and under Who would see the promised land? And then Moses prays, God please. Moses was always praying for the God please. Don't don't don't don't take them out Don't don't don't don't take him out and guess what happens? God says, okay, I will spare them, but they still won't get in the promised land. I'll show them mercy, but I'm gonna keep my word. You will not see the promised land. And God forbid that we've been so delayed that we've forgotten what God has done for us. That's a scary text. It ought to shake you up. God, am I doing what you told me to do? Am I going where you told me to go? Am I saying what you told me? Why? I am accountable because of who you are. Amen. That group would spend their last days in the wilderness. But then 2,000 years ago, there's someone else who is familiar with the wilderness. God sent his only begotten Son, Jesus Christ. The Bible paints the picture there at the baptism. John baptizes him. He comes about the Jordan. The Bible says there's a dove on his shoulder. God the Father says from heaven, this is my beloved Son. And whom I'm well pleased, and then he goes into the wilderness. Where for forty days and forty nights he's tempted by the devil. You thought he was just picking on you Tempted. But every time Satan would throw a curveball, the Lord would say, It is written, thou should have no other God before me. Now, you God, why don't you just make a stone? It says, you know, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. There's something about that 40 Forty days in the wilderness. Forty days the spies spent in the promised land. 40 days in the wilderness, but what I do know is this, is that God is a God who will give you victory. Yes. That while you may be delayed for the moment, God may push that button of life And the pause all of a sudden becomes place. Have you ever been stuck to the place? Say, God, I don't know if I can make this thing. And God all of a sudden shows up and changes the atmosphere. That you are no longer delayed, but he's pushing you toward your destiny. Amen. And that's good news today because Jesus went to the old rugged cross so that we might have the victory. Do you know what it means to win? I know the Super Bowl is over. Your team may have won, lost, may have lost money or made some. But nevertheless, we thank God that we still have the victory in Jesus Christ Amen. Victory is mine. I told Satan to get thee behind me. Why I've got a promised land I'm trying to get to. Oh, you don't feel me today. Anybody on the promised land? You're on your way? And I love what the saints of old would say. They knew they couldn't do it by themselves, and they would say, walk. With me, Lord. While I'm on my Jesus journey, I want Jesus to walk with me. And then they would say, Hold my hand, Lord. That while I'm on this tedious journey, I want the Lord to hold my hand Yeah, I'll give you five and some depth, but when I get down to my last, I want Jesus to walk with me. And you know, he'll walk with you through every situation. He'll walk with you through dangers. He'll walk with you through certain dilemmas. But all I know is if I'm going to reach my promised land, I've got to do it with the help of God I'm so glad that Jesus lifted me. I'm so glad that Jesus made a way out of no way I'm so glad he continues to provide for me. Delay, but not for long Held up, but not for long. Put in timeout, but not for long. Frustrated, but not for long. Upset, but not belong, because I serve a risen Savior. And he's in the world today. And his name is Jesus. The lily of the valley and the bright and the morning star. All I know is no longer will I be delayed because of who I serve. Anybody excited about that today? That yes. I know my Savior lives. Yes, I know. He'll bring me through. The people had gotten to a point where they just kept. Saying, if we had stayed in Egypt, I freed you Delivered you, now you delayed. Held up at the border of the promised land. We'll pick it up next week. That's the word of God today. Come on, stand today. You don't have to stay where you are. God just I could hear his frustration. Moses? How? Hallow Well the people disrespect me. How how long will they continue to not believe me? And today he still said how long will they put this over me? We offer Christ to you. To you oh God My brother We all Christ is but one Oh my god, he will give you back Yes, he will. I know God You may be asking today of the Why why is it I'm I'm feeling stuck? And and why why am I being delayed? And if you're outside of Christ, it's because you've not opened your heart to him. See, this is another conventional wisdom thing. But when you open your heart to Jesus Christ and let him in, he will change your life and make your life new. And you can grow in him. But he says you've got to confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. I want to offer Christ to you today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. Somebody might be in a place where they're stuck. Can't go back, can't go left, can't go right, can't go forward. God, we thank you that you are a way maker today. Touch that heart. Let them know that you have saving power still, even now. Make that life new today, God. We believe it and we count it done in your name, Jesus. Lord, there may be one today in this place that desires to to move forward in their faith walk and journey. The doors of the church open for that person today who wants to grow in you, who wants to learn, who wants to go toward that thing and that place you promised them It is our prayer today. God, if you're here, you can walk for the Lord today. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Amen. We'll wrap up next week. Delayed but not denied. Amen. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. cometoharvest. org. That's cumthenumber twoharvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.