Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits. And then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvard's Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. We serve a God who is good. All the time. And all the time, God is good. Now do you believe that today? That we serve a God who's good all the time? Even when we're not good, he's good. Amen? Come on, put those hands together and give God a real praise today. Yeah, that was That was all right. Now you got out your bed this morning and you fought the rain. Come on, give God a real praise this morning. Amen. Let him know how much you love him. Let him know how much you thank him. Come on, come on, come on, give him praise, give him praise. Come on. We we we serve a God who deserves a praise. He deserves the honor. Amen. Amen. Amen. I'm just trying to Trying to push you today. I saw some people yawning and but yet and still you are here. That's right In Jesus' name, there's a word from the Lord that comes from the Acts of the Apostles there in the third chapter Beginning at verse number four says, Peter looked straight at him as did John. Then Peter said, Look at us. So the man gave them his attention, expecting to get something from them. Then Peter said, silver or gold. I do not have, but what I do have, I give you in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth. Walk. Taking him by the right hand, he helped him up, and instantly the man's feet and ankles became strong. He jumped to his feet and began to walk. Then he went into the temple courts, walking and jumping and praising God. When all the people saw him walking and praising God, They recognize him as the same man who used to sit begging at the temple gate called beautiful. And they were filled with wonder and amazement at what had happened to him. I want to preach today from the Samonic title. Divine interruptions. Divine interruptions Does it seem like sometime in life that there's always someone interrupting you or some situation that seemingly blocks your path Am I by myself today that what we don't like is for people to interrupt us. We don't like to be delayed, whether it's at home. Whether it's at work, whether it is at church, we are not fans of interruptions. Whether it's a phone call, or text, whether it's an unexpected visitor, and you really run the risk of not getting the door open. Amen. Some of y'all remember when people just dropped by You know, just stop by. Just in the neighborhood. I wouldn't suggest that nowadays. Didn't have peepholes back then, but we don't like to be interrupted by people, by places, by situations. And here's why. I think that we really believe that we're in control of our lives. So much so that we don't want change. We don't want things to throw us off. We don't want traffic to hold us up even when you've planned ahead of time that you missed an appointment because what the major interstate was backed up and you've got an attitude about it The flight left late. Amen. I don't fight with the power. Take your time. Your power will tell you make time up. It's alright. We get there, we'll get there. Ever miss the train or maybe the bus? Life is filled with interruptions And in the real life that we live, did you realize that interruptions can become divine appointments? The very thing that got in your way actually can help you along the way. I stopped by to interrupt your Sunday. And to say that the Lord can use our interruptions to bless other people to the glory of God. The Lord can use those interrupting moments for a real purpose in life. I know it to be true. In the text today, we come across two disciples, Peter and John. They're known as some of the first disciples picked by Jesus. Dedicated, willing to go out and to spread the good news of Jesus Christ. On this occasion, they are going to noonday prayer. As the heading in the prayer meeting, there's a man at the gate who's lame and crippled, and he's also begging. Let me say this. I took note that they were going to prayer meeting. Folk don't go to prayer meeting anymore. See a prayer prayer meeting? What's that? Growing up, I could count the five people at my church, including my mother, who went to prayer meeting. Folk don't pray much anymore like that. When I became a deacon, I could count on those same five people every Wednesday to be at prayer meeting. But can I tell you today that the prayers of the righteous avail much? I don't know about you, but I thank God for praying saints that when they prayed for you, something happened. And so whether you were in the meeting or you in the bathroom or you were in your house or in your car Prayer makes a difference. So they're heading to do a good thing. They're heading to prayer meeting and they run into a man who's hanging out. for a handout. Uh uh he wants something. Now they could have very well said, not today. Talk to the hand. They could have ignored him. And we've done that. Oh, yes, we have. The same person on the same corner with the same sign And we pretend we don't see them. Am I by myself today? Oh I'm giving some dollars, but it'll be some days I was like, not today. I'm trying to get someplace and you're hoping the light. Can I just testify? The light turns green. Oh, y'all ain't too holy. Amen. But you didn't want an interruption in your life because you had someplace to do. And you know, and to have a divine interruption, it's when it's of God. Even when the circumstances don't seem like they're godly, always remain open to what God wants to do in those times when you feel like you're being held up. See, we become important now. My time is money. My time is valuable. It was God who got you up this morning. It's not your time. You know, I'm going a different way. I don't care what the GPS say. But God has to slow us down And allow us to see that in what seems to be an interruption, he's always at work. Do you buy that? That even when your plan does not work or things don't go according to your plan, look for God to be in the midst of doing something special at that moment. I I double dog Dia this week that somebody's going to interrupt you. And you're gonna get a tube. But before you do that, say Lord, what is it in this that I'm missing? How can this interruption become divine? That's the challenge this week for all of us because it's bound to happen. And so Peter and John, they help us today to see some things. That based on their encounter, first of all, they made a connection. Peter looked straight At this brother, as did John, and then Peter said, Look at us So the man gave them his attention, still expecting something. Yeah, I'll look at you, but put something in my hand I I'll hear you out but what you got for me. But they made a connection with this man. Why? Because they stopped long enough to pay attention. We've become so important we can't pay attention to people. Amen. But you would be amazed what a moment of your time would do to bless someone else and really you will get the blessing. They made a connection with the man at the gate and the Bible says he was a certain man. Didn't give you a name. And so you will meet a certain person this week that God will put in your path and He will allow you to make a connection Oh God, I feel this today. They paid attention to this, brother, and they say, look at us. Not that we're all that. Look at us, not that we've got it going on, but there hopefully is something that people will see in you that might bless them. Aren't you hoping they see the Christ in you and not the mean you? The Christ in you and not the sometiming us? Amen. But there ought to be a connection. Brother Paul said, What do you mean look at y'all? I'm looking at you. And I'm seeing what your hand is doing in your pocket. What do you got for me? But it's amazing that when you come with the Spirit of Christ Operating in your life, you can make a connection by sharing Jesus Christ. I contend they had something in common with this man While they may not have ever been crippled or lame, there was something that they were hoping that he saw in them. And sometimes people see the real us. Amen. Don't dismiss the alcoholic on the corner. He he sees himself in you through your business suit. Don't dismiss the person who's homeless on the street. They're looking at you, but they see the real you. Amen. And so that's why it's so important to try and see what we have in common. They see the old you. A friend of mine said some years ago, when you come up on somebody who's slurring from substance Ask God to give you a slurry spirit that you might be able to relate to that brother or sister. So I ain't got nothing, man, but let me tell you what I do know. I ain't holding nothing, but I can tell you about the love of Jesus Christ. You want to make a connection with somebody, even in your home. Then how can I connect with them by saying just look at me as I hope you see Christ working in me? And here's the truth. All have sinned and come short of the glory of God. There's none righteous, no, not one. So before we start judging folk, and we've done it. Man, I don't know what he did wrong. She must have done something wrong to be in this condition. Had it not been for the Lord on your side. My God, you might find yourself right where they are And it's still not too late. You might be on the top today, but there's always a chance tomorrow you can be down. And you want somebody saying, look at me, that they might see the Christ operating. That's what I hope They get past me and see him. That's your hope today. That somebody might see Christ through you based on not what you say, but based on your spirit. I can't even leave this point. I mean the book might be blessed and you'll forget it. This oh you met me last year and you blessed my heart. So I did what what's your name? You don't even remember. Because you were kind and you shared Christ. Peter and John made a connection. But they also witnessed a correction. Verse 6 says, then Peter said, silver or gold, I do not have But what I do have, I give you in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth. Walk. Taking him by the right hand, helped that brother up, and right away the man's feet and ankles became strong. He jumped to his feet and began to walk. I got let me just pause right there Here's a man at the gate begging, meet two Christ-filled brothers. They break a word on him, grab him by the hand, and he's walking. Is that possible today? It is. All things are possible through Jesus Christ. And then he jumped up, he didn't say, all right, bruh, later. No, he went with them into the temple courts. He went to church on fire, walking and jumping and leaping and praising God. They witnessed a correction. That something was different than when they first showed up. They witnessed a change in this man's life. I don't have anything material to give you, but guess what? I just happen to know Jesus. Bank account kind of low, money kind of funny, but I do have Jesus And he will make a difference in your life. Sometimes we too quick to pull up a dollar. So let me pull a dollar out, but let me just tell you in Jesus' name. Amen. that they witness a correction. They witnessed a cripple man getting up and walking and giving God the praise because they plugged him into the power of God. There was an outlet. They said, wait a minute. Can we just plug you in? And as a result, that's how miracles happen. That they spoke the name of Jesus. I don't know if you've tried this, but you have been in situations in the name of Jesus. And won't God show up at that moment You may be in a tight spot, can't get a hold, pray in, but in the name of Jesus get thee behind in the name of Jesus. Give me one in the name of Jesus. They declared that name. And this man came to life. Oh God, walking, jumping, skipping, and Headed to church as a result. You know, God is correcting things in our own lives. Aren't you glad that the final chapter of your life is not written yet? But God is going back over with a holy red pen and changing some stuff in your life, saying needs improvement, saying try it again. It's about correction. And he will correct us. The Holy Spirit will do just that. You were big and bad for a moment. You got back in your car and you realize I was wrong. He'll correct you. Anybody open to a correction today? I mean I want him to correct me. Yes, set me straight and put me on the right path. A man connecting with two other brothers. And his life is changed around. They've made a connection with him. And I would imagine if I was a flyer on the wall, that folk was, oh my God, look. At what's happening. And once you witness a changed life, you will never be the same. Not just your life, but we all know somebody that was one way That God corrected. And maybe that was you and I. A correction. A connection. But finally, there was a time of reflection. When all the people and you know they were checking things out. Mm-hmm. Yeah, I I I you hear what's happening down at the church I somebody say he walking. That's what the word is. And folk travel to try to find some news. Oh yes they will. Oh you've done it. When all the people saw him walking and then doing what? Praising God. They recognized him and said. Isn't that the it isn't he the one yeah that was at the gate called beautiful And they were filled with wonder and amazement. They could not believe their eyes. And when folk look at you and they know they owe you, they can't believe their eyes. Tim Tutin is doing what? And well, in Baltimore, he's preaching. Folk are saying, you've got to be kidding me. That's some wonder. Oh now y'all left me alone right there. Uh-huh. And when they look at you, they'll say, wait a minute, in the yearbook, she was nothing like that. But my God, look at what he'll do in a life they were able to reflect and they saw this new man. Amen? That the Lord says that all things will be passed away. Billy person is in new Christ, they are a new creature. Aren't you glad that you are brand new today? That you're not who you used to be? That you are yet in transition the whole time? They were excited but more nosy to see a life change. And my God, that's what an interruption will do. All of a sudden when you allow God to take his interruption through your life, things will change. That there was some time of reflect. I imagine they talked for a while about that The Bible doesn't tell us what happened to the brother after that. But Peter and John got in trouble. Because once the word got out, these wondered amazement folk told the authorities, uh-huh, we saw it. Them brothers were thrown in prison. They got in big trouble because they took a risk in trying to help to change a life. Now are you okay with the divine interruption? Are you okay with your plan being changed? Are you okay that it didn't go as you thought it ought to go? Well, Jesus knows something about divine interruptions. In Luke 5, 17, 19, the Bible says he was having a Bible study, and the place was packed out. And all of a sudden, a man who was paralyzed, his friends took him down to the prayer meeting and Bible study, but it was so many people they couldn't get in. And all of a sudden, somebody interrupted Jesus because they put him in to the roof and lowered him down right when Jesus was teaching. It was a divine interruption that man was healed. In Luke 8, 22-24, Jesus, who's holy man and holy God, goes out on the boat. And goes to the hinder part of the ship and takes a nap. And all of a sudden, the forecast was off. The boat started moving. And guess what? They got afraid that says, where is can somebody go and wake up Jesus? They interrupted just now Oh my god, you don't want to end up somebody's nap. But they woke him up. He came out and stood on the boat and said, Carest thy not that we perish? He says, Peace be still. It was a divine interruption. Luke 843, Jesus going about minding his own business. A woman with the issue of blood comes up behind him and presses her way and touched the hem of His garment he's interrupted. But what? He said something came out of me. And she was healed after twelve long years. Matthew 8, 5, and 9, Jesus heading to Capernaum, minding his own, interrupted by a centurion who says, I know you are a man of high authority, and I don't even need you, but my servant is ill. But I'm sorry to interrupt you. In fact, don't even come. Just speak the word. And he spoke the word and that man was you follow me yet? I'm talking about divine interruptions. Mark 1, 35, 39, Jesus gets up early and goes to a private place to pray. Can Jesus pray for a moment? He goes And talks to his fathers not long. The boys track him down. Where is he? And they interrupt him. People want to know where you're at, Jesus. He comes back and begins to cast out demons. Mark 10, 46, 52, Jesus is leaving Jericho. Talking about interruptions now. Going about his business. A big crowd all of a sudden, blind Bartimaeus. Screams out, son of David, have mercy on me. Now again, he's being interrupted Aren't you glad today? Because he said, get that man and bring him to me, and I will heal him. And by the man said, can I just hang out with you for a while? See, there's nothing wrong with divine interruptions. Can I go to my own chapter in my own verse? One night I interrupted him. It was a Friday night. And there I was giving my heart to Jesus. It was the interruption that paid major dividends for the crawl cause of Jesus Christ. In other words I made a connection that night. Something happened down on the inside. It was a connection. It wasn't long in my life before that connection became a correction. But can I reflect this morning on my life and what God has done for me? My God, we all ought to have a testimony. When I look back over my life and I think things over, all of my good days outweigh my bad days, I can't complain. Why? Because one day he got interrupted. And I'm glad he allowed me to interrupt him today. So that way I'm the person who I am today. And I don't mind Even now, I'll interrupt it, Father. It's me. Down here. Trying to make it. Excuse me, I know you are busy, Father. But do you got a minute? Anybody ever interrupted Jesus? You found yourself between a rock in a hard place and you had to interrupt him and say, excuse me, but I have a need. And won't he show up? And won't he do it? And so just think about it's not really about you. Amen. Strongly, I can help somebody as I travel along. If I can help somebody with the word or song if I can help somebody who's doing wrong then my living shall not be in vain. My God, my God. Isn't that good news today? If I can do one thing that might help one person on one occasion to point them to the one who will make life brand new with my God I don't care if you interrupt me, but my God, we need some interruptions. Some of us are living a life that needs to be interrupted. Amen. And won't God come in and change your life around? Or do I have two witnesses today? My God, interruption saved your life. Interruption made joy come into an interruption gave you peace An interruption made you the person that you are today. Thank God for an interruption. Thank God, Paul, for the call. Thank God. What is he doing today? A divine In a eruption. That's right. I'm not in control, but I just got in a rupt who who's in a rupture. That's right. Thank God that he takes those moments in life that we can't deal with, and he sees in the moment something that will bless us. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. Next time you interrupt it, come on stand today. Don't get mad. Get glad that God has sent someone your way. Divine interruptions. Yeah. This is my time. Uh-huh. I had a plan. My schedule is off now. I'm not gonna make up this time. My God, I'm glad He made time. It's not your time, it's his time. But have a Peter in John spirit today to take time. And to allow that which distracts you to be a blessing. Oh my god, I feel that word that word will live today. Won't it live today? Oh, praise God. Come as you are. And he'll do the rest. He despite. Who are here today? Come to say you are commenting, comment me. Just as you are he'll do the fixing up. And the brushing off the spirit cause come to say you are. Come and be come with sea. Come and live for ever. Life everlasting. Everlasting. Oh, yes. As you come today. the Lord to interrupt you. In the interruption, he'll show you just who you are and just what you need. Don't be upset. But embrace him today. No matter what's in your way. He's a way maker. Let me just share with you today. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's come the number to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com. All you have to do is to search for harvest Christian ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called Seeds of Encouragement. You can get them by way of iTunes from Podcasting or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.