I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen. Whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website, I really do believe that God has a special message just for you. A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries. For a worship experience already in progress. As we come this morning, I want to share from Philippians 2, 5 through 11, and I just still feel the Spirit of God In this place. Feel like your troubles are uh just out the way for a moment. Don't you feel that in your spirit? Just just feel good and you can't explain What it feels like, but it it it feels all right. And that's what will happen when the Spirit of God begins to overflow. Amen. Word says, your attitude should be the same as that of Christ Jesus, who being in very nature God, did not consider equality with God something to be grasped. But made himself nothing, taking the very nature of a servant, being made in human likeness, and being found in appearance as a man He humbled himself and became obedient to death, even death on a cross. Verse 9 says, Therefore God exalted him to the highest place and gave him the name that is above every name. That at the name of Jesus Every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth. And every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. I want to share today from the Zemonic title, Do You Have an Attitude? Do You Have an Attitude? On yesterday I went to the barber shop. As I sat there, the sun shone into the building, cast a shadow over the floor, and In the chairs in front of me, and about the time I moved my iPad on my sermon notes, a woman walked in with her son. He sat next to me. I had my iPad, he had his Nintendo. And he was playing Uh donkey. Kong. That's it. I had to ask him what is that song? You know that the old games didn't gone out when I was we didn't have games. Hallelujah. Some of y'all know you made up stuff. Amen. But we began to talk and I figure I would uh uh look over his shoulder and I said to him, I said, uh, what's your name? So my name is Justin I said, how old are you? He says, I'm six years old. He says, looks at me, pauses his Nintendo, and I said, what do you want to be when you grow up? He says, I want to become a dentist. He looked at me straight in my eyes. He did not blink. Didn't fumble, didn't stumble, and I got from that that here was a six-year-old with a great attitude Not just knowing what he wanted to become, but excited about it. Reminded me somewhat of myself that I just had This thing about dreaming and I I still dream. I said, what do you mean I can't accomplish that? And to our young people today, to our youngsters today, I want to just say to you, never stop dreaming. Amen. The world would say to you, oh, you can't become that. That's not true. If God can take a country fellow from the South with a speech impediment, not popular. Take his voice, use it to reach millions, and then use it to proclaim the good news of Jesus Christ. You're telling me that God can't do it But what I was most impressed with with that six-year-old young man named Justin is he was excited. He smiled, had a great attitude. And I say today to you, what's your attitude? Is it positive? Do you see the world as a place where there's hope and possibilities? Uh is that your point of view or are you negative? Everything someone says you say, Oh, it's not true, it can't happen. I don't believe it I have no hope. I'll stop by to tell you today that all things are possible through Christ. My God, he who's begun a good work in you will perform it until the day Well, you don't seem like you're too excited about that He's not done with you yet. That's something in you that God is yet working out in your experience. But this sense of having a great attitude As a believer in Jesus Christ. How do I feel about Jesus? What is my mindset Amen. What is it that I'm thinking about and am I able to accomplish my goals? My God, the devil just in here. And I don't mind asking because the fo what you want to be when you grow up I know you're already grown up, but I'm gonna ask the question again. What do you want to become and what's your attitude and your mindset about that? So today we'll talk about this sense of Christ and how he surrendered. His mind was that of service and one of submission, and in the end there was certainly satisfaction. As we come to the text today, it is the Apostle Paul who is writing to the church at Philippi. Paul is sitting in a Roman prison. Writing words of encouragement to people who are in Philippi, the church yet to start. It amazes me that Paul didn't molp or grope He took time to write to encourage others. In this case, it was Philippi. Paul knew what was going on. He heard the word but church, issues going on. He said, Y'all need to have the same mind. You all need to be on the same page. You all need to make sure that you are like-minded and sharing with each other and not putting each other down. But I'm saying to you, love each other. What's your attitude? He says, you ought to let this mind be in you that was also in Christ Jesus. You need to have a made-up mind. Folks told us a long time ago, said you got a better attitude, I can adjust the attitude for you. Oh, some of y'all old school, you know by that. Whatever they did to adjust your attitude, it got better, didn't it? Amen? I want y'all to get too serious so much more than that. But he shared with them that if there is a model of a great attitude, a mindset, it is Christ. See the world has us looking for everything else answers. Looking over here and what's the latest trend and what's trending and what's tweeting and what's on Facebook and and and the like, but really everything that we need is in Christ. Christ is all. He well I give no reverend. I I really believe that down in my soul that everything that I need that the Lord has it. He's saying to them, what's the attitude? Get your head straight. Get right. I heard about it, and I'm gonna share with you, not Paul's Word, but the word that comes from the Lord. And so really as we begin to unpack these passages, we'll see in a real way this sense of surrender It says he was in the very nature of God, but did not consider that something that he would grasp. In other words, God In Christ and the Holy Spirit are one. This is theology one on one. The Godhead. The Trinity. And so really God took some of Himself when He sent His Son Jesus Christ. But He surrendered Himself He made himself nothing so that he might come down and be able to relate to us. The word says he's not such a high priest that he cannot understand what you're going through. Ever have something about you, you don't get me, you don't feel me. He feels you. He'll feel you and he feels you. And he said, you know what, I'm not going to use who I am as an advantage, but I'm going to really just Surrender who I am. I'm gonna move the advantage out of the way and make myself a nobody to become a mere man. He's holy man and he's holy God. He thirst and got thirsty, but yet he says, me and my father are one. Can you conceive in your mind this kind of God Who is so powerful and yet he's not just up yonder, he's right here because he allowed Christ to come, who was an extension of him, to share the good news of Jesus And so you say, well give me an elementary version. Yeah. Jesus loved me. This I know. For the Bible tells me so. And he didn't get the big head. Oh. He just basically said, I surrender. My attitude is one of surrendering. My attitude and my mindset is one that I can make myself nothing. Why? Because I'm God And the truth of the matter is, we need to surrender who we are. My God, throw the white flag in. I've almost surrendered him. That's the thing about me, I I'm gonna throw a towel in to surrender myself. I surrender all. We want to hold back some. I'm gonna give you some But not all. You can't have my Friday nights. But you can have my happy hours. Oh Lord. You can have my Nintendo, but you can't have American Idol. There's some things that we need to surrender that we store in the closets of our minds and hearts. And Christ gives the example, what's your attitude, what's your mindset about surrendering and saying, Here I am. Don't you love the Westerns? Come on with your hands up. I mean that that that's the baddest tale around. Uh I'm coming in. I'm I'm turning myself in, and we gotta turn ourselves in. as we surrender ourselves to God. How many are willing to surrender? Amen. I saw about half the hands Come on now. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. I I want to surrender who I am to him. That's the attitude, but not just that. That in addition to the sense of surrender, there's this service. He took the very nature of a servant. He got really low. He really got down to where we are And you think that nobody cares about what you're going through? That this Christ that we serve actually got so low that he took the nature of a servant. He became a servant. Can I help you? What what did you all? I'm always amazed when they can come through and say, Can I help you? And you complain about what you didn't get on the food. And they serving you. He made himself a Holy Ghost waiter. Just for us. Because he wanted us to have the same mindset and the same attitude. He became a lowly servant. Isn't that amazing that with all the power he had? He says, now, Paul said, y'all need to be like Jesus. He didn't mind. He could go in in between. In other words, he could be holy man and holy God. And here's what came to mind. I may as well think about it. I might as well say it. Clark Kent. A reporter for the Daily Planet. But then Clark Kent Superman. And he really is serving the larger game and the for the but he's also a journalist And what Christ did, y'all still stick my clock in, I said, is he got so low that he became a servant and made himself in human likeness. He's not a mere man. There's none like him, but he said, you know what, I can really get to where you are, no matter what you're going through. I understand. And don't you want that kind of mindset? The mind that was in Christ Jesus who didn't mind allowering himself to get to where we are. And so there was this sense of being a servant. How have you served anybody lately? Are you still waiting for your order? And Christ did that He lord himself began to wash his disciples' feet. Dirty, crusty, dusty feet. He washed their feet to show them that you need to be a servant. I've been called to serve. In other words, it's not really about me. See, sometimes we want to be served. Don't we? Yes we do. Once we try serving somebody, can I help you? What can I do for you? I got this good attitude. I got the attitude of Christ. Can I help y'all? What can I do for you? My God, you don't find that anymore. But that's what he stood for. And that's what he put in us. A sense of submission and service. But then, in verse 8, and being found in appearance as a man, humbled himself and became obedient. to death, even the death of the cross. He did it because his daddy said so. How many folk have been disobedient? Y'all a tough crowd. Listen, Holy Ghost filled. I've never done nothing wrong. Folk in the house don't count my hand. But when you think about Submitting unto him and being obedient and doing what God has told you to do. He didn't say don't get a poll. He didn't say how many likes do you get on Facebook? He didn't say how many times your message has been tweeted, but to do the right thing is to become obedient Humble yourself therefore under the mighty hand of God and he'll exalt you in due time. My God, humbleness will get you some places. Arrogance will hold you up. But you just be I didn't know anybody, I'm just a country guy who spoke to everybody. You know, I just said, well, I said well I knew I come out the field. You know, I didn't know any better. But I was raised that way. And even when I think about little Justin, his attitude, somebody modeled that. Mama modeled it, daddy modeled it, grandma modeled it, so you know what humbleness and submission looks like. I know it's hard because you used to being on the front line You used to be in the spotlight. But to be obedient to God, what an attitude to have. What a mindset to have as it relates to the Lord Jesus Christ. Doing it God's way because God said so. Let me check back in now. How how's your attitude? That thing you brought into church this morning? You say when I get out of church I'm gonna finish this. And I raised the question. You got a tune? What's your tune? Is it is it like-minded? Is it is it Christ-like? You want to even the store, you want to stumble it, you want to show that you're gonna man up, you're gonna woman up, but look here. You wait till Monday when I get back to school We're gonna sell this thing up. No, you not, because you're gonna change your attitude. How many folk want to change attitude and a change heart? Amen. Christ did it. If you ever want an example on how to live, How to walk, how to talk, how to act. The handbook is the Bible. Still the number one bestseller. Everything you need is in the word designed to equip you, to keep you in line, to pull you up. And he was the word incarnate. That he is the word. So, as we close this message today, I want to say the importance of knowing that it can surrender unto Him and The sense of service and submitting. My God, your mind has been changed already. I see how you're looking. You already got a changed mind. Because you say, Lord, okay, I want to be. You know, not what would Jesus do, but I want to have the mind and the attitude that he has. Amen? And then there comes this point of satisfaction. Kind of what's in it for me? Well, yeah, we will ask that Therefore, God exalted him to the highest place. And you don't get any higher than in Christ. God ranked him because of his obedience to the highest place and gave him the name that is above every name. I I know what they call you, but there's no other name like the name of Jesus. Even when folk tear you down that God has a plan for your life to do what? While they're trying to beat you down, I'm gonna lift you up. Amen. I don't know about you today, but you've been in situations where folk, that's their mission is to beat you down. But my God, when you're on the Lord's side, He will exalt you. Well, how'd you get that? It was the Lord. How'd you grab that? It was the Lord. How did that happen? It was His. He's the one who exalted me. Not so I can brag, but so I can say, God, you get the glory. Oh, some of y'all in jobs. Now, you know you wouldn't qualify for them jobs. My God. Amen. Amen. But God has made a way for you. You're living in places that your credit didn't even match So I'm testifying for myself now. And God will exalt you if your attitude and your mind is right in him. But at the name of Jesus every knee should bow. Not not some knees But every knee, oh I know you tough, but every knee shall bow. Every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. In heaven, the angels are praising him In heaven, the twenty and four elders are bowing down before him. Even those who gone the glory around the throne of God, giving him the praise, and that's some satisfaction in that. Amen To know that when my work down here is done, he's going to prepare a place just for me. My God, I'm excited about that. I ain't ready to go yet, but when I go I know he's got a place for me. Do you believe that today? Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God. I didn't do it because of, but I changed my way of thinking and my way of living because it's right. It's the right thing to do. No other book will lay that out for you, but there's the sense of satisfaction. At the end of the day, I may not have anything, but I got Jesus. And that's enough for me. Amen? Now I've got him, the one who woke me up this morning. The one who started me on my way. Host songs, I'm satisfied with Jesus. Yes, I am. He's my comforter. He's my joy. I looked at my hands and my hands look new I looked at my feet and my feet did and ever since that wonderful day my soul has been satisfied. I don't know what can give me that kind of satisfaction than knowing Christ and serving him I'm just downright excited about Jesus and I'm satisfied with what he's doing in my life. Aren't you glad today? Is there a sense of satisfaction that when you begin to switch that mind from the world to the way of the Lord that something will happen in your life? Oh you don't seem too satisfied today. My God, wouldn't he do it today? Won't he turn your life around? Is there a goodness today? Won't he make your life brand new Why? Because you say I'm going to submit to you. Lord, I will lift my eyes under you, and I'll give you praise because what? You deserve it What's your attitude? It's one of joy. What's your attitude? Let's go witness for Jesus. What's your attitude? I feel good about what God has taken me. That's my attitude. And it's been adjusted. To give God all glory to give God the praise. Come on, somebody, give God a praise today. There's something on the inside that's working on the outside, and I can't explain it, but I feel good. Every time I think about Jesus, I feel good. Don't you feel good today? My God, you may have come in sad. But now aren't you glad today? He's made a way for you. The enemy tried to cut you at the path, but you still think I can give God the praise. Anyhow, I will bless him at all times. I've got a good attitude. The one who sets the example That is the word of God today. It's already a blessed. Stand over this place today. Give God some praise. By God, your attitude will change. Be like-minded. Don't be grumpy, mad, hard to get along with. I'm just gonna trust God. No matter what happens, I'm gonna stand for him. Won't you do it today? Offers on the table. Will you accept him? God is good. His word is true. I pray you are helped in some way by this message. Be sure to follow Harvest Christian Ministries on radio, CD, podcasts, or over our new website. It's comeetoharvest. org. That's ComeToHarvest, C-O-M-E, the number two and harvest. org. Take time to experience the website and all that we have to offer as a ministry. In the meantime, pray that God will continue to allow us to reach a community for Christ For the cause of the kingdom. I'm Dr. Tim Tugin. Have a great day in the Lord.