I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen. Whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website, I really do believe that God has a special message just for you. A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries. For a worship experience already in progress. God is good. He is worthy to be praised. Let's take a moment even now just to bow. Heavenly Father, we thank you for The blessing of this day. As we come, we are excited about what you have to share with your people. The word says, he who hath an ear, let them hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches. So now what you spoke to me, I want to share with the larger faith community. That someone might be encouraged to run on to see what the end is going to be. And when this time is over, we'll be so careful to give your name the praise And the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. The Lord is good. Thank you for your obedience today. We're now going to the Word of God. I want to share from 2 Corinthians 4, 8 through 10. It says in verse 8, we are hard-pressed on every side, but not crushed, perplexed, but not in despair. Persecuted, but not abandoned. Struck down but not destroyed. We always carry around in our body the death of Jesus. so that the life of Jesus may also be revealed in our body. I want to share today from the Samonic title. Down but not out. Down but not out. I remember the start of my young broadcasting career getting a call that a certain gentleman was coming to campus. by the name of Muhammad Ali. And I don't know how I found out, but I got the microphone. I ran over and got to meet the champ. As we walked across the stadium, I was on one side, the sheriff deputy was on the other side, and I'm thinking, my god, I'm walking with Ali But in my mind I kept thinking and I looked down toward his hands and said, these are the hands of a man that could knock you out. With no effort at all. He joked, I was blessed and thankful to be able to share with him. In life, sometimes we're not down. Sometimes we're down on the mat of life. struggling. It does not matter how old you are, you've all had an encounter of some sort to where you just fell down. Didn't want to get up. But I stopped by to tell you today that just because you are down, you can still get up. Do you sit set in your spirit today? And maybe you won't be honest and say, Reveel, I've never been down before. We've all been down Down in the dunks. But know that that place called down is not made for you. This morning as we begin to unpack this passage, I want to look at what the Apostle Paul is saying. He was held up On his ministry, doing great things for the Lord. But he found time and found the way to get up. And once he got up, he looked up And that's the good news of our text today, that Paul writes to the church at Corinth. As he writes to the church, he's sharing with them some of what he's going through. So always be honest to share some of what your struggle is. Don't tell all your business. Let folk know your child, I've been through something. I've been on the rough side of the mountain. I've been on some of the rough roads of life. And so he's sharing with them that me and my team have encountered so many horrible things for the Lord's sake. We are privileged to be able to come and nobody will come in and arrest us and say y'all can't have church today. But in some parts of our country now, you cannot openly worship the Lord Jesus Christ. You ought to get excited just for the freedom to be able to worship. In spite of what he was going through, he found some down times, but he did not lose hope I recall going to Liberia some years ago and seeing a man as a part of our documentary who was in what I would call below poverty. And I felt like a king based on material things, but what a spirit. He says, you know what? If you lose hope, you've lost everything. He talked about uh his being in the university, uh having a brighter day, and sometimes we got to just shake ourselves and say, You know what, you can make it if you try. Don't let anybody count you out. Let nobody tell you what you can't do. Don't you know if they had told me that the broadcasting business was uh tight, it didn't pay good and it was a tough work. You know, I might have got out. I didn't know anybody. I said, what you mean I can't do it? And you can do all things through Christ who strengthened you Is there anybody who's a witness today that the world said you wouldn't make it, you didn't have it? Now look at you now. God is faithful Down, but not out. Rough, but I'm also back on the mountaintop, standing tall for the Lord Jesus Christ. So Paul said let me just tear a little bit out of my page, my journal, let you know what I've been going through. First and foremost, you know what? I've been held up. We are hard-pressed on every side. I mean even the language itself. Hard pressed means that he's been squeezed. He was referring to first century When they would take grain and grapes and put them in the wine press and squeeze them. How many of y'all like fresh squeezed orange juice? I mean that orange had to be squeezed to get the orange juice out of there. He said, you know what? My work for the Lord has allowed me and put me in a position for his sake to be pressed. I mean put up against the wall and on every side, but I'm not I'm not crushed. I may not look like much, you know what I've been through, but I've been held up and to such a place that I still believe that God can bring me through. Has anybody ever been in a tight place? I mean, I'm talking about Well y'all so kind this morning. Y'all real I mean really had it like Lord help me to hold out. I mean right now you may be in a tight place And yet you feel that God, no matter what I'm going through, I'm trusting you. I might be prepped, but I'm not crushed. I can still wave my hand, I can still say thank you, Jesus. I can still say, Lord, you'll make a way out of nowhere. He was perplexed, but not in despair, confused, almost lost his mind, can't take another thing, and then he says, But you know what? I'm not worried. Isn't that good news that the apostle can share in such a way that no matter what you are going through, and can we personalize it, that you know what? It's been rough But I've yet held on because I believe that God can bring me through. And that is what I see unfolding in our own lives. We look like we've not been through anything If they followed you home or to work or to school, they would say, you know what They're hard-pressed, but they're not crushed. They're perplexed, but they're not in despair. And there are other scriptural references that deal with this. And hard times will come In our lives. John 16, 33. In the world you shall have tribulation. But do what? Be of good cheer, for I've overcome the world. I'm going through, but I'm still smiling. I'm getting beaten up on every side, but I'm still saying, thank you, Jesus, that you won't take my joy. And that's good news, Roman eight eighteen. For I reckon the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared to what To the glory that shall be revealed in us. It looked bad, but I'm holding up. I'm holding up because I know God is making a way for me. And so don't feel sorry for me. I don't look like much, but I'm still standing. I'm down, but I'm not out. Anybody down today but not out? Anybody knows what it means to be up and to give God the praise? Oh y'all don't have a testimony today. Let me rewind that. Anybody know what it means to go through something? And to be able to come out on the other end and say, Lord, had it not been for you on my side, I would have stopped and fainted and threw in the towel, but I didn't I've been held up by the Lord Jesus Christ. Not just that. But it was a time to get up. Paul said, I've been on the mat. Y'all know I've been persecuted, and that means to be hunted down like an animal. Not somebody hurts your feelings. Not they put a bad text out about you, but I'm talking about downright, dogging you, running your name down. I mean, to the degree that they really have pressed you in such a way That you can say, you know what? I've been persecuted. I've been duked. I've been scorned. And maybe in your life you say, Reverend, that's not my story. Everybody loves me I've never had any trouble, nobody ever talk about me. I'm just the happy go-lucky kind of person. You'll be surprised That folk are out to get you. Now I don't say walk around scared, but I'm just saying that he says I've been persecuted, but not abandoned. That even though I seem like I'm alone, I'm not why he's always with me. You're down, but you're not up. I've been struck down, but not destroyed It's different than having a fender bender and having your whole car total. Amen? I know it's a scratch, but it can still ride. And you've taken some hits along life And you can say, Lord, I thank you that through it all I can still get up. The mat is not my home. This devastation will not hold me down. I still believe I can get up. See, I don't think y'all ever been knocked down before. I'm feeling the day that nobody has ever been knocked down before and said, You don't know what it means to get up? Amen. He said, Oh, for the sake of spreading the gospel. Yeah. Went to Greece some years ago and I looked at all of the Greek mythology and and all the gods they served and Paul went up in there Talking about Jesus. I said, Paul, you a bad dude. I'm not so sure that it with my model in mind, obviously what Paul. If you need me, call me But this brother went out front and every now and then you've taken the hit all for the sake of Christ. Everybody has left you and you're still standing What? I'm getting up? No, no, no, no, don't leave me down here. I am getting up. Yes, I will It's a word that kind of is in reference to that. Joseph tells the story of how his brothers sold him into slavery. They hated on Joseph. Joseph got a coat of many colors and he was able to share that coat saying man I have a dream that one day you're gonna serve me so we gonna get him And they sold him. He says, you know what? What you meant for evil, God meant for good. Folk meant to put you down, and there you are walking in. Amen. I remember the story some years ago. I was able to share at a big banquet with some of the top people. I had to get a tux get a haircut and everything. As I showed up, man, it was Uh at the head table with some of the big company people and I recall seeing a person in that building who had fired me or let me go. I thought was wrong. I felt down And God so fixed it that I was at the front table, he was at the back table. I said, you know what? You got rid of me, but what Jude meant for evil, God meant for he's not done with you yet Don't you think that because you're in last place now, God will bring you through. You are down, but you ain't out And to see the smile on people's faces when they've wronged you and and they've dogged you and they've scandalized your name and then you're gonna say, well, you know what? Good afternoon. And kill them with the kindness. Paul said, you know what? I can still make it. And we've got that before us today. I've been held up No hope, but still got hope. I I've been at a place to where I've had to get up, even though I've been struck down And if you've ever been struck down, it it's a hurting thing when somebody just, I mean, they'll they'll do it, strikes you down, not physically, but sometimes just the words from their mouth But you know, you will arise again. But then finally, you gotta look up. And Paul could look up because of who he served. And who was in him? He says, we always carry around in our body the death of Jesus. In other words, I've got to die to some things in my own life. I got the doubt of self. It's not always about me. And Paul said I can go on because I know who it is that works in me. It is the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm a representative of the one who sits on high. I don't mind carrying the good news of Jesus Christ, letting somebody know, hope you have a great afternoon. The weather's horrible. Oh yeah, but we thank God for the rain Finding a nice word to share, he said, it's because of what is in me and who is in me that I'm able to still be a witness Amen. You may find yourself in a place where you know what? I'm just doing the Lord's will. I'm just doing what's right. The world will offer you all kinds of choices and say, you know what, you ought to try this. Now the world is tricky They'll fix it up and and put it in a cartoon. They'll they'll fix it up any kind of way to try to reach you. But I say be steadfast, unmovable Always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know, your labor is not in vain in the Lord. Paul says, I'm always doing it for Jesus. That's why I can take it And that's why I can make it because I know who's in me. He who begun a good work in me will do what perform it until the day of you don't know who's in you You don't know what's taking place in you. Uh uh you don't know who it is that operates in your life today, and that makes you important That makes you victorious. Anybody know that you've got the Lord Jesus Christ residing in your life today? Don't you feel his power operating in you? It's not that you're the best looking or that smart, but God will work in your life. He'll be able to balance that thing out. Folk didn't think you were gonna make it, but look at you now. And God is not done with you yet. Get off the mat. That's not where you belong. You're down, but you're not out. Paul says for me to live is Christ and to die is gain. I don't mind sharing He had such a conviction, it was so important to him, that no matter what he faced, he stayed on course. And no matter what you're facing today, don't allow your circumstance to take you off course. Now let's face it, as Christians, we get discouraged, we get upset, we get mad But you know what? Don't you know the Lord already has a plan for you, has already gone ahead of you, and already made plans for you? And that's what I'm so excited about and so encouraged by today. I began with boxing. Thought that was pretty nice. But I want to end talking about wrestling. Me and my son were talking last night and he's a big fan. And I start going back old school, man. You don't remember Jerry Briscoe. Uh you don't remember, you know, uh uh back in the day when Gordon Soly was on the air, Georgia Wrestling, we start talking and realize that one thing that's not changed, even though you're on the mat Until the person can hold you down for three seconds, you still in the right? You in there. One, you might be moving your shoulder and and two, and on that third time they'll just move a little bit And life has come at you in that kind of way, and it seems like you are down, but every n now and then you will just move your shoulder and the count starts all over again. And that's why he's able to look up and say, I can make it on this journey. I will look to the hill from which cometh my help. My help cometh from the Lord, which made heaven and earth. He will not suffer my foot to be moved. He that keepeth thee will not stumble. Behold, he that keepeth Israel will neither summer nor sleep. The Lord is thy keeper. The Lord is thy shade upon thy right hand And the sun shall not smite you by day, nor the moon by night. The Lord shall preserve you from all the won't he do it He shall preserve your soul. He shall preserve your going out and your coming in from this time forward. And you know what? The devil thought he had Jesus down. I mean the countdown was like one on a Friday night. Old preacher said it well. And now he thought he had him. Two. It was a Saturday night. But something happened. On the third day morning, he got up with all power in his hands. If there's anybody who knows what it means to be down but not out, come on to Calvary and see what our Lord and Savior did. He rose from the grave. And if he can rise, so can you. The Bible says the same spirit that raised Jesus from the grave can also raise you. Make a decision today that I'm going to be on the Lord's side I have decided to follow Jesus, but man, I'm getting beat up. No turning back. But you know, this Christian life is kind of hard, Doc. Though no one joined me, yeah, y'all didn't have that back in the day. Oh yeah, we had everything you got today, plus some. But I made up in my mind that I'm gonna follow him Anybody made up in their mind today that no matter what comes and how the wind blows in life, I'm down but I'm yet swinging. Today, that can be your testimony. That life has been that tough for me. Man, you not live, yeah. And I don't ever discount young people when they say they've been through something. Or you ain't been through anything. You don't know their story. You don't know their struggle, and so don't dismiss them and say, Well, you know what? When I was your age, I carried 200-pound bags of feed through a plowed field My dad told me that, and you know, oh you didn't at the snow. We walked for a whole mile. Let them be able to express themselves about what they've gone through Their concerns are valid, but let them know, and be honest, that I've been down And you didn't know it, but God has raised me again. Anybody know that you're down, but not out? That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. The world may be swinging at you, but you're not out, even though you may be down. Let's stand today all over this place. I'm encouraged by that word today. Let's me know I can make it. Let me know that in the one about faith, that God is yet faithful That becomes so keen that we just keep glorifying Him who makes a difference in our lives Paul stood tall. He took some stuff. And we too would take some stuff. But know that you're never alone. Come and glorify him. Be glorified, be glorified Be glory today In my heart be glory. Be glorified, be glorified. In my church be lifted up. Glorify him today. Now let's say this all together in my grace. You get all the glory, Lord. As we come today, I want to offer Christ to you. Always looking for illustrations. I came across one you may have seen that allows us to look at our sin. There's Jesus Christ who comes as our Redeemer. And there's sin in our life. And there we are, needing some help All have sinned and come short of the glory of God. You and me. And sin would do that. But once you put Jesus in the mix, he'll change your condition. He'll change your outlook. Sin doesn't send a chance when dealing with the blood of Jesus Christ. And that's what I'm glad about today. He'll change your life. And you'll come away. Your sins can be white as snow. What a change you'll make in your life today. And the question I have for you, are you safe? Have you given your life to Jesus Christ? Have you confessed it? Lord Jesus, I am a sinner. But I believe that you sent your son Jesus Christ to die for me. In believing that, the Bible says, I shall be saved. You know what amazes me? That he washes all of my sins away. Can I confess? I've done some stuff I wouldn't tell everybody. In this life. And so have you. Your secret sins. The hidden stuff that nobody knows. But to think that God, your blood, covered all of that Stuff that is way back in my past. And you too. That all by itself ought to make you shout. He won't hold that against you, but of course I've asked you to come into my life that He cleanses our sins and throws it into the sea of forgiveness that it won't rise again. That's about today. Heavenly Father, there's one in this place who thought that they weren't good enough to be saved, who thought that they'd done too many bad things Or thought too many bad things, I come today to dispel that lie. Come unto me, all you who labor in the heavy laden, I will give you rest. Confess your sins unto me, and believe in your heart. Thou raised Christ from the dead and the Bible says thou shalt be saved. As you are here today as you bow your heads, maybe you felt like, what would it mean if I confess Christ How will my life change? Will it be instantaneous? Will I stop doing everything I've done before? I believe the Lord works on us. He'll take that desire away from your life. He'll do it today. While those heads are bowed today, maybe you've come and you've never given your life to Jesus Christ. Today you can do it right where you stand. Keep those heads bowed and those eyes closed today. If you don't know Jesus, I want to pray with you right where you are today that you might receive him into your life That you might receive them into your life today. That you might receive them. The invitation has been extended to you. Man, woman, boy, girl, he's available for you. Amen. Let's give God a praise today. Amen. If you've come today, you desire to be a part of the fellowship called Harvest. The doors are always open. I guess that's the Joe out of coming each week to share the gospel with you. It's on my mind the whole week, God, what is it that your people need? And how might it impact me? I say, man, you you ever been down? Yeah, I've been down. Out of work, busted, disgusted. Not really wanting to get up, but Lord look at you now. The Lord will bring you through. Nobody hold you down. Keep moving that shoulders. You know what I'm You can't pin me up. I'm getting up from here. How many know you got the victory today in Jesus Christ? Amen. Amen. I pray you are helped in some way by this message. Be sure to follow Harvest Christian Ministries on radio, CD, podcast, or over our new website. It's come to harvest. org. That's come to harvest, C O M E, the number two, and harvest. org. Take time to experience the website and all that we have to offer as a ministry. In the meantime, pray that God will continue to allow us to reach a community for Christ for the cause of the kingdom. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin. Have a great day in the Lord.