Praise God. This is the day the Lord has made. We can rejoice and be glad in it. Why it is resurrection morning It's Easter. That's an exciting time in the life of the believer. The Bible says if we know that Jesus died and he rose again, that really solidifies our faith. I want to welcome you to the grace and mercy broadcast on this Easter. Pastor Tim Tutin, Harvest Christian Ministries. in Baltimore County, Maryland. Go tell somebody, text them, tell them to get on. The broadcast is on. And praise God for all of the men and women of God who are standing and proclaiming today virtually. We ask uh that God might empower them today, that the word of God might go forth and that lives might be changed to the glory of God. Well you know it's Easter And we all have memories of what that means to us. Yeah, yeah, the Easter egg hunt. But I do remember getting a brand new suit every year. Brand new suit, brand new haircut, and uh or hairdo for the ladies. And so I really want to get the opportunity to kind of see uh some of your Sunday best today. We want to see uh what you've thrown on the day that you you clean. I even tried to clean up the day. And you can just put those pictures to us by way of Facebook. put it to us by way of Instagram or our email. We just want to see how clean you are today and we'll share them with the larger public. Again So glad to see you. Well to thank you for tuning in during the course of this week for our Good Friday message. We thank you for that. We thank you just for being an encouragement. Whenever I see you come on social media and give a thumbs up. It excites me to the glory of God. And so we are so grateful. Thankful as always to our production team who makes things happen to the glory of God that we just give them a heart. There we go Again, but let someone know that it's time for us to do what God has called us to do. What an exciting time in the body of Christ and always say to people in the world in the marketplace There are a couple times a year that the preacher ought to know what he's preaching. And there should not be any yes. What am I going to talk about today? Jesus is alive and well. He is risen. Let's take a time now to have a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come in the name of Jesus and we thank you. for this day that you have made. God, we thank you for keeping us all night long. God, we thank you for watching over us. And we pray for all of the families that may be watching. We know that many people are going through many challenges that are worse than ours. And we pray for your protection. We pray for healing today for our nation. We pray for healing for our world. The Bible says the earth is the Lord in the fullness thereof and those that dwell therein. Even now, God, bless your word. Breathe on your word today that someone might be saved, that someone might be helped to the glory of God in Jesus' name. Amen. There's a text I want to share with you on this Easter Sunday morning. It comes from the Gospel of John, the 20th chapter, verses 21. 22 and 23. That's John 20. If you have your Bibles, you can find the Gospel of John, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John If you have your tablets, you can find it there, but I'll give you a second or two to find your word so that you can follow along. It's always good to follow along with what the preacher is saying so you can understand the text as well. It reads, again Jesus said, Peace be with you, as the Father has sent me, I am sending you. And with that, he breathed on them and said, Receive the Holy Spirit. If you forgive anyone's sins, their sins are forgiven. If you do not forgive them, they are not forgiven. I want to share today the symmonic title, Waiting to Exhale. waiting to exhale. You know, even as we come today, we're certainly grateful to be alive, but experts tell us that we we're breathing, that we take about 16 to 20 breaths Per minute, 960 breaths per hour, more than 23,000 breaths a day. That's a lot of breathing. and more than eight million breaths we take during the course of a year. So even right now, just take time to inhale and take time to exhale. Now we understand physically that if you just take a minute to do that, then it will allow your stress level to go down. It will allow you to cool out and to chill. But there are benefits to doing just that But know this. God has the patent when it comes to breathing. And this is God's idea. He has the template to life and giving life. Then the very first book of the Bible in the book of Genesis 2 and 7, the Bible says that the Lord God formed man from the dust of the earth and breathed into his nostrils and he became a living soul. Isn't that good news today? David talks in Psalm 150, that everything that has breath Praise ye the Lord. And the very text and the very word and the very book that we read called the Bible And know that it was inspired by God. 2 Timothy 3, 16 and 17, all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for so many things. Amen. Profitable for what? Teaching And rebuking and correcting and training in righteousness so that the servant of God may be thoroughly furnished unto good works. Well, on this resurrection Sunday, we find Jesus again talking about breathing. Amen? We know the text well. We've talked so much about this text. And here's how John paints Resurrection Morning. Mary Magdalene shows up early in the morning, before days, still dark, and she goes to the tomb and realizes that the stone has been rolled away. And all she can think is somebody must have stolen the body of Jesus. That was a conspiracy theory back then, that he didn't really get up there. Somebody came by and stole him She tells Peter and John, they come to the tomb as well. They go in and they find the grave clothes, but they reach the same conclusion that someone must have taken the body of Jesus. Well, that's not the case. The brothers go back home. Mary Magdalene stays there at the tomb, and she is weeping. She's crying. And there comes on the scene two angels. And they want to know, why are you weeping? She says they've taken Jesus away. And that's not the case. And then it's not long before she has a real encounter with Jesus Christ. She didn't know who he was. And he calls her name Mary. Isn't it amazing that the Lord will call your name and you'll answer? And she knew then. She said Raboni, which means teacher. And so there's a time of sharing. She says to him, I want to touch you. He said, you can't do that now. But the word gets back to disciples. And Jesus does what? He goes to where they are. Remember, there was a lot at risk here. They had been Christ's followers. And we knew that Christ died on the cross, and they knew that they were wanted. But he shows up where they were assembled. He comes through the door supernaturally and he shows them his hands. and shows them his side so that they can see. And he says, and with that, he says, peace be unto you, as the Father has sent me, I'm sending you. And the verse 22 says, and with that He breathed on them and said, receive the Holy Spirit. And in my mind's eye, symbolically, I can see Jesus, he was holding his holy breath since Good Friday. And he breathes on them. Jesus was now waiting to excel. That gets me excited today. But this was a time of importation, a time of information, and a time of inspiration. So let's start with impartation. It says, and with that, and with what he had just said to them, he breathed on them. He imparted to them, and to impart is to give, it is to convey, it is to grant. An impartation, in this case, he breathed on them to give him his spirit. You know, this was symbolic. He didn't go up and literally breathe on them, but the fact that he took time symbolically to cover them with his presence. Amen? This really was for not for this moment, but this was for greater ministry down the road. And so often Christ will prepare us for something he has for us to do. I just heard the song in my head, he's preparing me for those things that I am going to do. Did you ever think you would be where you are in the Lord? He prepared you. Do you ever think I will be sitting here today talking to you about Jesus? No, that was not a part of my plan, but he knew exactly. And because he prepared them And because he imparted to them, they have to come to the realization, as Paul lifts up in 1 Corinthians 6. 19, do you not know that your bodies or the temple of the Holy Spirit, in which you receive from God, you're not your own. In other words, if you have received Christ as your personal Savior, the Holy Spirit resides in this temple. And that's why we gotta take care of it. That's why exercise is important. That's why eating properly is important. That's why taking time to breathe is so key. Has he breathed on you lately? Have you felt his presence in your daily life? Have you felt his presence in your going out and your coming in? He is always present with us. So he he imparted to them, but he also inspired them. There was a moment of inspiration. And with that, he breathed on them and said, Receive the Holy Spirit. You know, it dawned on me that he offers them something that they didn't have. Why would he say receive this if they already had it? He says, receive the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is a person. It's a he's not a it. The Holy Spirit is the third person of the Trinity, God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. And we must know that the Holy Spirit resides in our lives. Amen? And he inspires them, and there's a difference between inspiration and motivation. Look at that. I know when I first started ministry, I was doing something called motivation. When actually I was doing inspiration. And there's a difference. See, with motivation, you may need a new pep talk. With motivation, you'll need another conference. With motivation, you will need a webinar. But when it comes to the Holy Spirit, He's with you at all times And to be filled with the Spirit of God, to feel the breath of God residing on you, it does something that's remarkable. Have you ever been there before? So you don't talk about the Holy Spirit and not have him show up in the preach man. You don't talk about the Holy Spirit and not feel him moving in your life and in your moment. That's what the Spirit of God does. It empowers us. Amen. So he's setting them up for really what was going to happen in the book of Acts. So he breathes on them, but they have not really gotten the Holy Spirit until Acts 1 and 8. He says, but you will receive What power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you and you will be my witnesses in Judea, Samaria, and all of the places around the world. Are you a witness today? Amen. That because the Spirit of God resides in you, because God, by way of Jesus Christ, has excelled on you, you now are a carrier. Oh yes you are. Folk are going to look at you and say there's something different about you. Why it is the Spirit of God that resides in you. And then in Acts 2 and 4, we know that on the day of Pentecost, something happened They were all filled with the Holy Spirit. I mean, they were filled up to the point that folk thought that they had been drinking. They've thought they'd had Boone's Farm and thought they had been nipping and in fact it was the Spirit of God. Amen It would allow you to speak in other tongues. It would allow you to be inspired. This was a time of inspiration, all based on what happened after he got up out of the grave. Amen. Impartation. Inspiration. And finally, information. This 23rd verse stuck out there for me. You don't often hear this in the preachment, but Jesus got right down to business. Didn't slap side and say, yeah, I'm up like I told y'all, I'm ready to go back. No, that wasn't the case He has an assignment for us beyond resurrection. He has something for you and I to do beyond I've gotten my Easter best on. And there is verse 23. It says, if you forgive anyone's sins, their sins are forgiven. If you do not forgive them, they are not forgiven. So the very first thing he addresses after he breathes on them is that I need for you to be my representative. Amen. You don't have the power to forgive sin. Let me just say that on the record. Now you can forgive your brother, and they ought to forgive you, but he's saying, I'm gonna have you as an ambassador that what you will do is let folk know that if they receive me as their personal Savior, then I will forgive their sins. If I be lifted up, I will draw all men unto me. It was a sin question And the sin question is one that ought to arise in our faith. Aren't you glad that Jesus saved you from your sins? That's what resurrection was all about. He paid the price on the cross for our sins. I love 1 John 1 and 9. It says, if we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins. and then cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Aren't you glad today he's washed you, white as snow? I'm glad today. And then John 16, 13 says, but when the Spirit of truth comes, that's how he is identified He says he will guide you into all truth. Sometimes we just rather believe a lie. And the devil is a liar. He's the father of lies. But he says the Holy Spirit will guide you into all truth. He will not speak of his own, but he will do what? He will speak only what he hears, oh Lord, and he will tell you what is yet to come. That's great news today. Waiting to excel. Now I recall back in the day, I was a member of the uh the wonderful Swannee High School track and field team. We were just a small group, could all fit in a van. We'd go from place to place. My run was the one mile run That's four times around the track. And then I would take a break and I would run the two-mile run. That was eight times And you know, even beyond that, there was a longer run that I would take. And sometimes and you run us, no, y'all, yeah, go ahead, Reverend. I don't run much, I walk now. I'm more of a walker than a runner. But those of you who run. Well remember that you'll get to a certain point in that run and you will get a second win. All of a sudden you'll get inspiration. Something a happened on you was almost like something breathed on you and gave you extra wind Isn't that great today? As I walk with the Lord today, as you walk with the Lord today, as a follower of Christ, you need a second win. The ruck of God, the very breath of God, that inspires you to run on to see what the end is going to be. Spirit of the living God, fall fresh on me. It's got to be personal. Is that your request today? Melt me in, mold me, and feel me, and use me. Spirit of the living God fall fresh on me. Can you tell I'm getting excited? Because I just made a request And because of that, I can sense the Spirit of God moving in this preachment by way of this medium. And you where you are today, ought to just say, you know, every time I feel the Spirit, I pray. Every time I feel the Spirit moving deep down inside of me, I'll get happy. Every time I feel the Spirit, there's a peace that comes over me that passeth all understanding. Every time I feel the Spirit Every time I feel the breath of God breathing over my situation, breathing over my dilemma, I get excited. And all I can think of. in my own mind's eye that Jesus just exhaled. Oh Lord, he just exhaled on me in my situation, and he'll do the same for you. Isn't that great news today? Jesus held his holy breath until he got to those boys. And then he said. Exhale on them. Setting them up for greater ministry. Today, maybe you don't know the Savior What a great moment for you to accept Christ as your personal Savior. Amen. The Bible says if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus, and here it is, and believe in your heart that God has raised him. From the dead. That that's today. The Bible said thou shalt be saved. Today I want to pray for you where you are today. Maybe you've been a church attendee. Maybe you're on somebody's role, but you've never really confessed Christ. Let's bow today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus and we thank you. for your power. We thank you for your reminder. We thank you that Jesus rose on this day just for us. My God, if there's one out there who has never confessed you I pray today that you might save their souls. What better time than now to accept Christ as your Savior? The Bible says he is long-suffering Not willing that any should perish, but that all might come to an understanding and an acceptance of the name of Jesus in Jesus' name. It's been a great time together. I pray that you have been blessed. We want to always keep you connected by way of social media. You can find us if you want to give online. And let me just say right now that those of you who have given online and we thank you for blessing the work of this ministry. And we thank those who have dropped a check in the mail to God be the glory. We know that you may be going through, but what you've done is a sacrifice. And we know that God will bless that. For any updates, know that you can check us out on Facebook and check it out also on our Instagram page. And again, don't forget, I want to see your Sunday best. I want to see your Easter look. Amen. I did the best I could to dust up. Amen. Praise God. We love you in the Lord. Amen. We love you and we thank you. And we give your name the praise. Let's close out even now with a word of prayer. Father, we thank you today. For this time of sharing, we thank you for your word. And we pray now, God, that this word might find root. The Bible says, one planteth, another watereth, but you give the increase. In Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you very much for Easter Sunday. I know during the course of the week I'll be putting out bits and pieces to encourage you every chance I get. Be blessed in the Lord today from the entire production team here at Harvest Christian Ministries. This is the grace. And the mercy broadcast. God bless you.