I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen. Whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website, I really do believe that God has a special message just for you. A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries for a worship experience already in progress. Let's take a moment even now to bow over this place. Father, we thank you. For sending your Son, Jesus Christ, to die for our sins. As we stand today, may your word be clear May it be concise. May it touch the hearts of your people. And when it's all said and done, may you give you the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. There's a word from the Lord today on this Mother's Day that comes from the first book of the Bible, the book of Genesis, which means beginning Adam named his wife Eve because she would become the mother of all living. the mother of all living. I want to preach today from the Samanic title, Everybody's Mother. Everybody's mother. I grew up in a neighborhood and maybe you did too where folk down the street could become your mother in a moment's notice. They were given the full power to discipline you, uh to make a phone call uh before you got back home. I think of Miss Rebecca Garvin. She lived at the end of our street. Her house was like headquarters 101 because she saw everything. And heard everything. And reported everything back to Mama. Not sure if She actually had children, but we became her children on the east side of town. If that wasn't enough, there was Miss Aretha Uly next door Folk who were again given the power of authority to pull you up. Nowadays, if we tried that, we'd be before social services. In fact some mothers don't want you to talk to their kids any kind of way, but I'm uh kind of old school. And it worked for me, it worked for you, uh having someone who cared. Now I never got a beating by way of those ladies, but they threatened it. I knew they could if they wanted to, but this sense of everybody smothered So whether you are biological children or not, you are somebody's mother who teach and reinforces respect and that's so important in the day and time in which we live. So this morning we go to this first book of the Bible and we meet Adam, of course, God's first creation. And this is foundational theology that God created him and saw that he was lonely and made for him a help meet, put him to sleep, took the rib, and there was woman. And for a while he just called her woman. Man, woman. Man, woman. And the day came when he would not just name the animals, but God gave him authority to name his wife. I know some of y'all say, wait a minute. Now nobody's gonna name me. Name his wife Eve, but more so the meaning, she became the mother of all living. And this comes at a time that's critical in the text because they've not been all good. God put them up, set them up in a great place called the Garden of Eden, had everything they needed, and there was some disobedience. The enemy shows up and says, I don't think God would admit that. And so they ate the forbidden fruit, and because of that there was a consequence They had to leave the garden. But before that, God sends this message of life in the midst of destruction, in the midst of gloom. Doom and in the midst of separation, God says, I am presenting E the mother of all living. She starts it out. And so what we'll see, we'll frame her in the context as a life sustainer and a life giver and a life savior. Well, we look at each one of those. We see that she bears the first child. Two boys, in fact, Cain and Abel, and it goes on that there was no emergency room, there was no doctor on call. That God allowed this to happen and to allow her to become the first mother. And what I like about God's word is that none of us are perfect. We all have our issues. But thank God for grace. So rather than say, I don't know, I can find one better than Eve. No, God says this is the way I've got it all arranged so that she might represent the mother of all living. That thing resonated with me all week that I had to go right to the very beginning of the Bible to find that. And the days and the years ahead, God would yet still be with her. And when you say a life sustainer, it means one who upholds, one who supports, one who becomes a beam of sorts, and that's what Eve represented. I'm excited and thankful today that God sustains us. Life can be so tough and life can get out of whack, but God says, I've got you covered, I've got you in a stable place. And no matter what the enemy may do, I will take care of you. That's encouraging news today that no matter what is in your next chapter of life that he says, I'm using example that I will sustain you. Amen. And I'll do it by way of my power, by way of how I arrange life circumstances, that you'll be sustained. For the long run. I'm glad today he sustained me. Haven't given out that there's still a foundation. Our church theme for the years, building onto a foundation is already there. It's already laid. It's what we put on the foundation that makes the difference. And so God Looks at this situation and is able to use it as I see it as a sustainer for the larger generation, for the creation, something that does not give out. Amen. I see a couple of athletes in here, one or two or three, and they know the importance of sustaining, staying focused, running the race, staying in touch to the point that it hurts Somebody say, am I the athlete? No, they're in here. But that becomes so important. In fact, God said through Isaiah These very words. Fear thou not, for I am with thee. Be not dismayed, for I am thy God. I will strengthen thee. Yea, I will help thee, yet I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness. That there becomes a platform that no matter where you are in life, that he says, you know, I'm starting this out the right way. And even though there's some flaws along the way, God has the right intention by laying things out. I'm glad that when life becomes topsy-tursey, he's right there to sustain And that makes Eve account of everybody's mama. Amen? That there are persons in your life who help to keep you on track. We not have been your real mama, but they gave you some godly wisdom that helped you along the way. There was a day when teachers could do that and not get in trouble. I used to hate to go to the store because I might see Miss Elliot. And what she might say to mama at the store. So I was like I'll go get that for you. I was like cutting some plug. I didn't want to be seeing it. In case she said something And she sustained me, that might get me in trouble. But we are a larger faith community and finding a way to say let's uphold each other and sustain each other and my God thank God for the role of the mother who does that. Come yes, you are gonna Give me a hug. It's gonna be alright. And men looked up and all come on. Oh, it's gonna be alright. That's my baby. We're always gonna be mama's baby, regardless. I'm 56. My baby is coming home. He'll sustain you. A life sustainer. But not just that. She became a life giver by giving birth to Two sons. Out of that became the first murder. Life goes in so many directions, but God is the one who permits life to take place. Thank God. I was born uh back in the fifties and uh on on a certain day and a certain time and it's all documented. That's all well and good, but there came a time when I was born again. We don't hear that much anymore. That sounds kind of old-fashioned. Are you born again? Yes, I am. Then I've chosen a new life. I'm not the old person I used to be But I was given life by Doris Tutan, but God gave me a new life by way of his son Jesus Christ. And so while she may have given life, Eve, he says, I am really the life giver. My God, just touch it. If you don't feel so just take a minute, take a minute, take a minute. I think it's right there. Nurses know. Is it still beaten? Well praise God, you alive. Amen. And give God the praise just for that. That I can still live and breathe and have my being, but it's not just my physical good, but God gives me life eternally. That gets me on the right track. And it came by way of a mother. Thank God for mothers. Thank God for mother figures. And they speak words of life That's important too. If let me just say something to you, baby, that might help you along your journey. It's good to be mothered. I told the story once I was in DC and I was getting up at five in the morning on that bus And it was me and the driver and two ladies, and I became their son. How you doing? I said, man, I'm home. And these women are still my mama. You want to come to dinner? Yeah, that was the name somebody can invite you to come real to dinner, not worry about somebody robbing you or something. They invited me to dinner. But God has placed mothers all over the place for you That they're mothers on your job, they're mothers in your school, and they're giving you life lessons and life that will sustain you and keep you along the way. I like that today, life givers John 10 and 10 says, the thief cometh not but for to steal and to kill and to destroy, but I am come that thou might have life. And that they may have it more abundantly. And so even now you may find yourself in a place that you don't feel like you got much going on. God will continue by the way of Christ to speak life Into you. And that's why our words are so careful. Let's speak words lives. Let's speak things that don't build folk up, not to tear them down Let them know that God can make a waste of mind. Let them know that God will take care of you. Let them know that there's possibilities in life that Eve became the life giver. Everybody's mama. Mother of the living, life sustainer, life giver, life saver. Now when I thought of lifesaver, I thought about the pack that they sell. Maybe you thought you were somebody to be out of pack of lifesavers. Oh yes you did. And that's what I got with fancy candy. You know, you had with uh different colors and and you had to I got a red one, I'm not gonna give you my red one, you have my blue one. But I mean just life saving. See that wakes y'all up, wouldn't it? That thinking about that, that Gave life. Life saver. And what happens is, is that at the time that there's disobedience in the garden. God deals with Adam and Eve, but he deals with the serpent. Said, no, you got it coming. Because through the birth of a child, I'll bruise your heel. That it'll come by way of a mother. That the difference will be made. I will send one who will make the difference, who will give life to all, and will save life. Amen. Aren't you glad that you're saved today? That is that God has. captured your life and all of your problems and shortcomings and that you are saved. He says that there's a longer plan here that I'll get you back because I'm God You might have the victory now, seemingly, but I'm going to send. It's going to be by way of one called Jesus. He didn't spell it out in Genesis, but as we go along through the text, we know it was Jesus who made the difference. He's still making a difference in the lives of people even now. I'll put enmity between you and the woman. Your offspring and hers, he will crush or bruise your head and will strike your heel. Bible says, whoever finds their life will lose it. Whoever loses their life for my sake will find it. Everybody's mama. Eve, thank you for being the mother of all living. But there was Sarah, the skeptical mother. At 99. I'm gonna have who? A child Rebekah, the determined mother, Jacob and Esau. I'm gonna play a little trickery here. Jacobed, the protected mother of Moses, who got to raise her own child in the house of Pharaoh. Hannah the favourite mother. I'm gonna keep praying because what? God you're gonna give me a son. His name will be Samuel, and I'll give him back to you. Eunice, she was the instructive mother And his grandmother. I'm gonna make sure Timothy, you got everything you need. Elizabeth was a faithful mother. I'm barren, but you promised me I'd have a boy. His name will be John the Baptist, the forerunner who will lead the way. And there was the lawyer mother in the person of Mary. Thank God that through her womb A teenage girl from a rough side of town comes our Redeemer, Jesus Christ. One who is everybody's Savior In other words, he's available just for you and just for me. So you say, well, no, I'm not with everybody's mother, but I'm with everybody's savior. Don't you know he'll save your soul today? He's available to get you through some of the tough places of life. There's something about knowing I'm saved. Life giver, life sustainer, life saver, and it was Jesus who made the difference. Don't you know he's still making a difference today in the lives of people? Do you feel me today? Has it made a difference in your life? That yes, mama got you on the right track, but Jesus took over. And mama may have been known to tell you about Jesus. And once you found him for yourself, you realize he's everybody's Savior. Amen. I don't own so much of Jesus, I don't have any more percentage of Jesus because I'm a pastor. No. And neither do you. But take time to share, Jesus. Take the Lord with you everywhere you go. In the street, in the crowd, in your home, all alone, on the highway, on the byway Take the Lord with you. And that way He can become everybody's Savior on the subway. Everybody's Savior at the mall. Everybody's savior on your workplace. Make sure you share him today as you go out. He'll make a difference in your life. That is always the life-saving message. That Jesus died for us. Mother was at the cross. Mother witnessed the pain. Mother had to go into hiding. But mother believed So you've come back. And today we have that same belief. Everybody's mother Everybody's savior. Will you claim him today? That is the word of God. It is already blessed. Let's stand today all over this place. To know there's a trust factor. I can trust them. I trust my mama. She's telling me that's the way to go, I'll believe that. Can I trust my Savior today? Will you trust them today to change your life around? Will you trust them today? To work out your problem and your situation. Can you trust him? He's everybody's Savior. I trust him today. He's so sweet. As we share this invitational song, make it your song today. Make it your testimony today So sweet you try. Come on, let's stay today. Just am I. We're just a product just answer now. Somebody called that name today. I can hear you. I know you know season retirement. Let's sing that refrain again. Jesus, Jesus. Come on, say his name today. His power in the name of Jesus. There's still power. In the name of Jesus. I believe that today. That there's still deliverance in the name of Jesus. There's still hope. In the name of Jesus. There's still a way to have your life put back together in the name of Jesus It's not something we just say, but to know that he will do just what he promised. And today I really want to encourage you as we invite you to think about where you are in life. Words can't even describe what the Lord has done for me and done through me. I can even paint the picture. of where he brought me from and where he has me now and where he's taking me. And so I don't need a 30-day plan. I don't need a makeover plan. I need more of Jesus in my life. I don't care what the media says and what talk show ho says, if you don't have Jesus in your life, there's no hope If you don't have Jesus operating in you, there's no place you can go. They may call you corny and they may call you so Jesus Greek. They may say don't take all of that But I'm saying let him lead your life today. I want you to take your hand off the wheel. Allow him to drive your life today. As you bow your heads, I want you to really consider this. Do I Know Jesus Christ. But you said that last week, Reverend. Yeah, I know, I know. But I want to present him to you today. Perhaps You heard about him, but you don't know him. He has never left. He's still available. And he wants to save your soul today But you gotta be real. I'll never know whether you are saved or not. I don't know. Only you know, and the Lord knows But with all that's in me today, I want to present Christ to you as the one who's everybody's Savior. He died for everybody. He rose for everybody. He's at the right hand of the Father. For everybody. He'll return for everybody who calls on his name. No shortcuts. No connections, no networking, just Christ. As those hands about today, Father, I pray now there's one in this place who knows you not God, that you might come into their heart and they might receive you as Lord and Savior. They may think they don't need you right now because life's alright You may think, okay, I'll just do church. I'll do the right stuff. But unless you confess Christ as your Savior, only then can you be saved and born again. Father, I pray now for that one who knows you not, that they may confess with their mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in their hearts that God has saved them from the dead. As you open your eyes, that will just that will just illustration. Where are you? Are you here? Or are you here? There's no in-between. You're either here, either you know him Or you don't? Uh no. Either you know him or you don't know him. There's no in-between and the cross Is the bridge. I I'm trying to move on, but I I I want you to know the day whether or not you're saved That's my whole purpose of coming every Sunday, is that do you have a relationship with Jesus Christ? I don't want to ever be accused of just being fluff-fluff. Throwing it out there, you'll catch it when you can. No, no, no, no. But don't leave this place today. Let you know, where are you? Are you here? That's all right. You can get to here. But Christ will make the difference in your life. Let me do this. If you're saved, Claim him by raising your hand today. If you know you're safe. Praise God. Praise God. Don't put it down yet. That means I will I will God I'm I'm I'm saved and I know it put them down Maybe you're not saved today I don't want to put you on the spot. But it's okay sometimes to be on the spot. Close your eyes right now where you are today. Not every hand went up. I can count a half a bit. Bow your heads today in the name of Jesus. Everybody's out. I don't want any scanning and close your eyes. Everybody close your eyes. If you know you're not saved today, raise that hand. You know you're not saved. You're not sure. You don't understand. You're not quite sure what it all means. Raise your hand today. If you're there, you know without a shadow of doubt. I don't really know him. I know a comic sort of, but I don't know him. Praise God. Praise God. It lets me know based on Holy Ghost survey. You said you saved. Let's give God a praise today. Amen. Amen. As we leave today. I don't want to ever be accused of Beating you down, but I just don't want you to miss it. I just want you to get it. You know why? And I'm leaving. I used to fake it. I had just enough, like, oh, wait, may I spring for the Baptist church? But the man I got caught up one day by a guy on a summer job, he wore me out. Were you saved? I was like, not him again. I was in church. I taught Sunday school. I had all the trappings. And my kids knew that I was partying on Saturday night and trying to teach on Sunday. We knew you had been out all night long. But one day it became real. So I really knew him. And I wanted to be real for you today. That's all I desire. That's all the Lord desires today. Let's give it all a praise. Amen. Amen. I pray you were helped in some way by this message. Be sure to follow Harvest Christian Ministries on radio, CD, podcast, or over our new website. It's comeetoharvest. org. That's ComeToHarvest, C-O-M-E, the number two. and harvest. org. Take time to experience the website and all that we have to offer as a ministry. In the meantime, pray that God will continue to allow us to reach a community for Christ for the cause of the kingdom. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, have a great day in the Lord