At this noon, uh I want to stay with the same theme we've had all week and that's love in real time And so I want to share from a portion of Scripture, 1 John 4 and verse number 20. It says, whoever claims to love God, Yet hates a brother or sister is a liar. For whoever does not love their brother and sister, whom they have seen, Cannot love God whom they have not seen. I want to preach today from the title Fake Love. Fake love. Forty-one years ago, I stood in the broadcast booth at WNER to do my first live broadcast. It formed a foundation of sorts for both fairness and faith on and off of the air. My early uh reporting have now spanned through three states and the District of Columbia, and God is yet good. But I'm thankful of the kind of tutelage I got from a person that's right here in Live Oak and I think of uh Claire Parker and Puggy Day and Bill Savets and then when I moved on, uh Ben Frazier and Bruce Johnson and George Collins, and then who did not lack and respect the most trusted man in America in the person of the late Walter Crunkheit? I used to watch him not by choice, but my dad was a CBS man. And we'd watch Walter Cronkite saying, that's the way it is And so there are many examples of people who have stood the test of time for being fair. So naturally, as a journalist, whenever I hear fake news, it causes me to cringe. Why? I was not raised that way as a journalist. I was probably more afraid of my mother and my father than I was anyone else. That's the way they raised us. But today I want to talk about fake love. Love that is not genuine. Love that is misguided. Love that is out of bounds, love that is not fair. So what are some of the signs of fake love? In the text, it is John the apostle, the same one who wrote the gospel, John, the brother of James. John the son of Zebedee and Saloon. John, the one who was there on his father's boat, mending nets, when Jesus comes by and picks him as a faithful follower. John was right there at the very end. All the other boys had slipped the scene at Calvary. But John stayed there John was the one the Bible says whom Jesus loved. John was the one who says, I'll take care of your mother. Some years ago I got a chance to go uh to Turkey, and there in Ephesus, there is a place way up in the mountains. is believed to have been the home of Mary, uh the mother of Jesus Christ. I said then he kept his word. He says, woman, behold your son, and son, behold your mother. He put Mary up as he should have. But in this text today, we find the John who's writing to the church, and he suspects there's an issue going on with love. John is able to point out what he sees as fake love. And he writes, Whoever claims to love God, Yet hates a brother or sister is telling a story. They're lying. In other words, they're imitators Hey, you can tell an imitation of something that's not an original. I've never bought any real painting, and so I wouldn't know if it was a rim brand or not I can't tell between a Van Gogh painting or a Monet. I can't tell the difference from a Picasso or anything else, but he talks about those who practice imitation They're not the real thing. You can look like you love somebody, but deeper he's saying, whoever, and here's the standard, claims to love God. I mean who wants to say yes I love God? Absolutely. Brother, give me a hug. I always tell folks, be careful when folks say, Oh yeah, I love God too. How far are they going? Is this the same God that I serve? The same God who sits high and looks low, the same God who sent his son, Jesus Christ. And so there's this observation. That's the fake love in action. Amen. Someone who pretends to love God. Isn't that amazing that he writes to a Christian church? These aren't folk who are non-believers. He's writing to believers and saying, I'm detecting that you are not really loving as you ought. Yeah, because the standard is you claim to love me, but you can't stand your brother. You claim to love me, but you have nothing to do with your sister. You claim to love me, but you can't even be around somebody. Why? You got fake love Your love is not real. You are fake and you are a faulty and you are an imitator. And John points it out. That there you are in the same room with someone. May not be your blood, but you don't really care for them. Yet you say how much you want to give me the praise And you walk out the door and you can't stop. I'm sorry. Maybe nobody here, nobody in Facebook land, but it happens. And Luke lifts up in Luke 10, 27, to love the Lord your God with all your heart. All your soul, all your strength, and love your neighbor as yourself An imitator, someone who looks to love, but deep down they're really a liar. My God. But what about the lying? Perhaps it's someone who's not just imitation, but they've infiltrated the lives of the church. Somebody who infiltrates in military is somebody who sneaks in, somebody who penetrates the position of the enemy. Amen. Now I didn't come to judge, but some folk are just not real. Amen. If you lit a light next to them, they might start to melt But it was all evident that they were lying, amen. And if the shoe fits, just wear it. To be labeled a liar my parents always said and you did too, if you lie, you'll cheat. If you cheat, you'll steal. My daddy would say you're a liar and the truth is not in you. My God, lying affects our love for one another. And John says, don't try to fool me. Whoever claims to love me, but hates their brother, can't stand their sister, you what? You just lying. My my my ain't God good you are fake you are not trusted you are a deceiver you are someone I gotta keep my eye on amen the Bible says you want to do what to watch and pray Now don't want you to beat nobody up today, but we know quick folk who are like that. And the truth be told until God delivered us We used to practice fake love. Uh-oh. Am I on your street? Oh yes, we did. We could play it well well until God really got deep in our hearts. When God began to get deep into our who we are and we change for the better. Amen. And folk who are like that are not really a part of the body of Christ. John comes in 8 and 44. He's serious. He says, You know what? You belong to your father Talking to his haters, the devil. And you want to carry out your father's desires. Why? He was a murderer from the beginning. We're talking about the devil himself. And that's who he is, the father of lies. And so it's a word to help the believer to become real in Jesus Christ. Fake love You are imitator. You are not really the real thing. Why? Because your works speak for you. Amen. You're not doing anything that's helping anybody In fact, you're trying to be known that you're infiltrating somebody's territory to find out some intel. Oh, I might as well go and tell it My God, you want to find something else? I ain't talking about nobody, but it seems to me I saw on Facebook or I saw on Instagram, my God is the church of Jesus Christ. We gotta make sure that fake love does not enter our spirit. But then there's this information. If you don't love your brother who you've seen, then you cannot love God who you've never seen. I know some folk want to be spiritual, but you ain't seen God. The Bible says God is a spirit, and those who worship him must do it what? In spirit and in truth, for the Father seeketh such. Amen. I mean, even those who really want to see the face of God, you say, You can't see me. and live. Oh no. But information lets us know that that's some extra, extra stuff. That's some breaking news stuff. That you have never laid eyes on God, but you claim to love Him. We've got to love one another. Amen. Amen. So, what's keeping you from loving your brother? What's keeping you from loving your sister? What's keeping you from being the kind of person that God has called you to be? And perhaps it's not the other person. It's your own battle. My God, we got to repent. And ask the Lord to come in and to clean our hearts First John says, if you confess your sins, he's faithful and just to forgive you of your sins and then cleanse you from all unrighteousness. I'm talking about how to get rid of fake love I'm talking about how to erase the fake love in your you need the blood of Jesus Christ. What can wash away my sins? Nothing but the blood of Jesus What can make me whole again is nothing but the blood. That's how you destroy fake love. You don't need Mr. Clean, you don't need shouted out, but you need the blood of Jesus Christ. My God, the blood that gives me strength. From day to day, it will never lose its power. I know I used to be faith, but one day I Could see the blood at work in my life. That's right, that's right. We all have tendencies of saying, Sweetie, so good to see you. But deep inside, we got a real problem. But you plead the blood of Jesus. Ask him to wash you from your sins. Amen. Won't he do it? So instead of being fake, why don't you decide to be fair Instead of being fake, just make sure you're factual. Instead of being fake, just be familiar with the Word of God. Instead of being fake, just remain firm in your faith. And that's what I believe to. What do you believe, Griff? I believe that God so loved the world. I believe that God created the heavens and the earth. I believe he made mankind from the dust of the earth and breathed into his nostrils, and he became a living soul. I believe that God died by way of Christ on that old rugged cross. I believe that he got up on the third day morning with all power in his hands. I believe he's coming back for a church without a spot or wrinkle. I believe he's going to prepare a place for me that where he is, I will be also. That's when I put fake love away. Amen. And I want to tell you, you gotta be steadfast Unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord for as much as you know your labor is not in vain in the Lord. I'm not a fake. I'm for real. How many folk are for real today? I just want to love. I want to love the Lord my God with all my heart. And so that's a word for us today. It will be easy to say. Get them, John. Who in the world would would would say they love somebody and they really hate them Oh my God, they're imitating. Who in the world would be so sneaky to try to infiltrate, to lie on someone? A believer can do that. Who in the world would miss out on the point to say, I love God, but do you love your brother and sister as well? My God, that's what fake love can't stand. God loves us that much that He sent His Son to die for us. And so today, think about that. That you know a fake when you see one. Amen. And put in your mind today, I'm gonna be a champion for the Lord Jesus Christ That's the word of God today. It's already a blessed. Come on, give God a praise today. Amen. That I would not practice. Being fake, being the great pretender, but once the Holy Spirit touches your heart, you can leave the life Of being fake and to make a difference. Let's bow all over this place. I want to pray for you right where you are today. Heavenly Father, as we come today, the truth of the matter is we've all been guilty. Of saying gladly how much we love you, but in secret we have a hatred For someone, even in the body of Christ, deliver us today from that issue and fill us with your love today. We may not understand what that person did to us, what that person said about us. It's been hurtful. It was hateful. But God, I pray in the name of Jesus that you might break the chains today so that we won't be guilty of practicing fake love. Give us strength today we need, dear God. In Jesus' name. Amen. God bless you, and I'm glad you couldn't make it today. Uh if you're able, at seven o'clock tonight, we're going to have our final installment in our revival of love in real time And we ask if you'll come on out as you leave today. We do have some CDs. I'm not trying to make you take one, but we have extra CDs I brought from Baltimore, from Harvest Take one with you and once you heard it, pass it on to someone else. And maybe that word might be something to encourage your heart. I want to just thank each of you for pressing your way in this hour. Keep us in prayer. We got one more. Amen. I feel like running on to the end to see where the end's gonna be. Amen. Let's give God a praise. Thanks to all of our Facebook friends as well. Amen.