Means so it is as we come today to lift up the mighty name of Jesus Christ. Got to keep looking up to the heels from which cometh your help. As we come today, let's take a moment even now to look to the Lord. Heavenly Father, we come today and we thank you for your word. As we stand today, it is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase God save someone today, encourage another. But when this time is done, we'll give your name all the praise and the glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Praise God. Praise God, the assignment that is mine today comes from Isaiah 41 and 10. So do not fear, for I am with you. Do not be dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you and help you. I will uphold you with the righteous right hand I want to preach today from the Samonic title Fear Less. Fearless No matter how tough you look, no matter how you carry yourself, we all have something that causes us to shake in our boots. That caused us to put our heads under the cover at night, even as grown folk. Things that may grip us at the very core. Back in the day they called you a scary cat. But the truth of the matter is that in this life that we live, there are things that will shake our very faith. When it comes to fear. At one time or another, we've all been gripped, afraid of what's happened in our past. Afraid is what ahead in our future. I was talking to a young lady just the other day at a local restaurant, and I'll pick up a conversation with anybody. And she was ordering her sandwiches, so was I and I always engage young people. How are you doing today? Uh tell me about your school. And she said to me, I'm really uh apprehensive. I'm going to a new school this year and I said it's gonna work out, it's gonna be fine. I told her, gave her the wisdom uh of somebody who was older. And then I said to her, you know, adults feel the same way. There are things that we're apprehensive about. And things that we are a little afraid to deal with, we just don't show it Or we don't tell it. And I shared with her that testimony that, you know, there's some things that that cause me sometime to be a little uneasy. Am I by myself today? Maybe you're big and bad and nothing ever scares you. Maybe you're tough and you never fear anybody or anything. God bless you. Not all of us are like that. In one of his sermons, Reverend Dr. Monther King Jr. said this. He said, normal fear protects us. Abnormal fear paralyzes us. Normal fear motivates us to improve our individual and collective welfare. Abnormal fear constantly poisons and distorts our inner lives. And then he says, our problem is not to be rid of fear, but rather to harness And to master fear. I believe we can become fearless. That is when we don't allow fear to confine us Don't allow fear to destroy us. Don't allow fear to silence us. Today there are concerns that are raised within our school districts about our houses of learning. The big news all summer and in the spring was getting more police officers in Yeah. Getting better doors and uh some have even suggested that you carry a piece. Amen. I'm not being political. I just say pray. Amen. But in our scripture passage today, it is Isaiah the prophet. He's considered one of the major prophets. And what God always does, he uses people to deliver his word. So Isaiah was simply passing along what God had told him to tell a frightened people. And the people of Israel were scared They were frightened because of their enemies. Can I say this? No matter how nice you are, everybody has an enemy or two. Amen. You don't lose sleep over it, but there's somebody who don't like you. That's their problem. But they had enemies who wanted to do them harm, and so God speaks to Isaiah. And say, tell the people this. Tell them, first of all, that I am going to be what? I'm going to be with them. And so let's unpack that today. By talking about three things I believe that can put us on a path that leads to fearless living. First of all, our God is present. It says, so do not fear Easy for you to say. That's a command. It's not a suggestion. He says, do not fear. He knew what they were facing, and he could tell what the outcome would be, but he gives a word from God. And us dads do that. Amen. Can I talk to the dads for a moment? I mean, you know, we don't want to get up and say, let's check the door Why? Because we're the dads, and if everybody in the house is afraid, dads have to carry it. Amen. Even with men, it's not a men's sermon, but we step forward. Amen, men? Can I get amen, men? Leave me hanging all by myself now. But we may be a little afraid, but we step forward. Why? That's what a man does. Amen? Oh Lord, my man not with me today. My man a little silent today. Man, I'm I was hoping y'all would help me out today. But do not we tell our kids. Don't worry We got this. Don't worry, it's gonna be alright. It's reassurance. And so when Isaiah passes this word along, do not fear. Don't fear the people. Don't fear the places, don't fear the things that will try and throw you off, and those things will come. I love what Paul writes to Timothy. 2 Timothy 1 and 7, for God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of love, of power, and the sound mind. In this reassurance, do not fear for what? I am with you I mean how elementary is that? You mean you you with me? It's a reassurance to us that God is saying, I got you. Amen. I got your back. I got your soul. I I got you covered. And when I know that God is with me, I'm excited. Why? I don't always trust my own best judgment, and neither should you, but thank God that He is with us and that He's always with us. He's what He's omnipresent. He's every place at the same time. At your house, at your church, at your school, in your car. Yeah, he's everywhere. Aren't you glad you serve that kind of God who's everywhere? Don't have to look for him. He's always present. I am so glad that he is With me. Does that give you, does that ease you a little bit? When you are reassured that God is with you? I'm talking to you, church. Come on. Yeah. Do you feel better now? I want to shake you from your fear and say, you know what? I don't know what's gonna happen, but you know, God is with me. Some of y'all remember you had a crowd with you, you say, Wait, come on now, who's gonna be this guy up front? I got this. Hoping your backup is there, amen. Oh some of y'all don't remember that do ya? I couldn't fight a lick Uh but I knew people. Yeah, go ahead, Calvin, get 'em. That's right. You tell 'em. Let on. And we can tell, God, get 'em Person trying to trick me up. Get him! I am present with you. But our God is also He's personal. Do not be dismayed. Don't be afraid. Don't be bothered. Don't be discouraged. Don't be flustered. Don't stress out. Why? Because I'm with you. I am your God. That's the good news. It is about having a personal relationship with Him. Personal, that I know him and he knows me. Is that a good feeling to say that you know I may not know everybody, but does it give you some peace to know that you know God Amen. I can take off my education hat today and go on and preach the gospel. Amen. But I mean, just to know, Amen, that he is someone who is personal. It's all about having a personal relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's measured not by what I think it ought to be. Let me just say that. You know, I didn't see you wave your hand, so you may not know God. No, I didn't see you say, Praise God. However, you worship, know that God is present with you and that God is personal. You ever told someone, stay out of my personal business? Oh now you you said it. And even with your faith, you may say, Reverend, it's personal. But that will be some fruit that you have made a connection with a God who is alive and well even right now. And here's why he's so personal. He can identify with us. Even when no one else understands what you're going through, God knows. Even when other folks say, Yeah, I hear you. Uh uh I feel yeah. Some of the worst advice would say, you know what? It happened to me, I have a situation, that's that's that's bad counseling. Right, counselors? You just listen. Well, he will listen to everything that you have to say. I love Hebrews 4 and 15. It says, Well, we do not have a high priest who is unable to empathize with our weaknesses. But we have one who has been tempted in every way just as we are, yet he did not sin. He knows what we're facing And what we're going through. And so when he tells the prophet to say, do not be dismayed. Tell him what I said, because I am your God. Is he your God today? Have you claimed him as not a God, but your God who's alive and well? Amen. The God that you acknowledge, the God whose son that you accept, that makes all the difference. Our God is present. Our God is personal. Our God is powerful. I like that. Yeah, I I don't serve a weak God. Amen. I serve a God who can come out the phone booth. And make some stuff happen. Amen? What kind of God do you see? You serve that kind of God today who's mighty and powerful. He says, I will strengthen you. That indicates there were some weak areas. I will strengthen you and I will help you. We we are weak sometimes in our faith. But he will build us up. Mind, body, spirit. How many folk go to the gym? They gotta say every day. Once a month. Last year. But the goal is that hopefully in addition to getting some cardio you want to build some muscle. Amen? And I want nobody to tell you, hey, you look different. That's what I do. They'll head you back to the gym in a heartbeat. Amen. But God will strengthen us with spiritual strength that folk will see you all cut in the Lord. Bulging muscles in your faith. Why? He is a powerful God who will help you. Amen. Ever call on somebody to help you and they say, hold on for a minute. I'm tied up right now. And don't you love that feature on the phone? On the iPhone, it says ring. Sorry I can't talk right now. I do that for the telemarketers. I don't know who you are. For what I was doing, I'm on the way. Well they don't know me. I don't know the number. But the God that we serve ain't nothing wrong with that is there. I'd do it in a minute. Sorry. Can't talk now On the way, and I on the way. Is that is that telling a story? You think God will forgive me for that one? I didn't say anything. I just pressed the button As I was led. I love a lot of church. I will strengthen you and help you. I will uphold you with the right hand of my righteousness. But I love Isaiah 40, 29, 31. He giveth power to who? The faith. And to them who have no might, he increases strength. Even the youth shall faint. and be weary and the young men shall utterly fall, but they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings as eagles. They shall run And not be weary, and they shall walk, and not faint. You are the they today. He will strengthen you He will help you, assist you, and uphold you, and look at this, with the right hand of his righteousness. He said, well, is he left hand or right-handed? Well God allows us to have human attributes to better understand him. I say he's ambidextrous. He can use either hand to bless you, but the right hand is often associated with military power. But he will be with you A powerful God that we serve. It leads to a life that is fearless Fear was conquered at Calvary. But as he went to that cross He wasn't fearful because he knew that even though he would go down in the grave, he would rise again with all power. There's that word again, all power in his hand, and he conquered fear. 23rd Psalms has that one line: Yea, though I walk through the valley, through the shadows of death, I will fear no evil. Psalm 27, 1. The Lord is my light in my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life, and whom shall I be afraid? It's about knowing he will be with you. Psalm 34, 4. I sought the Lord and He heard me, He delivered me from all of my Fears. The African Impala, as a member of the antelope family, said that this animal can jump to a height of some ten feet. And a distance greater than 30 feet. There's a car named after the Impala, you know. Y'all say, is that the yeah, that's the Impala. Anybody ever owned the Impala? My mama had one. A sixty six it would run. But this particular animal, if you put this animal in the zoo, And they've done that with a three-foot wall that they would not jump. Why? They cannot see where their feet will land. A lot of us are like the impala. Fearful, afraid to take a risk. We're living fearful lives. But God wants to increase your faith. He wants to turn your faith up another notch. He wants to let you know that fear cannot destroy you. He wants to let you know that boo no longer throws you off course. He wants to let you know to put your faith in him. Then in that moment that fear attacks you, in that moment that fear knocks on your door, in that moment that fear comes in your class, in that moment that fear comes in your meeting, know that God Is with you. My faith looks up to thee. Thy Lamb Of Calvary. Glory divine. Now hear me when I pray, take all my guilt away. Oh, let me from this day be holy thine. Well, old fear go wait after you when church is over today, and you're gonna give him the hand. Say, no, I'm not afraid of you. Situations will come and all you gotta do is say, no, no, no, no. Why? My God is with me. Why? He's personal. Why? He's powerful. You gotta talk back to the enemy. Let him know who's team you. Let him know who your daddy is. Amen. God is that kind of God. Fear Less. That is the word of God today. It's always best. Come on, give God a hand today in this place. Come on, stand wherever you are today. Our God is awesome. He is not just okay. He's not just aye. He's awesome. Do you serve an awesome God today? I want to know, is your God awesome? Our God It's so awesome. That's why I serve him. I ain't got to worry what my enemies might do. If you know it today. Our God is in awesome. He reigns with wisdom. Our God is in awesome. Awesome. Our God. Our God. It's we awesome today. He reigns. With wisdom, our God, He reigns. He reigns. He reigns. How many believe it today? He reigns. Our God. One more. He rains. He reigns. Oh, yes, he does. He reign. Thank you, Jesus. He reigns. Our God is. Maybe you come today. And you came in dragging some fear. Shaking in your boots. But there's a reassuring word. There's an Isaiah at your school. There's an Isaiah at your home. There's an Isaiah in your community say, hey, can I remind you what he said? Fear thou not. For I'm with you. Be not dismayed. I am thy God. I will strengthen you. I will help you. I will lift you up with the strong right hand of my righteousness. You know what happened? When you speak the words of the devil, come back off. Get thee behind me, Satan. Amen. The Bible says that the name of Jesus every knee shall bow. Every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. Even even the demon I'm trying to finish. Even the demons are tremble. And all you may have For that day, excuse me, can I give them office for a minute? And just say, Jesus. See if stuff will happen. As you bow today, Father, we come in the name of Jesus. We thank you for a helpful word. It helps all of us in our fearful places. I pray today there's one in this place that has allowed fear to keep them from opening their hearts to you. We speak peace even there. Enemy is told that there's no need for you to change your life today. Touch them. Let them know that only peace comes from being with you. The Bible says that thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus. And believe in your heart that God is raised him from the dead. The Bible says, thou shalt be saved. Today, if you don't know Jesus, open your heart right now. Don't be afraid. He'll come right in. He'll change your life. Your life will be brand new. Is there a witness today who know that to be true? If so, come on give God a praise today. Amen. Amen. You may have come today. You desire to be a part of this fellowship. No, we'll look for Met Arundel and Howard and Harford, but you know, however, the Lord leads you. I'm not picking on my guests. Maybe you come today, you say, you know what? I want to come back to this house again And again and again, you're always welcome. Thank you for listening to the Leading by Example broadcast. To learn more about our ministry and to pick up your copy of my brand new book. Entitled Leading by Example, A Parental Guide to Teaching and Modeling Christian Faith at Home, go to our website. It's www. comToHarvest. That's www. comthenumber 2harvest. org. Have a great day in the Lord.