Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvard's Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. How many people know that he he reigns? That means that God is God of all. That means that God is in charge. That means that the buck stops with God. How many believe that today? That we serve that kind of God. Amen. He's worthy of all praise and all glory. come today to let you know that the Lord Jesus Christ loves you. How many know that you love today? Amen. We serve that kind of God. Let us bow today all over this place. Father, we thank you. Every time we get a chance to proclaim your goodness, we're excited. May we decrease and may you increase. Save someone today, encourage another, and when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. We thank God for each of you and we thank God for twelve wonderful years. Standing before you and declaring the good news of Jesus Christ. And the difference in being a pastor and being an associate minister, it meant in part that I needed a fresh sermon every week. When I was an associate minister, I would go out and take one of my top five with me. When I became a shepherd, it required me to learn the people. and to fill their need and then to bring a fresh word weekly. One that first blesses the pastor. Before I bring it to you, it's been tested and tried. Well, there's a word from the Lord today, from the Gospel of Matthew, the ninth chapter, verses 35 through 38. It reads, Jesus went through all the towns and villages, teaching in their synagogues. proclaiming the good news of the kingdom and healing every disease and sickness. When he saw the crowds, he had compassion on them, because they were harassed and helpless, like sheep without a shepherd. Then he said to his disciples, The harvest is plentiful, but the workers are few. Ask the Lord of the harvest, therefore, to send out workers into the harvest field. I want to preach today on this 12-year church anniversary from the theme Feel the Love. Feel the love. George Washington Crane III was a marriage counselor, a psychologist, and someone who had ridden marriage columns for more than 60 years. Uh it was a weekly column he just simply called Love and Marriage. Well Crane tells the story of a woman who came by his office and said, Mr. Crane, I'm gonna leave my husband. I'm going to divorce him, and I just want to come by to let you know that the proceedings should start at any time And then Crane said to her, Why don't we why don't we try something? Because she'd already expressed that what she wanted to do was to hurt him the way he had hurt her. And so they developed a scheme of sorts. She says, I'm going to go back home and pretend I love him. I'm going to be nice to him. I'm going to fix him breakfast. I'm going to make sure he got all things that he needs. I'm just going to kill him with kindness. And then at the right time, I'll drop the news. Then I want to let you know that I'm fouling for divorce. Well, Crane waited for some time. Two months had passed. He called the woman and said, I'm still waiting to hear from you. You told me that you had a scheme. You were going to pretend that you loved your husband and you were going to divorce them. What happened? What happened was, is that she really allowed him to feel the love. That marriage was saved because she intended to display love, but to not really mean it Now in this story, there's nothing that talks about God came in and changed their hearts. That was not the testimony. But let me tell you today That I want to let you know that the Lord Jesus Christ loves you, and love is not possible unless you are centered in Jesus Christ. And I want you today to feel that kind of love that comes from a Savior to those he has died for. In our text today, Jesus is on the move. Aren't you glad that we serve a Savior who didn't sit around? And Mo. But he was always as holy man and this holy God always going to the next town. Always going to the next village to do what? To show people how much he loved them. He taught them. He preached to them. He healed their sick all because he wanted them, I believe, to feel the love. Amen. And so there in the Gospel of Matthew in the ninth chapter, just maybe this was one day of Jesus on the move, and you thought your day was long and you're tired. He did what? He healed a paralyzed man. And then he raised a girl from the dead. And he had a debate about fasting with some of those who were the religious leaders. He healed a sick woman with the issue of blood. He healed two blind men. And he also dealt with a man who was possessed by demons. Is that enough in one day? And the reason he did all of this, it comes back to his love for people. Let me just say parenthetically that when it comes to our faith That our faith has to be rooted in love. You can say many things, you can preach many things. But people you're in contact with ought to be able to feel the love. Amen? Amen. And let me tell you how this sermon all came about. My son's a big sports man And he knows my my team, and they aware the coaching transition, and there was a a little pep talk in the locker room. And in that pep talk, the coach says, I want to let you all know how much we love you at Florida State. I may as well drop it in there. And he says, we love you guys. And then he brought on one of the old times and said, you know what? I'm going to bring somebody on to explain the love to you. Why? I want you to feel the love. I couldn't let that thing go. I was like, man, I feel the love. In that birth, this sermon today, do you feel the love? We began this ministry because we felt the love Hey, can I just love on you for a minute right now? Maybe nobody's been loving on you in the name of Jesus. And so I want you today, if nothing else, I want you to feel The love. The love that comes from above, like preaching right now, from above. Feel him even now. Jesus' ministry was specific to those who were overlooked. Those who were cast down, those who were talked about, those who were double-crossed, those who were stabbed in the back, those who had no hope, he wanted to display love. And so when he showed up, what they saw was love. So as we unpack these passages, let's begin with verse 36. He could see their precondition. When he saw the crowds, that is Jesus, he had compassion on them because they were harassed. And they were helpless, like sheep without a shepherd. He could relate to a forming community. He could tell that they had some physical issues, but also some spiritual issues. Everything is not physical Some of us are battling with spiritual wickedness in high places. And that's what the Bible says to put on the whole armor of God that you might withstand The wiles of the devil, every now and then, you'll be down. Every now and then, focus on your last nerve. Every now and then you come to a point in life you say I can't take it no more. But just know that other folk may miss it, but Jesus could tell these folk Got a precondition. These folk have a problem. He could tell that they were confused, they were aimless, and sometimes we feel that way. He says, like sheep. You know, sheep can kind of run amok. Sheep are not very smart. Unless there's a shepherd to guide them. Unless there's someone to lead them. He knew exactly what they were going through. And sometimes we try and hide our condition. Try to conceal what we're really going through, but isn't it great that Jesus shows up on the scene In our circumstances, and say, you know what? I want you to feel the love, my God. And so he did just that. He began to take notice when he saw so many people, and oftentimes within theology, people giving a hard time that they followed Jesus Only because they wanted some food or they followed him. They were loafing around. But the truth of the matter is this. They needed somebody To love them. Amen? And so when he looked around and saw them, he had compassion. And he began to say, I know what their condition is. And Jesus knows our condition. Oh, songs that Jesus knows all about our struggles. He will guide us until the day is done. There's not a friend like the lowly Jesus. Would you agree today? Y'all look kind of laid back today. Amen. I'm to help you to feel the love today, amen. My and so he consumed that condition and then Even 23rd Son of the Lord is my shepherd I shall not want. He making me the lie down and green pastors. He leading me beside still waters. And that's what a shepherd will do. He'll lead you places that you wouldn't otherwise know where to go. Some of you are facing tough decisions this week. Ask the Lord to lead you. And to guide you and to show you and to point you to where you need to be. He could see that there was a pre-condition. But also, he knew and identified a real problem. And one thing about the text and the Bible, there are always places of tension. Things are going well, and all of a sudden you feel an uneasiness in the midst. And so he identified a problem as his disciples followed him Verse 37 says, then he said to his disciples, Jesus, the harvest is plentiful, but the workers are few. Jesus seemed to be saying, We got a problem. That I got all these people, but but somehow can you see That they're in need. Can you see all of the people and yet only about 12 of us? There's something wrong with that math. He pointed out to them that what they may not have seen. See, the mission of Jesus was always to see and to save the lost. That's it. He would see those who were lost. And he would save them. He would increase their faith. He would show them love. But he noticed there was a problem going on. It is our mission today to show the love of Jesus. Everybody is worth something in the eyes of Jesus. Amen? We've got to know that there are just a few folk willing to work. A few folks saying, well, you know, I I you know I saw it on Facebook, but you know, folk need somebody to call 'em. And to reach out and say, you know what? I want you to feel the love of Jesus. Can I explain it to you? I want you to know He really loves you today. And many times in our society the concern is only about me, myself and I. Well let me preach today. I know I mean we're kind of selfish. Well I've got mine, I you know that's If she hadn't done that, then she would No no I ask you to judge. Folk just need you to love them. Amen. They don't want you to beat them upside the head. They already know they messed up. They already know what they're lacking But he could see that there was really a problem. And so he was able to say, I need some workers. How many folk are willing to work today? Amen? Some time ago you remember seeing the sign that says, I'll work for food. And that that was popular for a while. Folk don't do that no more. They said no if you if you you know you can you help me out. But this past week one of my co-workers and I were coming uh from uh Annapolis And we had talked about uh about lunch. He said he had packed his lunch. And I hadn't packed one, so we had a debate, lasted about two minutes And decided we'd get pizza. And so he still had his lunch. As we drove down Martin of the King Boulevard, there was a guy with a cup. He reached over and pulled the lunch out. The man took the lunch and said, man, what he was so happy. He said, You got any water? And so there are folk who are waiting for you to show them the love. Amen. If we would take time and to see that only a few folk really want to make a difference. Not everybody who goes to church want help folks. Not everybody who says thank you, Jesus, want to help people. But thank God there are some folks who say, you know what? I want you to feel the love. He saw their precondition. He could see that there was a problem because there were not as many people. But then he says, Let me suggest this. Don't do a thing. I want you to pray. Verse 48 says, Ask the Lord of the harvest, therefore, to send workers into his harvest field. You know, I I like what Jesus does. He says, What you ought to do is ask the Lord of the harvest. Well, you know, he really is the Lord of the harvest. So he said, you ought to pray to the Lord of the harvest that he might send more workers. He was speaking almost in the third person. Isn't it great how the Lord does that? He kind of gives a holy week and says, you know what? Uh uh we need to pray about somebody to come and to do this work. And sometimes we put prayer at the very end We do what we want to do and he said, well maybe I should pray about this. God send the workers. This ministry began and God sent people. He sent you to this ministry. Why? Because you felt like harvesting. We looked down around the community and God sent people. He was trying to let them know you've got to pray. Pray before you do anything. Pray before you make any decision. Ask the Lord, what do you think about this? Can I just run this by you? I don't know about you, but I made decisions that seem good. And I was like, uh oh That was the bad why I didn't take time to say, Lord, can I ask you? How do you feel about it? I don't feel good to my flesh, but should I do it? You've got a harvest field. Your home is a harvest field. There's somebody at your house who needs To feel the love. I know you've been telling them how much you love them, but they have not felt the love of Christ being transmitted from you to them. There's somebody on your job who who really needs to feel the love. I know y'all working side by side Trying to get the man's work done. But every now and then, let them know. Say, you know what? I won't let you know that I love you. And do you feel the love? Even in the church, somebody you're sitting next to every Sunday and they don't feel the love. I want you to feel the love that comes from Jesus Christ today. Just talking about it. I feel love today. Amen. He lets them know that we need folk to display the love of Jesus. Later on in that particular book, he says, now go ye therefore and teach all nations baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, letting them know about me, and lo, I'm with you always. Even to the end of the earth. Man, that sounds like a love to me. That he'll be with me, you mean when I'm going through my valley And when I'm on my high place, I want you to feel the love today that he's trying to display. And of Bartlett Walker. was one who wrote a nice poem and somebody caught wind of it back in the eighteen hundreds and said, you know what, this might make a song. Jesus loves me, this I know. For the Bible tells me so Little ones to him belong. They are weak, but he is strong. Oh, you know the rest of it. Yes Jesus loves me. Why? For the Bible tells me so. Then you open the Bible. You'll find examples of love all over the Bible. And that was something she wrote. Paul would say to the church at Rome sometime later, who shall separate us from the love of Christ? He raised an important question. Shall tribulation Or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or pearl or sword As it is written, for thy sake, we are killed all the day long. We are counted as sheep for the slaughter. Amen. But nay, in all of these things We are more than conquerors through him that loved us. For I'm persuaded that neither death nor life nor angels, nor principalities, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor death, nor any other creature shall be able to separate us From the love of Christ. Amen. That the world may try to pull you apart and make you come on sense, but let nothing separate you From the love. Do you feel the love today? Let nothing pull you away from the love of Jesus Christ. Back in the early 90s. Some of y'all remember a big purple dinosaur named Barney. Rumble song and even though you may not have been eight years old, you remember. I love you, you love me, we are a happy family. Well with a great big hug In a kiss from me to you, won't you say you love me too? I show enough love y'all today because I come by with the love of Jesus Christ. But I'm so glad that there's a name I love to hear. I love to sing its worth. It sounds like music in my ear, the sweetest name on earth. It tells me of a Savior's love who died to set me free. It tells me of his precious blood. The sinners perfectly. Oh, how I love Jesus. Oh, how I love Jesus. Oh, how I love Jesus because He first loved me. I don't know about you today, but I I already feel this love phase. Don't you feel better today? Maybe you came in and you didn't feel love today, but once you hear the gospel of Jesus Christ, you want to feel the love. You ought to feel something going through your body. You ought to feel the love today. I feel the love today. The love that comes from Christ. And I want to say to you Can I explain it to you? This love changed my life around. This love got me on the right track. This love allowed me to do the kinds of things. Oh my God, you haven't gotten this thing yet. It was love that lifted me. When nothing else could help, love lifted me. When a pet talk wouldn't do it, when drugs wouldn't do it. Well a little drink wouldn't do it. It was love that lifted me. I want to know today, do you feel the love? Don't let me push you today. I'm just trying to find out. It's my mission today to make sure. that you feel the love. How many folk just feel the love? How many folk know that he loves me? How many folk know that love makes a difference? My God, I feel that thing today. I can feel his love. working inside of me. I can feel this love. Driving me the new height. I can feel this love that brings joy to my heart. I can feel this love. That gives me peace. I can feel this love. How many folks feel the love of Jesus? I feel it. It's all over me. I feel the love. And my God, when you feel the love, you'll talk right. When you feel the love, you'll walk right. When you feel the love, you'll do right. How many folks just feel the love? Do the You feel? Did you feel what I feel? Do you feel what I feel? I feel like going alone. I feel the love of Jesus is ruining. In Mar, Style, Stan, Inclusive, Aquiles, Aquiles, Aquiles, Aquiles. I feel it. I feel the love. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Ah, I'm trying to let it go. But the love keeps. Pressing me and turning me. You may have said it, but do you really feel The Lord. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I feel it. And it gives me what I need. So now go. And share the love. Don't keep it to yourself. But share the love. Oh Lord. My God. I feel good in my soul today. It wouldn't let me alone. Two weeks I've been saying, hey! Do you feel the love? Every situation you're in, feel the love of Jesus Christ. And so I come today to offer Christ to you. The only one who can dispense this kind of love. Come on, stand today. Christ to you. Oh my God. He will give you. Life abundantly Oh come on To Christ. Come on, let's tell it again today. My God. Here's an offer. Offer Christ. Oh my God Oh my sister He will give you when you read new life life above Let us bow right now where we are. Heavenly Father, we thank you that love is not just spoken, but it might be displayed in the light of every believer. People are looking to us for love. Yes, sir. We give love. them our best. They're abbey advice. Yes, sir. But we don't show them love. We scold them and criticize them. Yes, sir. But we don't move to the place of making sure they feel the love of Jesus Christ. Today, God, we're sorry. As we reset today, may our mission in life be is to make sure somebody around you feel the love. Just laborers. Just workers in the field, letting somebody know that Jesus died for you and he rose for you all because he wanted you to feel the love. Yes, sir. He's coming back to claim his own. Those who have recognized the love. God, we thank you. There's a soul today in this place that knows you not. It is our prayer today that they might receive you unto their own. The Bible says that thou shalt confess without. mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God is raised from the dead the Bible says thou shalt be saved this is real stuff save oh no about love save someone today we pray God in Jesus' name. How I love Jesus. Because he first. Come on, let's say one more time. Oh how I love you, Song G Oh I love you because evil love me. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Come on, bless his name. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired Of course by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.