Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Heavenly Father, we come today and we thank you for this day that you've made And the fact that you've kept us in the day. The Bible says every day is a day of thanksgiving. Oh, give thanks unto the Lord, for He's good. And His mercy endureth forever. As we come today, God. Help us to decrease that you might increase. Save someone today, encourage another, and when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise. And the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. There's a word from the Lord today. And even before we do that, I'm so thankful for you here And there's so many people I run into uh in the Facebook world. So I watch you every Sunday. And I before I go to my own church, well thank you And if you uh not going to your own church, come by and see us and we thanked all those who are coming to Indiana, West Virginia, North Carolina, Florida. It's amazing how this little uh piece of equipment can reach so many people for the cause of Christ. What does a word from the Lord today comes from the Gospel of Luke? First chapter verses forty-six through forty And Mary said, My soul glorifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God, my Savior. Savior, for he has been mindful of the humble state of his servant. From now on, all generations will call me blessed. For the mighty one has done great things for me. Holy is his name. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, Finding Your Voice. Finding your voice. By the time I stand before you on Sunday mornings, I've had opportunity during the course of the week to To write a manuscript, to edit a manuscript, and even on Sunday morning at about six, I'm still finding ways to change or clarify what I'm going to share with you today. And I'm sure other pastors do the same thing. It's never final. Even when you stand, it's still not final because the Holy Spirit comes in and speaks a new word to you. Before I preach, I always pray. I ask God to help me to share with you a word that will bless and encourage you. But also pray that you won't just hear my voice. That that my voice is not the primary voice, but that there might be something in the sacred scriptures that might speak to you. So that for you, it may be something within the Word of God that ministers specifically to you. I pray that you will hear his voice and to also relate to the voices of the characters in this text. Now in all my years of reading the Gospel of Luke, I I thought I knew it. I've I've recited it. I've preached it a number of times. I've been uh You know, Joseph in the play, I've been the wise man and the shepherds before. But as you read the word of God, there's always something new as you hear from the biblical characters Amen. And so I want you to to look at it that way. The central character today is Mary. She's the expectant mother of Jesus, Reverend. I knew that. And in short, she is a poor teenager. from a small town who gets some news that rocks her world. She's already engaged to marry a fellow named Joseph. If I get too simple for you, I'm just going down the Sunday school route. You already know that. But I want you to see and to hear Mary today. I want you to stand alongside. Keep a ear for what she is going through. Gabriel comes through and he presents to her this news That you will bear the Christ child, and she is puzzled as anyone would be with that kind of news. Shaking in her boots. And the angel says, on top of that. I want you to go and visit your cousin. And your cousin's name is Elizabeth. And she's already six months pregnant. And as you know, she's an old woman. And as you go see her, I want you to see that nothing is impossible with God. And and sometimes we have to just do what the Lord says do. It may seem to not make any sense It may not register with you, but she says now you give me this news and you tell me to go visit my cousin. But as she goes and she sees Elizabeth, something happens From the time she shows up, the Bible says that the baby, John, is actually leaping In the womb. That the fact that Mary shows up causes cousin Elizabeth's baby to come to start leaving. What happens when people come in your presence? Do they leave or do they say, Oh Lord? Amen? When we go in the presence of someone, something ought to happen in their experience. Howdy howdy, glad to see you, or I'm going the other way. But but to think that there was such confirmation in that that the baby started to leap And then after that, Elizabeth gets excited. And then Mary finds her voice. She breaks out in a hymn known as the Magnificant. It is Mary's prayer. It's her poem. It's her hymn of praise. And I believe this song of praise highlights, first of all, her knowledge of God. Her humility and her gratitude for what God has done. So, knowledge. And Mary said, My soul glorifies the Lord And my spirit rejoices in God, my Savior. Mary is familiar with the word. Mary has been to a Sunday school class or two. Mary is able to not sing any song, but what she says is from the word. Amen. She's saying what was on her mind and in her spirit. And all week that's what I've been that's been following me, that that Mary saying But Mary has a voice and she pulls a hymn. And sometimes what you need is a song. Ever been through something and all you know is that you know what? I need a song. Uh uh she was not praising herself She wasn't talking about herself. She was glorifying God himself. Now have you ever had a song of praise to to pop up in your spirit, in the car, nobody looking. I I love tenant windows because that way you can't see how crazy I'm getting for Jesus Amen. But but ever had one, maybe it was not the gospel top ten, but it was a song that spoke to your experience. It just came to mind, didn't it? That song, when you're going through, that song when When when the walls are closing in, that song that you learned way back yonder. How many folk have found their voice? They'll get a song that no matter what I'm going through, I have a song I can sing. Colossians 3. 16 says, Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly In all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing grace in your hearts to the Lord. She didn't sing any kind of old song. Her song was needy. Her song was about her God. Amen? So she had a knowledge. But but but not just that, she was humble. Verse 48 says For he, that is God, has been mindful of the humble state of his servant. From now on, all generations will call me blessed. Mary was humbled because she'd been chosen by God. She was just overwhelmed that God would pick her You ever been in that place before? Uh you you know you didn't deserve the raise or the promotion or the house you're living or the car you drive or the clothes you're wearing But you were just a humble somebody. Still got straw in your hair, but you were humble, and because you were humble, God has exalted you. What humbles you for me is the fact that God would use me to stand behind a pulpit. My homeboy said he's doing what? He's preaching. I'm I'm doing the best I can, but to think that God would trust me with his word, I'm humbled by that. I'm almost under the table. The fact that I never planned to be a preacher, wasn't trying to be a preacher, but now something has got a hold of me. I can't help myself. I'll preach anywhere I go How many folk are just humble? Our society confuses being humble with being weak. Being humble with being a chunk. Being humble with being somebody who is, I'm a pushover. But no, it's just the opposite. When you show that my voice may not be even be audible, but I don't mind getting low for the Savior. Amen? Some of us used to have the big head oh yes we did. Any ex-bighead people in the house? Y'all know who I'm talking to. You thought you were all that. But didn't God humble you? He humbled me on the unemployment line. Now you ain't got no job. Now what you gonna do? I'm gonna serve you, Lord. And sometimes things will happen in life To humble you. Mary says, Oh my God, I'm just humbled to be chosen. And the fact she says, and all the generations will call me blessed. It's not about me, but the fact that he used me folk will be talking about me more than 2,000 years from now. It's not really about you, but because you came with your humble self, God can use you any way he wants. 1 Peter 5 and 6. Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, and he will do what? Exalt you in due time. Not in your time, but in due time. Amen. So she was able to find her voice by saying, I got some word in me. And she found her voice by staying humble, but also she found Her voice by being grateful. Verse 49: For the mighty one has done great things for me. Holy is his name. Mary showed some appreciation. She didn't mind saying thank you to God, even though what had taken place had rocked her world. The Bible said you gotta just say thanks anyhow. She proclaimed God's power for the mighty one. That distinguishes from anybody else. He's the mighty one. He's the one who sits high and looks low. He's the one who's all powerful. He's the one who's all-knowing. Anybody know that kind of God today? You look at me kind of funny today. I'm talking about the mighty one. Does anybody know the mighty one? Well, you ought to say some if you know the mighty one Don't sit there and say, well now do you know the mighty one? Do you serve the mighty one? Have you tried the mighty one? Come on, church, talk back to me today. Do you know who the mighty one is? God all by Himself. It's personal for Mary. It was her testimony in a song. What is your testimony? Has God done anything for you? That's worth sharing? And worth telling, we are some shuffles. Touchdown. Girl, she sang that song tonight. But but when it comes to our testimony, we'll freeze up. Folk don't even know you're a Christian. You just blend in. Mary had a testimony. And and this wasn't a lip sync She wasn't mouthing something she had heard. You remember back in the 90s when the group Millie Manilli. Y'all remember Millie Vanilli? Uh oh woke y'all up then. They were German and they won the Grammy. Doing that. But it found out they wasn't really saying anything. And so don't let anybody look sync your testimony. Amen. You'll say, babe, this is lies It's what God has done for me. It's live. It's what He's brought me through. It's live. Had it not been for the Lord on my side, no lipsticking, I can speak with my own voice Don't speak for me. I can say he's been good to me. I can say got me up this morning. I can say He started me on my way. Anybody got a testimony for the Lord? Anybody know what God had I'm trying to let go of this Anybody know what God has done for you? Well don't be afraid to give him praise. Don't be afraid to say, well, he did no, he brought you out of some stuff. And you want to give him All the praise and all the glory. It's your testimony you are grateful. But it's okay to have some background singers. David says, oh, magnify the Lord with me. And let's exalt his name together. David said, I don't need you, but anybody in the house want to praise him with me? Anybody want to say thank you, Jesus, with me? Grateful unto the Lord. Sibylla Martin was a great poet back in the 1900s and has written many songs. She visited a friend of hers. And that person was bedridden, discouraged, and sick. But from her bed, the woman says, you know God has been watching over me like a sparrow. And Sibilla says, uh oh, I better jot this down. As she left, she went back and began to to write this hymn. His eye is on The sparrow, oh, and I know he watches me. I I sing because I'm happy I sing, I said that's what I sing because I'm free. His eye is on the sparrow, and I know he watches me. Jesus found his voice. On the cross. In those dying words to his enemies, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. His voice gave hope to a dying thief. Who says, you know what? Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom. He he found his voice. Next to him who is the voice, and Jesus responded. Can you see the back and forth? Truly, today you will be with me in paradise. Find your voice. By listening to the voice. Not the TV show. I don't know who's winning, but listen to the Lord. Him money says, I come to the garden alone. While the dew is still on the roses and the voice I hear. Falling on my ear. The Son of God discloses, and he walks with me. And he talks with me, and he tells me I'm his own. And the joy we share And as we tarry there, none other has ever known. I'm so glad today I've found my voice. It's not a baritone. It's not a bass or tenor. But I'm glad today that I found my voice. A voice that would allow me to speak the words of Jesus. I'm glad today that I found my voice to replace some words that were not uplifting to other people. I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm glad today that I found my voice. It may be at another octave but I found my voice And here's why, because I found the Savior. Has anybody found the Savior? And when you found the Savior You find your voice. Do you have a voice today in which you can praise him? Do you have a voice today in which you can say hallelujah? Do you have a voice today? to give him praise. I found my voice. Have you found your voice? And if so, just use your voice and say thank you, Jesus. Come on and use your voice to say, Lord, I praise you. Come on and use your voice to give him some praise. Do you have a voice? I I I can't hear you now, but raise your voice and give him praise. Is anybody want to raise the voice and giving praise? Has he been good to you? If so, come on stand today and say, uh, Reverend Can I raise my voice? Can I raise my hands? Can I raise and lift them up? He said, If I be lifted up I'll draw all men under me. I ain't got but a small voice, but I serve a big Savior who's in the world today. Do you have a voice? Have you f Have you found your voice? Y'all thought Mary was all quiet. All upset. Mary said, Can I can I break this much of my him off? She found a voice. That is the word of God today. It's already blessed. Find your voice. His voice is small and quiet. His voice may not be the loudest in your experience, but it's the most effective. And what he's saying today, if you don't know him, come to me. Come to Jesus. That's it. Just now, just now come to Jesus. He will save you. He will save. I want to say today. The enemies try to keep you quiet. Shh. You don't need to say all that. But when you've been through some things in life. You develop a voice. And so maybe you've not opened your mouth and said, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. See, he's always tuned in. He's a surveillance god. But today, if you open your heart to him, Lord Jesus, I'm I'm a sinner. Yeah, say I'm a sinner in need of a savior. I don't need another another 401k. I don't need no more stocks and bonds. I need a savior. As those heads are bowed very quickly. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. If there's one who has heard your voice but ignored it, you never stop speaking. So minister to their hearts right now, God. Let them know that you and you alone can make their life brand new. Help them to find their voice. I pray even now, God, if that person is here, that you might open their experience, save their soul, and through their faith, they can gain eternal life. We ask it all in your name, Jesus. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Thanks so much for listening I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comthenumber twoharvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called Seeds of Encouragement. You can get them by way of iTunes from Podcasting or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.