Good day, my dear friend. Dr. Tim Tootin here, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Well, I welcome you to our worship experience. We meet here in Baltimore at 7660 Bel Air Road. Our service time is 845 I want you to join us now for a message that's already in progress. There's something about those old old spirituals, amen. Let's look to the Lord even now. Bow our heads and close our eyes. Heavenly Father, we thank you for freedom that comes from you. God, we thank you that you freed us from those things that have enslaved us, even in the here and now. It is our prayer today that as we stand to declare your word, that you might free us up, that your spirit might run free in this place. From heart to heart and from mind to mind. And when we're done, we'll be so careful to give your name the praise and the glory. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Somebody just say amen today. Somebody say thank you, Jesus, today. Somebody say the Lord is good today. Amen. But see, you already know that. I'm not telling you anything new. Let's look even now to the book of Galatians, the fifth chapter. And verse number one, it is for freedom that Christ has set us free. Stand firm then and do not let yourselves be burdened again by a yoke of slavery. It's just the one verse. Let's say it one more time. It is for freedom That Christ has set us free. Stand firm then and do not let yourselves be burdened again by a yoke of slavery. I want to preach today from the Samonic title Finding Freedom. Finding freedom. As American citizens, we look to the First Amendment to the Constitution, which grants us certain kinds of freedom. And that is the power and the right to act and to speak and to think. In a way that we can share without restraint and without hindrance. I mean only in this country can we have that kind of right We have the freedom of press. I'm familiar with that. We have the freedom of assembly. We can come together one with another. We have the freedom of speech. The freedom of expression, the freedom of religion, the fact that we can come to church and nobody's trying to arrest us. We can come to church and say, Hallelujah. Thank you, Jesus, and nobody calls 911. Did you miss that? In some countries, that's not allowed. In some countries, you're not allowed to express your faith. I remember some years ago talking with our good friend uh Pastor Fred Dyer, who enjoyed going to China. And he and his wife would go on missionary journeys, but they could not openly express their faith. Now imagine this if you know Fred. Fred said they would go to the park And just dance with folk. And as they're dancing, they're spreading the gospel of Jesus. No no no leaflet, no, I'm gonna tell you about Jesus, but can I can I have this dance please in the park? And while I'm doing a move, I can tell you about Jesus. Isn't that amazing that in some countries you gotta use many methods to reach someone for Christ. Aren't you glad that you're free today? Amen. It was the late Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. who shared this quote in a letter from the Birmingham Jail in 19 63 in April of that year, he said, we know through painful experience that freedom is never voluntarily given by the oppressor. It must be demanded by the oppressed. And so if there is one today who who knows about uh being in bondage. It is the apostle Paul who wrote the better part of the New Testament. Paul certainly wrote many of what we call the prison letters to the people. Even though he was locked up, he was still free to share the good news of Jesus Christ. And so Paul writes to the church at Galatia, writing to them to encourage them. to always be on the lookout for what they're hearing. I see that over and over again in the text is that there's always another thought Always another doctrine that's trying to bleed in. And Paul is saying, don't forget what you know. And don't forget who you know. You know, it's easy because people will try to influence you and you'll walk out not knowing what you think you believe. Amen? That's why I always encourage a Bible study always encourage a devotional life because that way you're getting it right from the source. So Paul certainly uh talks with us, certainly writes this letter, and within our sharing today, we'll take a look at Paul's letter from the standpoint of a declaration that Paul actually says something that he believes will help the people. to find freedom and to hold on to freedom. And to do it with a certain determination. To do it with a certain passion, that I'm not just free to say I'm free, but I want to hold on and keep hold of my freedom. And then of course he addresses the issue of being delivered. You know, when it comes to the life that we live, if we're not careful, we'll find ourselves really in a battle. The Bible talks about the mind and the flesh and the spirit, how they war against one another, so that you won't do right. You ever have a bad thought? Of course you do. Have things that cross your mind. Uh that the world and the flesh want you to think a certain way, but you know because you've been exposed to the word there's another way And every now and then there's a WWF that takes place. Some of y'all still watch that. Amen. There's a WWF in the spirit that takes place. So even though I I would do good. Evil is always present. Do I have a praying church this morning or am I by myself? Are your thoughts always great thoughts? Are your thoughts always holy? Thank the Lord. Praise you, Jesus. Or do you find yourself sometimes having to really concentrate And clearing your mind, the Bible said, let this mind be in you that was also in Christ Jesus, who humbled himself even until the cross. Paul writes about freedom. Paul writes about what it means to be in search of and to find freedom. Freedom allows you to sleep at night. When your mind is free, you can go to bed and go right under. Get up the next morning and say, Lord, thank you. Having freedom is to have liberty. Amen. And to know that I know who rules the world, I know who takes care of me, I know who gets me through my day, it's because in Christ I am free. Any free people today I mean do you really feel free? You may have walked in carrying some extra baggage and some extra concerns, but I I dare you to shake it off right now. You know what? I'm free in Christ So first there's a declaration. And so Paul said it is for freedom that Christ has set us free. He makes a bold statement that it is Christ who makes the difference. We could not free ourselves. Otherwise, we'd been free earlier. But he says, never forget it is Christ that sets us. And so he makes it inclusive. Not Christ who has set you free. Not Christ who has set, but together, as a body of believers, aren't you glad today it is Christ who has set us free? You ever been locked up? No, I'm not gonna get in your business. But I just did Been locked up, wasn't your fault, didn't do anything, and there was a bell set. And somebody showed up, posted your bell. Now you might have been cool, but you were glad to be free. Amen. You might have had a court date, but just for that moment, well that maybe one or two. I ain't looking at nobody. But you know what it means to say, Lord, I'm free. And in the life that we live, we find ourselves uh in bondage so often. And being in bondage is a state really of being subjected to some external power That there's something that desires to hold you down and to hold you back and to control you and to chain you down, but God, through Christ Jesus, has set you free. And there's some things in our lives that people want to remind us. No, I've come out of that. That thing that used to have me does not have me anymore. Anybody got that kind of testimony that there were some things that really had you? You were bound, but thank God for Jesus Christ that now you are free? Or nobody's free today I I'm talking about that thing. I don't know what that thing is. Hebrews says that sin that so easily besets what whatever that thing is that's had your bound, but now you can walk past it Now you can walk beyond it because you have been set free, Paul declares. And you know what? It's not you who did it, but it's always in Jesus. Now folk may say, Well, are you being a Jesus freak? Why you give Jesus very because he did it. He did it. Ephesians 2. 8 and 9 says, for by grace You are saved through faith, through what you believe, and not of yourselves, it is the gift of God Lest anyone should boast. So before you get the big head and say, you know what, I was in a 20-day program, and that program got me through I I I watched a certain talk show and that freed me up. No, it wasn't. I mean real freedom only comes from Christ. Would you agree with that today? I mean to be really free It comes from him. I'm so glad that I'm free from certain things in life. And he's brought us to that point. So Paul just makes the declaration. He makes the statement that it is for freedom that Christ has set us free. And then he says, there has to be a determination. Stand firm. Straighten up. Gird up the loins of your mind. You are free. And you've got to act free. And walk free and talk free and love free just because there's always someone or something seeking to knock you off your mark. Amen. On your best day. Had a great prayer and devotion, and your favorite song was on the radio, and you were hallelujah, got to work, and somebody crossed you Oh yes they did. Gave you a certain look and all of a sudden you were not too firm. You're free, but you want to fight. Amen. He's reminding them to know that folk might try to knock you off where God has placed you, but stand firm. And what you know. Stand firm and who you know. Be determined that that thing that got me last week Won't get me again. Oh some of us have been guided. Yes we have. Yes we have we've been guiding. Oh yeah, they may have a big lick in, but you won't you won't do it again. But to stand Paul writes to the Corinthian church about standing. Be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know your labor. And your work in the Lord is perfected. Be steadfast. Isn't it amazing that believers, and we should expect it, there's always some force That's trying to move you away from what you know. Maybe it's never happened to you. Maybe nobody ever messes with you. Maybe the enemy never approaches you. Maybe you're not tempted. But we are. And you have to think for a minute, who is it that's behind this? I may as well testify, give you some of it. I was dealing with the situation last week. And and my friends and family knew me, I was gonna fight this thing. I I I mean I wouldn't deep. I ain't a bad fella, but I'll just go fight it You know, had my mind made up. I couldn't find no scripture for it, but I was gonna fight it. And so I was not really standing firm. But I had breakfast with a friend of mine and he began to share some word with me that pricked my heart. He said there's some things that the Spirit will prevent you from doing And prevent you from going, even though you think it's a good idea. Even though you're passionate about it. The Spirit said, no, no, no. Don't go there. Well you said, but you don't know what they did. No, no, no. Don't go, but no, no, no, no. That wasn't right. And so I decided to humble in that moment. I found peace through knowing that there's this some. Time you have to just stand firm, be still, and know that I'm God. Isn't that great news today? Paul writes as he talks about this battle. Wherefore take up the whole armor of God that you might be able to withstand the evil day, and having done all, just Yeah, yeah, yeah. Winds may be blowing, but I'm free staying. Trouble in my way. I'm free. I'm gonna stand. Folk getting on my last nerve and some of it's true, but I'm gonna stand. And so Paul says you are free Now just stand where you are, just be firm and what you believe. I'm helping myself today. Can I just say that? That's what the word of God does. It's not for you. necessarily, but when I keep hearing that, I'm saying, oh, thank you, Lord, that you made me to stand firm and to know that I'm free in him. A declaration. Paul puts it out there. The truth. Determination. But then he ends in this one verse and talks about deliverance. And do not let yourselves be burdened again by a yoke of slavery That says to me, it's been done before, but don't let it get you again. The thing that held you down last week, don't let it bound you up this week. The same thing that made you mad last week. I'm talking to somebody today. Don't don't let it get you again. Amen. Paul issues a warning of sorts Don't don't don't don't he says a yoke he gives a word picture and maybe you watch the Death Valley Days of old shows where they had the oxen Uh gun smoke. You know some of your uh American history and they had the oxen and they would be yoked together. So that if one was that away He had to come and go because you were yoked together. And what Paul is saying, because he writes to a community that knows farming, don't allow Yourself to be yoked again by slavery. You you you you're free, but you still hanging out with the yoke Amen. And so he wrote something that the church of Galatia could relate to. And this yoke was this wood. If you don't believe me, you can Google it and put in yoke and hit images. It'll show you what one looks like Amen. But there's a good part to this. It's good to be yoked with someone that's going in the same direction that you're going. Amen. Oh Lord have mercy. I mean, I don't mind having a yoke fellow that that person is following Christ. That follow means I follow, but if you yoke with the wrong person, you'll go the wrong way. And you pretty much are determined you gotta kinda go, you can't can't go that away, but thank God when you're going after the things of Christ And you yoke with somebody who says, Brother, can I pray for you? Yeah, I'm yoked with you. Can I lift you up today? I'm yoked with you. Get yoked with that kind of person today. Get your head in to the game and says, I don't mind following him. And Christ talks about this. Come unto me, all you who labor and are heavy laden And I will give you rest. Take my yoke. My yoke. My yoke upon you. And do what? Learn of me for a meek And I'm lowly in heart, and you should find rest for your soul. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. I've been delivered from the thing that held me back. I've been delivered for the thing that kept me locked up. Have you been delivered from that thing that has sought to hold you up? Have you walked away in freedom? from an attitude that's held you up all of these years. Today, can I just announce you can be free Why? Because Christ has set you free. The price has already been paid. It was done by way of the cross. My God, that that's that's what did it. It was the blood of Jesus Christ that made all of the difference. Jesus writes, and you shall know the truth. And the truth shall set you free Free, that's what allows you to become free when you begin to read the word of God to ingest the word of God. I love this truth of Christ that the songwriter raised. He says, What Can wash away my sins. Nothing but the blood of Jesus. What can make me whole again? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. Oh precious, is that flow that makes me white as snow? No other fount I know Nothing but the blood of Jesus Christ. You know that blood has power? The blood that Jesus shed will get you through every situation and every now and then. It's going to plead the blood of Jesus. Ask the Lord to cover your situation. You gotta walk into a place. You know what? In the name of Jesus, I plead the blood of Jesus. The old mothers would do that, man. They just they just pleaded. Because they knew that there was power in the blood. They knew that the blood made the difference in our situation. And you know, Dr. King ended that famous speech, I have a dream, talking about letting freedom reign. He began to name a few places in the mountains of New Hampshire and New York and Tennessee and Georgia and Colorado. He says, let freedom ring. Well we gotta let freedom ring in our own situations. Amen? Let freedom ring in your heart so that you might love the way that the Lord has called you to love. See before there was something that was holding you back. You couldn't love the way you wanted to love. Why? Freedom had not been released in your life. Let freedom reign in your home That sometimes the biggest struggle is the home front. But let freedom loose in your house. Let freedom loose. In your bedroom. Let freedom loose in the kitchen. Let freedom loose anywhere in the house. Begin to plead the blood of Jesus and let freedom reign. Let freedom ring on that job that you sometimes complain about, but it's paying your bills. Let freedom ring On the job. Let freedom ring as you go every two weeks. Thank you, God. You got a paycheck. Some of y'all got retirement checks. Let freedom ring And that's the good news. Let it ring in my soul so I'm never ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That when I found freedom I thank God this makes a difference in who we are. Are you still searching today for something? And you don't realize that to get to where God wants you, you gotta be free. But I made a resolution, but are you free? I'm gonna change my ways in 18, but are you free? I'm gonna do better. You can't do it without Christ. It is Christ who makes us free. Have you found that freedom today in your own life? If you have, just give God some praise today. If you know he freed you. If you know what freedom looks like and what freedom feels like, just stand to your feet today. And that's the close of the sermon. That let's rejoice like free people. Let's give God praise like free people. Let's thank him like somebody who says, Oh, I'm free. I know. The price has been paid. Thank you for setting me free. A declaration Determined to stand firm and then to no longer be locked up, bound up, and yoked in the wrong direction. That is the word of God today. It's already a blessed. Come on, give the Lord a praise today. What I love about that, you can come just the way you are. Well I I'll be free when I get my act together. I need a a moment. I need a few more days and uh when it gets warm again I'll do it. Gotta make your mind up today. Come as you are. He'll take you that way. Come and see, come and see, come and live. Come and live. Come just as you are. Let the Lord do the work in delight. He's the only one that can set you free. He'll free you from yourself. Come and spee, come receive, come and live forever. Forever. Everlasting how many script today En Come as you are. Come just as you are as we come today. I want to offer Christ to you. There's something about knowing who it is. Who frees no longer ashamed of your past life, but know that you've got a new beginning in him. He'll take you right now as your Amen. I want to appeal to you today. It may seem redundant that every every Sunday Reverend you come and you you bid To us the word of God. And we know we're already saved. But there might be one. This is the most sacred time of the worship experience. Why? The Word of God has been planted and watered. But it's at this time that our hearts are most vulnerable. So I pray today if you if you know that you have no relationship with Jesus Christ. Today make a decision. How do you do it, Reverend? The Bible says if you shall confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, the Bible says, thou shalt be saved. You know when I first grasped that, I was like, I thought it was harder than that. That I had to do, you know, two steps back and two to the left. And lie again about what I wasn't going to do. No, no. The fact that I opened my mouth and said, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. I've sinned to come short of your glory. But I believe that you died. And I believe that God raised you again. And I accept that into who I am. That's powerful stuff. That's the gospel of Jesus Christ. If I believe that and receive that and believe that, that I have life eternal. I may need some work. We all do, but but but that that's the major step. Have you made that step today? Have you opened your heart to Jesus Christ? I mean They said the country shown off. He'll come in and he'll make your life brand new. Have you seen me many years ago? I I I couldn't see myself here. Man, I knew enough To play it well. Academy Award, lead actor in a World Series. But when it came to my heart, it took time I got freed up and now I'm walking with the master. But didn't happen overnight. But it has to be a starting point for you. Where do you start? You can start now by asking Jesus Christ to come into your life Man, it's it's are there any witnesses today? Anybody feel like I feel today? Say, wow. You right? You right that when I came to the realization that I was saved, And that life eternal was mine. Man, that really made the difference for me. I was like, wow. You mean life everlasting? Yeah, you mean salvation? And I'm so glad today that somebody shared that word with me. I'm so glad the Lord allowed me to receive it. And that's because we had opening ears. Father, we come right now. In the name of Jesus. As an ambassador of your truth. None of us have any power to save anybody. But your word is true. Your word. That you would Make our lives brand new. Free us today, God. Help us to see the chains falling. And the things that have bound us for so many years today, we can be free. Why? We found freedom in you. Save someone today, we pray God. In Jesus' name. Amen. We're so glad you could join us today. I pray you were blessed by today's message. Wanted to tell you about a few other things that will bless you as well. You can get a copy of my brand new book just out entitled Leading by Example, A Parental Guide to Teaching and Modeling Christian Faith at Home. You can get it by going to our church website at www. comthenumber2harvest. org and look for leading by example. Okay, I pray you have a great day today and let someone know that Jesus loves them. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Have a great day in the Lord