Uh during the course of the pandemic they have been doing uh a great job just making it happen electronically and they'll be coming live To the harvest church soon. Amen. Bless God for that. Amen. As we prepare our hearts for the word of God, let's take a moment now just to pray Father God, we come in the name of Jesus and we thank you for this day that you've made. We thank you that you have trusted us with your word today. We ask even now that you might touch that heart, that you might encourage that person who is feeling down today. And I pray even now that we might decrease And that you might increase, save someone today, encourage another, and when this time is done, we'll give your name all of the praise and all of the glory in Jesus' name. Amen There's a word from the Lord today that comes from the Gospel of John. They're in the 17th chapter of John, verses 15 through 18. If you have your Bibles today, I know we've been electronic, but don't put your Bible away or your device so you can find the Word of God and you can read along with us. There, John 17. 15 through 18. It reads as follows. It says, My prayer is not that you take them out of the world, but that you protect them from the evil one. They are not of the world, even as I am not of it. Sanctify them by the truth. Your word is truth. As you sent me into the world, I have sent them into the world. I want to preach today for a little while from the Samonic title. Finding stability in an unstable world. Finding stability in an unstable world. And the world is a big place. Last counts some 7. 7 billion people in the entire world. And even as we speak, that number is changing because every seven seconds There's another birth. Not just in this country, but in the world. And think about it, the U. S. only makes up about 4%. of the entire population. I know we are big, but we're not as big as the world. Amen. Psalm 24 and 1 says, the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof and those that dwell therein, then it belongs to him. John 3. 16, for God so Love the world, that he sent his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him would not perish, but have everlasting life. Jesus himself said there in John 8 and 12, I am the light of the world. See how the world keeps coming up here over in the Gospel of Mark. What does it profit a man to gain the whole world? And lose his very soul. What a sad commentary that you've got it all but you didn't have God. You've got uh many accolades, uh many packs on the back, uh many plaques. But you did not take time to open your heart and allow the Lord Jesus Christ to come in. Unstable. Unstable in itself means that it is prone to change. Unstable means that something is about to give way. It's about to fail and the world is a rocky place. The world is shaky. The world is chaotic. Amen? Just turn the news on, just walk down the street. We live in a broken humanity. The world is the world. In the text today, it is John who records Jesus praying. That alone is pretty powerful. In other words, John gets to be on the scene to hear Jesus pray. Amen to his father. John is one who has access. He and the disciples get to watch uh the savior of the world taking time to pray and he is one who taught that is Jesus but one who preached And he would practice what he preached. Remember the disciples asked, teach us how to pray. He says, our Father which art in heaven. And Jesus would practice prayer. Mark 1 and 35 talks about how he would go out early in the morning. uh away from everybody and take time to pray. I don't know about you. I like being away from everybody when I pray And just being in the presence of the Lord, wherever that is for you, but praying about the world conditions. It's easy to say What in the world is going on? And we have solutions, we have commentary, but but we gotta continue to pray for the world, for those we have in the world. And you know the world is a familiar place to us. I think sometimes we we get a little too high and mighty we forget that once we were in the world. I mean knee deep in the world. You know where I'm going with this, right? We know how the world operates And the world wasn't always unstable. When sin came along, that made the world unstable. Amen? But blessed be the God that there was a promise made that we know that our God is above all. In order, I believe, to find stability in an unstable world, there are a few things I want to just lift up and unpack from the passages that we must remain in the world And we must remain in the word, and we must remain in the way. Let's talk about it. Remaining in the word, the Bible says. What that we are praying that my prayer is that you will do what? Not take them out of the world But that you would protect them from the evil one. Did you realize you and I are the them? Amen. And he was speaking in prayer, but he was speaking way beyond that moment In other words, that don't take them out of the world. Allow them, allow us to stay put. As bad as you don't like the world, you're in it. Amen? Some years ago there was a fringe group uh that promised to take people to another world and they bought into it. I said we'll even provide uh a pet services for you that when you go to your other world, we'll watch your pets and people paid to have their pets watched in this new world. You gotta be careful about what you listen to, what you subscribe to. There is a lot out there. You remember some years ago when persons followed a certain leader to another country. and they drank the Kool-Aid, thinking it would get them to a new world. Watch the Kool-Aid these days, amen. The Kool-Aid may come over what you're watching on TV. The Kool-Aid may come from what you're listening to. Can I just go there for a moment? Make sure that you know what you're taking in. See, we're not to adopt the perspective of the world. Yes, we're in the world, but don't allow the world to dictate to us our values. Amen. Sometimes those of us who are a little older uh you don't have to be here. I don't think this generation wants their pastor to be hip. I don't think they want a pastor to be in. You know, I'm I'm a seventies guy. I can't act like I'm into twenty-twenty. Uh yeah, I know some things. I tell some old stories, but you've got to be who you are, I believe that the young people appreciate the genuineness of the seniors. I never thought I'd say that you are a senior Amen. And so we have to make sure that we're in the world, but we can't adapt and try to do something different, but keep the word of God right in the center. Amen But we can't overlook, he says, protect them from the evil one. And he knew then that Satan would be hot on our tracks. The Bible says it was my devotional all week. Over in James 4 and 7 it says, submit yourself to God and resist the devil and he will flee. From you, he's after you. I know, he's after me, but thank God that greater is he that is in the world, in me than he that who's in the world. In other words, he resides in me. Protection. But you as I think about this sense of remaining in the world, it's we're here because we have some things to do I don't believe in a lazy faith. Well I'll do what I can. No, we're on assignment every day to try to reach somebody uh uh about the world. Yeah. I recall some years ago uh that one of my former students at the university said uh a professor and she knew our pastor said I want to know if you would speak to one of our groups It's a Bible group. I said, well, praise God. I would love to come. She goes, it's going to be at the pub. I said, okay. I said, now you're going into the world. Now I know what a pub is And I know what they serve at the pub, kind of sorta. I had my lemonade. I think they might have had some sprite or whatever, but I was not there to judge them But I had to go into the world. Now I didn't say you've got to go to happy hour. I go into the world to try and reach some for the Lord Jesus Christ. My God, let me let that sink in for a second You say, well, Pastor said, go to happy hour. Now I didn't say that. I say that you may be called some places. Oh, hallelujah. You just woke up this morning. power some places where you can what? Share the world. Go into an unstable place and when you walk in the door, the light of Christ ought to come through. You ought to be a peculiar person. Well that'll preach all by itself. But you know, verse 16 talks about they are not of the world, even as I am not from here as well. Ever gone someplace? You're not from here, are you? Amen. I recall moving away and uh you know, being cognizant of my southern upbringings and making sure I was trying to fit in with the public and they said uh You're not from here. Oh God. Did they catch my accent? Do I sound like I'm from the country? No. You just didn't look like you were from the area. But we're not here Forever. We've got a passport, you've got a visa for only a short time, but you have to remain in the world. But not just that Remain in the Word. Verse 17 says, Sanctify them. This is the prayer of Jesus. Sanctify them by the truth. Your word is truth. And to sanctify is to set aside. To sanctify is to set apart. Amen? Don't make you different, but there's something about you that you have been categorized for a certain work. Amen? Remember going to school, you got into one line of you in this line or that line, it was for a reason. God has called each of us to do what? To share the good news of Jesus Christ. To share the truth. Amen. What is truth? Here's my definition. It's the opposite of a lie. Amen? There's truth Amen. My father used to say, you are telling one and the truth is not in you. I thought about that and for that moment That particular truth was not in me, but truth is found in the Bible. You are proof of truth. Amen? Because you followed a certain way and we lived a certain way until we encountered the truth. It may have come in the mirror. It may have come in a conversation. It may have come in a circumstance, but all of a sudden the light came on, and you have to deal with the truth. The truth about who you are And the truth about who I am. I know. The Bible talks about who do men say that I am, but when who do people say you are? Do they call you a church boy, a a church girl, a hypocrite, a saint? You gotta be careful. But the bottom line is that there is this sense of proof It's in the Word. John 1 and 1 says, in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was God. Yes. And the Word. And that's that's it. And think about it You can take a truth, a passage, and take that with you. You say, well, Reverend, I I can't memorize all that. But just say Jesus wept. That may have been my first uh memorization scripture. I mean I got that. Jesus wept. He wept over a lot of things. He wept over some things that he knew that we would do, but you ought to pack one on you. Amen Keep one verse when you say, we know I don't know uh exactly where it come from, but I was uh just the other day uh down in the canteen at work and uh Encouraging a fellow brother, and we just started talking the word. Next thing I know, man, the canteen got filled up with the Holy Ghost. Why? Because the word was going forward. We were trading scripture and the word kept bringing into my remembrance and when you put the word in you it'll do what it's like finding a document you'll go to the document and put in it'll pull it up And so when you put the word of God in you, might by way of a devotional, whatever that may come, but get the word of God in you. 1 Peter 2 and 2 says, as newborn babes, we're going to do what Desire the sincere milk of the word that we might grow thereby. Our assignment is to take the truth somewhere It may be in your home. Take the truth of God with you. Remain in the world. Remain in the word. But finally, remain in the way. Amen. As you have sent me into the world, keep in mind, this is the prayer of Jesus there in the Gospel of John. I sent them into the world. Amen. Not out of the world, but I'm sending you into the world. And to be sent is to go someplace. Amen. To be sent is to have something to do once you get there. Blessed be the God. And back in the particular time of first century Palestine, people were called people of the way See, they didn't say you're a Christian. They say you are of the way. You are a follower of the way. Amen. Aren't you glad about that today? That folk have called you many a thing. But have they called you as someone who displays Christ in your life? John 14 and 6, Jesus says, I am the way. The truth and the life. No man cometh to the Father except by me. Every now and then we've got to get in the way. to be people of the way. Amen. In other words, get in the way. Bump into him. Allow him to lead you and to guide you. We've got a responsibility. We have what it takes to bring stability to an unstable world. Amen. And we have to regain our balance Every now and then a situation may knock you off balance. You're not stable. You're upset and you're disappointed and you're depressed and you're down and you're distraught And know that you're just off balance. Amen. And don't you know that when you begin to allow the Lord to come into your life and you have a little talk with Jesus, all of a sudden you fill yourself with some stability. Amen. You you you you'll be in your cruising altitude. Once you know the Lord, you're gonna work this thing out irregardless of what I feel or I think or what other folk have said. I'm in the world, but I'm somebody of the way. Amen. You might have been knocked off. Balance. But make sure that you're in the way. I'm so glad today that Jesus Christ is the stabilizer. Amen? He will keep you in perfect peace if your mind is stayed on him, but he had to stabilize humanity. Humanity was all bent out of shape, and blessed be the God yet to stabilize it. And that's what our role is, is to let someone know that there's hope in Jesus Christ. Amen. And they they're unstable, but you've got to bring the word that they need. And that's what the cross did. That's what the crucifixion was all about. It was about allow in the Lord to absorb the sins of the world. To stabilize things. Things were out of whack and they still are, but thank God that he died for my sins And yours that's trying to put you on the right course and put me in the right place. Amen. Some time ago I got myself a new pair of tennis shoes. I was excited I thought the ones I had were like, you know, they were right. I went to a store uh out in Indiana and I uh I thought I knew shoes Man, they had me to put my feet on something and they took an impression and then they put me on the treadmill. They want to check out my gate And see if I was staple, amen. See if I was walking right, and see if I was stepping right. I got excited about that. I said, Oh man, I think my gait is right. And when you are on the battlefield for the Lord You've got to have the right gate. Amen. That God is there to guide you, to walk right, amen, and to talk right. He wants to stabilize you. He wants to stabilize your heart. Amen. Maybe you've missed the beat or two. He's trying to get you into rhythm in the name of Jesus. He's trying to stabilize your mind. He will keep you in perfect peace again if your mind is stay on him. And let this mind stable be in you stable that was also in Christ Jesus, who didn't mind humbling himself. To stabilize this society, he wants to stabilize your talk and stabilize your relationship. Never lose sight of your position. He's got the whole world in his hands. Can't you hear that little song? He's got the whole world in his hands. And then you would make the lines of he's got the little bitty bank. Oh, some of y'all are not too grown for that The little bitty baby in his hands. He's got uh you and me, brother, and you and me, sister, in his hands. He's got everybody in his hands. Aren't you glad that these are the hands that he put on the cross? To stabilize us, Father. I stretch my hands to thee. No other help. I know if thou withdraw thyself from thee, oh whether shall I go? My God, you can live a stable life You can find stability in a world that keeps turning and twisting and falling and dipping. You can find it in Jesus Christ. Oh my God. I'm so glad today he had to stabilize me. In an unstable world. Nowadays these cars will tell you, you're not stable. You need more air in that tire. They're gonna run you crazy, you high-tech car people. You don't have enough over here. And you've got low on this end, and when you go to the place, you will put in the correct air pressure so that you're stable So your car is not riding like that. And when you spend time with the Lord and when you give your heart to him, he'll take your life like that and put it on the right path. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. Our choir is going to offer the Christ to you that we know as Jesus. We love the price you o my brother We want to cry. Oh my sister, it will be right. My brother, we offer Christ you all. It will give you when you walk. I will underly for your love. That's the invitation for today. If you can think back on your own experience that it's an offer. And once you made that decision to accept Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, you don't have to tell me there was stability in your life. Until then you were all off the road, everywhere, uh trying to find the right balance, trying to be stable, but thank God here's an opportunity even now. If you've not given your life to Jesus Christ and you Feel a little out of whack. Can I offer Christ to you today? Let's bow before the Lord. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. And as we come today And we thank you for reminding us in your prayer to your Heavenly Father that you have something for us to do in the world. And that is to reach somebody for Jesus Christ to tell them your own testimony about where the Lord has brought you from. And it might be a help to them. It's all about helping someone. to meet the Savior. The Bible says, if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, the Bible says, thou shalt be saved. We ask it even now in the name of Jesus. Amen. Blessed day, we are so glad you