Honoring It is the night on the team to say yours. We and there are things and the smallest world We are new and price. When Christ Open it tomorrow. Oh my god When Christ is Well, bless God. Holy night. Yeah. We thank the Lord today. There's a word from the Lord as we uh gather your attention today from the gospel of Matthew. Gospel simply means good news. Amen. And there in Matthew, the first chapter of the New Testament, the 20th and 21st verses. If you have found it, say amen. If you are looking with your device and your Bible, then that's good as well. It reads, but after he had considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife. Because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. Verse 21 says, She will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins. Let's bow. Father, we thank you even now for this time of sharing. May we decrease And may you increase, save someone today, encourage another, and when this time is done, we will give your name the praise And the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to talk today from the Samonic title, Finding Peace in the Unexpected. Finding peace in the unexpected. Life is hard, pandemic or not. Many persons are facing their doubts They're facing depression and tough decisions that have put them in a place where they are struggling I'm reminded of what Paul said in the book of Romans 8 and 28, and we know that all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. True, but life is still hard. We struggle that one day things will get better Uh we have situations that just march into our lives unexpected. Amen? And we try to keep our physical, our spiritual, our emotional footing through it all. In other words, we are longing for peace. I I do believe that it's possible to find peace in the Unexpected, if that is your case, and if that is my case, we are in good company. We meet Joseph and we come to this place every time uh this year that we consider many of the biblical characters and Joseph is one of them. Amen Small town guy, uh, and there he is preparing for his wedding. He is going to marry uh The girl of his dreams, amen. Excited. Uh invitations have been sent out. The DJ has been hired. Uh the venue is straight. And Then something happens. And just for a moment, I want to I want to put on my on my mail cap. Amen? What do you say and what do you do when you find out that the woman you're going to marry is expecting? Well Yeah that that is no small matter. You say now now now say what Now say that again, and this is the kind of news that travels fast, but especially in Nazareth. Small town, about a hundred or so people. But put your finger on this. The Bible says he is, that is, Joseph, is a righteous man. Amen. So so pull up a chair and let's see if we can't find peace in what we call the unexpected. I believe that in the text that we find someone who found peace in his faith. Who found peace in the facts and who found peace in the future. Let's talk about finding peace in faith. Text says, but after he had considered this considered what? Considered all that he had received. Considered all of the news that was coming his way. Uh it must have been hard to To get through this. He had thought about options. If I could just divorce her quietly, uh that would be fine and just keep it uh so that nobody knows or I could keep it undercover. Uh and so there were some options he had. And then in the midst of all of that, Joseph goes to sleep. And while he's asleep is when the angel appears to him. Have you ever been in a situation that seems so overwhelming that the best thing to do What's to take a nap? Amen. That that is so heavy on you that sometimes sleep becomes a remedy for what you are facing. The angel spoke to his faith, but also his fear. And that the angel appeared to him tells me that he had a relationship with God I don't think the angel appears to everybody. The angel of the Lord doesn't come by every address, but the very fact that the angel speaks to him, it points to the faith that he has. Faith is a process. The Bible says just take her home to be your wife. Is it that simple? Just don't worry about it. Again, he's in sleep dream mode. But I believe even through that that God is yet speaking to you as you're trying to find peace. I don't know what your big issue is. For Joseph, it was, say what? It's my wife is pregnant, and we have not even said I do. What is your dilemma? What is it that you are facing where you're trying to find peace? And you're trying to find peace in the unexpected. Paul addresses this in some way In Romans the fifth chapter, verse number one, he says, therefore, being justified by faith, and there it is again, we have peace. Don't they go together? Faith and peace, and not with anybody, but with God. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, that even though you're facing a tough dilemma, you can find peace. In the midst of craziness, peace in the midst of uncertainties, Joseph is still again in sleep mode. He found peace in faith, but also he found peace in the facts. But after he had considered this, The angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid. Take Mary home as your wife, and then comma, because what is conceived in her Is from the Holy Spirit. Now, that had to be faith. In the flesh, you're still trying to make sense of this, but in faith, it makes sense to him in his faith that the fact is that the Holy Spirit is the Father. He had to face the who question I've been faithful to follow the law. I've behaved myself, but I'm not the Father. Amen. No need for a DNA test. I was thinking this morning uh in the worldly mindset that that big hit back in the eighties. Billy Jean is not my you know that that's not my child. Michael Jackson wrote his own dilemma. Uh but in this situation, Joseph had to deal with the facts. If if if God said It's the Holy Spirit's child then he had to embrace that. You've got to embrace something that did not make sense to you initially But when you thought on it in faith, when you thought about how it lined up with the word of God, folk may have said, now Joseph, you you've lost that man. I I wouldn't go for that. Brothers will do that, bruh, if it was me But it's not you. That he is someone again who is a righteous man who takes on this heavy load as he grows in the Lord. That that The Holy Spirit is the daddy. Who's your daddy? The Holy Spirit. I could just talk about the Holy Spirit for a while. Thank God for the person of God. The Holy Spirit. A part of the Godhead, amen. But let's go back because it had to be his faith again, because in the flesh it does not see what is it that you're considering that that in your fleshly mind You are never gonna make sense of it. But in all of that's happened, you have somehow found peace. Peace in the facts and peace in your faith, but also peace in your future. Amen. Amen. Amen. He found peace in His future. It says she will give birth to a son. No need for a reveal party. We already know that's right. It's a boy And you, Joseph, not anyone else, are to give him the name Jesus, and here's why, because he will save his people from their sins. This is no ordinary uh boy. This is the Messiah. Amen. I always cringe when folks say, yeah, I'm I'm talking to the big guy upstairs. I don't really get with that. I'm talking about I serve a risen Savior. He's in the world today and his name is Jesus. But this was all a part of God's divine plan This babe would come wrapped in swaddling clothes and lying in a manger, and today we're living in our future that what was prophesied uh even then, that promise made is what we're living in. Amen. You think about how God is bringing you through seen and unseen dangers, it is because He knows your future. Amen. And it says to save people from their sins. That's right, the S word. Sin. All have sinned and come short of the glory of God. But thank God that by way of Jesus Christ That our sins can be forgiven. Jesus said himself in John 14 and 27, he says, peace I leave with you My peace, not not what the world considers peace. He says, but my peace I give unto you, and there's a gift. Not as the world giveth, I give unto you. Let not your hearts be troubled, and let it not be afraid. And we're living in the time. We're living in the time where God is providing for us. Amen. You know, here's the rest of the story. So Joseph woke up from his dream. So wipe his eyes and say, okay, now was that was that a dream? You know, we'll say that. Was that the real thing? He had to think about what the he had been told to do He didn't just dismiss it as any old thing. And it says further that he was to take Mary as his wife. Keep your hands off of her. Amen. Look at that. Until the right time. Praise be to God. And then Joseph would get The privilege to raise the Savior of the world. To be daddy to Jesus. Isn't that amazing? I love what Max Lacato says in his book when God came near He gets real. He says, you know what? I wonder if Mary accidentally called him father. Joseph said Jesus, you better get Father, you better. I mean, he realized that yes, he's my son, but he's also my Savior. Now, how could he not find peace knowing that he's teaching a trade to the Savior? Not knowing that he has the Savior living under his roof. He's talking about protection, that Jesus is living in my house, but he's also living in my soul and in my experience. That's how. I can find peace in what was unexpected, finding peace in what was troubling before, that Jesus makes away. I don't like that. Song says, when peace like a river attendeth my way, when sorrows like sea below rolls, whatever, my lot. Whatever my issue, whatever my dilemma, whatever my problem Thou hast taught me to say, It is well with my soul. I can't speak for you today that with all that's happening around me, with all that's happening in our lives, with all of the challenges we can still say at the end of the day is well folk may think you're a little off but have you not seen the news bruh? Yes I have But it's still well with my soul. Did you not hear what they're saying on television? Have you not? Yes, but it is still well with my soul. Isn't that what matters? Isn't that where our peace comes from? This peace that passeth all understanding? And it is in your dilemma. That you find peace. Finding peace in the unexpected. That is the word of God today. Peace that comes. From Jesus Christ. Let's take a moment even now. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. Peace is more than a feeling. Peace is an experience. As we come today, we begin to clear the things off of our plate. Collectively, and to trust you. Thank you, Joseph. You've given us courage today. And he did it without saying a single recorded word. There's no place in the text where Joseph said, Can I say something? But his actions spoke louder than any word he could have uttered. Thabby, come in the name of Jesus today. Peace is chasing after us. Peace is in that problem that we're getting through. As we come today, there might be one listening, one watching today Who needs peace, wrapped up in swaddling clothes. Father, I pray even now that that person who is seeking your peace Might open their hearts today and allow you to come in. Allow you to suffer them. The Bible says if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus And believe in our hearts that God has raised them from the dead, the Bible says, Thou shalt be saved. Today, if that is your dilemma, I pray in the name of Jesus that you might accept Christ into your life. In Jesus' name. Amen. We bless God today for just a word of encouragement. Finding peace in him. Amen. As we think about what we want to do by way of staying in touch with you, you can always find updates and we want to get you on the list. Come to harvest. org slash updates And we thank you for your sacrifice and giving. Through all of this, you've been so faithful and we appreciate it in the name of Jesus. Come to harvest. org. Give Dash online and of course for prayer requests. So many people are going through. If you just sometimes do social media, you'll see persons uh who've taken pictures of themselves in the hospital. They just need prayer And we want to be a part of that body of believers. Contact at Cundaharvest. org. Amen. Now, we want to let you know about a copy of our book, uh, that if you want a sock and suffer, something to give And the family. It's not PlayStation. This is Jesus. Amen. Praise God. I'm not telling you what to buy, but uh you certainly want to have a resource to help to build and foster faith And these days families are spending so much time together, amen, the activities, and you can get it by going on our site, uh TimTudentv. com. Amen. Now, we also uh like to invite you to Check out a link on our page for Rejoice Musical Soul Food Network. You can find music all day long that will lift your soul and it will give you peace. Alright. Now, holiday sweaters I'm told uh that uh you should have gotten a uh a text yesterday or a contact. Uh I don't think about calling it ugly sweater I think we're saying your holiday sweater. Well you know you might like that sweater. Well we want you to send those photos in uh to us and then where where's it going again? Is it coming to the update page By email. Email. Tag on social media. Social media. Okay, I'm getting it together. I didn't. Okay, but the sweaters, check your email, check your updates. We thank the Lord today. Well, we want to uh leave out of here, take you home with another song from the season She does right if there was me for It's so holding over the ground on the way. Tell the one that Jesus writes born. The shadow trouble when the I get to go that game goes out of the mountain over. Over the new mountains cry is born as Jesus Christ is born Amen. Amen. Go tell it on the mountain. We thank the Lord for you today and we thank you for tuning into the broadcast. I pray that In some way you are helped that you can find peace in the unexpected. Share this word with friends and family. We're looking forward to seeing you Real real soon, amen. On behalf of the entire technical team behind the scenes, we thank you for all that you do. Know that we love you in the Lord today. Have a blessed day from heart. Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland.