Praise God, we greet you in the name of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. This is the day the Lord has made. Let us rejoice. And be glad in it. The Bible says to make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands to serve The Lord with gladness to come before his presence with singing, know ye that the Lord He is God. It is He who hath made us and not we ourselves. We are His people And the sheep of his pasture enter into his gates with thanksgiving, into his courts with praise. Be thankful unto him and bless his name, for the Lord is good. His mercy is everlasting. His truth endureth through all generations. I don't know about you, but I'm glad to be in the number one more time. Amen. Through storms and ice and snow and cold, God is yet faithful and we give him the glory and the praise. We welcome you to the live broadcast of Harvest Christian Ministries, and we pray that you might share this feed with those within your family and your community who are just excited about Jesus in the here and now. I just want to say that even as we watch the metrics here in the Baltimore area, we're thankful that the numbers are going down, the positivity numbers And that's a good thing. We know that COVID is around, but the fact that the numbers are going down will prayerful and will keep you informed about Our coming back to in-person worship we're prayerful in the month of March. Amen. I just saw you get excited Praise be to God. For those who can't come this way, we thank you for joining us in many places. To God be the glory. It is American Heart Month. That means that you see folk wearing red. I'm re got my red tie on today. It is to bring awareness to the heart. Cardiovascular diseases Serious issue. All of us know something about it, if not ourselves personally, someone who is yet being challenged by this disease. And of course, it is Black History Month. Amen? I remember many years ago when I lived in Huntington, West Virginia, I got the opportunity to interview uh the niece of Carter G. Woodson, the father of Black History. And she shared with me those many years ago how her uncle was so excited about telling the story of African people. And we thank God that Black History Month is not just for February. Over the past few years, me and my wife have been intentional in recognizing our parents as part of Black History. Jim and Dory Student, Eddie and Roberta Dawson. And so to those siblings, God bless you. And think about your own family. You have made some history to the glory of God. We thank you for your prayers and your responses on last week as we celebrated 16 years as a ministry to God be the glory for the great things He hath done. We always open our time together with a word of prayer and my don't we need prayer. So even now, you might bow where you are today. Heavenly Father, we come and we first of all want to acknowledge that you are God of all. As we come today, it is our prayer that you might Certainly listen to our cry. The Bible says that all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. And so we come today not as a perfect people But as a people asking for your forgiveness, we thank you for this mode of communication that we can just talk to you. In the early morning hour, in the midnight hour, we can just call on your name. So many know that when you call the name of Jesus, Something will happen. So we acknowledge you as King and as Lord of Lords and as Alpha and Omega. We pray today, even now For those who are being challenged, those who are going through many situations, Father, we ask even now that you might give them strength, that you might give them hope today. And we need hope. That hope can be found in Jesus Christ. So we lean on you today, God. Lean on you because somebody is sick this morning Lean on you because somebody is meeting with the funeral director today. Leaning on you because somebody is heading to the unemployment line. Lean on you, dear God, because some relationship has gone off the skids. But we thank you that you are God all by yourself. So we ask even now, God, that you might help us, that you might hear our prayer, and that we might be obedient to follow you. It is in Jesus' name we pray. Amen Oh, blessed be to God today. Aren't you glad that there's something called prayer, that you have an avenue in which you can just call on the name of Jesus. The saints of old would say I got a telephone in my bosom. Jesus is on the main line. Tell him what you want. There's a word from the Lord today that comes From the book of the prophet Isaiah. Isaiah 43 and 2. Isaiah 43 and 2. If you're still looking for it, it's the Old Testament. major prophet. Certainly find that on your device or on your Bible. To God be the glory. And when you have found it, say Amen. If you can't find it, go to the very beginning of the Bible. And I'm not being funny. You can find the books listed. And you say, I'm going to find Isaiah. Go to 43 and look for verse number 2. It reads as follows. When you pass through the waters, I will be with you. And when you pass through the rivers, they will not sweep over you. When you walk through the fire, you will not be burned. The flames will not set you ablaze. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, Floods, Fires, and Faith. Floods, fires, and faith. Is it just me or have you noticed lately that people are shoveling snow in places which in our lifetime there was never snow? It is amazing how we have seen such a change in temperatures. Uh I was just saying the other day I was in a southern city in our country and it was as cold there than it was in the state of Maryland. And times are changing. And it just not happened chance that we are seeing this variation of temperature changes, not just uh when it comes to cold weather But also when it comes to flooding, days and days of rain cause persons to have to leave their homes because of the floodwaters. Not to mention the historic fires that we've seen that have destroyed thousands upon thousands of acres. Something is going on. The world in which we live is changing. Now, scientists will tell you that these extreme climate changes are not happen-chance. They believe they're connected to something called global warming. I would not dare be a student to explain it except to say It's when there's a gradual increase of temperatures of the Earth's atmosphere blamed on something called the greenhouse effect. caused by increased levels of carbon dioxide and other pollutants. And yet there's a debate going on, are we doing enough to take care of the planet Earth. I'm reminded of the book of Psalm 24, 1 and 2, it says, the earth is the Lord's, and the fullness thereof, and those that dwell therein. Verse 2 says, For he hath founded it upon the seas, and established it upon the floods. God is not a scientist. God is the creator of the heavens and the earth And the fact of the matter is, God knows we've not done a very good job of taking care of the planet But I didn't come to talk about global warming today, rather to talk about God's faithfulness. You agree today that God is a faithful God? Yes, he is We look at the prophet Isaiah this morning. He is considered a major prophet. A prophet is one who God assigns to speak to the people, to carry a word. to be a mouthpiece to a generation, to God be the glory. His very name means God is salvation in the Hebrew. It was Isaiah who spoke back in the ninth chapter when he says that there is one who is coming whose name shall be called wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. It is Isaiah who writes this passage Telling the people of Israel that God will be with them in troubling times. And that same God is with us even today in our troubling moments. God would support them and that God would give them strength to move on from their present circumstance. And that God would be with them in their time of bondage and deliver them out of danger. Does that sound like the God that you serve? A God who looks out for you. And this same God is so generous because, let me just put it down home, we've not been behaving. And yet God is still generous. We've not done all that God has told us to do, and not just back then, but even today, but God is still continuing To protect us from the floods and the fires of life. And he does so because of our increased faith. Let's unpack that one passage, Isaiah 43 and 2. When you pass through the waters, I will be with you, and when you pass through the rivers, they will not sweep over you When you walk through the fire, you will not be burnt. The flames will not set you ablaze. I like looking at passages of scripture from different Bible translations. I love the Eugene Peterson translation of this passage in the Message Bible. He says, when you're in over your head, I will be there with you. When you're in rough waters, you will not go down. When you're between a rock and a hard place, it won't be a dead end. Did that get to a place where you can understand it and grasp it? You may be right there, even at this moment. But there were two words that stood out immediately in this passage. Those two words are when you. Win lets me know that something will happen if not on your timetable. It will happen. It lets you know that there's a win in each of our lives. And then of course, you is specific to a person in the here and now. Let's talk about floods. When you pass through the waters, I will be with you. God created the waters. He gathered the seeds and called them that very name. This lets me know that the God who created the water is also the one who can protect us from our moments of struggle Think about Noah. Noah was just minding his own business when God approached him after seeing just how evil the world was. And said, I want to make you project manager to build the first cruise ladder in an arc. Well. Gave him the blueprint. People thought he was crazy, but he kept building. And folk may look at you strange because God has told you something And they think that you're out of your mind, but continue to do what you hear God telling you to do. And he was able to build the ark and the floods came as a part of the long-range forecast. His family was on board as well as animals all saved from the floodwaters. And then in the book of Exodus. 14th chapter, we know that God sent Moses to tell O mean Pharaoh to let the people go. And when he finally let them go, they got down to the Red Sea And the army was behind them. They were in a predicament, but God moved the waters. He opened the Red Sea, allowed them to walk across On dry land when they got over, they start giving God the shown-up praise. Amen? That God will do it for you just as He has done it for someone else. Let me just back that up for a second. The same way God brought the people through their Red Sea experience He can do it for you today. In fact, if I pressed you long enough, you would say, Reverend, he did it today. Just this week, I had an encounter with a Red Sea in my life, and God brought me through. Amen? Your flood experience may be your trials and your tribulations. Your flood experience may be the things that seemingly were trying to overtake you But God has shown He will allow you to pass through the floods. He will not allow the rivers of life to overtake you. Amen. My God, I can do some some swimming even right now. Amen. Not the best swimmer, but my God, isn't it great to be above water? And God has kept you above water in so many ways. And then this same passage says, when you walk through the fire, you will not be burned. The flames will not set you ablaze. Now here's what comes to mind to me. I've seen on television, but never in person, those who walk through fire. I mean show enough walk through fire. It is actually a bed of coals still burning and persons will walk through with a smile on their face. Nobody I know personally It is an ancient ritual uh developed back in the Iron Age as a sign of courage and strength. Well, that's not something I plan to do in the natural But life circumstances may have you in a place right now where you feel like you're walking through fire Do I have a witness today? You feel like my feet are hurting and my heart is hurting and my situation is fire. Amen? Isaiah talks about this. He says, you will not be burned. How is that possible to encounter fire and not be burned? If you touch the stove room or your pit or the grill, you will be burned. But he's saying that you'll be able to walk through and the flames will not Set you ablaze. Isaiah said God said so. Amen. Think about Daniel. He tells the story there in the book of Daniel. He came over as just a young man kidnapped by King Nebuchadnezzar, changed their names and tried to change their diet, and yet when they did not please him, He threw them in the fire furnace. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abendigo, tied up, thrown into a furnace. Where the heat was turned up seven times, and those who put them into the furnace even died. Amen. Oh blessed be the God. King looked in sometime later and says, wait a minute, I can't believe my eyes. I I see men walking around in the furnace and it looks like a fourth person has joined them. Could that be the Son of God? Oh God could change the mind of an evil king and convince them that God is real You've gone into situations and folks say you went in, but I thought I saw a second person in there. It was the Spirit of God being with you in the hot places of life They had faith. You ever been in the fire of life and you didn't smell like smoke when you came through your situation? Many times I've covered fires. If you are on the scene as a reporter of a fire or even as a bystander for so long, at some point you will smell like smoke. But that was not the case for these Hebrew boys. They came out all dressed up and had hats on. They knew that God could bring them through. They had faith And we can be assured that when we walk through the fire of oppression, it will not burn us. When we walk through the Path, way of fire for backbiting, that God will be with us. When we walk through the fire of hate, know that God is on your side The flames of evil will not consume you, and they will not consume those who have put their trust in the Lord, and you will not be set ablaze. The writer of the book of Hebrews remind us, there in the eleventh chapter, that faith is the substance of things hoped for. And the evidence of things not seen, and then he goes on to to jot down a list of the heroes and the sheros of faith. He begins with Abel Abel, Cain, and Abel, you remember Cain committed the first murder. Abel was just doing in faith what he believed that God wanted. He offered a better sacrifice. And there was the list, Abraham and Isaac, and Jacob and Sarah, and so many who could stand and say, I know what it means to have faith in God. Amen. Oh yes, our faith gets shaky at times, but if you trust in the Lord with all your heart and lean not to your own understanding, he will direct your path today. This faith is rooted in the Lord Jesus Christ. Who died our souls to save. Jesus who went through some flood-like experiences Jesus who went through some fire-like experiences, but check this out, he went to an old rugged cross And he hung there for you and for me. Yes, I believe that today, but he didn't say on the cross. Amen. He was put in a borrowed tomb. And here's where faith comes in. On the third day morning, he got up with all power in his hands. Now, I believe that today. No, I was not there, but I believe it. That's what my faith tells me today is that Jesus got up There are many faiths that come close to saying that God is a person up yonder, that God is the big guy, that God is something beyond the cosmos. I believe that God is real Amen. I can feel him even right now, in this moment, that it is our faith that sustains us after the floods and the fires of life. We don't need to watch a forecast to know that God is real to learn about the flood and the fires. We serve a Christ who has prepared for us a place that is a flood-free zone. Well he has gone to glory to prepare for us a place that is fireproof. Weren't you glad about that today? Our faith ought to be personal, no matter what you are going through. You can call it a flood, a trial, a fire, whatever you want to call it, but it is your faith that sustains you in the midst of what you are facing. My God, you're watching today because Faith has brought you thus far. Amen. You are being able to give God a testimony because it has been faith, it's been your belief. When your natural mind says it's not possible, God says all things are possible. To those who believe today. I don't know about you, but I had some shaky faith, not quite sure if God was going to do it. But did he not bring you through? Oh, yes, he will. Just continue to trust in him My faith looks up to thee, thy lamb of Calvary, Savior divine. And now hear me while I pray. Take all my guilt away. Oh, let me from this day be wholly thine. And so when you hear the floods coming, and when the floods have come to a place in life where you're almost going under, remember what God said. When Not if, but when the floods come your way, I will allow you to pass through them. And when the rivers come, they won't overtake you, the rivers of life, of death. Amen. The life situation that you're facing, call them rivers and call them floods. And when the fire comes You won't be burned. I like that. My God, I'm not even burned, even though there's some fiery situations you're facing in life. Know that God is a God of floods Fires, and he's also, most important, a God of faith. That is the word of God today It is already blessed. As we come today in this place, thinking about what the people of Israel were promised. That promise is yet alive today in the life of you and I. And to be able to really embody that promise. We gotta make a decision. Whose side are you gonna be on? I know you pick your Super Bowl favorite and some of y'all done bet it already, put your money on it. But don't you know today That you can count on the Lord Jesus Christ to bring you through any situation. I believe it today. Don't get caught up on what is coming your way. Know that God will keep you. But here's the piece. As an ambassador of faith, as a small mouthpiece, I ask you today, do you have a personal relationship? With the Lord Jesus Christ. That's that's what it comes down to. Do you know the man from Galilee? And the Bible says that thou shalt confess with thy mouth. The Lord Jesus, and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. The Bible says, thou shalt be saved. Oh my God, I'm so glad today that my parents, this is history, led me to Christ on a Friday night. 1965. I'd never forget that night. I was scared to death. But I thank God I opened my mouth and gave my heart to Jesus Christ. When was your moment? And your day. You can do it right now. So you know what I was watching a stream on Facebook or on the Harvest app And and something started to happen in me. It was a burning. And I just spoke it where I was, in my apartment, my Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. Come into my heart today. I spoke it. And God changed my life. Today, Father, I pray in the name of Jesus that somebody, somewhere, will make that decision for the kingdom. We ask it all in Jesus' name. Amen. And maybe today where you are, you would desire to be a part of this virtual fellowship for now, but we won't always be virtual. That maybe you are looking for some place to call home. We believe Harvest Christian Ministries is a traditional church, a non-traditional, traditional values, and we invite you in today. As always, we thank you for your prayers and your support. We thank you for your worship through giving. And because of your faithfulness, God is doing great and marvelous things in the Lord. As always, I'm so grateful for my family. I call them the staff Here in Studio C. They are sacrificing their own time to where they've come and just given us support and we thank you for your prayers. Well, until the next time, we want to say to you That God is faithful and he's good. I believe it today. And so reach over to somebody if there's somebody say, you know what? God showed up as good. From Harvest Christian Ministries to your family, thank you and have a great and marvelous day in the name of Jesus.