Hello, my dear friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. We are a non-traditional church with traditional values. Listen in today on our worship experience. It's already in progress. Amen. Take me To the king. How many folk want to go to the king? He who is the king of kings. He who is the Lord of Lords. He who is the first and the last. He who is the beginning and the end. He who is the Alpha and the Omega. Y'all know who I'm talking about today? That's the one I want to see. Any problems, take it to the king. He'll make a difference. Let's bow today. Heavenly Father, as we come, first and foremost, God, we're grateful that you've allowed us to share in this fellowship. As we come, God is always our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. God, save someone today. Encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name all of the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. There's a word from the Lord today that comes from the Gospel of Mark. They're in the 11th chapter, verses 1, 2, and 3. As they approached Jerusalem and came to Bethage and Bethany at the Mount of Olives, Jesus sent Two of his disciples, saying to them, Go to the village ahead of you. And just as you enter it, you will find a colt tied there. Which no one has ever written. Untie it and bring it here. If anyone asks you, why are you doing this Say the Lord needs it and will send it back here shortly. I want to preach today from the Samonic title Follow Directions We live in a society that is command-driven. They're in our cards, they're in our hands. And we rely on electronics to get us from point A to point B. Here's the case in point. I need directions to LIBO Florida Getting directions to Live Oak Restaurant. No. Live Oak Florida. There's the information sometimes technology will lead you the wrong place. She still saying the restaurant. I said live Oak Florida. She told me earlier it was seven hundred and twenty-nine miles. We have come to a place in our life that to get from one place to another, we depend on these devices. And sometimes they will take us to the wrong location. Sometimes they'll take us to a dead-end street. And sometimes all you will hear is rerouting. Anybody uh been around long enough to remember when if you didn't have a map Or if you didn't go and say, how can I get to Mr. Johnson's house? And someone would tell you, go down by the gas station. And take a left, and then go down by the feed mill, and you'll see a blue house, and that's their house Those times have changed. But it amazes me that we will depend more on these than we will real people. We'll say, now Siri said. Some time ago I was working with a photographer and we had a contest of sorts because he had one service and I had the other one. And the ladies were going back and forth, left, right. I finally gave him, he won. He had the best route. There was a commercial that came out not long ago that showed someone behind the wheel of their vehicle, and what they were doing was they said, I need to order my coffee And when they got to the location, there it was, waiting for them. How many of you do that? You go on the app and you go into the store and pick it up. Can I just see your hands? I knew some of the millennials would do that. I found another way. When I walk in, they know what I get every day. An extra large coffee, four creams, a black with three on the side. And when I hit the door, they start pouring it. And then I carry on the conversation. But we have come to a place in life that we have to learn how to follow God's directions How to hear the voice of God. Isn't that the most important voice to hear? And he speaks through his word He speaks through the Bible. He speaks by way of his Holy Spirit. He speaks by way of circumstances Ever been through something and maybe you're going through something? This may be the only way that God can get your attention and speak to you On the other side, you'll see that he was all the while trying to lead you someplace. Oh my God, I could see it right there There's some things in life that we just refuse to budge on until God allowed some things to happen to shake our foundation and all of a sudden we heard the voice of God God speaks by way of other people. He'll use folk not to prophesy necessarily, but to let you know what they have gotten from the Lord, perhaps on your behalf. In our text today, it continues to be episodes in the Gospel of Mark. On last week, there was certainly much concern amongst those disciples. Hanging out with Jesus, and they wanted to know why it is that we found someone who's speaking in your name and casting out demons in your name. They were quite upset about that Christ had to let them know. If they're not against us, then they're for us. Then we don't own the name of Jesus. We simply use it because what? There's power in that name And the week before there was the big debate over who was the greatest. And they were on the road talking about, I'm greater than you, and I'll have a seat before you get one. Don't they sound like modern folk? But that's what they talked about. And Jesus had to again pull them up to let them know bring me a child. This is an example of what it means to be great. And we began this whole series of sermon presentations by being on the Mount of Transfiguration. There, Peter, John, and James along with Jesus went to a high place. During this time they were able to see Elijah and to see Moses. And they were more concerned about this feels real good. Why don't we build some tent and hang out here for a while? And God speaks and says, This is my son. Listen to him. Now that I brought you up to date, we find ourselves today, Jesus and those same disciples. And they've moved a bit closer now to Jerusalem, just a few miles out from Jerusalem, and that is the place. In the Mount of Olives, where Jesus would give his life for us. Don't you feel the tension as we get closer? You know what happens next time he goes into Jerusalem. You know what happens, but today he's still trying to help them to come to grips with what is going to happen And so he's with those disciples and he sends them out on assignment. How many folks are glad that God has given you an assignment? Amen. Some of you mission impossible watchers, it would self-destruct what in 60 seconds? God has given each of us something to do, and there's a mission in life. I dare say if you're a believer, there's something that God wants you to do. There's something that God has gifted you to do. Could I just back that up for a minute? If you are a believer in Jesus Christ, you can't say, well, you know, I'm just chilling. No, you can't just chill. God has given you something and he has put something on your heart to do it. Whatever that might be. Amen? So this morning we're going to talk about, as he sends them out, he says to them where they need to go and what they need to do. and what they need to say and what he says to them will help us. See the connection? This is the Bible, but what he spoke to them then is good enough for us today. That's called application. I know it was written a long time ago, but the very things that Christ spoke then, he's speaking now. Why such a sleepy spirit in the house today? Either I'm real boring today or everybody's chilling. Amen. I'm in the light, but I see folk kind of like so. Don't don't leave me yet. I won't keep you long. The first thing that we look is where to go, saying to them, go to the village ahead of you, and just as you enter it. You will find a colt tied there which no one has ever written. How does Jesus know that? Because he's the Christ. How does he have such detail about where he wants them to go? Didn't need a GPS, didn't need that phone. He says, go to the village ahead He didn't need all twelve. He picked just two. Amen? Peter and John. So two disciples on one mission, and they're going to a familiar place to Christ. It is the village just ahead. Don't you know that the Lord is sending you someplace? Not just around the corner. Off the street, but in your spiritual life, he's telling you where to go. Familiar places in life. Dare say I would not be where I am today in the Lord if I had not gone where he told me to go. Amen. Maybe you're in a place of decision. And take it out of the physical. He wants to send you someplace spiritually. Amen. You've been too long and too comfortable just being who you are. Well, I'm trying to help everybody today. He says, here's where you want to go. He is singing them He has all of the inside information. When you get there to the village, and when you go in, you'll find a coat tied there. Now how detailed is that? When you get to your place in life, see if I won't provide for you. When you get to this place, see if I won't raise somebody up just because you've been obedient to go where I have sent you. Every now and then we end up at a dead end. Why? Because we know better than Christ. So therefore we got our own plan, don't we? Well, yes, we do, yes we do, yes we do. But he sends them to a place And it's very detailed. He said the colt is tied there. He didn't say the colt would be loose. He says, and no one has ever ridden. Now in my mind, I'm saying, oh my goodness, he might be hard to handle. But because he has sent them, he sends them on the assignment. Now think about this. Where is it that the Lord is sending you? Think about that for a moment. We become comfortable. But where is it he's trying to take you in your life journey? Where is it he's trying to lead you in your experience? I can't answer that. Maybe you can David talks about in Psalm 32 and 8, I will instruct you and teach you in the way you should go. I'm still looking for where you want me to go next. Why? I'm just not comfortable being where I am spiritually. Now what about you? There's always room to grow And sometimes to grow, you've got to go. Young folks say, Don't go there. No, no, no, go there. And in going there, you'll see God providing for you. Thank you, Jesus, for that. Where to go, but also what to do. We'll go a place and we'll do our own thing, have our own agenda. He says, un Tie it and bring it here. His commands are pretty simple, aren't they? I didn't say to do anything else. What you've gone to where I told you to go Go to the coat. We know he'll be tied up. Untie it and bring it to me. Amen. We need to untie some things in our lives. Untie jealousy. Untie backbiting. Untie things that have been holding us back. Why? Because there's some things that he's saying for us to do. This is making sense. There's some things he's saying he wants us to do. And only you know that because the Spirit speaks that way. What do I mean? Have you ever had an unction or leading by way of the Holy Spirit? It wasn't your idea, but you felt God moving on you and making you uncomfortable in a place or a thing that you're doing Uh-huh. Yeah, because there's something he wants you to do, even though we're fighting against it. Well, I feel this thing today. Yeah, yeah, they we'll fight he said no no, you're gonna do this. Amen. Remember when your folk told you what you were gonna do? They didn't ask you if you want to do it? Because I said so. Well some of y'all don't remember that. It's a new parent now. Would you like to? No. No, no, no. No. I'm telling you. Y'all feel me? Y'all heard that somewhere. But there again, Jesus has inside information that when you get to this place, here is what I want you to do. Don't pet the colt. Don't look for other coats. But it will be evident once you get there that this is the one. My God, I like that. That when I send you to a place, you will know exactly what I want you to How many folk like to just be adventurous? So I know what you said, Lord, but I'm on I got another way I want to try this thing Yeah, I I I came close, I'm just testifying today. I came close, but now you didn't say untie it, did you? Now and and and bring it here? Yeah, yeah, that that's what I said. And so we have to be willing to do what the Lord has asked us to do, and to do it As unto the Lord. Colossians 3:23. Whatever you do, work at it with all your heart, as working for the Lord and not for human masters. On the man's job, do what you're supposed to do. Amen. Don't fight the supervisor. Just do what you've been paid to do. Amen. Oh, some of y'all like to fight the supervisor. I know you do. Oh, yes, you do. Just do what you've been paid to do. Do what you've been told to do. What a word. So so Jesus is is speaking And he's helping those disciples. And what he tells them is helping us. Where to go What to do, and then finally, what to say. And don't we struggle with this one If anyone asks you, what are you doing or why are you doing this, just say the Lord needs it and will send it back shortly. Stick to the script. Somebody gonna see ya And they're gonna ask you, what in the world are you doing? And you'll open your little foot and don't say, Well, the Lord needs it And will send it back shortly. Don't go off the cuff. Don't add live. Don't add your own words and sometimes we get in trouble doing that. Go to this brother and tell them that I love them The Lord loves you, but let me tell you also that in loving you, the Lord, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I come to beg your pardon. Forgive me. But but I didn't mean to do it. I didn't really do it. But I'm gonna say forget. And so that's a lesson in life. We're eager to say other things, add other things. He said, I know what's gonna happen Somebody gonna pull you up? And this is what what where do I find this reverend? In the Word. The Word has everything you need that you can share. Or to say. But you gotta say something. He said, no, somebody's gonna ask me, just say it. Amen. He said to help me in that area. I love to talk I love to have a conversation. And sometimes the Holy Spirit will just bind your tongue. Why? You say it too much. Huh? You've gone too far. You've done too deep. Amen. I don't like getting in people's business. If they wanted you to know all of that, they would have told you. Just say what the Lord told you to say and leave it alone. Even with our children. They're grown now. But let me just drop this on you and try to refrain from saying anything more than that. God bless you, might just be it Amen. You get it? And so it's so important that Jesus knew and talked from experience. He knew how to handle questions. He knew how to handle folk who were trying to double-cross him and trap him. He spoke just enough. Oh my God, what if we just spoke just enough? That comes from having a little talk with Jesus. It makes all of the difference. 1 Peter 3:15 says, but in your hearts revere Christ as Lord. Always be prepared. To give an answer to everyone who asks you to give the reason for the hope that you have. Somebody would say you went to church today, what did you get? I found out that I gotta just follow the directions. That's it. But don't say well I uh have an answer. Because somebody surely will ask you. Anybody come on your job and say I know you're a Christian. I know you go to church. I've seen that palm around your rearview mirror, so you must know something. And people want to hear from us. And so we ask the Lord, when they come, give me something to share. But most of all, give me a listening ear. My God, I feel that thing today. Amen. That I just gotta follow what he tells me to do. And there's so much peace in that Thank you, disciples, for just doing what was on the paper. No more No less. I've learned in this life the importance of following Jesus. I have decided to follow Jesus No turning back, no turning back. I love that. I love that song. Though no one joined me, still I will follow Even though I got talked about, I'm a follower. Even though I was called a Jesus priest, I'ma follow. Even though it may not make sense in my own mind, I have made a commitment to follow Jesus. I followed my own way, and it leads to destruction. Have you followed your own way and you're your own man and you're your own woman? But there's something about following Jesus The world behind me and the cross before me, I can't worry about yesterday. God has given each of us a new day, and it is to do what? To just follow Him. My God, you want to be a good leader? Learn how to follow. If you go left, I'll go left. You jump over something, I'll jump over something. Amen. Why I know he's a mighty good leader. His record proves that he'll lead you from one degree of grace, oh my God, to another. And that's why. I can follow his directions because he's taken me somewhere. He went to an old rugged cross following his father's directions. He took some stuff, following his father's directions. He gave up the ghost, following his father's directions He was buried in a tomb following his father's directions. But God, aren't you glad that on the third day get up? And he got up with all power in his hands. Isn't that good news today? My God, who wouldn't follow a Savior like that? I love that old song that says it's a highway to heaven. You know, I I do I do plan to go to heaven. Anybody with me today? Did you get that message? Did you mute that one? But there's a place called heaven. It's a highway to heaven. None shall walk up there. But the pure, it's a high way to heaven. I'm walking on that King's highway. I may stumble along the way, but I'm gonna keep walking. I may make some mistakes along the way, but I'll keep walking I may feel some hurt and pain along the way, but I gotta keep following. I may get upset and get disgusted, but there's a reason why he's got me on this path Oh, don't complain. He's got you on a program and a path as to where he wants you to go. That gives me joy today. That God, even when I don't know where to go, and when I don't know what to say, and don't know what to do, I can always depend on you. Depend on you to whisper in my ear. Depend on you to nudge me when I don't want to be almost a strip now. When I don't want to be nudged, to move me from a place that I just got To say I'm stuck in my ways, he said, no, no, no. Follow me. How many folk want to follow him today? How many folk know it's important to hear the voice of God? I'm told it's a sweet voice. I'm told it's a still voice, but my he's still speaking. And I'm glad about that today. That is the word of God. It is already blessed. Come on. Give God a praise today. Come on, followers. Yeah, but I want to leave. But is there anyone who's willing to just follow directions? Don't do your own thing. Don't do what you feel, but do what he's assigned you. If you're not sure that's happened, Check your voicemail. Check heaven's answering machine and see if there's not a message in the box for you. And once you hear it, then you'll know, God, there's something you have for me. Isn't that good news today? That's great news today. That we serve that kind of God. He'll never leave him. He'll never forsake you. Ever follow somebody. And they say just follow me. And then you missed a light. And they kept going and and you didn't realize where you were going? Once you've got God's instruction. He'll take you from being lost to being found. And that's why it's so important. To just come on to him. There's an offer on the table today. I just came by to deliver the message. To you. Oh my God. We all proc to you. All I'm on the table. He will give me a brand. Won't he do it? Life above me. Come. Come on. Let's say it one more time. Think about the words to this song. We all cry. Yeah. Oh my God. Now what a quick offer. We offer pride. To you. Oh yes. He will give you a breath. Oh yes, he will. Live a vibe. Oh God, come on to I want to have a minute with you. I feel like just the country preacher, not Medlock. But can I make the case? Over 2,000 years ago, God said. His son Jesus Christ. He could see what condition the world was in. And he sent the prophets. And they had spoken But nobody would mind them. And then he said, I'm gonna send some of me. I'm sending my only Begotten Son. And He's gonna die, but He's gonna live again. And so that's the case we can all make today. That we are believing in Christ because of what God did by sending his son. But here's the catch. There's one thing to send, there's another thing to accept. You ever got a certified letter? And they say you gotta sign to make sure you got it. This is not you know Amazon. This is Certified and your signature means that you received it. What God has written on your heart today: His love, His peace. His forgiveness. And all you have to do is is to sign it. Because your salvation has been signed with this blood. So today, if you haven't got your confirmation letter yet, it's still on the way. In fact, I brought by an extra copy today. For you to sign. If you've never received Christ as your personal savior today, Just follow the directions and give your heart to him. Surrender who you are. Allow him to come in, and I can guarantee you He will make your life brand new. I'm not going by what I've heard. How many folk are here today who have a changed life? How many folk who are standing today said, you know what? He changed. Oh that didn't sound too good. How many folk know today he changed your life? I mean, turned you around, and that's all for today. I don't want to belabor this. But as you close your eyes today in this place, whether you're on social media, only you know if you've accepted him. Today he's available. All you gotta do is believe in your heart that God sent Jesus Christ To die and believe that he raised them with all power in his hands. And the Bible says if you can grasp that and get that and follow those instructions, you'll have life eternal. Today, God. There's one in this place today who have not followed the instructions, have not signed the agreement, today may they open their hearts and may you come in to sup with them. God, there's power in your invitation. Do it today, we pray. For that voice, that person who accepted you in this hour. We ask it all. We believe it done in faith. In Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. He's more than worthy. Thanks for sharing. We're Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. To connect with us, go to our website. It's www. comthenumbertwharvest. org. That's www. comthenumbertwharvest. org. Also, download our Harvest app. It's HCM Baltimore in the Apple Store and Harvest Christian in Google Play I'd like to invite you to pick up a copy of my brand new book entitled Leading by Example, A Parental Guide to Teaching and Modeling Christian Faith at Home. It's available on my website at www. timtutentv. com. That's www. tim-t-im-t-o-o-t-e-n-t-v. or on Amazon and Barnes and Noble. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin. Have a great day in the Lord.