Good day, my friends, Dr. Tim Tooten with Harvest Christian Ministries. I'm so glad you've taken time to listen to this broadcast. Today's sermon is one that will lift you up, one that will encourage you to run this race with patience, looking to Jesus Christ. the author and finisher of our faith. We're a small ministry with big ideas who serve a great and mighty God. And now today's message. Jesus, you are the center of my joy. No matter what I'm going through and what I'm facing You're right there. How many folk know that he's right in the center? That things are happening all around you, but right in the middle, there's Jesus. Let's bow today. Father, we thank you. For who you are. Thank you, dear God, for giving us this opportunity to come as a people and to give your name the praise. We thank you for sending your Son Jesus Christ to die for us. We thank you that he died, but he rose again with all power in his hand. As we come today, it is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today, encourage another And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Praise God. There's a word from the Lord today, and I Keep reading his word. He lets me know you don't need another word. Just give me some scripture and I'll breathe on it. It's great how God breathes on his word. In fact, his word Is God breathed? That man wrote the Bible, but it was the Spirit of God that breathed upon man to inspire him to write Using a couple of uh different versions, same scripture, uh 1 Peter 2 and 16 says, live as People who are free, not using your freedom as a cover up for evil, but living as servants of God. And I always love how The message version, how it comes, Eugene Peterson says, exercise your freedom by serving God, not by breaking the rules I want to preach today from the Samonic title Freedom in Christ. Freedom in Christ. Maybe you've already started, but some of you have already Hold out your grills and you've dusted them off and uh maybe you're gonna do it again. Be sure to invite me uh the second time around Some of you have already gotten your fireworks out. It's the time of year that we celebrate the birth of our nation It's often been said that we live in the land of the free and the home of the brave. That right now, if you want to hold a one-man, a one-woman protest, you can do it. Uh we also are very free because of uh our speech. We can go out and say some things that may May not get us in trouble, but we have free speech. And the freedom to be able to assemble and to worship together in church. There's some places you may have visited that that's Not the case. But it has that freedom to come and to give God the praise. But the question this morning May be to you and I, it may be very simple, that who freed us Who freed us? If we are free, then who was behind it? I would dare say that it is Jesus Christ who died for our sins. He freed us really from a penalty of sin. I mean think if we were actually Actually rewarded for all that we've actually done. The Bible says the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Christ Jesus our Lord. And do you feel free today Let me say this. You feel foot loose and francy free in God today? That I feel free because I know who Granted me my freedom. You see, a price was paid many, many years ago, and it wasn't just on the battlefield. This has nothing to do with 1776. I'm talking about the prayers of the righteous. Mama and daddy and grandmother and grandmother praying for you That you'd be where you are today. Maybe I don't know about you, but I'm so glad that somebody prayed for me. Had me on their mind because really there were times I didn't pray for myself But thank God that there was some neology. Somebody was praying for you and praying for me But God has freed us by way of Christ from people, freed us from places, and freed us from things, and I dare say freed us from our ourselves. You've heard the old saying that sometimes we're our own worst enemy? Aren't you glad that the Lord freed you from you Amen. You were already a mess, and God said I'm going to free you from yourself. Well, I like that. I don't know any better than to keep going the way I'm going, but thank God I am free Are you free today? And are you free in the Lord Jesus Christ? In our text today, it is written by one by the name of Peter. Simon Peter. He and his brother and Andrew were fishing one day, and Jesus stopped by their watering hole there at the Sea of Galilee and said to them, Basically, follow me, and I will make you fishers of the Sea Of men. They dropped their nets and followed Jesus. Now, for you it may not have been fishy, but you were doing something in your life, and the Lord stopped by and made an offer to you to Follow me. Do you remember the day that you changed your heart and your mind as I decided I'm gonna follow Jesus? No turning back. And so he stops by, and Peter joins And then Peter also at one point did not Jesus. Isn't that amazing how we follow him and then when things get a little tough, Peter says, I don't know him. Amen? And then he turns around and God uses him To do what? To preach on the day of Pentecost. And 3,000 souls were saved. That sounds like being free. And on top of that, the Bible says they also baptized in The same way. He's writing to a church that's under persecution. A church that's getting a hard way to go. See, I talk about freedom. There was no freedom then. I mean, the fact that you led a hymn could mean that you would be killed. The fact that you led worship would mean you were in deep trouble. But look how God has worked. Peter says, I know what you're going through. Why? I've been beaten I know what you're going through. I've been persecuted. I know what you're going through. He says, other words, I feel you. And not everybody can feel what you've been through, but Peter writes to a church that is stressed out to let them know to continue to do what? To live with the Lord. Now just because you're going through hard times and all Give us license to say, well, you know what? I don't care. It's when you're down, most often is when you know God, you're with me. Anybody ever been down before? The giving up was not on your mind, and the Lord spoke a word to you and freed you on the spot. Isn't that good news? And so he writes to them about the do's and the don'ts of faith. Get rid of your evil behavior. And continue to crave the milk of the word. And remember that you are chosen generation. That you are a peculiar people, that you are people who were called out of darkness into the marvelous light. You are somebody. And then verse 16 Shows up right in the midst of the instructions, telling them, Give honor what honor is due. Do your best to live right. And then he comes and says, Now you ought to live as free people. You want to act like you're free, but do not use your freedom, this is what really got me, as a cover-up for evil. But live as God's servants. In other words, don't fake it until you make it. Amen? And so I really I really I was reading this word and it kind of jumped like a jump out every week, yeah, it kinda jumps out the spirit drop out that this sense of don't use your I'm free in Christ as a cover to do wrong. So let's talk about This freedom in Christ. First of all, it is a privilege. Do not use your freedom in Christ as some type of a cover-up. It's a warning to the people of Christ. It's a warning to us today about knowing what it really means to be free. What is a cover-up? A cover-up is when you you kind of hide it. And you don't want folk to find the truth out about you. Nobody here But it means that you've made a serious mistake, but there's always this sense of a cover-up. And the big word nowadays is collusion. Amen? A secret agreement. Uh something uh shaky and conspiracy is happening, but it says that you have the privilege of being free. That because he has set you free, you ought to take time to do what? To give God the praise. How many folk are glad today that you are free from that old life Amen? And free from the things that used to just hold you down, stuff that you couldn't Get rid of things that had you in bondage. I don't know what your story is, but it's in the category of I'm not gonna do it no more. I'm going someplace now. Uh I'm talking about where he's brought you from and now you have the privilege of saying I'm free. Old friends come around. No. I'm free, Doc. Amen. Old people come around. No. I'm free from that. Give us a privilege to be free From that world of sin. He says, make sure you don't get too big for yourself, but realize that when you are free in Christ, it really is something to behold. It really is a privilege there. Some credit card sellers let you know you got a real privilege. If you use our card, you're still gonna pay the note every month But and I don't know what's in your wallet. Come on, Samuel Jackson. I don't know what's in your wallet, but what's in your heart today, amen? It is a privilege The Bible says in Ephesians 2 that it's by grace you've been saved. Privilege. Through faith. Privilege. Not of yourselves, privilege. It's the gift of God privilege, not by works lest anyone can boast or get the big head that you really done something. But it was Christ who freed you, who granted you clemency, who let you get out on parole, amen. Who gave you clemency to say, you know what? I'm free. He's saying to the people, Don't forget it is a privilege. But make sure you keep this freedom in Christ as a priority Might this be the number one thing in your walk with him is to know that it is a priority for me to live free. I don't want to live with a second-class. citizen, my God, the fact that I know him and that he lives in my heart, I have made Christ a priority. And you remember the day when he was not number one in your life? He was down the list when you got around to him when you needed something and you said, I'm old Lord help me. But right now, he is the first thing ought to be on your mind in the morning. Lord thank you for a new day. You a priority. Other folk have been calling me and texting me and all that, but you know what? You come first Anybody want to put Christ first today and make him a priority in your life today? It's a part of knowing that you are free. But don't use it to hide evil. Don't let it be an excuse for wickedness. Don't say, and you've heard it, don't the devil made me do it. But make sure he's front And sin to make sure your life is rooted in the Word of God. I was thinking the other day in how the Lord works in mysterious ways Is that I was never one who could really get through a whole year of a devotional. I could kind of sorta, but I'd miss a day and miss two days of the devotional. And I'll miss Thursday, and I'll miss January. But two years ago, God allowed me to do my daily devotional. And in doing so, I had to do a scripture every day And that that became a priority that every day I get up, I have a devotional that I share with you, but it's also helping me Me. Does that make sense? That I came more in contact with the word just from doing the devotional. So find something every day that makes Christ a priority for you. Amen. Bible says, Gospel of Mark, what does it profit a person to gain the whole world? To be known everywhere else, but do what? To lose your very soul. If I'm not a priority, then I'm in second place. And that means the world has taken over. Now let me just say this: the world has a way Of drawing you in. And drawing me. And but my God, make sure that you protect your walk from evil. Make sure that he's number one in your life. Make sure that he's more important. Than folk you love. Y'all know I love my wife. But Christ is first. Amen? And y'all know I still love going to work. I love the job too. But Christ is first Y'all know I love the church. I love y'all every Sunday I see you, but Christ is first. And so what are your priorities today? Who do you put first in your life? Now don't don't don't think too quick, don't think too quick. Who is it that's number one? Make sure he's the first thing on your mind when you get up. That's about being free in Christ. Romans 12 and 2. Be not conformed to this world, but what? Be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove that what is good and the acceptable. And perfect will of God. Yeah, I've got to make this a a priority. Amen. I gotta make sure that that's important. I gotta make sure uh that I've got a privilege, but that does not stop there. Finally, make sure that it is a process That at some point, if you continue to walk with the Lord, he'll begin to change you. Amen? You you begin to be transformed in him, and it says you begin to live as God's servants. You act like a servant Without trying to be. You do the kind of things that will lift people up just because you're free. And a process of something that takes place over time. Now I don't know about you, I've not always said hallelujah And thank you, Jesus. I've not always been, come on, give God some praise. Let me just testify. I don't want y'all to think. I woke up uh saying, thank you, Jesus. No, no, no, no, no, no. But it took time And don't you know that he's still working on me? He who's gonna work in me shall do what? Shall perform it till the day of Jesus. Do you feel like you're still in process? Amen. I know you're free, but he's still working with you. Yeah. And sometimes because we are old, he said, Well you ought to have it by now. No, older folk mess up. But it's what Christ is doing in you, day in and day out, and that way you are free in Him. Paul said it, brethren, I count not myself to have apprehension. But this I do forgetting those things which are behind and pressing forth to those things which are before. He said, I'm trying to make it. I press Toward the mark for the price of the high calling in Christ Jesus. I'm not there yet. I'm free, but I'm not quite there. I I'm I'm free, but I still mess up every now and then. I'm free, but I refuse to use my freedom as a cover up. I I refuse to act free and use it as some sort of a veil. Paul talks about Moses Moses would go up to the mountain, spend time with God, and come down. His face was so bright, he said, he said, Moses, we can't look at you. He would say, let me put a veil on my face. And Moses put a veil over his face. People said, oh no, he's a holy man. And then one day he got busy. And couldn't spend time with the Lord like he wanted to, but he still kept the bell up You've not spent time with God as you ought to, but folk on your job say, Oh, praise the Lord. You are still wearing your veil because you use your freedom as a cover. Uh uh Try to help me. Amen? But because God is changing me, that that day By day, by day, he's helping to make me know what freedom is really about and what it means to be a servant of the Lord. I think you've got this by now. Amen. It's a privilege. It's a priority. It's a process. You know, the late Lewis E. Jones, hymn writer, wrote great songs for the church. He said, Would you be free from the burden of sin? There is power in the blood of the Lamb. Would you or evil of victory to win? There is wonder working power in the blood. It goes on to say, would you be free from your passion? And pride. There is power in the blood of the Lamb. There is power Power, wonder, working power in the blood of Jesus Christ. Do you believe that today? Do you receive that today And the power to be free in Christ does not come from Capitol Hill. It does not come from corporate America It does not come from Wall Street, it does not come from Main Street, but the world can offer you alternatives, but it has no real answers It can offer you bigger things but not bigger blessings. Comfort but not relief. The latest but not the greatest. A makeover but not the Messiah. Options but not opportunities. It'll prop you up, but it can't protect you. It'll give you satisfaction, but the world can't give you security. The world will tease you, but it can't take care of you. I'm free because I serve a risen Savior And he's in the world today, and his name is Jesus. Amen. Aren't you glad you're free today? And that you're free in Christ Jesus? Someone says he walks with me And he talks with me and he tells me that I'm alone. Ask me how I know he's free. I double dog damn you. Ask me how I know he's free. Ask me how I know he Come on, waiting on you. Ask me, ask I I dare you, ask me, ask you, how do I know he's alive? It's because he lives within my heart. Aren't you glad today that he lives in your heart? That's the only evidence you need that I know, I know, I know I'm free. What Examine me. I know I'm free. Do a MRI. I know I'm free. Come on, look and I'll show you it's because of what's on the inside. That's working on the or you don't see it in me. I may not look like it, but I'm free And because I'm free, I can shout, hallelujah, I'm free. I'm free in Christ Jesus. Are you free today? Inquiring minds want to know? The survey is out. Are you free? Or You in bondage. You can answer that question today. To a free church, that is the word of God today. It's already blessed. Amen? Come on, free people. Come on and stand today all over this place. Peter said, be careful now that you don't Use a cover up to act free and to look free and all for the wrong purpose. I love the word of God. You know why? It's for correction And reproof that the man and woman of God might be thoroughly furnished under good works. That's why he gave us a word. Not to hurt us, but to help us. But the word says it can be a double-edged sword. It'll cut you one way and then the other. But when it's all said and done, aren't we the better because of his word? Come to Jesus. That's where true freedom lies. Good to live in a free country, but good to know a free Savior. Invitation is there. Come to Jes waiting for you. Come to Jesus, come to Jesus Let me just say this that I I know you know the song. But how how do you do that? What do you mean come, Reverend? How do I come to Jesus? It's what you do by confessing him. The Bible says that if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus And believe in your heart that God is raising from the dead that shall be saved. In other words, I gotta believe that God, you sent your son To die for me. Okay, I got that. I believe that. I I I believe I believe in Christmas. That a babe came wrapped in swaddling clothes and lying up. I get that And I believe that you raised him from the dead. Then I believe in Israel. I believe in resurrection. I believe he got up. And the Bible says that if you confess And believe in who you are, and speak it, and believe it, you shall be saved. Yes, yes, yes. That's it. I remember when I did that. When I'd been in church for a long time, I was kind of and I said, Let me you mean if I just say Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner In need of a savior, and I I believe that I said that I believe today that you died. I believe you rose again But I said that's all. I mean that's it. That I spoke in that and while there wasn't a great flash of light, something happened on the inside at that moment Yes. That changed my life and changed yours. And so as you bow your hands, remember you've never done it quite like that Maybe you've never asked him to save you. You've never asked him to come into your heart. You can do it right now and receive salvation. Yes, you can. Father, let's we come in the name of Jesus and There's nothing simple about your word, but your call to salvation is very clear. Romans 10:9 and 10. I believe you sent Jesus I believe Jesus died, but I believe that Jesus rose again. And the Bible says about take that in. I shall be saved. God, if there's one today in this building, never given you their hearts, may today be their days to become free. Really free in you The pastor can't save anybody, but you can. Save that soul today, God. May heaven rejoice in the one that comes, saying, I yield, I yield. What must I do today? Be saved. We ask it all now in Jesus' name. Amen? Amen. Give God a praise today. Maybe you've come. You desire to be a part of this fellowship called Harvest. Doors always open for you. We're people who love the Lord. Do our best to live that I pray you were blessed by today's sermon. I am just so thrilled that God would use me to help you and to encourage you in the Lord. Now to find out more about our ministry, go to our website. It's www. comthenumbertwoharvest. org. That's www. comthenumbertwoharvest. org. Also Check out our brand new church app. It's called HCM Baltimore. That's HCM Baltimore. Go and search Google Play or iTunes and then download it and you'll be blessed. immensely by this app. It'll give you devotionals, videos, uh prayer wall directions and everything you will need. Again, Dr. Tim Tootin in Baltimore County, Maryland, have a great day in the Lord and thank you so much for listening. Well