Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Well praise God. That's a note to hit. We bless the Lord today and we thank him. Let us bow for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you today. Your word says that You've overcome the world. And as we come today to declare your word, may we decrease and may you increase Save someone today, encourage and empower another by way of your word. And when this day is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Want to share from the Old Testament book of Exodus and if you uh still have it open from earlier, we're gonna read a portion of scripture and then put our anchor down on just a couple of verses Exodus 14, verses 10 through 14. As Pharaoh approached, the Israelites looked up, and there were the Egyptians. Marching after them. They were terrified and cried out to the Lord. They said to Moses, Was it because There were no graves in Egypt that you brought us to the desert to die? What have you done to us by bringing us out of Egypt? Didn't we say to you in Egypt, leave us alone? Let us serve the Egyptians. It would have been better for us to serve the Egyptians than to die in the desert. Moses answered the people, do not be afraid. Stand firm, and you will see the deliverance of the Lord will bring you today. The Egyptians you see today, you will never see again. The Lord will fight for you. You need only to be still. I want to preach today from the Samonic title. from mainly that 13th and 14th verse, free but not delivered. Free but not delivered. It was a civil screen hit in 1956. About that time, the Supreme Court had ruled in favor of the city of Montgomery, that buses became integrated after Rosa Parks refused to give up her seat. On the charts, little Richard was hitting it big with Tutti Frutti. And yet, millions of people were heading to the theaters. To see a Hollywood classic called The Ten Commandments. It won three Oscars. It starred in its uh year and the one who stands tall as Charlton Heston. He played the role of Moses and That was a time when film was just beginning to take on a real good look, but he stood there before the people. and put up his staff and open up the Red Sea. He realized that as an Egyptian prince, that he was one who had been called on by God to deliver the people. And there were 1. 7 million people who had come and followed Moses. It's one thing to have a person or two to follow you. But to have that many folk following you because you said you were following God. And they were able to cross over the Red Sea on dry land. What a scene that is. This is not some Bible story that was made up, but if you believe that God can do anything, why could God not open up the Chesapeake Bay? If he wanted to. It allowed you to walk across on dry land. It was a defining moment. It was a life-changing moment. And how do we react in a situation where it sings at our backs up against the wall? Have you ever been in a tight place? Uh no-wiggle room uh in a place where you just need God to come and to see about you The people who had followed Moses were beginning to become discouraged. They knew that they had left Egypt. And they were heading toward the promised land, but there was a hiccup. Or seemingly, but the God that we serve always has a plan. If you go back to verse uh one, if you go back to chapter thirteen, you will see that God already knew What he was going to do. God already has a plan for your life. That is our scripture reference for the year That while it may look dark and dreary, and while you may seem disappointed, God is yet working everything out for your good. They gave him a piece of their minds. I can't believe we followed you. Can't believe we took your word. Things were better back then Has that ever delivered you from something and you started to walk the right way and you say, you know what, at least my homeboys in the street were better than this At least my running partners were better than this, but when you come on the Lord's side, he will take care of you. And so 13 and 14 verses are really Moses responding to people who had gotten hot under the collar. Folk who love God, but they were mad. And he responds to them, Do not be afraid. Stand firm and you will see the deliverance the Lord will bring to you today. The Egyptians you see today will Never be seen again. What what did he mean by that? What promise had he made to the people? Was it something he shared just to get him off the hook to take the heat off of him? Or had he really heard from God? The people believed that they were were free. They believed that they were going to be delivered, and now they found themselves in a trouble situation. They were free, but not yet delivered. Free from slavery and bondage in Egypt, but they had not been delivered to where God was going to take him. Have you found yourself in that situation? There's some things that you have been freed from, but not delivered from. As I thought about this passage this week, I looked at my own life and said, Now what what is it that you're free from? And what is it that God is yet trying to deliver you from? And that's something as simple as a a cigarette, yeah I tried a a salem or two, but I was never hooked on that. So for me to drop the cigarettes was no big deal. And so what is it in your life that you are free from, but it keeps rearing its head? Moses issues a directive. He says, do not be afraid. Are you kidding me? Pharaoh is mad. Pharaoh is coming after us. He's got some of the best chariots, and here we are at the banks of the Red Sea. It was a a direction, it was a guide, it was a goal that they were striving toward, and he says to them, don't be afraid. And Moses knew what it meant to be afraid. After all, he was one who had killed an Egyptian. He was one who had gotten away and was wanted, one who ended up on the backside of a mountain. God showed up in the form of a burning bush. Come on, Bible students. He said, take off your shoes because the ground that you stand on is holy ground. And so even though he had made it across to a new place, he knew what it meant to be afraid. And then have God say, I want you to go back to the scene of the crime and tell me and Pharaoh to let my people go. He was so afraid, he developed a speech impediment. Can I just talk about the Bible for a minute today? And maybe you've gotten to a place in life that you are afraid, but he knew what it meant. He could say, it's gonna be okay. Have you told somebody that it's gonna be all right? That there's some things that you've been through in your own life, and you said, darling, you will get through it. It may seem rough now, but God will bring you through. He could talk to them. What is it that's causing you to fear? What's causing you to lay awake at night What's causing you to say, you know, I think I've been set up and double-crossed and fooled because the God that you talk about has not come to see about me. We can be honest about that today You've been waiting for a long time and you just don't know if it's going to happen. Moses understood this. And Paul writes to Timothy, 2 Timothy 1 and 7, for God Hath not given us the spirit of fear, but love, power, and a sound mind. A directive, do not be afraid. But he wanted them to be objective. Stand firm. Don't be influenced by your personal feelings. Don't you know it's not always how you feel? You may not feel like it today. But nevertheless, God is still good. Didn't feel like going to church today, but after I got there I got a smile on my face. Didn't feel like showing up, but when I got there, there was some encouragement in the house. He was saying to them that don't worry about your current predicament. that at the moment they felt they were being set up to fail. They were free, but not delivered. Now stand firm did not mean in the physical. Because I imagine they were moving and they were bobbing and they were mad and upset, but stand firm in what you believe. Stand firm in your faith. Faith is the substance of things hoped for and the evidence of things not seen. That when the winds of life blow, just stand flat footed until you know what. I'm more trusted. Why? Because God has brought me through before. Why? God has brought me through some situations. And so therefore, I've got a history with God about what he can do. Stand firm and see the salvation of the Lord. Love, 1 Corinthians 15, 58. Therefore, my beloved brethren Be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. For as much as ye know, your labor in the Lord is not in vain Yeah, yeah, I've been knocked around. Yeah, I've been lied on and yeah I've been cheated on and so Moses you said that God said You said that God would. You said that God could and yet amet the Red Sea Yet I can hear Pharaoh's men. Yet my enemies are after me. I'm free, but not delivered. Amen. God has a way of taking us through situations in life, and the very moment you think that you've got to move And do something. Oh, we we know about that. I need to be doing something. I I can't fix it, but I'm not gonna sit here and just take this every now and then You gotta be still and know that he's God. He'll be exalted among the nations. He'll be exalted on the it's hard to be still. We are fidgety people. Amen. I need to be trying to fix this thing. But my God, if you wait on the Lord and be of good courage, He will strengthen thine heart. Oh my god, right now there's something you want to make a move on. You can't wait till Monday, so you can go ahead and fix it. But stand firm. Stand on what you know. Song says standing on the promises of Christ our King. I might break my promise. I might have good intentions, but is there anybody who knows that God will stand by you through thick and thin? No matter what your Red Sea and we all got a Red Sea. You may not call it that, but we're all facing a Red Sea. What's gonna happen next? And what will the report be? And and what are my finances looking like? And what are my children doing? What about the job? It's a right seat. But sin Firm. Dig in. Stand straight. Look straight and look to the hills from which cometh your help. All of your help coming from the. . God justified today. We all have something that we're trying to get through. But my God, the moment I want to move, stand still. Be objective. Follow my directive. But then he says, consider a different perspective. He says, Stand firm, and you will see the deliverance the Lord will bring you today. Moses wanted them to see the situation through a different set of lenses. I was laughing. I came in this morning and I was saying, is the screen out of focus? Or do I need some new glasses? I just got them checked, I'm still the same. But when I ask one of the young people, is that awful bit? Yeah. I had to go back and adjust it And in life, you have to adjust your vision to see what God has for you. Amen? You may see it one way, but he says, you know, see the deliverance. See where God is going to take you. See what God is going to bring you through. And that's what faith is. In your mind's eye, take a look They had dealt with fear. They were being told to stand still, but they could still see their enemies. I I know I've been promoted and I know I've gotten past that, but seemingly there's still something I am missing. Moses is saying, just just chill out. And may they were giving them a piece of their mind. How many people are ready right now for deliverance? Yeah, you've been free for a long time. But you've not been delivered. Why? The same old situation. Does the same thing to you that is always done. Yes, I want to be free, but I want to be done with it. Is there anything we delight doing we're just done with? You tired of it, you always in the same situation. Maybe it's a person that you've not been delivered from. And maybe it's a place you've not been delivered from. Maybe it's a thing that you've not been delivered from. Hebrews says that we have to lay aside every weight And that sin that so easily besets you and run this race with patience, looking to Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith. That he's trying to get you to see what's really going on. Amen. First Corinthians says, But as it is written, I have not seen. Nor ear heard, nor in the heart of man, what great things God has in store for you. Well, let's roll the credits. And we know that what happened in Exodus is they got there and the Red Sea opened up. We know Charles Heston raised up that staff and man that was some picture wasn't there. See Pharaoh and all of his men getting drowned in the Red Sea and You know, that's a song I've heard on gospel radio. That I may try to assign to somebody because I could never sing it. But it's called Lord Deliver Me. This is my Exodus. It's not just a hit. It's a backstory for Leandria Johnson. who had a longtime struggle with substance abuse. Now she may have been singing gospel. She was free, but she had not been delivered. She can operate in the gospel realm and operate in I'm a Christian and still not be delivered. She could sing the songs, but there's something about the anointing of God. People know whether or not your testimony is real and pure. Amen. If you've been through something, you can say, well, let me tell you, but if you ain't been through nothing, it's hard to say, child, you'll make it, but you ain't never had a hard time. Never had a check the bouncing, never had your car reposed, never had your lights shut off, but she began to testify, and she was freed from alcohol Came to a concert with a acre bracelet on saying, I'm still getting through. And so that song when you hear it is not just a script somebody gave her. But there's something that happened in her life This is my Exodus. My Exodus 14. This is my Exodus 13 and 14. What is your Exodus today? What has God brought you through and from and delivering you through? What is it in your life? You know Every now and then we'll find ourselves stuck between freedom and deliverance. It reminds me of that little old red Dodge Dart my dad used to hold. And when you're sixteen you want to just drive. I learned how to drive that stick shift on the fly. First gear down. Second up. Third down. And then sometimes later I bought my own little French car, a Renault Lecard. It was a three speed. In man you had to hit it just right. And so you had to press down the the clutch first. Second, with making move a little bit. Oh, some of y'all have one of the cars. Third gear. And only then could you get into cruising mode Amen. And know that God is yet shifting you from freedom to deliverance. He has a way of shifting you from heartache to joy. He has a way of shifting you. He made a shift when he went to the old Rugged Cross. And he made a shift. When he was put in a bar or two. He made a shift. When he got up on the third day morning with all power in his hands, he'll make a ship. When he returns to claim his own. All I'm saying is, is that you may come to this place today, and you are Trying to get life in gear. And every now and then the gears will grind. And I want to say to you, don't give up. Don't throw in the towel. That deliverance is yet ahead for you. How many folk know what it means to be to be stuck In fact, if you want to back up, that's a whole new gear. Over and up. And for some it's down But when you were down, he raised you. When you were sad, he gave you joy. All I'm saying is that I'm free, but I'm also delivered. Amen. Oh, when the saints go marching in. I'm gonna be in that number. When they crown him, Lord of Lords and King of Kings. Free but not delivered. I got a ribbon for my freedom. But I've not gotten past my Red Sea moment. That is the word of God today. Come on, stand today all over this place God knew all the time how it would turn out. They mad at Moses and God had hardened Pharaoh's heart. You mad about a situation and God has already worked it out. Going ahead of you on the other side of the Red Sea. Miriam said, let's get a party going. We made it over. He wants to do that today. Come just as you're Deliver me, Lord. Oh two myself. Well, really, C D Just as you are. Oh, yes. Come in Life everlasting. Oh, yes. As I said to you earlier, I begin to do self-examination. A lot of things I'm free from. Don't bother me. Try something different. But there's some things that we have not been delivered from. Well pastors, does that mean drugs? It may mean your attitude. But you've just the same mean you. Free but still mean. There may be things in your life today. That God is saying to you, I want you to come all the way. See the thing a thing about selling out. Never forget when I first got connected. I grew up in church and joined the church and I got saved. I came back home, man. I was excited. Telling my same homeboys I used to hang with, y'all need to find Jesus. Man, look at you. Yeah, remember that night in the car we ride together? Yeah, we we know who you are, Tim too. And people ought to know who you are, but they ought to see the new you. That's right. That's right. And the transformed you. And the deliberate you stand still. Don't be afraid. That Egyptian in your life Word says it'll never come back to mess with you again. It's on the other side of your Red Sea. Let's pray today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. We thank you for your word today. Your word is for correction and for reproof, that the man and woman of God might be thoroughly furnished under good works. God made this word settle in our hearts today. It's not about Moses. It's about us. Not for people, but about you. I pray even now, God, there's one that's come this way. It's never given their heart to you. Save them today by your power divine. Word says you confess it. And believe that God has raised Jesus from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Saved today, God. Free today, delivered today in Jesus' name. Come on, give God a praise today. Amen. Thanks so much for listening I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. comtoharvest. org That's come the number two harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com. All you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed. Oh then