Right now we're gonna take all the blessing right now Woke up this morning out of my bed I looked around what I did Thank you Lord for the blood you say you put a roof up for my head Thank you Lord for another day All the blood then you put my way I could have been dead and couldn't walk away for the total plan to get back in the hable Who we let one of the letters who we I just don't get the day Another black, who we do we are done, another black, who we are done. I love the black I I got up that we must be all over. I got up that way. I got up that all the way. El pleto I'm not a black. I'm not a black. The first chapter, fourth verse, and then afterwards we'll read a couple more passages. It says, What the locust swarm has left, the great locusts have eaten. But the great locusts have left the young locus have eaten. But the young locusts have left Other locals. We'll move ahead to Joel 2, pick up passages 25 and 26. It says I will repay you for the years the locusts have eaten. The great locusts and the young locusts. The other locusts and the locusts swarm My great army that I sent among you. Verse 26 says, you will have plenty to eat until you are full. And you will praise the name of the Lord your God, who has worked wonders for you. Never again will my people be shaken. to restoration. From ruin to restoration. All of us have lost people, places, or things in our lives. That's just the nature of living. Those things and those people and those places that were important to us But most specifically, we've lost hope. Our joy, our peace, material possessions, a relationship or two along the way. seem to have been lost. I remember a great time of loss when my life was turned upside down. Oh broken, crushed, downtrod. You ever been there? I remember the day. It was the fall of nineteen eighty-six. The year before we moved to Baltimore. We lost our home in a bankruptcy. Credit was shot. Not long afterwards we lost our car. Reach the desk. Not long after that there was some personal crisis within the family. And then to add more I lost my job too. But through it all, it rained and it poured. But today I can stand to say that God is great. What is your what is your biggest challenge? Even as I mentioned those things, I can see you in your own spirit saying me too. No you me too. But on the other side of trials and tribulations, God is yet alive and well. In the text today, we see the people of Israel. And they can relate to what it means to lose it all. Joel is one of the shortest books in the Bible, but it packs a lot of punch. God got their attention as he gets our attention and he used the instrument of a locus. A locust, a grasshopper with strong powers of flight that could cause great destruction could cause an economic disaster for those who were making their living on agriculture. My father was a long chair farmer, and there were some years that wasn't that great. But when they were great, they were great. But this situation is what applied to Israel. When the cross was destroyed, they lost grapes. No wine. The figs were destroyed. Grain destroyed means no bread Loss of the olives, loss of crops that the livestock would eat. So what a tough situation to Go through it. But God allowed the locals to destroy and to ruin everything. He was sending them a message. Sometimes we just don't get it. And God has to allow something to happen in our lives to give us a kind of a wake up. Yeah, I mean we're good people, but every now and then we need to pay attention to what God is saying to us. David Jeremiah Great Bible scholar who wrote the introduction to the book of Joel painted the picture this way. He says swarms of locals would descend on an area. They would darken the sky, and it would sound like A number of helicopters. They'd come in by night and by day, everything would be ruined, devastated. God knows our predicament, first of all. And after why he's made some arrangements. in our lives that there might be fulfillment. What the locust storm left Another set came in behind this, I think you lessen me. Let me get this too. You ever had a roller coaster situation like that? It seemed like it's gone from bad to worse. Well maybe there are two people in here right now. These people living. The Bible reminds us that In me you shall have peace. In the world you should have tribulation, but be of good cheer. God overcome the world. God knows our predicament. He knows about our losses But he's a God who never sleeps, nor slumbers. God is always on the clock. You serve that kind of God In your early morning, in your midday, in your midnight hour, God is yet. There. He's always aware of what we're facing and what we're going through. But but I couldn't look at this test. uh before there was a transformation that there had to be some repentance. That he's still a God who calls us to repent. You ever thought you got away with something? But the Lord knows. I'm sorry for what I've done. Only we know what we have done In this sense of judgment, there is a need for repentance. Paul talks about it in many of his texts. Luke writes in Acts 3. 19, repent then and turn to God. So that your sins might be wiped out, that a time of refreshing may come from the Lord. Amen? Knowing that the Lord has overcome the world ought to give us hope. You ever feel sometimes that nobody knows what you're going through, that nobody can feel you? God knows what You are facing and maybe the locus in your life is something else, and maybe you've lost everything. Maybe you walked in today, busted and disgusted with nothing. You're down and out, but God is of God who gets us up. How do we know that today? And not everybody knows business. And we ought not know it. But God knows our predicament. And that's why he's made some arrangements. Verse 26 says, You will have plenty to eat. Until you're full. Yes. And you appraise the name of the Lord your God. Mm-hmm. The first promises then that look I'm gonna give everything back. Everything that's been taken, you're gonna give it back. Amen? Everything that you've been through I'm gonna bring you through it. On the other side of loss that he allows them to see that you will have Plenty to eat. You you have ghosts. You have food, but you have spiritual food too. Isn't that good that when you are down and out, you just need a word sometimes to encourage you. Amen? God has made those kind of arrangements in our life. I'm glad about it today because we don't know any better. He comes along and says, you know what? I have got you in the palm of my hand. Physical food, spiritual food. Him writes, fill me up, Lord. Fill my cup. I lift you up. Come and quench this bursting of my soul. Bread of heaven. Feed me till I want no more. But my God shall supply all of your need according to his riches in Christ Jesus. He'll take care of all of your needs in the here and now. He's a God who takes care of everything. In heaven, amen. John 14 and 3 reminds us that in my father's house there are many mentions. I go to prepare a place for you. Aren't you glad that God handles the arrangements? I haven't known the arrangements. But God knows exactly what you need as he restores you to where you were. Blessed be the God today. A God who arranges it, a God who is aware of your predicament, a God Who will make sure that this is fulfilled. Yeah, yeah, so you have plenty to eat. You'll be full, but you will praise The name of the Lord your God, who has worked wonders for you. Never again will people be ashamed. Is there what wonders in your life today? You spent here today and you've been fulfilled and Fulfillment is this sense of happiness and satisfaction. Fulfillment is also the completion of something like the fulfillment of a promise He never breaks his promise. That's what he did to the people in the text. That's what he does for us. Aren't you glad that God takes care of you? Aren't you glad that he watches out for you? And so you're fulfilled because of that. When you're fulfilled, you have no problem praising God. Amen. He said they're going to praise him, but they're going to worry about nothing else because there are wonders that I will do. And the latter part of the verse says And never again will they be ashamed. Some of us are kind of shame-faced. We'll we'll praise God as a child. But once we get outside, we Don't want to offend anyone. Folk offend you every day. They lie on you. They cheat on you. They double cross you. Amen. And so the God that we serve, we know that I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ. For it is the power of salvation to everyone that believes. Put it another way. I'm not ashamed of the good news. It's the news that I do not mind proclaiming for the Lord. I would talk sports before I would talk Jesus. My God, have you hit a home run in your life lately? Have we given you a grand slam in the state today? And now you can say Let's go, Jesus. Ah, won't he do it for you today? You know, oftentimes I'll see these old cars that are restored, and maybe you drive one. Got a new car guy here lately. But I mean the old cars that as a hobby persons have gone in and they've restored them. And and before they come on the street They look good. Maybe a sixty-seventh or fifty-seven. But when it comes on the street No matter what you're driving, you turn because that vehicle has been restored. And it looks good. Amen? Amen. But then I'll tell you that God is in the restoration business. You want to be on there. The Apostle Paul reminds us that if any person be in Christ, they are a new Creation, a new future, old things are passed away. Behold, all things become new. Can I call a few restoration witnesses to the stand? Do you swear I'm gonna tell the truth The whole truth. So help you God. Come here, Brother Job. Joe will say, I lost everything. I mean my children, my possessions, my health But but I was enrolled in God's restoration benefit back. And he gave me double for my stuff. But everything that I lost, I got back. Any time you got some stuff back that you wrong is the part of your life? God restored me. Kettle's skin disorders. He was told to go down to the water. And yet seven times in the money joy came up, the brother's skin was like a baby's, amen. But can I call a key witness to the stuff? Come here, David. David is a star witness. Yes, he had some missteps and troubles, but one thing could count on is that he knew that the Lord would restore his Soul. No matter what happens, there is good to know that your soul has been restored. It's good to know that your soul has been anchored in the Lord. Am I making sense today? I mean, I'm talking about that's deep stuff that no matter how the winds of life may blow, that I've been anchored No matter what situations I run into, I've been angry. No matter what it looks like on the outside, I've been angry. No matter what folk may be saying about you, I've been anxious. And your soul has been anchored. Well my God, you've been falling. Restored. Calvary was a part of that restoration process. Jesus was crucified. Buried in a borrowed tomb, but three days later. He tells us that that's what the Bible says. We restored it in that moment we became redeemed. Oh, can I tell you today that you'll get everything back? From ruin to restoration. Well my God, you'll get back your joy. Yet the joy of the Lord is your spirit. But some of us have lost our joy. My God, you allowed the world to rob you of your joy. But this joy that I have, the world didn't give it to me. And the world didn't take it away. And some of y'all know you're gonna get your peace back. Your peace that passes all understanding. Your peace that allows you to chill in the midst of tough situations You're gonna get it back. Anybody wants their peace back? And every other thing, know that you'll get your praise back. have lost our praise. We forgot what it means to give God the glory. And to give God the praise, but can I tell you the devil may have snatched this but you want to say wait a minute i come back to give the praise and when i hear i may as well get my shout back too and so i shout to the lord today because everything that's in me God says you will get it back. Anybody got it back today? Anybody know what it means to be restored? Yes, I know what it means to be a new creature in life. And so today I'm not looking at the outward you, but I'm looking at the inward you because God works on the inside. Amen. And then also see it on the outside. As I close, all I can say is, oh, oh, what he's done for me. I can't talk about you today, but oh, what he's done for me. Why he put my feet After now reclaim that what he's done for me. What does that mean, brethren? That means I was stuck and stuck in some situations until He pulled me out. How many folk want the Lord in their lives today? From ruin to restoration. And every now and then you gotta be in a position to just snap that. What the devil? God has though. Don't be nice to the government. And as you know the other things that God has. You can get it back. Don't worry about the law. For giving those things with the behind. And pressing forward to those things with the before. And press toward the law to the thighs of the high. in Christ Jesus. Well, I found the move though of what I think about the goodness of Jesus. And all that he's done for me. And I think what he's brought me to, I get excited. When I think about the year, then you can hold a thank you. I think you think you today. The visit has to do the day. Well, I'm kind of allowed to. All you think about is what he's done with it. Is there anybody in the house today? He's gonna testimony, but he gets to restore it. Oh yes he will! He will yes he will he will oh yes he will be Before? That's the word. For what you do? He's done it. Be bold about it. I saw this woman at the intersection over by the mall. Uh-huh. Yeah. Uh-huh. Did you say a word? Uh-huh. Repent Jesus is near. There's another one. She said also on that same sign. Don't die without knowing Jesus. I'm gonna fit out my car. Because I realize that there's someone who's standing As a witness. He restores you are not just for you. But other folk might know. It was the Lord that did it. The child have you seen me ten years ago? If you say, are you the same person? But when God comes in your life, Father we come in the name of Jesus. How we thank you. And on the other side of ruin there's restoration and in between there's repentance. So even now God we we say that we're sorry For those things that we have done, those missteps. We're so glad today that we've run back to you. So I pray even now there's one in this place who just wants to know Jesus. What does that look like? The Bible says that once you are of age, we understand video games, we understand other stuff, but sometimes it seems like, oh, the word is so hard to understand. Jesus died for us. And he rose again with all power in his hands. Father, if there's one today who wants to confess you, wants to make a new start today. May you work in that heart today. May you save their soul today. In Jesus' name. God bless you. Maybe you come today and you regard your part of this fellowship. The doors of the church are open today for you as well. It's a serious times we're living in. We gotta be anger than God today. Amen? Amen.