Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. I want to share today from The book of Philippians, third chapter, verses thirteen and fourteen. It reads, Brothers and sisters, I do not consider myself yet to have taken hold of it. But one thing I do forgetting what is behind and straining toward what is ahead I press on toward the goal to win the prize for which God has called me heavenward in Christ Jesus. I want to preach this last Sunday of the year from the Samonic title, Getting Past What You'll Never Get Over. Getting past what you'll never get over. The sermon title comes from a book of that same name. Written by West Coast Pastor John Westpall. He writes that the healing process, be it emotionally or be it spiritually, begins when you realize that your brokenness is what it is and that you see it for what it is. Freedom, on the other hand, begins when we understand that we have to get past the herd. That we may never quite get over. I didn't read your journal. I've not been tracking you on Facebook. I don't know what you're going through, but you come on this Sunday with some things that you're trying your best to get past. Some hurts, some disappointments, some things that have left you in tears in the midnight hour, and you're just trying to not carry them in the 2020. Westfall opens his book by sharing a quote from the late Rose Kennedy The matriarch of the powerful political Kennedy family. And she wrote, and she's quoted, It has been said, time heals all wounds Kennedy says, I do not agree. The wounds remain. In time, the mind, protecting its sanity, covers them with scar tissue. And the pain lessens, and Kennedy concludes, but it's never gone Now you may or may not agree with the words of Rose Kennedy or those who have written a gazillion self-help books. But we can declare that freedom is available. Jesus says in John 8 and 36. He says that he whom the Son sets free is free indeed. We focus this morning on the writings of the Apostle Paul. Who has written the better part of what we call the New Testament? From Matthew to Revelation. He's writing to the church at Philippi. There is modern day Greece. And the way things happen is that Paul would go start churches under uh danger and move to another city. And once he left, people would write him and say, Paul, here's what's going on. Paul, here's where we are now. Paul, somebody's bothering me. And Paul would take time to write them back. In this case, he's sitting in a Roman prison writing a letter to the church to encourage them. Now it's hard for us to write a letter in our office, but to think that his life is on the line and he's spending his time yet trying to encourage someone. In the letter, he takes spiritual inventory of his own life. How often do you do that? Just say, let me look at my life and see what I need to fix and see what's broken and maybe I can be better this year. I'm not a a a resolution guy I try to do it before the year. So if you see me at the gym, I've been at the gym all week. I'm not waiting at twenty twenty. I'm not one who waited and say, you know, this year. How many folk made resolutions and kept them this year? Don't hold your hand up Well meaning, but somewhere along life's journey, something happened that it no longer became a habit in your life. Paul gives inventory He's saying, I'm not where I ought to be. I've not yet arrived. In fact, if you know my history, I have quite a background before I became a Christian. You remember that? Before you became a Christian, and since you become a Christian, and so we can kind of feel Paul, because the moment you think you've got it all together, look out. Pride cometh before the fall. The moment you think that you can do nothing wrong and that you are the best, that there's nobody who can touch you, oh Lord, have mercy. Watch yourself. Paul saying I'm not there yet. I used to chase Christians. I was the hitman. I used to track them down, but I just want to be transparent. And so Paul gives us a few views of what it takes to get past what we may never get over by taking a look at the past. And the present, and to look forward to a prize. Verse 13 says, Brothers and sisters, I do not consider myself yet to have taken hold of it. I'm not saying I've got it all together. Have you admitted that lately to someone? Maybe to your own kids. You are perfect. Sometime you say, you know what? I've messed up along the way. He said, I'm not taking a hold of it. I'm not all that I could be and should be, but I'm on my way. Amen. You ever see the bumper sticker? Christians are not perfect, they're just forgiven. Anyone in that category? Oh man, we've messed up along the way, but thank God for Jesus for his grace. Paul has a reputation. And one day he's on the road to Damascus and he is confronted by the Lord. We've all had our Damascus moments where we had to be knocked down to our knees, and then God had to pick us back up again, dust us off, and use us to his glory. Folk who knew you way back when they'd be surprised you were in church today. But our past may include our failures How many folks have ever failed at something? I I mean failed miserably. You kept messing up. And you kept but but that's all in your past. How many folk have had some dreams that have been shattered? But now you were supposed to be here and you're there by the world standards. You must be in the top 30 of the class, but you're not there yet. How many people have some unrealized goals? That I thought by now I would be here, but I'm not to the glory of God Don't you know that it's it's it's uh thick sometimes about what I wanted and what God wanted that I'm glad I didn't get what I asked for? That what I thought I had to have, I didn't get, and I said, Lord, thank you. Because you knew I couldn't handle it. You knew I was not ready. I was not conditioned for it. Paul looks at his past. And every now and then we get stuck in neutral. But what's keeping you and I from getting past our past? Oftentimes there's an element of sin, a lack of forgiveness. Let me just put a pen in that. There's somebody you ought to call today and say, listen. Now you hurt me this year, but I'm just gonna get it off me. I just call to reach out. You may hang up on me, but I'm not gonna carry this thing in the past into my present or my future. Amen. And it might be your own family. You ain't spoke to your brother or sister or nobody gave me a special card. I ain't got no intel. But there's some things you've got to get right and let them be in your past. Let your past be your past. Jesus gives us the best example. Hebrews 4. 15 says, He was tempted in all ways, but did not sin. Hebrews 13, 8 says, He's the same yesterday, today, forevermore. We need the love and the power of Christ to get past our past. But you know, we're also living in the present. Forgetting what is behind, Paul says, and straining toward what is ahead. Paul is focusing on the present. We can spend too much time talking about what could have been, and too much time about you give me a minute and I'll get there, rather than enjoying the moment. Paul was that kind of person who wrote, he says, right now I'm in prison. Right now I'm locked up. Right now, I'm on death row. But let me encourage you to not stop. You keep on pressing. Keep moving ahead. Some years ago Whitney Houston put out a song that was pretty popular. Y'all say, which one? I got her CD. This one was in the 80s. It was called One Moment in Time. She's saying that thing. So much so that they used it for the 88 Olympics. That that for that moment, never had a moment in time that you could say, God, in that moment you were faithful. In that moment you gave me what I needed. In that moment when I was about to lose it, you came along and you whispered to me, take time to live in the right now. It's all you have. Amen. You only have right now that he has given you. And as Paul wrote, he could use this kind of language. Why? He was always observing the Olympic Games. And Paul would see runners run and strain and do their best scratching to get to the Front of the line. And you watch things, you say, man, I'm just trying to be number one. I want to win. He talked about that kind of life. Isaiah 43:18 says, Forget the former things. It says, see I'm doing a new thing. How many people want a new thing this year? You you've tried the old, you've You've you've dusted it off, you've renovated it, it's retreaded, and you the same old you in the new year. But he says, I'm doing a new thing. Now it springs up. Do you not perceive it? I'm making a way in the wilderness and streams in the wasteland. This is a message of encouragement. Amen That's my spiritual gift is to encourage. I was at the barber stop on yesterday, and I was talking to a young man, got his name, and began to encourage him. He said, man, you ought to start dreaming not you can be anything you want to be. Anybody ask somebody in your neighborhood who was like that? You can be whatever you want to be. And you was like, yeah. And how many folks believe that? That God can give you the desires of your heart. A look at the present A look at the past, but then to anticipate the prize ahead. Verse 14 really is monumental. He says, I press on. Toward the goal to win the prize for which God has called me heavenward in Christ Jesus. Paul seems to be saying, listen, I got my eye on something. I'm looking to get someplace. I ran about that much track. And what you never would do is look back. If you think you're winning, keep on running. I'm in third place, so I'm trying to hold on my third place, because I might get a ribbon or two. Amen? But Paul says, I've got my eye on the prize. I'm trying to reach my heavenly destination. I am going someplace. And when you're going someplace, you're on point. A few months ago the wife and I were in Atlanta for a wedding and if you've been to the Atlanta airport, you gotta be on your game. I was like, no, C D no, A, tram, off the tram. But I was trying to get to the right place. And in life, you gotta press toward what it is that God has in store for you. Excuse me, got to go. No time for the gossip. Out of my way. I'm going someplace. Amen. And how many folk want to press today to try and reach the prize which is what? Our heavenly destination. Jesus says to his followers in Luke 9, 62, he says, No one who puts a hand to the plow and looks back is fit for service in the kingdom. Quit looking over your shoulder. Quit looking at what your neighbor has. Quit looking at where somebody is at this point in life and start trying to size yourself up Amen. Oh, we'll size somebody up now. Yeah, we'll size them up. But thank God for Jesus. Getting past what you may never get over. Back in the 90s, and I may have shared this story, I went to Paris Island, South Carolina. Me and photographer was going to do a special report. Life in the boot camp I was about 180 back then. I dressed up in my uniform that they'd given me, and the first day they put me up on a rappel tower. It says, okay, Mr. I want to be in the Marines. I climbed to the top. Charlie Hill was rolling. I said, you rolling yet? Because I'm not going to do this twice He told me the instructor to just hold on to the rope, but as you lean back, loosen it. Let it go. Now what did I do? Man, I held onto that rope. I dangled for a while. I kept holding. And then I realized that my hand felt like it was on fire. But but eventually I I let go of the rope. And and in life, there's some things you have to let go and to get past. Amen? And so I realized from that point on I was so happy to hit the ground. I was there, praise the Lord. Did you get it all? I got it, good. We're not going there again. But we have to get past some things in life. There's a lesson there. Jesus gives the best example of what it means to get past and to get over. He was placed on an old rugged cross. Having been beaten, having been bruised, and yet on the cross He said, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. He was getting past the abuse he'd been receiving Getting past it. In fact, so much so one of the robbers said, Can I go with you? And he used that as an opportunity. On your last nerve, and you've got to get past them by forgiving them and moving on. Getting past what you may never get over Can I disagree with the author? You can get over. Because Jesus got over. He overcame all that had been laid out for him. He overcame all that had been done to him. He overcame it. In fact, he says, These things I have spoken to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation, but be of good cheer, for I've overcome the world So you you can get past, and you can get over, and you can move on, and you can find joy, and you can find peace, and you can find love if you allow him to take you through. The process. And she gave the sermonic selection before Dr. King spoke. And she began to sing this song, How I Got Over. How I got over, my soul looks back and wonder how I got over. Have you asked yourself lately how I got over? Instead of fighting and fussing, tell yourself, I can get past it, and I can get over it. Amen? And the only way you can do that is by putting your trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. Excuse me, I'm over that now. Excuse me, I'm going to a new place. Have you been in a place in life where you say, you know what, I gotta get past that And you can do it by way of Jesus Christ. Maybe you've lost your confidence. Maybe you've lost a friend or two along the way, but continue to press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling in Christ Jesus. Yeah, you might have a down day or two, but you stop pressing. You might have a moment in life that may depress you, but don't you start running. You may have situations in life that may trip you up, but I declare today that I'm gonna stay with the Lord Amen. I'm going to stay with the Lord all the way. I'm going to walk with him and I'm going to talk with him. He's going to show me how I can get through. Anybody want to be in that number that when the saints go marching in, that thank God I'll be in that number. Why? I'm not worried about my past And I can't stay right where I am, but I must continue to press on. Getting past. Can I change it? What you can get over if you trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. That is the word of God. Today's all word of the best. Come on, stand today. Amen? Don't allow it to linger. I know it hurts. No, you're disappointed. Nevertheless, he's able to bring you through Have you tried him today and taught him to be that kind of God? You can begin again. Just surrender. Surrender. I will draw I surrender all. I surrender All to thee. As you've come this last Sunday of 2019, I pray that you have come today that We'll be like a Paul. Take take inventory. Yeah, I could be better in those areas, but I don't want to beat myself up. That's the trick of the devil Oh, you messed up again. You're never gonna make it. Your past is gonna follow you, and you'll never be anything. He's a liar and the father of lies. Today, I want to turn this invitation into a where you are altar prayer. Why? Because I want to encourage you today. So as you bow your heads today, we'll firstly offer Christ to you, which is no small matter. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. God, we thank you for sending your only begotten Son, who sacrificed. Who got past this past and who overcame the world. If there's one today under the sound of my voice, be it in this place by way of uh technology Who has been trying all year to get to that place. And maybe people have complicated it for them The Bible says if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, the Bible says thou shalt be saved. No hocus pocus. No, I need to know the book from cover to cover. Just confess it to him and he'll come in today and change your life around. If you've come today, just pray that prayer. Lord Jesus, come into my heart today. As we end this year, I want to pray a prayer of blessings over you. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. We're going to forget all that happened yesteryear. And God help us to begin the new today. Those areas that we need improvement, show us. Those areas that we can be better in, show us God. We want to be better for you. So I pray for your peace and your joy today in the lives of your people. And may they carry with them the same words of encouragement and the blessing. We thank you for families today, God. So many families are torn apart, and so many families are not speaking. There's so much discord. But I pray in the name of Jesus for healing, not just physical healing, but emotional healing today. Yeah, we we we gotta get past it. And we must get over it that we can do it by way of your spirit. We thank you, God, for this moment In Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Amen. Maybe you've come today, you desire to be a part of this fellowship Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. comtoharvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.