Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Amen. There's a story to tell. How many folks have a story today? Pushing alone enough, you would tell me about what God has done for you What God has brought you through, how God has blessed you, how God has kept you. I'm just pushing you now. Do you have a story today? The song says, this is my story. And this is my song. Praising my savior all the day long. Well, you still not feeling that thing yet. How many folk have a story? Child, if you only knew Now you you thought you knew the real me, but you got a minute, let me pull you aside and begin to tell you my my my real Real story? My behind the scenes story? My I couldn't tell nobody story. How many folk got a story today I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean a real story. Say God, had you not been on my comments go ahead and preach now, had you not been on my side The enemy would have just had his way, but you kept me. But you guided me. But you held me. It is my story. And that's just chapter one Come on, give God some praise today. Oh yeah. There is a story. We give him praise And glory. Father, we come in this hour. Thankful to you that you've allowed us the opportunity just to share your word. Even as we come today, may we decrease and may you increase. Save someone today, encourage another, and when the time is done, we'll give your name the praise. And the glory. Amen. My God, nothing wrong with getting excited about Jesus. Many things in life that may excite you. But I'll get excited just on praising God. You know, just catch me in the hallway one day. I'll man, I'll start talking about the Lord and you tell me your story. I can't let that story think. Go. You'll think about the testimony. That you have. That somebody might be blessed by your testimony. Because you don't look like what you've been through. Um trying to go today, but I tell you what, every now and then you gotta just be led by the Spirit of God. Ma I feel him in the house today. Amen. That's right, that's right, that's right. So we thank the Lord today. Every now and then your cup ought to just tip over Every now and then you ought to be able to feel the Spirit of God moving in this place. Ezra 7th chapter and verse number 10 For Ezra had devoted himself to the study and observance of the law of the Lord. And to teaching us decrees and laws in Israel. I want to preach today and to wrap up this series. God has a plan for your life, part four. God has a plan for your life, part four. We live in a drama-filled society. We love drama. Uh whether it's your favorite TV program that you're waiting for the next episode or maybe you're binging on a particular series at the time. We like to know what is the next thing. Uh be it in the mass media or be it in the neighborhood or the workplace gossip line. May as well just say it that way. What happens next? What is likely to be the rest of the story? And when it comes to the Word of God, we ought to be the same way that the Bible has many stories. If you follow those stories, you'll see over and over again that the people of God mess up. And God forgive them. And they come back and say, I'm not going to do it no more. And then they come, I mean not they, we come right back to the same place. So we review our time together over the last month. It's been from the book of Jeremiah, 29, chapter verse number 11. And we know that the people of God are in exile. And they're there because they've been disobedient to God. So God allows them to be exiled there in Babylon. Jeremiah writes a letter and sends it to them. It is our theme for the year, for I know the plans that I have for you. says the Lord. And that is to prosper you and not to harm you, to give you hope, and to give you a future. And the stipulation in this was that you'll get to go back home, but after seventy years Oh my god. But that's what the text says. It says seventy years. And so if we fast forward from Jeremiah, we end up in the book of Ezra. It is 70 years later. And there's one who comes on the scene by the name of Ezra. Ezra, his very name means help. And God is using him to help the people of God to get back to Jerusalem, to return to their homeland. It's been four months of traveling and there are 5,000 men, women, and children. They get back to Israel. They're back in Jerusalem. And keep in mind that Ezra knew nothing about what happened 70 years ago, but he probably heard the stories Folks ever told you some old stories? You're way back, your great great, great granddaddy. Well, I would imagine that in conversation that Esper heard about God's disobedience. Ezra heard about what they'd been through. And now, 70 years later, there's a new episode because now he's going into Jerusalem He's among the first of that group to return to Jerusalem. And what he finds there disappoints him. He finds a people who are not serving God with gladness. He finds the people who have seemingly put faith on the side. People who seem to have taken a step backwards. Now that that might be Jerusalem, but maybe where you and I live, ever running the folk who just have no regard for God? Think they've made it all by themselves, give themselves a pat on the back, but God just for a moment, it's not Jerusalem, it's where God has you now. We've lost our interest in living holy. We've lost our desire in picking up the Bible. We've lost our desire in trying to live holy. Yeah. I didn't say perfect, but my God, my a hundred year old grandmother before she left, says if you can do better, do better. Amen? So he comes back, he's sorrowful, israel that is, he's frustrated He prays for the people of God, but he recognizes there's a need to study God's word. A need to teach God's word. A need, most of all, to live God's word. Ezra devoted himself to the study and the observance of the law. In other words, He took it as something that was important, and to study means to make an effort to acquire knowledge to learn more by reading, to learn more, by observing and research, it's always good to learn. Nobody knows everything. You know folks like that? They know everything all the time. Nobody here. But it's good to study. If you want to pass the test, you gotta study. And nobody here, but have you ever had a test come up and you didn't study? And you played like you knew a half a thing or two and you're sitting there as if you're thinking about the answer when you won't really know it Okay, everybody is on honor rolling here. Gifted and talented. Amen? A P. But to get to the place you realize, had I studied, I may have done better. And so Ezra things that we have lost our desire to study the Word. He loved to devote himself to getting into the Word of God. Now it says to observe the law. Now, in this case, the law really is God's instructions, God's manual. It is what instructs us in moral, social, and spiritual behavior. Aren't you glad that God is a God of standards? That everything ought not just go. I'm not being judgmental, but some stuff just ought not be. It's belief as well to just speak up and say a little something. Now any of y'all remember the old mothers and the old fathers of the church, they'd just tell younger women. Didn't mind if you told your mama or not. I said, boy, you better get straight. Amen. And so Ezra found himself really disappointed, but trying to set an example, he was one who studied. 2 Timothy 2. 15 tells us to study to show thyself approved unto God. A workman who needed not be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. Saints, we got a study. We've got to take time during the course of our day, if it's only a devotional, to try to get the word of God in us. You never know that it's not just for you. Somebody may pull you up with your sanctified looking self. And ask you a question or two on the workplace and you have nothing to share. You are a Christian on empty. Amen. If nothing else for giving them a half a devotional that you read for the day, we have to be the ones to study the Word of God. Ezra says, I I know we're back home, but what I'm seeing is the people who are illiterate not studying the Word of God. Got a plan Got a prayer, but no passion for God's word. Also, we've got to become teachers of God's word It says that he taught the decrees and laws in Israel. He didn't mind teaching. Joseph Jubert, a famous French moralist and essayist, once said, to teach is to learn twice. In other words, you gotta become a student first. Now some of y'all in that you don't just start teaching with no credentials That you gotta learn something. And so when you are a student of God's word, when you take time to study God's word, when you take time to learn a verse or two that then you can teach somebody, not out of your own experience. We got some old stories. But when we give them the word of God. And let them know how the Word of God has intersected our experience, it adds more weight to you as a teacher. Does that make sense? I'm not being horrible now, but if I can say you know what, uh I once was blind, but but now I wasn't really blind, but I was lost And thank God he found me. I don't know the blind man, but I was like him, could not find my way, but God came along. You can teach them by way of what you got in you. But you gotta get something in you to pour something out. You know you've gone to a class where the teacher had not prepared. And they were trying to face it. You know what I uh did we have that lecture last week? I teach on the side at one of the universities and I must make sure every week I've got a lesson planned. Mills is a teacher. She knows about that. So as many of you here, you can just walk in and think it. What is my objective for the day? What are we gonna cover for the day? Amen? And so he talks about the importance of being a teacher. He wanted to teach the word You know, I must study the word, and you would only expect that week by week so that when I stand before you, that I've taken time to look at the word. Put it in the crock pot for a couple of days and walk around it and say, okay, is that what I'm seeing? Is that what the Spirit is showing me? But to study the word, and you know what? You ought to do your own digging. I'm not sure about that, Reverend. Let me go back and read Jeremiah for myself. I recommend that. I don't know if Ezra really was who you say he was Well read it. Thank God for the Bible. There are cheat sheets at the beginning that say, you know what, I want to find out more about this ethical person, and so I'll do it myself I will learn how to get the word and the teacher. Let me just say this. When it comes to teaching, James 3 and 1 issues a warning. He says, you know, not many of you should become teachers, my fellow believers, because you know that we who teach will be judged more strictly. Amen. So I ask the Lord, Lord, help me not to lead anybody astray, but to try to understand the Word of God, try and teach the Word of God. And you know what? That's not all. Then tried to live the word of God. That Ezra observed it. He followed it. He didn't just talk it. You don't think we can talk a good game? I mean I'm talking about they can tell me so none I'll tell you what he he all suddenly there until you start checking around and so it's important that our lives Or there to reflect. In other words, let me catch you on Monday. See if you're really still doing the same thing. Let me catch you on a Friday night and see if you're the same person who you said. Are you living the Word of God? Has it taken root in us? Colossians three sixteen says, we must let the word of Christ dwell in us. Or to have scriptures popping off your jacket. Amen. You ought to walk around. Look at that. You look like you've got a word on you. Amen. It's also important to memorize words. And scriptures, because we never know when we might need them. This week somebody may say, I don't know, but my future say, you know what? Now over in Jeremiah God said, you know the plagues. Oh yeah, I got that's the memory verse at harvest. Work that word. Work that word, amen And you know, 1 Peter 2 and 2 says, as newborn babes, we ought to desire the sincere milk of the word that we might grow thereby. And milk is basic understanding. Milk is learning just a little bit. You just started out in the word, but you know something. Amen? But then at some point, you got to go to meat. 1 Corinthians 3 and 1, Paul says, I fed you with milk and not with meat, for you were not able to bear. You're still on the Baba. But isn't it great? I see for God says sleep over there, but he went to table food quick I mean, you know, Huxley eat up real food and meat. And we ought to be hungry for the word like that. No, no, no, g give me some seconds. I want to know more about the word of God Meat means that you're getting deeper in your understanding of the Word of God. Anybody wants meat today? Amen? What menu are you ordering from? Are you still doing the kitty menu? Are you ordering some big boy and big girl stuff? That I want to learn, I want to grow in him. You ought to want to grow. I ought to want to grow. Yeah, I've been to seminary, but I still want to grow. Because once I apply this, can I live what I've learned? Amen. Can I walk in the spirit that I don't fulfill the lust of the flesh? That at the end of the day, can I live it? You know, back during the earthly ministry of Jesus, people would follow him in droves. And some scholars suggest not everybody wanted a healing. Some folk were just there for the fanfare. Trying to get a selfie with the Savior. They wanted to be in the crowd. But it was an occasion they had been following all day and they had gotten tired. And Jesus says to his disciples, the people are tired. We ought to feed them, and they feed we don't have enough money. You know the Bible story because you've been in Sunday school. I know that part right there. What happened? He took a boy's lunch. Now use that this week Two fish and five loaves, and he blessed it, and he fed five thousand people right there. Make them sit down and let me feed them And they kept looking for the physical food, but then Jesus says to them, I am the bread of life. And whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall not be thirsty. All I'm saying, church, I'm just one baker trying to tell another baker whether to get some bread. Amen. Anybody want some bread today? Bread, so that you might grow? That I know that the old song says, Guide me, O thy great Jehovah. Pilgrim in this barren land. I am weak, but thou art mighty. Hold me with thy powerful hand. And then it says, Bread of heaven. Bread of heaven, fill me till I want no more. Fill me until I walk out of my life experience. Saying, thank you, Lord, you fed me. Fill me until I want no more. Anybody want to be filled with the Word of God in such a way that it becomes so good to you? Amen. The Bible says, oh, taste and see that the Lord is good. Anybody believe he's good today? Amen. That yes, I might have a plan. And yes, I prayed about the plan. But what am I going to do? Is there any passion? Do I really want to study the Word of God? Do I want to teach the Word of God? And most of all, do I want to live it? Thank you, Ezra, for stopping by. Thank you, Ezra, for not going with the status quo. I'm just glad to be in the land. I made it after 70 years. No, no, no. When he got there, his heart ached. Today, I challenge you as a body of believers. To study, to learn the Word of God. For it will build you up. It will give you what you need to run this life. life's journey. That is the word of God today. It's already but come on stand today all over this place. He still has a plan. But there's more that we have to do. More to being a Christian than wearing a cross. Or having a palm branch in your windshield. But my God, I challenge you today Pick up your Bible and read it. Apply it. And share it with someone else. That's what a real Christian is. It's our responsibility. Let's just think a little bit of that. That's our desire today. I want to be a Christian in my home. In my heart, Lord I won't want to be a Christian. In the deep places. My mind Let's bow today. Father, we thank you for your word. The Bible says in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was God, and with God. As we come today, God, may we become a literate people. Going from pre-K to graduate school. As we learn more about you, and then to share and apply that which we've learned. Your word says very clearly, God has not given you the spirit of fear, but love, power, and a sound mind. Confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, the Bible says, thou shalt be saved. Lord, save somebody today in this place who may not know you. May they get to know you by confessing. Thank you for salvation. Thank you for the cross. Thank you for the resurrection. Touch the heart today we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.