I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen Whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website. I really do believe that God has a special message just for you. A message designed to encourage you to strengthen your faith And to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries for a worship experience already in progress. We bow our heads today. Let's pray. Unto the Father. God, we come once again and we're honored to stand in this place and before your people. To declare a truth, a word of encouragement, how we can make it In spite of all the odds, bless your word today. May someone be saved. May others be encouraged When this time is done, we give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. God is so good. He is so worthy. I want to share a portion of the scripture that was read earlier, 1 Kings 17, 13 through 18. Elijah said to her, Don't be afraid. Go home and do as you have said, but first make me a small cake of bread. For me, what you have, and bring it to me, and then make something for yourself and your son. For this is what the Lord, the God of Israel, says The jar of flour will not be used up, and the jug of oil will not run dry until the day the Lord gives rain on the land. Verse 15, she went away and did as Elijah had told her. So there was food every day for Elijah and for the woman and her family. For the jar of flour was not used up, and the jug of oil did not run dry, in keeping with the word the Lord spoken Through and by Elijah. I want to preach today from the Samonic Vital that God will never leave you on empty. One of the responsibilities of being a car owner or driver is to make sure that there's gasoline in your tank. I recall some years ago one of the gas companies said, put a tiger in your tank. But if you're honest today, and I am, there's been at least one time or more when I found myself riding. on E, riding on fumes, and ended up on the side of the road. Do I have a witness? Embarrassed, no gas can, trying to look cool, but learning from that experience that you have to keep gasoline in the car. It is a luxury now because we can go almost any corner and buy gas. There was a day when $2 would do you. Now $2 will get you to the next gas station. And some of you can remember back in the 1970s. I was a high school student back then Didn't have a car, but I could drive mom and dad's, but there was a oil embargo, OPEC, some of the Arab nations came together politically and put a hold on the oil So much so that a barrel went from three to twelve dollars. And there were actually people lining up to get gas. Let me do a survey today. How many were in that crisis Praise God. Look at my Lord. To where you had to go on the even days or the odd days. Some youngster said, What are you talking about? Y'all can Google that. But it was that tough because you didn't automatically get gas because you had money. But in God's economy, I stopped by to tell you he will never let you go empty. When it comes to the things of life, he will always supply your need according to his riches and glory by Christ Jesus. That your tank will always be full because God will see to it. And so I stop by just to encourage you in that way. In our text today, we meet one by the name of Elijah. Elijah lived in a little place called Tishbi. He was a prophet and a spokesman for God. I'm amazed that in this time period that Elijah was so bad. He said, there's been sin in the land, and it won't rain. He spoke a word and said, There will be no dew falling. Now that's bold. He came under the authority of God, spoke it, and then God provided for Elijah. I want you to leave and go to Karah Brook. And when you go there, there'll be water for you. Tell me God won't take care of you when everything around you is falling apart. Everybody on your job is having an issue. God somehow provides a brook for you. He's able to drink water, and then he sends a raven by to bring him food every day. I know some of y'all Ravens fans. He would bring by a raven who brought and supplied him with food every day. Just start right there. Won't God take care of you? You might be down to your last. He'll put you in a place to where water is running. He'll supply you with food. He'll give you peace of mind just because you have been faithful unto him. And so God says to him, because we can't just stay in one place. Aren't you like the way God said, okay, it's time to move now? Time to get up from here. This brook has run dry. The ravens will not return with food. I need you to go to another place. There. And there you will find a widow woman. Ask her, tell her, I said, to feed you. What do you mean? Yeah, I'm telling you in advance that even though it's a famine, I'm sending you to a place And when you get there, don't mix the words, but tell the widow woman, I said, to feed you. Have you ever had hope to do things for you and you didn't know why it was happening? But God had already spoken it in your experience that even though you didn't know them, that God says, you know what, I'm going to put the right person at the Bill Collection Center. Because you late. I'm gonna put the right person right at the grocery store that will say, oh, that's buy one, get one. I'm just talking down home now That's buy one, get one free. Uh uh put the person at the car lot. Oh no, there's a new rebate. God will supply all of your needs. He said, go and tell the woman, I said, to feed you. He's looking out for him, and Elijah's life will not be an empty life, but one that will be full. As I look at this text today, I want to just glean from it some principles I think that can help us today in the here and now. And one of the things I see is that she is there and all she has is a little bit of flour left. And a little bit of oil left. Elijah shows up and says, Get me a cup of water. She okay, but as she's leaving, oh by the way, can you fix me a cake too? He has the audacity to ask, and she responds. Because it was all planned by God. You may feel empty right now. You may feel that your situation is bleak, but God has a plan for you, and you'll never be empty. How many believe that today? That he will always have something for you. He'll always show up at the right time. He'll always be there at the most critical time in your life. He will do it. I've seen it happen. Have you seen it happen in your life? Now you said, Lord, I don't know how I'm going to make it. It does not look good, and he keeps supplying you with more and more. He will meet your needs. But let's begin to unpack this a little bit. First of all, I see on the spot faith. Verse 15. She went away and did as Elijah told her. That almost sounds absurd. Do what? And I wrestle our week with why in the world with this woman who has nothing, next to nothing. She's a widow, which means her husband is departed. And her son, who's picked up a couple sticks and they go make a fire, and she responds to this man of God and says, I'll do what you say do. I wondered about that. Why is it that she would even say, What? Don't you realize I'm down to Mount Last? And you're asking me to do to make a what? Y'all too sanctified this morning To make a what for me? Has somebody ever come your way and say, can you let me borrow you a dollar? And you have a dollar and fifty cents? You say, okay, here's a dollar. And God took your fifty and made something. Oh y'all won't have it never happened to y'all, huh? Let me add two dollars then, okay? And you gave a dollar away. And so on the spot, I believe she does it because Elijah was sent by God She didn't know Elijah, but somehow she saw something in him that she responded. And God may send somebody your way that you don't even know. And they'll show up and make a crazy request of you. And God will bless through it. I kept going back saying, God, why would this woman leave and make the last of what she has? For a stranger. It's because he was silly of God. And God is sending you some places to make some crazy requests I want to uh ask you if you can reduce this on my loan. And because you ask it, this okay. You ever asked any crazy stuff it seemed in your life that you say, you know what? What do I have to lose I'll just ask them, can you knock off some more on that? I'll buy it then. And God will time and time again bring you through. It was on the spot, faith. Didn't have time to say, Elijah, let me pray about it. Elijah, let me call one of the deacons. Elijah, let me ponder this thing. She said, okay. I'll make you a cave. And that's the kind of God I served that even though she was empty, she was willing to believe God and that God would make a way in her life That's what I love about the text. It seems like it don't make sense that with all this going on, I'm already tight myself and and I'm I'm about to make ends meet and you're gonna ask me to do what But that's the way God operates. In God's economy, you may not have it, but my God, He finds a way that it's not just about you, but you can help somebody along the way, and therefore your living is not in vain Now this week it may come your way. And God will allow you to not just be in the widow spirit, but also you might be the Elijah Doing what? Doing what God asked him to do. There was on the spot faith. Don't have time to figure it out. Don't have time to rationalize. Sometimes we rationalize too much. We'll think something to death and rethink it And meditate on it and rethink it again, but sometimes you better just step out on faith. What led her to say, okay, you want a cake? All I got is a handful of flour and a little oil. But she looks forward. On the spot faith. But not just that. There's an on the spot response. Because as she does that, it says, so there was food every day for Elijah. God responded right then. It wasn't on the first. It wasn't every other day. It wasn't whole strong to tomorrow. But God will respond On the spot. Has he ever done it for you? Before you can get done praying, he's already answered. You're on your knees and the phone rings. God shows up and responds in that kind of way that Elijah got to eat, but her and her boy also has something to eat. That means that God will respond. Sometimes we jump ahead of him. Sometimes we get ahead of him, but she responded, and God responded. Has you ever shown up like that in your life? I mean, I'm talking about Just like that. But the thing that was needed, God supplied. Keep in mind, she didn't have much Just her son, and in the language of the text, she says, We're gonna make one more cake, and me and my boy are gonna die. Because there's not enough to keep us, but when God shows up He responds right then and there on the spot. Can you look at the situation? He's done that for you. You say, well maybe if I'll pray now, by next week, uh, you know, when I get paid. But God will come in between because He doesn't work on your paycheck cycle. Your unemployment chick cycle. He works to supply you and to fill you when you're empty and when you're down until you're last. And it may not just be something physical, but emotionally you're drained. Empty. Can't take another thing. He comes on say, you know what? I will respond on the spot. Maybe you are spiritually low. God shows up. I love a on-the-spot response. Not let me check back with somebody and I'll call you tomorrow Uh not let me see if this will pass, but because he came in the Spirit of God, and because she believed The God in Elijah, the God who sent Elijah, there was a response. I don't know about you, but my God, when I've seen him respond, I've just been so heavenly happy. I don't know what to do. Oh God, thank you. And I don't mind giving him the praise, whatever. It may be in that place. You say, God, I thank you for responding, not when they said it would happen, but you came along. And you gave me what I needed. Empty. Dry. In a place in life that there's no hope. Famine in the land. A famine in your life. But God shows up and responds On the spot faith. I'll do it, you ask it. On the spot response that every day Didn't miss a day. They ate. Anybody ever missed a meal before? Trying to keep y'all awake this morning Anybody ever missed a meal? I mean somebody missed a meal. I mean that you got hungry and you missed one I mean I missed the whole meal. And could not eat, didn't have it. And God shows up at the right time and gives you what you need. You see, Reverend that's old Fogir, grandmama I'm talking about. No, no, no. I remember when we were down to the last loaf of bread. I don't mind eating the ends of the bread. And we had peanut butter and jelly. Can I testify this morning? Had no job. Unemployment was so low it barely made rent. But every time we looked in that there was still some bread in there. And you allowed yourself to get bread and milk Jelly and peanut butter. Amen. And whatever you need, God will supply it. Reverend, that's not my testimony. I've been down in your spirit so much so That nothing seemed to lift you, but God will respond. He will make sure that you stay full in him. But finally. There is on the spot favor. For the jar of flour was not used up And the jug of oil did not run dry in keeping with the word of the Lord spoken by Elijah. Favor means that God chooses to appoint you. You don't know why? Doc, you got it like that. No, I don't either. God has found favor in me and therefore he takes care of me. Has he done it for you today? That every time she went back and put her arm in the bell There was enough flour to make a biscuit. Every time she went to the oil and said, okay, I got a little bit more. Some of y'all never had a whole cake. Never had a biscuit from down south. Never had fun. I mean, every time she put her hand in there, that God favored her. And don't you know he'll do it for you as well? Every time you find yourself empty, down to nothing, that because of the favor of God, you'll still be able to say, you know what? I found a dollar. Some of y'all never took money and went to giant and put it in that machine. And had it count the pennies up. Oh I got I eighty dollars. That's in your drawer money, that's in the car money. That's chains that you put on the side, but sometimes you'll get so low. You'll start rolling them pennies up. And those knuckles. Oh, I think I ain't got a press. He'll make a way. Won't he do it? And you won't get so big that when you get a dollar and a half, I still put change in my topsock drawer I still, and every now and then I'll catch it in. Say, God, thank you for another fifty dollars. What are you doing? You will never find yourself on empty if you trust in the Lord. Amen. You might be aggravated, but you won't be empty. Amen. It might be little, but you won't be empty. You might be criticized, but you won't be empty. You might be distracted, but you won't be empty. Every time he comes along, he says, I will fill you up And not just with material stuff. This is bigger than flour and oil. He'll fill you with his Holy Spirit. Aren't you glad about that today? Every time I feel the Spirit moving in my heart, I'll pray. I'm glad when it gives me a spiritual feeling. Here's my cup, Lord, and fill me as a Christian we get down. But I declare if you would ask God fill me with your Holy Spirit today. I want another fill up I'm getting low. Life has been tough for me. The job has been pressing. The family has been all my but I need you to fill me up. How many hope the Holy Ghost will fill you up today? Amen. I'm talking about a real feeling that you will say, Lord, I can make it now. I can take it now. I've got your spirit operating in me. There's something about the spirit of God. I desire that. I want that. Because as he fills me, it allows me to have the mind of Christ. Every now and then you'll get low. And your spiritual tank will be in the rain. But God will Fill you up. Let me just take a poll. Has he ever filled you with this spirit? You ever felt him moving down in your heart and you realize that I didn't mean to cry, but I'm crying I didn't mean to celebrate, but I'm celebrating. I didn't mean to say thank you, Jesus. But because of his spirit, and because of the feel, I feel it right now, my God. You ought to just say Holy Spirit, fill me right now And when he begins to fill you, you'll feel power. You'll feel hope. You'll feel understanding happening just because the Spirit will fill you. How many folk want to have the Spirit fill you up today? Reverend, how is that possible? How is the Spirit gonna fill me? So I begin to change my mind and focus on him. Paul said, be ye feel. It was a command. And today, I want you to ask the Lord to fill you Play and go ahead and start playing. That's the end of the sermon. But I I want you to sense this presence. See, well he talked about flour and oil today and the woman and Elijah. Uh-huh. But talked about what it means to be filled with the Spirit of God today. Stand today over this place and let's seek the power and the presence of God today. Asking him to fill me. It seems like a strange thing to say. You mean all I gotta say is, Lord, fill me up. He'll do it. That's my desire today. He'll do it behind the wheel of your car. He'll do it on your job. But you gotta draw in your wondering minds, okay. I can't worry about the cookout or next week's project at work, but I want to pull my mind in. I want what they had in the book of Acts. That the spirit was so high they couldn't contain themselves. In fact, it came as tongues of fire. Jumped on them. And they just gave God the praise. Today, without a voice raised or a tambourine or a scream, I want you today to say, Lord, fill me with your spirit. Is that what you want today? If you feel me, I'll think right. Do you feel me? I'll never go empty. All I have to say, Lord, I need your spirit. Bow your heads today. I want you to think about this. Lord, fill me. Have you ever asked him to do that? If not, do it today. I'll start it out. Lord, fill me with your spirit. Lord, I want a filling. My life has empty spots, but I ask today that you might fill me. And that you might fill your people. Brother, I didn't feel anything. It's not about a feeling. It's about a feeling. Father, I pray in the name of Jesus. I thank you for Jesus who fills us with this Holy Spirit today. And in every area of our lives today, we ask to fill the empty places. In our homes, fill the empty places. In our hearts, fill us today. We know you'll do it, God. And do it in the lives of your people. You will never go empty. Put your trust in him. Never. I've never seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread. Why? Because I put my trust in him. Do you sense him today in this place? In your heart? In your spirit, I do. And that's why he stores I pray you are helped in some way by this message. Be sure to follow Harvest Christian Ministries on radio, CD, podcast or over our new website. It's comeetoharvest. org. That's come to harvest, C-O-M-E, the number two, and harvest. org. Take time to experience the website and all that we have to offer as a ministry. In the meantime, pray that God will continue to allow us to reach a community for Christ for the cause of the kingdom. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin. Have a great day in the Lord.