Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Amen. Let's give God a praise today. If you know he's touch you, my God, you ought to be excited. Because what happens is when he touches you, you're never the same again. Oh you didn't hear me this morning. Anybody ever been touched by the hand of God and you knew it wasn't an ordinary touch? But it was something that he had done just for you. And now I know. And made me whole. As we bow this morning, let's pull in our wondering minds. Father, we thank you. For this, the day that you've made. God, we pray today that as we stand to unpack your word, that you might Allow us to decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today, encourage another, but when this time is done, we'll be so careful to give your name the praise And the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Praise God. There's a word that comes from the very first book of the Bible, Genesis, which means beginnings. Verse 9 says, Then the Lord said to Cain, Where is your brother Abel? I don't know, he replied. Am I my brother's keeper? The Lord said, What have you done? Listen, your brother's blood cries out to me from the ground. And then verse 11, now you are under a curse and driven from the ground, which openeth its mouth to receive your brother's blood from your hand. I want to pre-splay from the Semonic title, God's Response to Violence. God's Response to Violence. It's hard. to ignore from our big cities to our small towns people are killing each other. I talked to my mother last night and of course if someone is murdered in my town that's news for two years And we discussed how anywhere at any time something tragic can happen. Take Baltimore for example. Last month forty-five people were murdered That was the most murders recorded in the past 40 years or so. And the latest figures from the U. S. Census Bureau tells us that Somebody is murdered every 35 minutes. Which means that before this worship service is over, Two people somewhere will have lost their lives because of violence. Some time ago I walked into an elementary school in Baltimore City to do a story about crime. In fact, at that time myself and Deacon Strober were working together. We walked in and we posed the question to the Teachers, how many students in your classroom has witnessed violence? Or how many uh know someone who's been killed, and they all but a few raised their hands Violence affects all of us, no matter where we live. I'm always amazed if people say, well, this is a nice neighborhood. It never happens here, but when people are driven by rage and anger, anything can happen, even though the best of minds in law enforcement The politicians, religious leaders are all vying to try to find out how do we stop the violence We in the Christian community raise the question, what is it that we can do? Yes, we are praying for peace, but even the best of saints will sometimes find themselves weary. So I stopped by this morning to step out of the natural into the supernatural and to begin to raise the question, how does God respond to violence? I mean he is God. He he sits high, he looks low. The Bible says he never sleeps nor slumbers, but why God is the continued violence in my community or neighborhood? The very first passage of the Bible, Genesis 1 and 1, says, In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. That's one Bible verse you can remember. Amen. Open the Bible up, and the first verse says that. Twenty-six verses later, God creates man in his own image and then puts him to sleep, takes one of his ribs, and creates a woman, Eve. And he sets them up, puts them in the Garden of Eden. Things are going well. They're living high. On the hog, so to speak. But they disobey God, and when we disobey God, there are always consequences. Can I get an amen? And as good as they had it, they disobeyed God. They followed Satan and they were kicked out of the garden. Not long after that, they had their first child. Cain, one who uh liked to hang out in the field, farmer. Then there was Abel, their second son, who liked to hang out with the livestock And the Bible says that one day they bring their sacrifice to God. Cain came half-sepping. He didn't bring his best. He brought something to God, but it was not something that God received in as a worthy sacrifice. And that's why it's so important, I think, to give God our best. Don't slag. I give him everything I've got, but here's the day I'm beat down. Why? Because I've given God everything that's in me I don't want to give God half of me. When I was in the world, I know I talk about this often. I gave the world everything I had. Y'all got quiet on me this morning. In the world, I did it the world's way, but now that I'm on the Lord's side, I want to give God everything I got. Do I have two witnesses today say you know what? I'm on the Lord's side, I'm going to strive to do that which pleases him. The sacrifice was turned down. Cain was downcast. And the Bible says that he invites his brother out. And he kills him. It is the first recorded murder in humanity. That violence is in the Bible. He killed his brother. And so often we find folks who are disgruntled, who will do things to harm others. He was angry. And some psychologists suggest that when it comes to this violent nature, that it's rooted in abuse. It's rooted in folk who have early abuse problems. They have anger and substance abuse. Anger and uh use and mix with those who may have been abused physically as children, anger, and many other things. But once you put anger in the mix, Amen. That things will happen that cause you to make wrong decisions and lasting decisions. But God takes notice. I guess what I'm trying to say is that God is not asleep. And sometimes we think that God only if you would come by. Don't you know God is well aware Of all that's happening, and he's well aware of the pain that we've gone through individually and as families who've lost loved ones to violence. God still cares about you and God will bring you through. But I want to bring God on this morning as the chief detective who comes to the crime scene of the first murder recorded in the Bible. And there is an acknowledgement. Verse 9 says, And the Lord said to Cain, Where is your brother Abel? Now don't you know God knew already? He acknowledges, he makes it known, he confirms that I already know I'm just seeing if you're going to be truthful. And God will ask us questions in our own daily experience to get an answer, to have us to acknowledge and to admit and to confess that there's something that we've fallen short in. And he says, What? I don't know. He told a big one. He knew, and God knew what was going on in that situation. And one thing about God, we said often that God gives us free will. That's right. You're not a puppet. Decisions that you and I make, we make them based on how we feel, what's going to gratify the flesh. And let me just say this. Don't look at me funny. I I've not done anything violent that I can recall. Never been in jail, but I've been angry. And so have you. So much so that given the wrong situation, amen, you would have harmed someone. I'm just talking to you this morning. I don't want to get into a gun kick because I I used to own a gun. Amen. My daddy bought me and my brother both a 410, over and under, 22, 410, and it was only to go out and to hunt We've never gotten mad and took that weapon and said we're gonna go take a life. Anger is at the center, sin is at the center, of broken humanity is at the center of violence in our society. Hope I'm making sense this morning. There is an acknowledgement that I know what you have done. And yet Cain tries to fool God. And we find the food God rebel. I never hurt anybody, not physically, but with my tongue. Come here, James, that I didn't touch you, but I cut you up with my tongue. I tried to take you out by back biting and talking behind. Can I just talk this morning? And then oftentimes and not me, but our words can hurt. There he is Saying, I don't know what you're talking about. And you may say, Reverend, why didn't God just on the spot just take care of that? Why would he drag him on? And there's something about God that we know. He says in Isaiah 55, for my thoughts are not your thoughts. I'm not going to handle it the way you would have handled it. Neither are your ways my ways, declares the Lord, as the heavens are higher than the earth So are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts higher than your thoughts. Well, I begin to pray this with God. Uh one might one why why didn't you do something? What why'd you let it happen? He said, you know what I'm bigger than you. I've got my own, I'm God. And so while there's this sense of why don't God just step in and Change the hearts of people and all the murders would stop. God is well aware of all that's taking. He acknowledges that there's an issue. Aren't you glad that God cares? The Bible talks about seen and unseen dangers. My God, you don't know the bullet that could have gotten you. You don't know the situation that could have taken you out Only when you get the glory, he might pull the curtain. Look at that. I had you covered that night. And you were covered at that moment. God knows everything, and he responds by listening to Cain. Make your case. Not just an acknowledgement, there was also an arraignment. Now in legal terms, I'm not the lawyer. In the court system, an arraignment is the proceeding to where you come in And uh you you have to say either I'm guilty or not guilty. Uh they may lock you up, uh you may make bail, but and there he is with Cain, the Lord says, what have you done? That's sound like some Perry Mason stuff. What have you done? He didn't say a word. He said, listen, your brother's blood cries out to me from the ground. I got the facts. And you're the chief suspect. Amen? And don't you know in life that God already knows what's happening, and even as He deals with someone who's a murderer who has committed This sense of violence, he's able to say, I already know that you didn't tell me, you didn't confess it, but God has a way of knowing all that happens in our lives He he's all knowing. He's everywhere at the same time. Now do you believe that today that God that we serve? You can't leave him in one state and he's not in the next state My God, the Bible says the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof and those that dwell therein. He's well aware there's an arrangement. And look at it, you would say, why don't you just lock up, King? If he's guilty, it's on the headline news. Man kills brother enrage. But God being who is is beginning to slow walk this thing. Amen. He responds. He's aware. He knows what's going on. What have you done? Has he ever asked you what have you done? And you gave him the silent treatment? What have you done this week that didn't please me? What have you done this week that did not lift me up? What have you done this week? What have you done? And then he says, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, don't answer But listen. Oh, hello. Hey, hey, hey. Listen because already the life you've taken is already speaking from the ground. Theologians suggest that this sense of saying that the blood is speaking means that Cain buried. But because God knows everything, he's able to sort this out. David, the psalmist, says over in Psalm 139 and 2, Thou knowest my downsettings. And mine uprising, thou understandeth my thought afar off. I'm getting back to this point that God is not asleep at the will. He's aware of what's going on. And we can't get with why he does not do the thing that we think he ought to do Why don't you bring down the crime rape God? Why don't you uh be the neighborhood patrol? What why why why? I'm just saying God let your will be done. I'm just praying that because you're a God all by yourself, you know what to do. And you are aware of what's going on, and God responds. That's something that I I'm glad to know. That God responds to our hurts. God responds to our pain. God responds. Have He done it for you today? I mean you were down and out and didn't think and you felt like you had been taken out and God comes along and he talks to you and he heals you. He's a what? He's a mind regulator. He's a heart fixer He takes this and he arranged and you would say well just go ahead and book him but it didn't happen finally not just an acknowledgement And not this sense of there's a charge, but there's also an agreement. Verse 11. He says to Cain, now you are under a curse. And driven from the ground, which opened its mouth to receive your brother's blood from your land. Things won't be the same for you. You will no longer be affected in what you do. You will be a marked man. Amen. But even in that, he still makes provisions. Is what got me looking at with me now. A curse is on you Uh I got your number, but nobody better not mess with you. Because you mess with Cain, you ought to come through me. Isn't there something about God's grace that even when we messed up and should have been sentenced but we beat the rap He's saying I still got you anyhow that God makes this agreement that I know I'm gonna limit you in your production The wages of sin is still death, the gift of God, still eternal life, through Christ Jesus. Something dies enough when we say it. It does. Something happens in that moment, but he says, if anybody mess with you, I'll get them. I'll turn the heat up. But the bigger agreement is what he did by sending his son Jesus Christ to die for us. He saw this broken humanity and said, What can I do? I'm sending my only begotten son. And check this out. Here's a real crime scene. Calvary was a crime scene. Jesus was beaten, he was despised, but he was murdered. Uh oh. Yeah, that you you you want a crime scene. Calvary was a bloody Crime scene because Jesus was crucified on an old rugged cross. Aren't you glad about it today? You never say, Well, Reverend, I'm not gonna condone. Um no. What he did was he made a provision. By sending his only begotten Son, who died on that cross, who shed His blood just for me. Wasn't that a great agreement today, knowing that no matter what I have done, that it's because of the blood of Jesus Christ, I can still stand today and proclaim that God is good all the time? Do I have a witness today? God witnessed violence. His son, who went to that cross, violence. But the difference is he rose again. Amen. Is that he died, but he got up on the third day morning with all power in his hands. I should have been sentenced. You should have taken the wrap. I should have been the one doing time. You should have been the one saying, God, I am guilty as child. But aren't you glad today that the Lord steps in and makes a provision for us? That you've said some violent things, you've done some violent things, you've committed sin, but he stands saying, I am responding to what I see. I'm just trying to say that God is well aware of all that happens in our life. Thank God. I love this hymn. At last, and did my Savior bleed. And did my sovereign die? Would he devote A sacred head for such a worm as I? And another verse says, was it for crimes that I've done? He groaned upon the tree. Amazing pity, grace unknown, and love beyond degree at the cross. At the cross. Where I first saw the light and the burdens of my heart rolled away. It was there by faith. I received, oh I know you can see pretty good. I received my sight. And now I'm happy all the days. Anybody know about the cross today and what it means for our faith and what we believe? I'm not talking about the The big guy upstairs, or just somebody that can just say, you know what, when I'm down. But I think about what he did. It was a bottom mess at Calgary, but thank God for Jesus. He arose from the grave, and because of that We have hope. God still responds. I'm glad he responded in my own life. Something on the inside. Working on the outside. Oh what a change in my life. Jesus on the inside. Working on the outside. Oh, I'm just justifying. Y'all can go with me if you want to. Oh, want to change in my life. The word on the inside. Oh, what a change in peace on the inside. Working on the outside. Joy on the inside. Working on the outside. Oh, what a change in my life. I'm glad that God responded on that day. And so we're getting back to Reverend. I hear you, but there was another murder today. God knows. And God will and has responded. And we've got to respond by praying And by sharing the good news of Jesus Christ. You might even know it. Somebody in the elevator you talked to may have been headed their way to commit a crime. But because you want a Sunday Christian, you say, well, let me just encourage you. You will never know what your witness might do to help another. Aren't you glad God responds today? Let's give God a praise. That is the word of God. It is all ready. Blessed. Stand to your feet today. Pray you've been helped today. Pray that you take a new look at a God who's always on the job. God who was never out of touch. I don't know what it's gonna end and I don't know what the crime stats are saying, but I know my God is real. Glad about that today. He's still receiving all of us. He wants to come. Just the way we are today, he might change us. Don't try to fix up today. Just as you are comment Come with me, comment for this. All your hurts, all your problems, all your issues, all your shortcomings, come as you are Come with me, come with me for Love life never lasting straight for today Say the living waters, and never tell the day. As we come today, there's some cane in all of us. Some bad decisions, some angry moments. Some denial some lying in us. But God has a way to bring it Out of us. Today you may have come. And you have brought with you some anger. Something that you've not let go. Can I tell you that anger It's dangerous. No, I'm not angry, I'm just upset. But if you're not careful, that will turn into something else. Reverend, I would never do that. I would never commit a violent act either with my hand or with my tongue. But let me tell you today that God is faithful. And God knows all things. As I come each Sunday, I come with the possibility that there's a person Who does not know Christ as their personal Savior? I don't assume that because you came today, that you have a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. And with all that I've done this week, it's not, did I hit my points right? And it's not, did I close okay? Was the opening alright? But did someone receive a word today that would change their life forever? That's what I desire, and that's what the Lord desires today. And that's what his word calls us to do. What have you done? Have you given your life to me? Even though you know you haven't? As you bow those heads today, I want to present Christ to you. The crucified one, but the one who died and rose again. Father, I come in the name of Jesus. On the chance that there might be one today. Who has never confessed you as personal savior? It's possible, but there's one today who has an idea about faith. But it's never opened their mouth and said, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner today. I'm a rascal. But I need your help I need for you to save me from all of my sins, and they are many. I pray in the name of Jesus. By way of the unction of the Holy Spirit, that if you were here in this place today, that you might receive Him as your personal Savior. I thank God today that His Word works In the lives of people. I can't save you, but God through Christ can. Take a moment today and ask yourself: am I saved? And then answer yourself either yes or no. Or I'm not sure. If you're not sure today, the Bible says in Romans 10. 9 and 10, if you can confess with your mouth, the Lord Jesus, and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, the Bible says Thy shalt be saved if you believe it in your heart. God, I pray today that one has received that. That one life has been changed to your glory. If you're here today and You don't know him. I want to pray for you. Raise your hand today while another's looking. I just want I don't want you to leave this place unsure about your eternal destination This thing is so serious and I could uh it's the most important part of the worship experience is that did one get it today While those heads are bowed today, and if you're not sure, I want to pray with you right where you are today. If you're not sure. You can fool me, but you can't fool God. I know I've tried before. One day I had to come clean and say, Lord, you know I'm I'm deep down. I I I need you. I need to be saved today. And I just believe that if you open your heart today and invite them in, he'll save you. That's God responding. Amen. You know that you're saved. Know that you are heading to heaven one day. I challenge you to put those hands together. Amen. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you It's www. com2harvest. org. That's come the number to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes from Podcasting or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.