Good day, my dear friend. Dr. Tim Tootin here, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Maryland. Want to welcome you to our worship experience. We meet here in Baltimore at 7660 Bel Air Road. Our service time is 845. I want you to join us now for a message that's already in progress. How many folks know what it means hold out? The world is telling you to just throw the towel at But the God that you serve lets you know that He's long-suffering, not willing that any should perish, but that all might come to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. Let's look to the Lord even now. Father, we do come and we do thank you. Any chance we get to proclaim your truth, it's a privilege. As we come today, God, you already know what your people need. You've already revealed it to them by your spirit. It is our prayer today that we might decrease and that you might increase Save someone today, encourage another, and when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Well praise God. There's a word from the Lord today that comes from uh the book of First Peter, fifth chapter, verses eight and nine. It reads, be alert and of sober mind. Your enemy, the devil, prowled around like a roaring lion, looking for someone to devour. Resist him standing firm in the faith. Because you know that the family of believers Throughout the world is undergoing the same kind of suffering. I want to preach today from the Semonic title God's Game Plan. God's game plan. We're just hours away from a major event. Uh you don't have to like football to know that it's Super Bowl Sunday. That's where two teams they may not be your teams come together and decide there would be one winner. When it's all said and done, there are no ties in the Super Bowl. Either win or you go home. Now I'm wearing my jersey today for the home team. Uh on the back I got my own name on it. That's right. And so you say, Reverend, uh, who are you pulling for? Well that's a tough question. I'm uh the kind of person who uh stays objective That's my profession. Be objective. But it just so happens that four players from Florida State are playing on one of those teams I won't call the name, but I I guess I kinda have to uh do Florida. Amen. But when it's all said and done, uh there's a trophy that will be given out, and one of the quarterbacks will say, I'm heading to Disney World. You know, when it comes to strategy of this game and whether you understand it or not, it's really America's game. As I look out today, I see your jerseys on and uh you may have somebody else's name on it, but you represent your team and you represent the organization. But when it comes to what it takes to win a game, it was Bear O Bryant who was the late and legendary coach of Alabama who said offense sells tickets. But defense wins championships. Defense means that you've got to always be aware of your opponent. And as a Christian, we must make sure that we live the kind of life that we're keeping a keen eye on how to be defensive. In our text today we find one by the name of Peter. Peter writes a letter to the church, those who are scattered, those who are downtrodden. See, back then living the Christian life was rather difficult. If you said you were a Christian, that could cost you your life. And now you can carry your Bible around and have your gospel tapes on and put your palm branch in the windshield. But now this is a different day. But Peter wrote knowing full well what they were facing. This is the same Peter who was a first round draft pick. He and his brother Andrew were there along the Sea of Galilee and they were minding their own business casting nets, and Jesus walks by and says to them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. The same Peter would deny him sometime later. The same Peter would make up for it by preaching, and the Bible says 3,000 souls were saved. And there was a baptismal service right after that. So it's this Peter who is writing to the church. Writing to encourage them isn't it great to know you can have some encouragement? I don't know your story, you don't know all of my story, but my God, one letter can give them hope. He knew what they were up against. He knew they had enemies. He wanted to let them know that you've got to operate by God's game plan. Aren't you glad that God has a game plan for your life? There's a playbook with your name on it. Uh if you just get in position, God has a plan And so when it comes to dealing with the enemy, the devil, he's real. He's not someone in a red suit Uh but we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Put on the whole armor of God that you might be able to do what? To withstand the wiles of the devil when you've done all To stand, just stand. I may as well testify. This week, uh the devil don't come at you just like in a suit, but this week he'll go behind somebody. It starts some stuff and before you know it you bore your fist up. And what's really going on is the enemy is coming behind the scenes doing a puppet show and you got upset So let yourself know you're always dealing with different kinds of spirit. It may not be the person, it just may be the spirit. Amen And so Peter, that was my testimony because I had to settle down. I was I was getting ready to get worked up. And I was wait a minute, my friend of mine said, wait a minute, man, you know, you know what's going on Once I got that, out of my flesh, I realized, oh no, no, no. And sometimes he'll just hit you with a frontal attack. Amen? That's your opponent. So let's talk about God's plan. The first thing we need to do as those who are on God's team is to identify your opponent. It says, be alert and of a sober mind, your enemy. We all got one Your enemy, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, looking for someone to devour. Looking to pick on somebody. Looking to get on somebody's last nerve, and it just may happen to be you and I. I didn't do anything, that's okay. He's looking to do what? To destroy you and I. You know coaches take time to learn their opponents. They take time to look at the game tape. They take time to know who they're going up against before the game begins And Peter says you got to be on defense. You got to be alert. You got to be ready because at any time And without notice, stuff will happen. Don't have a witness today. I mean, as good as you want to be, you you are a good person You are Mr. and Mrs. Goody Tushu, but nevertheless, the enemy will show up and he will try you. Just be able to identify him and to know who it is. Good defensive player follows the action A good defensive player gets a wide view of the entire field. Can I just talk about when I played a that much football? Man, I love D-fish. You know why? I got to hit somebody. Amen? Off fish, you got hit. On defense, you got to hold somebody down and some of you sports guys know that what happens under that pile. Man, folk be scratching and pinching and all kind of stuff. Russ don't never see that But know your opponent. The devil wants to win. He's not playing with you and I. He doesn't want to come close. He wants to win and get victory over our lives. But my God from Zion, take time to be on defense anytime you deal with the enemy. My God, you gotta have the proper stance. Even if you don't know the game, you gotta have a right kind of stance in defense. Always making sure that you are prepared to deal with the enemy. The devil has already sent a play in. A play to try and trip you up. But you make sure you operate in a godly way. Make sure you go by God's plan. It is God's plan that he might be with us. Amen? John fourteen twenty-six says, but the advocate, the Holy Spirit. Whom the Father will send in my name will teach you all things and remind you of what's ahead. In other words, the Holy Ghost gives you the inside track. Amen. Uh oh, something about to happen. You ever had that happen to you before? You knew something about to happen. You could feel it. Somebody could made it across you, and you say, okay, now they do. No The Holy Spirit is saying to you, now don't don't don't even go there because you're not fighting against you're fighting against spiritual things. How many folk want to be on defense today? I mean knowing who your opponent is right from the get-go. But next you've got to block your opponent. Nothing like missing a block. Man, missing a block can change the whole game around. It says, resist him Standing firm in the faith. You have to intentionally resist the devil. The devil, but you come here. Otherwise you're open for attack. The Bible says to resist the devil and he will flee if you but not try to have a debate And not try to justify, but because you operate with God's plan, just resist him, just block him, get blown if you need to, amen. Whatever it takes I'm talking way out of league. Hold him low enough for you to get to where you need to be. You might get a yellow flag. But hold hold him every now and then say, you know what? I belong to God. You've got to make sure that you are blocking the enemy, blocking your opponent, and you can't do it physically. I don't care how big you are, how bad you are, how many little trophies you got at home, uh, amen, who you know, but this is a spiritual fight. You gotta come with this the word of God. Have something that he cannot stand. The Bible says, at the name of Jesus, every knee shall bow. Every tongue shall confess, every, that Jesus Christ is Lord. It says at the name of Jesus, the very demons would tremble. Sometimes we don't use our main weapon. Sometimes we're afraid to say Jesus. Sometimes we're afraid to say Satan, get the behind me, but I dare you right now to say Jesus. I dare you right now to drop that name. There's no other name by which men can be saved, but by the name of Jesus. Resisting him, standing firm in the faith. It comes right back. Standing firm in what I believe. My faith is what I believe about God. And when you've been through some things, your faith is built up. Your faith increases to the point that you're able to say, Oh and you want to see the opponent coming after you. I mean they're already targeting you, amen. How many of y'all know that you say, Well, I'm gonna get them a seventy-nine So I'm I'm ready right now. And it's sat in the nine and waiting on you. And so make sure that when things happen, don't always say it's that person, but keep the wide view. Make sure you're using God's playbook. Love First Corinthians 15, 58. It says, be ye steadfast. Unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know your labor is not in vain in the Lord. My God, you look you look suited up all real at y'all. Y'all look suited up. Y'all ready? Amen. So identify your opponent. Know who it is that's starting trouble. Know who's behind it. And then as a result, make sure you throw the right kind of block. Back up Greater is he that's in me than he that's in the world. A goodness and mercy should follow me all the days of my life The Lord is my shepherd, I sh shall not walk. You got to use some word to block the enemy off. But then Sudan. This has to be a team effort. In other words, you ought to call a praying sailor too. See, look here now, some stuff done started. You got a minute? You got my back? Because you know what? Were there two or three gathered in my name, touching and agreeing, call some some of them Holy Ghost sanctified. I don't mind giving God the praise of fleeting the blood of Jesus. Hallelujah. Shouting says you got a minute. I got something happening on Monday, and I need some fire warriors Amen. Oh y'all that y'all don't feel they don't matter. How many folk know at least two or three grand folk? Folk you know can get one through. Those are the folk you say, hey, can can I text you? Can I message you? And here's my specific request. Can you be praying at nine tomorrow? And when you walk in the room and that meeting, you say, In the name of Jesus, what The team has come together and they're praying your strength in the Lord. I don't take it for granted That every week I know specifically the deacons of the ministry are praying for their pastor. Amen. I know it. And I know you are praying why? I can feel it. He says to them, because you know that the family of believers throughout the world are undergoing the same kind of suffering. And you thought it was only you. You thought you were the only one having trouble. You thought you were the only one, uh, an enemy being on your track. You thought you were poor old me. Woe is me. And Peter said, No, you're not alone. The other folk going through what you were going through. I daddy they ask them. They don't tell all their business, but somebody in here is going through what you're going through. And so therefore you can identify that you are not alone. You are never alone as long as you're in Christ. Thank God for the family of believers. We're some bad folk, man. Yes, sir. You get me a team of folk that don't mind praying, it can make a difference. And they are your family. Can I say hello cars? Are we a family or not? Acting like y'all don't know me. Yeah, we we got the same daddy. Amen. And so he says there are other folks that are going through what you're going through. We need to have a caring community. Sad to say sometimes believers are like, well it's not my problem. And we'll move on, the world does better sometimes than we do. Let there be unity. Let us look out for each other. You need somebody on the team. Amen? And praise God that the early church, they worked as a team. Jesus will send them out two by two. Now y'all you you go over here and you go over there and when you go into a house and you don't want to hear the word, shake the dust off your foot and keep on moving. He is not looking for any most valuable players. He doesn't need any Hall of Famers. He's looking for someone who's willing to do the will of Jesus Christ. Amen. I love what the word says in Psalm 133 and 1. How good and pleasant it is when God's people, look here now, when God's people live together in unity. My God, like you got signed up. Now you on the roster. How many folk are on the roster? Praise God. But you've got to become familiar with the playbook There's no way around saying I can play and you don't have the book. Uh uh you'll be out of position without the book. Uh you don't know where to stand Without the book. You'll be off sides without the book. You'll be penalized without the book And so in the Bible, there is God revealing himself in every book of the Bible. And there's 66. Are you ready? In Genesis, he's the creator and the promised redeemer. In Exodus, he's the Passover lamb. In Leviticus, he's the high priest. In Numbers, he's water in the desert. In Deuteronomy, he becomes the curse for us. In Joshua, he's the commander of the army of the Lord. In Judges He delivers us from injustice. In Ruth, he's our kinsman redeemer. In 1 Samuel, he's prophet He's priest. He's king. In 2 Samuel, he's the king of grace and love. In first king, a ruler greater than Solomon In 2 Kings, he's the powerful prophet. In 1 Chronicles, son of David that is coming to rule. In 2 Chronicles. He's the king who reigns eternally. In Ezra, he's the priest proclaiming freedom. And Nehemiah, he's the one who restores what is broken down. In Esther, he's the protector of the people. In Job, he's a mediator between God and man. In Psalms, he's our song in the morning And in the midnight hour, in Proverbs, he's our wisdom. In Ecclesiastes, he's our meaningful life. In Song of Solomon, he's the author of faithful love In Isaiah, he's the suffering servant. In Jeremiah, he's the weeping messiah. In Lamentation, he assumes God's wrath for us. In Ezekiel, he's the Son of Man In danger. And Daniel, he's the stranger in the fire with us. In Hosea, he's the faithful husband, even when we run away In Joel, he's sending his people full of the spirit. In Amos, he delivers justice to the oppressed. In Obadiah, He's judge to those who do evil. In Jonah, he's the greatest missionary. In Micah, he casts our sin to the sea of forgiveness. In Naham, he proclaims the future world peace we cannot imagine. In Abakah, he crushes injustice. In Zephaniah He's the warrior who saves. In Haggai, he restores our worship. In Zechariah, he promises a Messiah who has been pierced frost. In Malachi. He's the son of righteousness who brings healing. Can I take a breath for the New Testament? Because that's the Lord. Who is it? It's all In the playbook, amen. In Matthew, he's the Messiah who's king. In Mark, he's the Messiah who's a servant. In Luke, he's the Messiah who's a deliverer. In John, he's the Messiah who is God in the flesh. In Acts, the Spirit who dwells in his people. In Romans He's the righteousness of God. In 1 Corinthians, he's the power and love of God. In 2 Corinthians, he's the down payment of what's to come In Galatians, he's your very life. In Ephesians, he's the unity of our church. In Philippians, he's the joy of life. In Colossians, he holds the supreme position in all things In 1 Thessalonians, he's our comfort in the last days. In 2 Thessalonians, he's our returning king. In 1 Timothy, he's the savior of the worst sellers. In 2 Timothy, he's the leader of leaders. In Timus, he's the foundation of truth. In Philemon, he's our mediator. In Hebrews, he's our high priest. In James, he matures our faith. In 1 Peter, he's our hope in times of suffering. In 2 Peter, he's the one who guards us from false teaching. In 1 John He's the source of fellowship. In 2 John, he's God in the flesh. In 3rd John, he's the source of all truth. In Jude, he protects us from stumbling. And can I slow down for the last book of the Bible? In Revelation, he's the King of Kings, and the Lord of Lords, and the apple and the Omega, and the first. And the last. Aren't you glad today that you got God's playbook? And that's why I can always say, that's why I always make a door for noise. Unto the Lord all ye last Serve the Lord with gladness come before it's present with singing, know ye he is God. It is he who has brought us. And so right now Know that you're on a winning team. Know that no weapon forms against you is a problem. Know that you've got God's game plan. Oh my God, my God, my God, it's in the playbook. What way it's in the prayer book. In every book of the Bible, there's something to encourage your heart. Something to make your day better. Something to let you go on. To see what the end is going to be? My God, it's all in the playbook. Do you have the playbook? Have you read the playbook? It will nourish your soul, it will give you joy divide He'll give you peace and pathway, all understanding. He'll do it if you but know that you are a part of God's plan. And you're still saying, who gonna win today? My God, you already got the victory in Jesus. Come on, stand on the feet today. I don't know who's gonna win But I'm more than a conqueror through him that loved me. I've already won. I've already won. Aren't you glad today that you have God's book. The Bible to get you through every situation. Amen. And so every time your opponent shows up, pull one out. Yeah, I know you're coming now. The Bible says that it is the sword of the Spirit. And you need the sword today. As we come now, let's give God the praise and give God the glory. As you stand today, There's something in that word that will help us. There's something. I'm amazed Always a nugget. Always something to encourage your journey. Be on the Lord. Be sober. Resist. Your opponent already scouting right now. Already taking notes. But let him know I serve a risen Savior who's in the world today. His name is Jesus. Let's sing a little bit of that today. Come to Jesus. I'm to me. Come to Jesus. He will save you. He will stay. And you bow your heads today. There's somebody next to you hoping to get on the roster. They've not made the cut yet. Yeah. But they see your life. And they see your victory. And they want to know how can I try out? How can I get on the team? The Bible says, if you confess with your mouth The Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, the Bible says thou shalt be saved. And when you do that, you're on the team. Yes. And you've got the playbook Father, I pray in the name of Jesus. If there's one under the sound of my voice today who knows you not, you know the team well. Save that soul today and do it in this hour God, we don't have the power to save anyone. Salvation comes through you, by the shed blood of Jesus Christ. Take a moment where you are today. Nobody can read your heart but the Lord. Just say, Lord Jesus, I'm a setup. Yes, sir. I desire to be saved. I believe that you died and that you rose again. And the Bible says if you can connect with that and really believe it, you'll have life eternal. Do it today we pray now. In Jesus' name. Amen? Come on, give God a praise today. We're so glad you could join us today. I pray you were blessed. by today's message. Wanted to tell you about a few other things that will bless you as well. You can get a copy of my brand new book just out entitled Leading by Example, a parental guide to teaching and modeling Christian faith at home, you can get it by going to our church website at www. com. number two harvest. org and look for leading by example. Okay, I pray you have a great day today and let someone know that Jesus loves them. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Have a great day in the Lord