There's a word this morning uh from the Lord and uh uh would be remiss if I didn't thank God for those who were streaming. Every week I get an idea of who's watching, even if they stop in for a minute or two uh our friends in Liberia. Uh there are about thirty-five countries that at some point stop in not just on harvest but uh many other ministries and we thank god for folk in forty eight states who are east stopping in and we thank god for each of them uh the word today comes from philippians third chapter Verses 13 and 14. Philippians 3, 13 and 14 And it reads as follows, brothers and sisters, I do not consider myself yet to have taken hold of it, but one thing I do. Forgetting what is behind and streaming toward what is ahead. I press on toward the goal to win the prize For which God has called me heavenward in Christ Jesus. I want to preach today from the Samonic title Going the Distance. Going the distance. I remember those afternoons of going out to the track as a member of the track team and having to practice For a couple of runs. And the whole time I ran around that track, I was asking myself, how long is this going to last? I ran the mile run, that was four laps, and then the two mile run, eight laps And there was some advice that Mr. Fleming would give us. He was our long-distance coach. He would say, whatever you do, don't look back during the race. Uh one of two things can happen if you look back. You could stumble and fall, and that happened to some people who dared look back Or you can become distracted. Well, I took his advice, but you know I look back. It felt like the guy behind me was right on my heels, but in fact he was longer away than I thought But whether it's track or whether it's a playing field for the sport of football, we ought to be careful about looking back. In a spiritual sense, that's what the Apostle Paul was saying to the church at Philippi as he began to address them, urging them to stop always Looking back over your shoulder. And this is a phrase that's often used as a sports metaphor. Uh somebody today is gonna have a touchdown or a pick six and once they get close enough they'll look back at the other guys and say, Listen, I'm I'm in the end zone. But we have to be careful. But not just in sports that in life we have a responsibility To make sure that we go the distance. Whether it is a plan, whether it is a project, whether it is a personal commitment. Paul wrote to the Philippian church from a jail cell. Always amazed that Paul locked up was taking time to speak to the people. Taking time to encourage them, even though he was in chains. And this letter is written some 30 years after Christ's ascension. Some 10 years after he began to preach the gospel there in Philippi. And the book of Philippians really is a series of letters. That Paul wrote. It's amazing when you look at the text. You're trying to take an ancient text and bring it to modern times. As Paul wrote this, he was really trying to let them know to be focused on Christ in our life. Christ in our mind, Christ as our goal, Christ as our strength, and joy through suffering. Whether you're a football fan or not, at some point you might check out the show today, even if it's halftime. But both teams have taken time to review the videotape. They've looked at the stats of the other team. They are prepared for the strategy. And the team that goes the distance is the team that will become world champions. I'm reminded of the late coach Bobby Balton at Florida State University where I used to attend and the guys of that era, Joe Paterno, they were old school. What do you think, Coach? Well the team that gets the most points will win. You don't say. Amen. But we can learn from the writings of the Apostle Paul. We can learn about going the distance that would require us to be In a place of knowing about our past, and to be focused on our future, but also to think about the prize. Paul says, brothers and sisters, I do not consider myself to have taken hold of it, but one thing I do forgetting what is behind and straining toward what is ahead. Paul had a past Have a past life. There was the good and the bad and the ugly. Paul could talk about transformation, how God changed his life. Uh Paul could talk about his accomplishments, uh starting churches here and there. Paul had many things he could talk about, his education. But instead, he made sure that he focused on the Lord Jesus Christ. Does that make sense today? That we certainly encourage everyone to get all the accolades you can get. But always know that only what you and I do for Christ will last Then when they look over our resume, they say, well, you know, you did this, and she did that, and she did this. But what impact have we made on the life of someone else? How willing are you and I to put our past in the past? Amen? Put our past into yesteryear to know that we can't focus on what used to be. We really think it was a good old day. We said, oh, back in the day. Well back in the day it wasn't all that. And somehow the new generation came up with old school. Well, old school wasn't all that cool. We were just getting through. Can I get an amen on that? Yeah, we we thought we had it going on, didn't we? But as we begin to walk with Christ, we see how the Lord leads us. And so we have to put some things in the past, past relationships and past failures and past temptations, anything that would seek to hold us up or become a stumbling one. In the book of Genesis there in 19 and 26, you remember Solomon Gomorrah. And as Lot and his wife were heading out, the word was, now don't, don't you look back. And guess what? There's some lot wife in us. She turned around and became a pillar of salt. Luke 17, 32, Jesus reminded the people, don't forget Lot's wife. And so there's some things that we have to embrace about our past. If we want to go the distance. There's some things we have to leave behind. You all look so serious today. Am I that deep? Or are you just thinking about it? And there's some things that we have to let go. In order to move forward. But what about the sense of a future? Forgetting what is behind and straining toward what is ahead. A future. Have you ever been told that you got a bright future? That you're going to really be someone. I do that now and say, What do you want to be when you grow up? I recall Bill Savits He was the deep voice reporter anchor man at my radio station. And Bill would say to me, Timmy You're gonna go far. Oh, I like I was just playing the music, man. I want to be a disc jockey. I was just it. No news, just do that. He says, you know, you're gonna you're gonna go far Okay? Siri is all in my business. I say something and then Siri responds. Amen? Maybe I shouldn't wear this to in preaching. Did you ever watch through that? Talk back to you. These things are nosy. But Paul could talk about this sense of future and straining for because he had observed in the games in Greece how the runners would strain. to get to their destination. How it took effort. And if we want to have this future This is work. Our faith is not, and I've said it before, not a lazy faith that we have to work. Our future we know is in the Lord Jesus Christ. May not ever get to the Hall of Fame, but you know you somebody in Jesus May not be recognized, but God has you on a trajectory. He has something in store. Can I encourage you for a second that the Lord Jesus Christ has something in store for you and I To become all that we can become. Amen. That is good news today. John 14 says, He says, if I go to prepare a place for you I will come again and receive you unto my own. That where I'm going, you'll be also in my father's house. There are many mansions. If it were not so, I would not have told you. I get excited about that That that I do have a future. And you have a future, but you've got to go the distance. You can't quit You can't stop. You can't become frustrated and say, oh, I've had enough of this. Anybody ever felt that way that you felt like you just could not make it and For a moment, for a day or two, for an hour, a minute, or a second, you said, I'm not sure what my outlook is, but when You become a part of the body of Christ when you become a believer, there is hope. Amen. There's hope in the Lord Jesus Christ. Doth not yet a shall be. But can I tell you today that you are somebody? Oh yes, you are. You are somebody. You are king's kid. You can make it no matter what the world may say. Never let anybody define you. I got a future. Yeah, but I got a future today. I got a future in the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what Paul was trying to say. That you don't keep looking back, but just keep straining. Never forget those days and how many folk ran track in here? Tried to run it. What about that last lap? In that last corner, when it seemed like you were going in slow motion. And you had to strain to get to the finish line. And life is like that sometimes. That you gotta just say, you know what? It's rough, but I got to keep pressing toward the mark for the prize of the high calling in the Lord Jesus Christ. Future, past, and then a prize. I press on toward the goal to win the prize to which God has called me heavenly. Paul was aware of his right now. He says, I'm not there yet. But while I am here, here is what I must do. At the end, there is a prize. Back in that day, no fancy crown, it was just a wreath made of plants. But once you cross that line as the winner, you got a prize. Some of y'all know about the Cracker Jack's box. Back when you got real prizes. They don't make him that way anymore. How about going to the fair or the carnival and with all the money you spent you were just trying to get a teddy bear trying to win a prize? We we like prizes Paul's prize was to get to heaven. Isn't that the goal? Is that one day when we're done With the troubles of this world, that we're going home to live with the Lord. That's the good news today, is that there is a prize. Bible talks about the 20 and 4 elders throwing their crowns at the feet of Jesus. Now, I can't do a mind picture, but I know that soon and very soon we're all going to see the king. But it's what we do on this end that matters, this sense of going the distance. Going all the way. We've seen people uh in the world of athletics where they almost got there and they fell down near the line and somebody said, wait a minute. Let's help this sister or brother cross the finish line. God has called each of us to help that next person to get the prize to encourage them, to drag them across the finish line, and as believers, we're called to try and help someone else. The prize, the future, the past. Dr. Joseph Stilwell, in his book from nineteen eighty-six called Fan the Flame Says that there was a different game in the Greek Olympics that was very unique. And with this particular race The winner was not the runner who finished first. But it was the one who finished and their torch was still lit. That when they crossed the line, while they were not number one, the torch was still lit. Is your torch still lit this morning? That despite disappointments and struggles and heartaches and heartbreaks They're all trying to blow out the torch in your life. James Cleveland, late gospel singer with the deep voice long before Kurt Franklin, who would kind of talk the songs. Knew what it meant to carry the torch. What he did to encourage generations of persons. He wrote, I don't feel no ways tired. I I've come too far from where I started from. He says, nobody told me that the road would be easy. But I don't believe he brought me this far to lead me. To lead me on the side of the road. To leave me depressed or discouraged, to leave me in a place that I could not make it. I can't be convinced, fooled, swayed, or tricked into believing that he who giveth power To the faint would leave me. The one who told me that goodness and mercy will follow me all the days of my life won't leave me. The one who turned water into wine Will not leave me. I I I don't believe it. That the one who fed 5,000 and there was lunch left over. I don't believe He brought me this for in my race of life to forget me. The one who walked on the water. And the one who calmed the raging sea, I I don't believe he's gonna leave me. The one who Help the woman with the issue of blood, the one who raised Lazarus from the dead. I don't believe he will leave me. Is your torch still lit? I I want you to go the distance you and I can cross the finish line. At the cross Where I first saw the light. And the burdens of my heart rolled away. It was thereby faith. I receive my sight. And and now I'm happy all the day. How many folk are still In spite of that. Song says, Lord, I'm running trying to make a hundred. Because ninety-nine and a half won't do. And in life you'll get weary sometimes, but can I say to you the importance of going the distance To keep your head high. Anybody knew somebody when they ran, they turned their head to the side. They had their own unique style, but they were listening to what thus said the Lord. I want to say to you today, just keep. However way you can make it, don't don't stop! And in life as it is on the track, there is a second win. That I would have faint if I didn't believe to see the goodness of the Lord and the land of the living. And just when I was about to quit, God gave me a second way. And a second wind is a supernatural wait a minute, I didn't know I had that. And don't you know God will do that for you and I today if we commit that I know it's been rough. Well I dare you to continue to press your way. Continue to high step your way through life's struggles and circumstances. You've got to go the distance. I've got to go the distance. Why? In the here and now Rebbe, you don't know. I got an injury, I I can't make it, but yes you can. You don't know my circumstance. You gotta go the distance. You don't know the opposition I faced. Gotta go the distance. You don't know the struggle. You've got to go the distance. And today. You may have come and you have thrown your shoes out. I'm done with it. I want to just encourage you today to get back on the track of life. Get back in your lane and allow the Lord to guide you. I'll close with this. When you're wedding track, there's a lane. You can't get somebody else's lane. You'd be disqualified. But if you stay in Your lane. You'll make it. Not to be distracted, I'm just staying in my lane. God has a prize for you today. That's the word of God. Come on, stand today if you will Father, we come today and we we