If you know God to be awesome, somebody ought to say amen. If you know him as a A provider, say amen. You know him as a keeper. Say amen. Now you want to find yourself somewhere Anybody serve an awesome God today? Oh, he lost him. Oh, he lost him. He's an awesome God. We know it to be true. Come on, give God the praise. And give him the glory. Come on, come on, come on, come on. Come on, bless the Lord today. Come on, come on, come on, bless his holy name today. Come on, give him praise today. Come on, bless his name today. He's worthy of all praise. He's worthy Of all glory. He's an awful guy. Oh, come on, come on. Let's celebrate him today. Let's celebrate the Lord today because of who he is. Because of who he is. Let's bow. Heavenly Father, awesome is just one word to describe who you are and what you have done. As we come today to preach your awesome word, may it bless your people in an awesome way. And when it's all said and done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Bless the Lord today I want to share from First Corinthians fifteenth chapter, verses thirty-four and thirty-five. It reads, Do not be misled. Bad company corrupts good character. Come back to your senses as you ought and stop sinning. For there are some who are ignorant of God. I say this to your shame. Wanna preach today from the Samonic title, Got to Give It Up, Unproductive and Toxic Relationships. Got to give it up. Unproductive, demeaning, toxic relationships I can hear the tape in my head even now of my parents saying to me, you gotta mind the crowd that you hang with. Oh your mom and daddy said the same thing. Be sure that you keep the family name intact. That person you're hanging with, they're up to no good. They're shady. They're troubled. And we couldn't understand this because these were our friends. our homeboys and our home girls, but yet from the eye of a parent they could see whether or not that per I get country that they would mount to anything. They wouldn't say a mount. They would say that boy ain't gonna mount to nothing. But they were still our friends. And much like you I heard it over and over and over again. I didn't say, Ma, I hear you. I just received it. And then the night came as we left Football game, the East End Boys. Heading back across town, across the track. We got near the rec center and somebody had the idea that we're gonna throw rocks. At the rec center. Now Timmy didn't do it, but I was with the crowd. And it wasn't long before police officers showed up And gave us a real talking, but at that moment I could hear mama and daddy saying, Mind the crowd that you hang with. Not not granted, to my knowledge none of those brothers went to jail. Uh they had led productive lives, but there was a lesson to be learned I came across a blog this week that really blessed me and is in that same vein as Mom and Daddy. It says, choose people who will make you want to improve And thrive, not ones who will give permission to be complacent, small-minded big mouth, choose to spend time with people who use their words wisely Which in turn will cause you to do the same. There's just some things you have to give up, and they are some people you have to give up Amen? There's some relationships that do you no good. And only when we realize that and look back, we realize that you know that was not healthy That was not good for me, but I had to come to realize it for myself. That's why most of us, as we get older, have a very small circle of friends. Amen. That that folk really are not your friend. There's a small, small circle. And our text today is the Apostle Paul. He's writing to the church at Corinth about the importance of putting distance between themselves and those who were leading unproductive and toxic lives. And over and over again, almost weekly it seems, we're talking about those who were false prophets. There were people at the church of Corinth who were going around saying that the resurrection is not real. That Jesus didn't really get up out of the grave. That is the cornerstone of our faith. That not that God sent Jesus only, but that he died and he rose again. On the third day, but there were folk who were even Christian folk at Corinth, because Corinth by now was a major city. It was a Baltimore, it was a port town. It was a place that had it going on. And you have to always be tuned in, it sounds like a broken record, to what you are hearing. Anybody talking that kind of talk, you better watch out And Paul is saying, if they're denying the resurrection, that's not the kind of relationship that you want to have with them. If that is the case If Jesus did not get up, then what we preach every Sunday is in vain. If Jesus did not get up, our faith is futile. If Jesus did not get up from the grave, we are really lost in our sins and we're heading straight to hell. And yet there were those saying, Oh, he didn't really get up. If anybody says that to you Say excuse me for a minute, bro. I got a call coming in. Make sure that you separate yourself from that kind of knowledge. He was writing to the Christians who had come really under peer pressure. And peer pressure is not just for teenagers. It's not uh for middlers that all of us run the risk of being influenced by someone else. Amen? And we run the risk of falling. Yet realizing there's a need then for God's favor, in the end, we're being pointed toward our future. So let's look at the first verse. It says, do not be misled. And that by itself, the fall came there in the book of Genesis, when Adam and Eve were misled. The lie of the devil was that you can go ahead and eat whatever you want to eat from the and you'll be alright. It all began with a lie. And we all know some lying people Yeah we do. Even when you hear you say, well, you know that's that's not that's not true. You you you know it when you hear it. And once you begin to to get into Uh your sense of studying and learning the word of God, you'll know that it's not true. But the devil is still lying. He's still misleading. The Bible says he is the father of lies. Be sure that you don't find yourself hanging out with folk like that who seek to mislead you and sometimes we want to be misled. You can't blame the person. We just go along On what they're saying. Why? We have no friends anyway, so we just you know what? And that's not to judge anyone per se, but make sure that when you come in contact with folks Know that they could be leading you down the wrong road. Never follow somebody they say just follow me dog, just come on follow me. And you missed the light or two and you didn't know where they were going Amen. This is before cell phone days. Take a left at the corner store, and then take a right, you'll see a church, and take another left. But folk have misled us and we've allowed them to mislead us. And what that does, it leads to our falling out of grace. Paul says, bad company Corrupts good character. There it is, the momentum. Mind the company that you keep. These were not Paul's words. These were words from a Greek poet, Menander. And this is something they were familiar with. But Paul says, bad company. Hanging out with shady folk. Folk who say stuff that don't even come from the Bible. I may as well make you laugh. I'm not telling you the Madeira movie, because in every Madea movie, he messed up scripture intentionally. Amen. He'll put Moby Dick with uh with no with Noah or he'll do anything. And so anybody start talking like that separate yourself That's bad company. Amen. Jesus knew about bad company because in his circle was Judas. It's Gary. Someone who was about being misled all for some silver. Yet Jesus is one who loves us in spite of ourselves. 1 Peter 5 and 8 says, well then what? We've got to be sober. And villains, because your adversary, the devil, is always like a roaring lion seeing whom he might devour. So an unproductive and toxic relationships can lead us down the wrong path. But at any point, like the Greyhound bus back in the day or the city bus, hit the button So I want to get off. Some of y'all wrote the bus. I mean I I didn't ride many of the buses, but I was in c I rode the bus. And the only way you know you just got to hit the button, right? So I want to get off here. And when you're in those relationships, just reach over and say, Lord, I need to get out of this. It's not good for me. It's not productive for me. But even as Paul writes to the church about this issue, there's some hope in this. Is that we can still receive the favor of God. Verse 44 says, come back to your senses as you ought, and stop sinning. Because he was writing to the church those who were converted under him, but it picked up some bad theology along the way. And he was saying to them and to those who were associating with them, come back to your senses. You've lost your mind. Amen. And to be approved of God is to have the favor of God. It is to have the grace of God. Ephesians 2. 8. 9 says, for it is by grace you've been saved through faith and not of yourself. It is a gift of God, not by works lest anyone can boast. I want the favor of God on my life. Amen. You don't have to give me a seal of approval. I want to make sure that I'm doing it God's way. I want to be approved by God. Anybody in the house feel that way? That folk may not like you, that's your problem. They may say, well, he used to hang with us, that's their problem. I want the favor of God in my life. I want to do what's going to please God, and I may just take a few people off. Amen? That I've got to give up not just candy and alcohol and lying and cheating, but give up people. Some folks you gotta give up. Some behaviors you gotta give up. It's not productive for you. Paul says, you know better. Come to your senses. You've lost what'd your mama tell you? Your everlasting mind. You ought to know when something don't feel right, and that's when the Holy Spirit comes in to reveal like a smoke alarm that something is wrong with this. I want the favor of God in my life. It is an offer to change our ways. To do what we know is right unto God. Paul had taught them the truth, but they had swayed in a real way. They wanted to believe a lie. And sometimes we want to believe a lie, even though we know it's not true. And that's what Jesus preached. That was his whole message. Do you know what? From that time he began to preach, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. That these are important times. It's not a time for you to be flirting with the world. Not a time for you to be compromising. Now you can reach somebody for Christ, but make sure what they're believing don't get a hold of you. Does it make sense this morning? I'm not saying just be uh you know shy away from people in general. No, don't say that now. No, but when you go, make sure you're armed That you got the word of God, the soul of the spirit. Don't go half half God. Make sure when you go you've got something to work with. But by the same token, you ought to know when something does not sound right, when somebody is leading you the wrong way. And just saying that There's no resurrection, that's strong enough. But even this is a word for the modern age. If it's not resurrection, there's still some things that ought not sit right with us. Oh we've compromised and laughed and went along with it, but it doesn't sit right with our spirit. I gotta give some of this stuff up. Those fake relationships. It's a choice we make. But I'm so glad that there's a future in Christ. Let's follow that 34th verse says, says, For them, or for there are some who are ignorant of God. Shame on you. Don't be embarrassed to be taking part in some stuff. I'll just go out and say this. I've been embarrassed by some stuff. I've been shamed, but thank God I can go to him in prayer. Say, Lord, that was not a good that was not a good move. I shouldn't have been involved in that. Amen. Don't get me wrong, what is it? No, just just bad bad company. Amen. I have no juicy details, just bad company I mean you with bad company, bad company will lead you to do things that you don't want to do. Oh, I could stay right there all by itself. But I'm alright. No, you're not alright. You're with bad company And bad company is bad company. Why? You were bad company at one point. Thank be to God. But look at how he writes this. Come back to your senses as you ought to stop sinning and then there's a semicolon. Which means there's a pause. My grandmother used to say, if you can do better, do better. Amen. Just have a whole different group of folk that you hang with. Paul says we have to not waste our time. There ought to be introspection in our own lives about what it is that we have become a part of. God has a plan for us. He has a future for us. Aren't you glad what he's brought you thus far? Amen. Had it not been for the Lord on your side, and look at you now. The world thinks you've done made it. But it's because of the Lord on your side. Jeremiah says, For I know the plans That I have for you, declares the Lord, plans to prosper. You didn't make the plan, it's God's plan. And so even out of where you were, God can still put you at a new place. You're not lost To that kind of thinking, God can bring you out and give you a productive life, bring you out and put you around the right kind of people. Amen. He was he was my MO in high school. I was an okay student. I'm checking my records now. But I would hang out at the library with the smart guys. I knew what to do. I almost got kicked out a couple times because I was talking too much. But I hung out with the guys who were going to be lawyers Hung out with the doctors. I was hanging out with the guys who were honored students. I was in the right crowd. And find yourself today with the right crowd, with folk who were doing something. Amen? Folk who were going somewhere in the Lord. Praise be to God. Have an inner circle and make sure that Christ is that circle. That even when your mother and father forsake you, then the Lord will take you up. Jesus warrant Time and time again, watch out that no one deceives you. Matthew 24 and 4. 2 Corinthians 6:17. Wherefore, come out from among them and be ye Separate. All goes back to bad company. We may find it hard to give up people. But I've known them for a long time. Do I just go cold turkey? Do I just not call them back? Begin to pray and begin to influence them in the Lord. See, don't know that we are in church and saved, but they don't see any difference in us. We laugh at the dirty jokes, we tell the dirty jokes, we do things that the world is doing, so there's no respect for us Oh my god, I believe in the manuscript. So folks would just say, well, it's just a good you know, nobody say, oh, they they like everybody else. In the world, but not of the world. So we must embrace the promises of God. So I close today, I think about David There was ever one who had a a real life of trouble and God taking him back and Mess it up again. God used to spoke like that all through the Bible. But David says in Psalm 121, he says, I will lift up mine eyes to the hills. From which cometh my help, my help cometh from the Lord, which made heaven and earth. He will not suffer thy feet to be moved. Behold, he that keepeth thee will not Stumble. The kid just moved down. He says, the Lord will preserve you from all evil. He shall preserve your soul. He shall preserve your going out. And your coming in from this time forth and even forevermore. Can I translate that? He will keep you in perfect peace. If your mind is stayed on him. See, you can't even keep yourself, neither can I. But to be kept by Jesus, to know that I'm on the Lord's side. To know I'm in the Lord's corner, to know that I'm the Lord's child makes a huge difference. That's being productive. That's being on a path of righteousness all because he died. He died that I might be in the right circle. He rose that I might do what stay with him forevermore. So then there's some stuff that you got to just give up. Just go cold turkey today and just let folk know you know what I'm trying to do better. Folk don't want to hear that? Say, no man, I I've been messing up with you, but uh I'm trying to do better. Anybody trying to do better? Or song says, Lord, I'm running and I'm trying to make a hundred. But ninety-nine and a half won't do. My guy, anybody shooting for a hundred percent today That I'm trying to change my life. I'm trying to do better. But ever now I'm not going to step over some of the corpses and some of the bodies in my life. People who mean me no good. Why? They just space But thank God for Jesus, find yourself in Christ's inner circle. In his inner court. That is the word of God today. It's already blessed. Come on, give God some praise today. Unpredictable, unproductive relationships. People, places, things that will stunt your growth We're all guilty of walking on the edge just enough to fit in. Wrongful Want to be accepted. Everybody wanna wan wanna cool revenue. Revenue cool. I can't get too cool. I'm too cool, I'm not effective. If I'm too high five, I'm not doing my job. If I'm laughing too much and joking too much, then I gotta make sure that in that I keep Christ in the context. I ain't say be boring, but make sure that you know who it is that has called you. Come to Jesus. He's available today. Here's why that's so important. He will save you. He will save. Yes, he will. I'm a witness today. He will pay you. As I prepared this sermon and I begin to think in my own life, are there relationships that you're a part of that may not be productive? Yeah. I took inventory and say, you know. Uh-huh. You can do a little better with that. And here You you gotta improve upon. And the Christian life is really about improving and getting better. None of us always get it right I ain't said go to work Monday all sudden you don't talk to nobody. What's wrong with you? Pastor said leave you all alone. I didn't I didn't say that I'm just saying don't be misled. Amen? And and and don't don't tell them they're bad company. Don't do that. Just say You know I I no I'm uh I'm okay. I'm all right. Yeah yeah yeah. But think about that. You try to fit in sometimes. If you come today The Lord Jesus Christ is still calling. You may have come and you've never given your heart to Jesus Christ. Never made a commitment. That can happen right now. On the spot. Bible says you can confess with your mouth. Lord Jesus. And believe in your heart that God is raising from the dead, thou shalt be saved. You know when I kind of grasp that as an adult? Man, that thing really makes sense to me. That you mean if I just Say unto him, I'm a sinner. But just say, yeah, see. And talking to the Lord, I'm a sinner. In need of salvation. I believe that you sent your son. I get there. I believe that he died I believe that he, there it is again, resurrection, that he rose again. The Bible says if you confess that and believe it in your heart, that you shall be saved today. Father, we thank you right now in this house. We pray that you might touch our lives, that your word will not come back void. Touch that soul today. Encourage us, dear God, to live better. In Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today