Good day, my friend. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Inviting you to join us for our worship experience every Sunday at 845. We meet at 7660-Bel Air Road in Baltimore County, Maryland. And now for today's message, let's join Harvest already in progress. Amen. How many of us are glad about that today? That the Lord that we served Looked beyond our faults and saw our very need. That's no small matter. How many folk have faults today I do. And to think that God would look beyond them? And so I'd say what you really need is you need more of me. That's amazing that we serve a God like that. People don't do that. But God will. Let's bow today. Heavenly Father, we are so grateful. Our sins are many. We thank you for the blood of Jesus Christ. That washes us as white as snow. And those sins you throw into the sea of forgetfulness They may not rise again. As we come today to declare your truth, may we decrease that you might increase In Jesus' name, amen. Praise ye the Lord, for he is good. There's a word today that comes from the gospel as pinned by Luke there in the twenty-fourth chapter, verses forty-six through forty-nine, it reads, He told them this Is what is written. The Messiah will suffer and rise from the dead on the third day. And repentance for the forgiveness of sins will be preached. in his name to all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. You are witnesses of these things. I'm going to send you what my father has promised. But stay in the city until you have been clothed with power from on high. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, Got Power This week I got a chance to go down home to Florida The timing was of such that a preaching conference was taking place there in Jacksonville. And then where did I go first? I went home to see my mama. But as I drove along Interstate 10 heading west, I could see what Irma had done. To an extent. There were trees that were still bending, some had broken, limbs were piled along the interstate. At the height of Irma Some seven million customers and businesses were left in the dark. And when you do the math, that really added up to some 13 million people As I often say, in that number were my people. But thank God when I got there they had power. The AC was running. The AC is always running in Florida. But everyone was well. But as sat one night in the conference, I looked down and had gotten a text And the person who texted me just said two words in that message. Got power. And that was something that I heard over and over again, is that although Irma has gone, there were many people still trying to get their power back on But I want to talk today about the power of the Holy Spirit. As believers in Jesus Christ, We are endued with that power. Once we accept Christ as our personal Savior, open our hearts to Him, we are then filled with the Holy Spirit. Isn't that great that the Holy Spirit would reside in vessels like ours? That Holy Spirit that reminds us when we're on the wrong track, it convicts us The Holy Spirit that empowers us. The Holy Spirit that gives you something that you would get no other place. Ever had a moment that's a good idea in the Lord. That's the right thing to do. It was really the Holy Spirit Leading you and guiding you. In our text today, it is the Gospel of Luke, and that simply means good news. And Luke writes about this situation that happens called resurrection. That is, that Jesus had died, but he had rose again. He'd been beaten and he had been put on an old rugged cross, but as promised on the third day morning he got up with all power in his hands. Aren't you glad about that today There's so many faiths that talk about God and folk will dance around Jesus, but when it comes to yes, he died but he also rose again. And so what he does, he makes an upper room stop To spend time with his disciples. Now they were afraid. They were not at the cross except John. They were in hiding because they had been following who some might call a rabbit-rauser Why? Jesus just told the Godhead and truth and that was it. He encounters them. They're still afraid, they're in hiding And he begins to have a show and tell moment where he shows them the stars on his hands. He shows them the scars on his feet. And then I like this about the Lord. He says, I'm hungry. You got anything to eat? It's in the text. Look at Luke 24. That's his humanity. And somebody pulled out a piece of raw fish. I'm not making this up. Read that chapter. And Jesus is having a time of fellowship with his disciples Isn't it something to know that you serve that kind of God who is holy man and he's holy God? The Bible says he's not such a high priest that he can't relate to what we are going through down here He said, Father, I know what they're going through. You mad because somebody talked about you and scandalized your name and stabbed you in the back. He said, I know about that. In fact, they killed me, but look at what happened. I'm up again as promised. They were dealing with a whole different Jesus. They were connecting with the risen Savior And it's just like Jesus to open up a Bible study right in the upper room. He begins to talk and says, You've read, you know, I'll be getting up and and And if souls will be won because of repentance, he begins to share with them the good news. And the Bible says he opened their minds to the truth I like the fact that that Jesus opens my mind. I don't know about your mind, but man, the mind is always moving, and you sit down to take time to be, he opens it up for you. When I prepare the word on Sunday, uh for Sunday, I've got many resources uh around my office, but I just say, Lord, I want to hear from you I know what the commentators are saying, but when the Lord speaks, it is fresh. Has he done that for you? You were reading a passage, you were injecting, and all of a sudden you got a revelation that was so fresh that you knew because the Lord had done what? He opened your mind to the truth. You've been fooling yourself all this time, and the Holy Spirit showed you just who you were. He takes time to explain to them this sense of power that you will receive power from on high. He talks about the source of that power. And the scope of that power. And the strength of that power. Let's unpack them one by one. When it comes to the source, he says, I'm going to send you what my father has promised. I'm going to send you something. Ever waited on something? Well, I'm still waiting. You go send me something. He said, it's coming from my father. This is not some kind of natural power. It's not political power. It's not physical power. It's not the utility company. But this is great power From on high, and the source is my Father. I don't know about you, but I make some promises that I can't keep all the time But when Jesus says, I promise you, that my father who sits high My father who looks low, my father will send you something. There's some companies out there they can get to you the same day. I won't call names, I don't want to advertise live, but you just put it in your computer and by the time you get home it's already there. Amen. That's amazing. My professor talked about that in college. He's he must be on something. He'll say the day will come. You'll be able to sit from your home and order things And it'll be there in no time. Jesus says the source of this power is my Father. This is divine power. Something like nothing else that you've experienced. And if you've ever been empowered to be lifted to move on on your journey, it is that power that comes From on high. And this power, once you get access to it, it will begin to transform your life. It will. I mean you you will change and may not even realize it. Folks may have to tell you that you look different now. Folk you hadn't seen in a long time and they say it's something a little strange about you now. What have you been up to? And the Bible says we'll what we'll procure you people We're a royal priesthood. And so something will change once you encounter this power. Paul writes in Romans 8 and 11 that the same spirit, the same power that did what? That raised Christ from the dead is still potent Now as it was then. Oh my God, don't you feel that thing today? That the power of God that will shake you and move you. And it speaks in such a quiet way When the Spirit moves, it's almost a whisper sometimes, but you know it when you get it. Amen? There's no mistaking that oh oh oh that was the Holy Spirit It may bring a smile to your face when you're experiencing sadness. It may bring joy to you. It is that power that comes from on high. The source. But also it's the scope of his power. He says, but I need for you all to stay in the city. Stay in Jerusalem. Follow instruction. You don't just get the power, but there are things that we must do according to what the Lord tells us. Amen. That means that there's no limit to what he can do, but it's all about his timing. When I was working on my dissertation, I wanted to change up and Do something different. Oh, you follow the manual. Don't you do anything different than what the manual says do. And our manual, the Holy Spirit Bible says to us that we have to do what? There's got to be a time of waiting. My first radio job, the power wasn't very high. In fact, it got to the city limits, and you started losing me by then. It was a 1,000-watt station. And once you crossed the line, you heard some of the music And you heard some of me, but his power is one that has range. And the fact that he says to them, don't move yet. It's not like playing Monopoly when you go our past go and get is it two hundred dollars or a hundred dollars Okay, y'all monopoly players. Yeah. But don't pass go until I tell you. Where is your Jerusalem? Where is it that God has placed you for this time and this season? And he's saying, don't go rogue. Don't do what you want to do. And we do that sometimes, don't we? Yes we do. Lord has given us instruction. If you move, we say, Well I was thinking that it might be a good idea to do this And we all move. We've gone rogue. We've acted on our own. But aren't you glad that same power of the Holy Spirit will snatch us back in? and continue to convict us and to let us know that, yeah, here's what my spirit can do, but you've got to follow instructions. You gotta be obedient to the voice of the Lord. No matter what everybody else is saying or what's popular, but man, you know when it's the Lord. And when he says, I have got you where I want you. Acts one and eight Luke still writes. He says and you'll be my witnesses In Jerusalem, but not just here, in the uttermost parts of the world, once you get my power. And so think about this: it's the scope It's the extent of the power that God wants to give us by way of his Holy Spirit, but we gotta keep it in context. Does that make sense today? Keeping it in context. There is a source, but there's also a scope. But finally, there's also the strength of his power Don't you go anywhere until you've been clothed with the power from on high. There's a reason I want you to be still If you take off ahead of me, you might miss something. You ever wanted to be first? And you were first, all right, but you forgot something. You were lacking in a certain area, he says, become clothed with the Holy Spirit. Put it on you. Let it reside in you. Let it fill you to overflow. And this word Spirit comes from the Greek word dunymus, which means dynamite and dynamic. And he says, allow the spirit to dwell in you. Allow the spirit to rest upon you. Allow the Spirit to guide you in everything that you do. I declare. I tried to do it without the leading of the Spirit. And there's always a brick wall. Amen? Now I know your parents told you something else about a hot head. But I'm not gonna go there. Y'all tell your children later. But doing it our way as opposed to doing it God's way And you will get the power. It resides in us, but there's power for every situation. There's power in decision making. There's power in your relationship. There's power in what you do on the job. I know it's the man's job. but do it as unto the Lord and in the power of the Holy Spirit. Yeah, you might get an employee of the month, but give God the glory. Amen? Why? The Spirit of God resides in me, no matter where I go, got power. In the street, got power. In my home, got power. On the job, got power. It is the power from Ohio. And it strengthens me. The Bible says, Philippians 4:13, I can do all things through Christ who Strengthens me, who gives me spiritual muscle, who gives me spiritual insight, it makes all of the difference So the question remains, do you have power? You got power yet? Yeah, I got power. Have you ever experienced a power surge? It can be a little negative. That means that maybe your wiring in the house is a little funny. And the fridge goes out. And the TV goes out. Why? There's been a power search But in a positive way, we ought to have a spiritual power surge. Amen? So much so that you ought to feel the Holy Spirit Just moving in your life in such a way that you'll feel the joy of the Lord to do what He's called you. Uh-oh, uh oh, a surge. Anyone want a surge today of the Holy Spirit? I mean just yes. Like to watch sometimes those hospital movies and they'll say I gotta make sure this person is right. They'll bring those instruments over and do what? Shock 'em. Oh, and and and that won't get shocked. And sometimes we need to be shocked. By the Holy Spirit. We need a wake-up call from the Holy Spirit that comes from on high. And this power surge, I believe, what calls us to act right, to do the things that God has called us to do, to believe right, to believe that he died and he rose again to do right. When evil is always present and evil will always be present. You've got to make up your mind, Holy Spirit, I want to do right. You gotta fight right to fight the good fight of faith. Amen? Not with your fist, but to fight in the spirit. You got to get right Why? Get right with God and do it now. That is giving your heart to Jesus Christ. You've got to give right To give him all the praise and honor, it belongs to him. Oh yes it does, is it does belong to him. Yes it does. Yes it does. All the praise belongs to him All the power belongs to him. All the glory belongs. You need a surge in the spirit. Live right so that your living will not be in vain. If I can help somebody along the way, if I can give a kind word, then what I'm doing in the Lord will not be in. I got to love right. Love my enemies and my neighbors. Folk who can't stand me and folk who dug ditches for me, I still gonna love what? I got a power service I got the Holy Spirit residing in me. It overrides what I may think I need to do and to do what God has called me to do. You better run right to run this race with patience, looking under Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith. My God, keep on running for Jesus My God the Spirit will give you power to run and to keep running and to know that you can make it. Yes you can. With a power surge. And then to talk right, to speak the words of Jesus. To trade in your vocabulary and speak the sweet words of Jesus. In this something, folk getting on your last and they say, well, bless your heart, sugar. You just love on them in the spirit. And that's what the Holy Spirit is doing. You mean Try to hold yourself that the Holy Spirit fill me right now and that what I say will be so kind And so loving. And so right. Amen. And you know what I mean about power is that power will give you light. That power will produce light that will dispel the darkness. Walk in the light. The beautiful life come where the dewdrops of mercy shine bright, shine all around me by day and by night. I'm glad that Jesus is the light of the world. Oh, I believe that today. He's the light shining in my life. He's the light shining in your life. Ever been in some dark places and you walked in and it felt a little funny? Well take the light of the Holy Spirit with you wherever you go. Those songs say, take the Lord with you, children, everywhere you go, in the street, in the crowd, in your home, all alone, on the highway On the byway, in the boardroom, in the back room. Come on and take this power with you. My God, you ought to be about ready to blow up right now. All that power you got stored in you. Amen. Your power grid is right To tell somebody about Jesus. Let them know He saved your soul. Let them know He made you whole. Oh my God, my God, I feel His power. Even right now. He gives me power to preach. He gives me power to live right. He gives me power to teach. He gives me power to love. How many folks got power? How many folk want power? How many folk need power? It's the power of there he is. And once you start talking about the Holy Spirit, all of a sudden he shows up And start working on you. Anybody ever had a feeling, uh oh, I feel it right now, a feeling of the Holy Spirit? It maybe didn't make you shout, but you felt better You may not have a shout, but you had joy deep down in your soul. I got power. Do you have power? Do you? You got power Do you have power? Do you have the power of the Holy Ghost? Yes, so come on, let's bless the Lord. You got power and know you got power. I got power To live right, thank God for his power. You just be still And in a few days, the power oh I figured just arrived. It'll come by your home. It'll come by your situation. It's an inside job. It is the spirit. Power Power Hey Power Not not power ball, power spirit. Amen? I'm talking about the spirit of the Lord. And it came on the day of Pentecost. But your own Pentecost when he sends his presence To reside in vessels like these. That that's amazing. That your spirit wants to come in here? And live and hear? Knowing what you know? Yes. That is the word of God today. It's already blessed. Yeah. Got power? You bet. Got power? Absolutely. What's your company? No, it it's just from on high. The father promised it and the father sent it. And now I got it. I got it. Hey, I got it, I got it, I got it, I got it, I got it, I got it. I got the power. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, we thank you, Lord. Oh we thank you for your power. Hey, hey. Thank ya for your power. Yes, comedy. Come live in us today. Holy Spirit Hallelujah. Come and me, come with me, come and live Life. Yes, Lord. Come Holy Spirit. And reside in the hearts of your people today. We invite you in to this dark place, to this broken place. You know it's impossible to talk about the Holy Spirit, preach about him, and not have him visit you in the moment. And once you have felt his spirit, you know it. That there's something peculiar. About what's happening. Those who were there in Jerusalem say, well there's something wrong with those, they must be on something They've been drinking. How in the world are they going to do all that? The Spirit puts you in a place. Guides you and keeps you. Let's bow our heads today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. And we thank you for the power of the Holy Spirit. Hallelujah. Thank you that that Spirit resides in us today. God, it is our prayer. If there's one in this place who has never experienced the power of the Holy Spirit, may they receive you. And in doing so, by giving their life to Jesus Christ, The Bible says that every believer will be filled. No, not might, but will be filled with the Holy Spirit. So I pray today, God, for that soul that's unrepentant. That you might come into that heart. And in doing so, they might receive you as their personal Savior. You've come today. You've never given your life to Jesus Christ. You've never spoken it. You've never confessed your sins unto him. You can do it right now. In this place And in this moment, and once you do it, got power, he turns the switch in glory on That connects you with the living Savior and with the God who's omnipotent. Save that soul today, we pray God. Be it in this place by way of technology and you can save through a line and a page Do it today, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Just want to give God the praise today. No question. I got it. Maybe you've come today, you desire to be a part of this fellowship called Harvest. The doors always open for you as we desire to be more powerful people. Not on Wall Street, not in the boardroom, but powerful in our living. That's my prayer today. The doors are always open. Join here. You can connect by way of our deacons afterwards. Let's give God a praise today. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comethenumber to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.