Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits. And then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvard's Christian Ministries. Amen. Nobody greater. How many agree with that today? That no matter what you do or where you go, there's nobody who will do you like the Lord. Nobody who will Keep you, nobody who will protect you, nobody who will save you like Jesus. Let's bow today. Father, we do thank you. No greater love than how you would send your only begotten son to die for folk like us. As we come today to proclaim your truth, it is our prayer that we might decrease And that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, praise God. How many folk are just glad to be on the Lord's side? Glad to be in the land of the living. There's a word from the Lord today, just one passage from 1 Corinthians, the 13th chapter, and verse number 11. It reads, When I was a child, I talked like a child. I fought like a child. I reasoned like a child. When I became a man I put away the ways of childhood behind me. I want to preach today from the Samonic title Grow Up. Grow up. The late world-renowned artist and printmaker Kotashah Hooksite Best known for his popular work, 36 Views of Mount Fiji. It is a series of landscape prints in which He depicts Mount Fiji from different locations in various seasons and weather conditions. And before his death in 1849, at the age of 89, he dismissed as nothing all the work he had done before the age of 60. It was only after he reached 70 that he felt he was turning out anything that was worthy of note. On his deathbed, Hoaxite said, If heaven had granted me five more years, I could have become a real painter. As I stand here approaching the ripe age of 60, I too proclaim that I am nowhere near where God is taking me. I must Continue to grow. Now this is a disclaimer. I did not come by today to confiscate your hot wheels. I won't touch your Barbie dolls, your G. I. Joe, your cabbage patch dolls, Grand Theft Auto, Comic Books, or Madden. But I've stopped by to challenge you to grow up. Ever heard that term when people want to get back at you and they didn't agree with you? Oh, just grow up. Why don't you become mature and oftentimes you'll turn it back? Why don't you grow up? But but but there's some some spiritual insights into that. In our text today, it is the Apostle Paul who writes to the church at Corinth. He writes to respond to what he's been hearing, that the people have become prideful. But they have been engaged in loose living. And I'll say that because there's more in the text, but I'll keep it PG 13. He's been hearing about all these things that have been happening, including how they've misused their spiritual gifts. His goal is to restore the Corinthian church to its foundation. That is Jesus Christ. So he spends time in this 13th chapter really talking about love. That's a big word, isn't it? The love, agape love, the love that we have one for another. And sometimes we misuse that word love. Amen. I'm not gonna try to sing or use the lyrics to the song because last time I did that I had the wrong group. Y'all call me up on that. But nevertheless, it's not the worldly love. It is the spiritual love. He spends a great deal of time Talking about not how to define love, but rather how to display love. He says, like children. That you were like a chow. You were a chow, and that means that you were incapable really of thinking and talking and reasoning in a way that was anywhere near being mature. Let me just say this, isn't it something to grow up you couldn't wait until you got to be a certain age? Couldn't wait till I got to be fifteen. Got my restricted license. Even though dad let me drive at twelve But there are milestones in our lives that we can't wait to get out Mama and Daddy's house only To say, can I stop back by? Amen. Am I on your street today? Uh growing up is not all that uh is put out to be. Then a lot of responsibility comes with that But the goal of Paul's letter was to say, you've got to mature. You've got to grow up. And so there are some signs that show that you've not grown up yet in your faith. He says, when I was a child, I taught like a child. Paul makes it personal. He didn't say when you were a child. Paul says when I was a child, can I throw back on you? I used to talk like a child. That was totally normal, amen. And that was in the past tense. And when you talk about talking like a child, have you ever listened to a child's conversation? I mean, it can be something to behold. Amen. The conversations are imperfect. They're broken and even silly at times, but that's a part of being a child. Some of us have not grown up yet. Amen. Why we ought to have a little child-like spirit. But he says to them, In order for you to reach the place that God has called you, and that is to love each other, you can't keep talking like a child Jesus came into this earth as a child, as a babe wrapped in swallowing clothes and lying in a manger and we remember the twelve year old middle school Jesus who was there in Jerusalem. Mom and Dad had left him not realizing they had left him. They called missing persons, could not find him, put a civil alert out. And where was he? Back in Jerusalem, hanging out with the adults. Hanging out with teachers and doctors and confounding them, listening, and also answering questions. Isn't that something? That that he was not an uh ordinary child But all Paul is saying that we've got to talk and allow our conversation to not be childlike. It's time for us to grow up in our faith. He writes in Colossians four and six, let your conversation be always full of grace. Seasoned with salt, so that you may know how to answer everyone. Now that's a challenge today because sometimes we say things we don't mean to say. In the heat of an argument or disagreement, we might be forty something, but we sound like a child. And we tell each other, you need to grow up. But in the spirit realm, we too have to grow up. It is our challenge today to talk like a child of God. Child of God, don't use certain words. Oh, I may as well testify. I was never uh that made Mr. Mayola I could never curse well. I tried. But guys who were really cursors What was that? And so I gave up on profanity. I wasn't very good at it But thank God he gave me some replacement words. Things that will lift up people My vocabulary changed. Thank God for Jesus. Amen. I know you may not be there yet, but keep on letting the Lord lead you. You will talk more like a mature Christian. Somebody's feet today. But Paul says, not only did I talk like a child, but I thought like a child. Childish thoughts. They they change minute by minute and second by second. Ever had a child say to you, ask like five questions? In one minute. Children think that way. They're excited. Their minds wander. They uh they and don't take that away. They imagine great things, but a child's view at a certain age can be very narrow and seemingly fixed on things that have very little value, but isn't it good to walk up on a child's conversation Tell you what y'all talking about. And then drop some old stuff in there. But Paul says you've got to change how you think if you really want to display the love of Jesus Christ. Now now we can relate because our own understanding sometimes is limited. In the thought life is really something. Why Because the enemy will have you to think on something, and all of a sudden you realize that that's not of God. Isn't it amazing how the mind works? We're honoring Aretha Franklin's. Oh god, I remember that one. That was back in the day. Oh y'all just got holy on me now. Yeah, I mean you said, oh, and what about this one? Because our minds are able to process and to keep and to store, and sometimes we store and keep and process childish stuff. Paul says, here I am. I fought like a chow. I I had to grow up I have to change my mind. 1 Peter 1. 13 says, wherefore gird up the loins of your mind. Build your mind up, be sober, and hope to the end that the grace is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Our challenge is to have holy thoughts. Our challenge is to have mature thoughts. That doesn't mean you've got to be heavy and deep, but just think on holy things. Carve some time out where you can just sit with the Lord. And begin to think on all the things he's done in your life and through your life Amen. Jesus can help to guide our thoughts if we want to change our minds. Don't you realize that's free will, that he'll never force you? He'll never twist your arm, but you've got to submit. I've got to submit and say, you know what? I want to think better. Paul says I I taught. Like a child. Oh giggly. I I thought like a child. Out in Disney World, just crazy stuff. But he says at one point, I reasoned like A child. I I expressed myself like a child. And it was something that was far from intelligent, far from sensible. I just made a decision. Why? It seemed right. Oh, God forbid. We've all made mistakes. Thought we had it all figured out, didn't we? Oh yes we did. Yeah we still do. You can't outsmart God. You got to go to him in the presence, God, what do you think? I've heard from Facebook, I've heard from all these other Google fans. How should I handle a situation? It's I reason like a child, whatever You know, I don't care. You've heard the whatever, haven't you? Whatever. That means that I don't really care. But when you become a Christian, you've got to change that way. I mean children they don't make sound judgments. They let the parents make it. They can't make sense out of complex situations. Don't grow them up too soon. And we struggle with making very basic Decisions. God help us. Let me ask you this: the harvest pole. How many folk have made some mistakes? One or two or three or four or five. And then you turned around and made the same mistake again. And you make you you had a child-like reasoning, and so did I. Why? We struggle because oftentimes it's based on what we take in. It's based on what we're feeding our minds and what we're feeding our souls. 1 Peter 2 and 2, I love this passage. It says, as newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the word that you might grow thereby. Dad da ba ba. Amen. We we we need to spend time grabbing a hold of and ingesting the word of God. It will help us to do what? To think like Christ. Reason like a child, thought like a child. But there was a moment of transition Paul says, yeah, but then when I became a man, when I got bills. When I got a family, when I got a mortgage, when I got a car note, when I got a student loan, when I got all that, then all of a sudden did I kind of grow up then? Why? It's called responsibility. Paul says when I got older, I learned a thing or three about life. Amen. And we're all at moments of transitioning that God has taken us from where we were to become mature. Mature Christians. The Corinthians act like children. That's why Paul laid it out that way. But we have got to embrace what it means. Now can we all say we put those toys away? Don't you go back now looking for that toy box? Let some things go. And as you grow up, things don't fit you anymore. The crowd you hung with, it doesn't fit you anymore. The places you used to go to, they don't fit fit anymore. The things you used to engage in, they don't feel right on you. Why? You're growing up. Isn't it amazing to know that you're growing up that some things that used to attract you don't do it anymore? You become mature. In the Lord Jesus Christ. As I continue to grow, I realize that there are times I must just press. Even when I don't feel like acting mature and thinking mature and reasoning mature, then I gotta just press my way. Paul Wright Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this I do, forgetting those things which are behind. And pressing forward to those things which are before, I do what? I press toward The mark for the prize of the high calling in Jesus Christ. How many folk are trying to press their way out of being a child to being a full-blown, mature Christian? It's not easy. You've got to put your shoulder to the wheel say, you know what? I declare today I will become more for Jesus. I declare today I will not talk foolishly. I won't think crazy. I won't make bad decisions. I'm going to seek the Lord and all All that I do. I'm pressing on the upward way. New heights I'm gaining every day. Amen. Still pray as I'm onward thou, Lord. Plant my feet on higher ground. Lord. Lift me up and let me stand by faith on heaven's table land a higher plane than I have found. Lord, plant my feet. Plant my thoughts, plant my language, plant my judgment At a higher place. Jesus knows about higher ground. They took him to a high place, Golgotha, and they beat him. At a higher place. And they nail him at a higher place to a tree. They committed murder in the first degree. But what they didn't know is that all charges would be dropped. Why? Oh, you know the story. He died, but he rose again. And because he can get up We can grow up. Anybody want to grow up today? I declare today I want to grow up in him. I want to become mature in him. I want to be a follower. of the Lord Jesus Christ. So excuse my my childish conversation at times. I Desire to become a Christian who loves God and who can display the love of God as well. That's the word of God. It's already less. Come on, stand today all over this place. Yeah, when I was when I was a teenager And when I was on the phone for 15 minutes saying nothing. Yeah, well I when I was a child, I did some crazy stuff. And as an adult. I did some crazy stuff. But thank God he's transforming us. Even now. How many are glad about that? How many want to surrender today? Trade the chowl in for a grown-up you. Turn your toys in for the word of God. It starts with giving yourself away. Find yourself in this song today. It's for a purpose. I give my down away from you and you I give my no way surrender today I give myself away so you can use me. Yeah, yeah. Thank God for that. Come on, make it personal day. My stealth away all my childish ways. I give my child away so you can do. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I give myself away so you Is that played softly today? It's not easy giving up our toys. It's not easy surrendering our habits. We kind of like them. But to become mature in Christ, there's some things you have to kick to the curb. There's some things you have to let go of. I say you, I mean Us. Why? Because we'll never really grow. Now growth will be stunted because of the things of life. But as you come today, Turn yourself in. You ever see those Western movies? So you tell them you got 20 days. Turn yourself in. Apostle will come to get you. They'll put a Poster I'm saying, wanted. He always on one of those posters. Tim Tutin wanted. He's been playing church, acting childish, not holding up his responsibility. And one day, I just walked in and gave my life fully to him. And I'm not by myself today. Here I am. As you bow your heads today, wanted an open heart, wanted a willing spirit, wanted a confession today. The Bible says if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, the Bible says, thou shalt be saved. Today, God, if there's one in this place, was never surrendered unto you. May this be their day. They can turn themselves in right now. Just by confessing. I'm a son of I'm lost, but I heard that you can save me if I just confess it. Today, save that soul. And do it we pray now in Jesus' name. Amen? Maybe you've come today and you desire to be a part of this fellowship. We just wanted people who surrender. Harvest is a place that you can grow and that you'll feel love. Amen? Oh we we love in a special way. But if you don't have a church home today and you're looking for some place to connect with, fellowship, I believe Harvest is that place. Amen? Can you walk from the Lord today? You can meet us after service. Either way. God has work for you to do. Why? He wants to grow you up as he's grown us up. Let's give God a praise today. Thank you for listening to the Leading by Example broadcast. To learn more about our ministry and to pick up your copy of my brand new book. Entitled Leading by Example, A Parental Guide to Teaching and Modeling Christian Faith at Home, go to our website. It's www. cometoharvest. org That's www. comthenumber 2harvest. org. Have a great day in the Lord.