But giving yourself away to God. After all, He He made you. And know all about him, but he won't force you to give yourself away. He won't strong arm you into giving yourself away. That's right. It has to be voluntary. Thus thou they fall become in the name of Jesus. For there's power In that name, as we stand today, God, to proclaim your word, it is our prayer that we might decrease. And that you might increase. Save someone today, encourage another. We'll be so careful to give your name the praise. And the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thankful to God today for you here in Baltimore. We keep adding on our folk in Florida who are watching. Amen. Folk in Indiana, uh those who are in the great state of North Carolina, Virginia and the like, just let us know you're out there. Amen. I always say that if you're in the area, make sure you get here. You still cannot afford to fly here. There's a word of the Lord today that comes from 2 Corinthians 3 and 17. It reads, Now the Lord is the Spirit. And where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom. I want to preach today for the Samanic title, Let Freedom Reign. My country is of the sweet land of liberty, of thee, I say, land where my fathers died. Land of the pilgrim's pride. From every mountaintop, let freedom reign. A seminary student from Massachusetts, Stephen Francis Smith, wrote this psalm in the 1830s. It so inspired Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. that he used a portion of that song on a hot day in August. In nineteen sixty-three, when he stood there front, the Lincoln Memorial and declared, let freedom reign. It was a march for jobs and freedom. And Dr. King was there to announce to the world that the time needed to change. Now left Freedom Ring in itself is a statement some believe lays out the ideas of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. But Dr. King spoke of letting freedom reign from the mountains to the hills to the molehills. He began to name all the mountains, and I won't dare do a geography lesson today. But there were mountains in Colorado and California and Georgia. in Pennsylvania, New Hampshire, New York, or Tennessee. He believed that freedom was possible, that freedom was doable Because of our collective faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. I want to declare this morning that Freedom, that is freedom in the Lord Jesus Christ, is freedom that ought to reign deep in our hearts and in our souls. Amen. In our text today, there's the Apostle Paul who writes to the church at Corinth. That Paul was a writing somebody He would write to encourage believers in the places he had stopped through and oftentimes started churches. He wrote to encourage them that although you may be in bondage, you can be free. They were in bondage to what was called the law. They were in bondage to rituals. And they were bonded to ceremonial things. He's saying there is another way that you can be free. Mm-hmm. That that freedom and be can reign. And what a word for us today. We too can be free. Free from the struggles of life and free from situations that were seemingly boundless. Isn't it great to be free? And to know that you're free. That when folk try to tie you up and lie on you, double cross you Make things rough for you, dig a hole, push you in the hole. It's great to know that I am free in the Lord Jesus Christ. It never happened for y'all. But at the end of the day, as you laid your head on the pillow, you said, you know what? I'm free in Christ Jesus. And Jesus talks about this in the Gospel of John 832 and 1836. He says, Then you will know the truth, and the truth shall set you free. Verse thirty-six say, so if the sun sets you free, you're free indeed. I mean that's your get out of jail card. Amen? That that he's already said that you're free, and so there's no reason for you to remain in bondage. You ought to just let freedom reign. What is it that you want God to free you from? Maybe it's people, maybe it's places, maybe it's things that you need to be freed from. And once you identify them, take it to the Lord in prayer. Well, let freedom ring. And when freedom reigns in the hearts of the believer, a change will come about. Yes, it will. When freedom reigns, there'll be a challenge. But when freedom reigns, ultimately, we can become more Christ-like. Verse 17 is where it's all included. Let's look back down. What does it mean to be to be changed? How am I changed? The Bible says that it is through the Holy Spirit. Now the Lord is the Spirit. A reminder of who He is. Amen? And realize the Holy Spirit is a person. With feelings. And the Holy Spirit is able to change us. And Jesus, our Savior and Redeemer, is able to deliver us. And aren't you glad that you serve a God who's in the present tense? Not was, but he who is the same yesterday Today, forevermore. Do you serve that kind of God? He he never expires. He's never out of date He never is out of style, and it's through our relationship with him we can be changed. Paul was talking about God's office and not God's nature, it's in the spirit. God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, the Trinity, the God. Let me drop this in Bible 101. Those of us who know that we're saved and proclaim Christ as our personal Savior, we believe in the full countenance of God. God the Father? Yes. God the Son? Yes. God the Holy Spirit. Be wary of somebody who only takes one. Amen. But we serve the Godhead. That's Bible 101. We can not pre ourselves It's not possible to change ourselves. There's no 30-day plan that will change you and that will free you, but there is a plan of salvation. I hope y'all signed up for that plan. Years ago, I wrote insurance. I would go in the house and I would give them the best plan. Well you want our premium plan. It will cover more, some of y'all know about it. If you buy a car, it won't give you the plan. Aren't you glad today that you have the plan? Of salvation? For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. That whosoever believeth in him would not perish, but have everlasting life. Confessing unto him, you've got the place. That's what changes us. Like Billy Joel, he'll say I'll take you just the way you are. But God forbid that he took me the way I was, but I'm thanking God that he changed me. and transformed me that I'm no longer just the way I was. Oh, don't leave me hanging by myself now. Well you remember the old you? Old mean you, the old Sneaking you. They all lying you, the old drinking you, the old cheating you, but thank God for Jesus. You can be changed. Through Christ freedom in him. First Corinthians fifteen fifty-two, it says in a moment In the twinkling of an eye at the last trump, for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. How do you like the new you? Oh y'all don't like the new you, huh? Y'all pretending you were not the old person, but thank God, if any man be in Christ They're a new creature. All things are passed away. Behold, all things become new. Freedom can reign when we're changed, but also when we're challenged. Challenge to pin down, challenge to locate, challenge to prime true freedom. The freedom that the Lord has given us. And sometimes we have difficulty embracing the fact that we're free. And realizing that he's made us free. And sometimes that's a challenge because we know that we don't deserve it. And that's no truth. But don't beat yourself up. Just receive the freedom that Christ lays out for each of us. But so often freedom seems elusive. It seems out of reach, but here's a fact. Freedom is where the Spirit of the Lord is. If we allow the Spirit of God to reside in us, we can truly find freedom, but it is in the Spirit. Amen. Then you can go lower places. Life may challenge you. Life may disable and disconnect you to the point that sometimes We fail to recognize that we're already free. Amen? I'll feel free right now. I'll feel free to stand before you today. And to proclaim the good news of Jesus Christ. I feel free knowing that my sins have been forgiven. I feel free knowing that I can do all things through Christ who's driven me. Any free people in the house today? Amen. Free, free, free. Jesus proclaimed. From the gospel of Matthew, when he began his ministry, he said, the Spirit of the Lord, his spirit again, is on me because he has anointed me to proclaim good news to the He has sent me to proclaim freedom for the prisoners and recovery of sight for the blind and to set the oppressed. We're challenged to connect. Changed by this freedom. But also, the end result ought to be not that I've got a bag that says I'm free. Not that I can say, oh yeah, that's all my resume. But what about this transformation to the point that we are Christ-like? Amen. We must commit to be Christ-like. Yes. Not Christ. Christmas. Some of us believe we're Christ. We're not. But we'll have the characteristics of Christ. That's right. Faithful. Prayerful, wise, virtuous, humble, obedient, patient, giving, and forgiving. Freedom is possible because the debt has been paid. Amen. The bell has been closed. Yes. And now we're free. Yes we are. Thank you. Thank God for Jesus. He he paid the dead by going through the old rugged cross. He he paid the debt for our freedom by being buried in a borrowed tomb. He paid the debt for our freedom when he rose with all power in his hand. That that's another cue as a believer that he got up. From the grave with all power in his hands. That's the full gospel. Free. And sometimes we have to be freed from ourselves. Amen. And sometimes we're the one cuffing us. We are the one arresting us So we ought to let the world know and let the enemy know. I'm free. What does freedom feel like for you today? Do you feel freedom in the spirit today to say I can go and press my way toward the mark for the prize of the high cause? What? I'm free, y'all. Free. Free in Jesus Christ. And that brings us into the larger family. 1 John 3 and 2 says, Beloved, now are we the sons, and I'm going to add daughters and children of God. It doth not yet appear what we Shall we? But we know that when he shall appear, that we shall be like him. Why? We will see him as he is. Now let me help you to use your spiritual imagination. Can you think about seeing him the one who died for you? Seeing him, the one who brought you through those trials and tribulations Seeing him the one that picked you up and turns you around, the one who got your feet up the Maori clay. I'm talking about that God. I can only imagine. But that day will be black Freedom will reign. But don't just let freedom reign, but let freedom bring you to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. Don't just let freedom reign, let freedom call you to cling to the promises of Jesus Christ. Don't just let freedom ring, but let freedom spring you to new height in the Lord Jesus Christ. Don't just let freedom reign, but let freedom remind you of the King. The King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. Let freedom bring, but let it also cause you to sing one of those songs who sign. I'm free Praise the Lord, I'm free. No more change holding me. My soul is rest. And that's a blessing. I'm free. Praise the Lord. I'm free. Free to sing and free to shout. Free to praise and free to preach Free to teach. Free to love. Anybody feel free today? That when you forget about this freedom, you don't want to ring from your heart. You don't want to read from your inner heart to know that I serve a risen Savior who's in the world today, and even though you may not hear it Freedom is ringing. Even though it may not be evident to you, when I get up in the morning, I can sense that freedom is ringing. When God brings me through a situation, I sense that freedom is Free. Will you let freedom reign? I'm free. That is the word of God today. It's already this come on stand today. Give God an Amen today. Let the church say amen. Amen means so it is It means that I agree with that. That's right. You can't say amen for everything. But if you hear the truth The church, the body of Christ, ought to say Amen. Come on, singing with us today. That could be your freedom, cry today. The Constitution didn't give you your freedom of speech. The Holy Ghost did. Hallelujah. Long before there were ever forefathers, the Father on high gave me free speech now. Oh, yes, Lord. Come on, let's say together. You the church. Lembra church say you feel that they say amen? Let the church stay Yes, he has. Let the church say. Come on, three people. Say it with some gust over the day. Let the church. . Catus free. Come on, say it one more time. That's your war fly today. The church. The church. Amen. God has both his women like the church. Oh yes, oh yes, oh yes. God has spoken that church saying Oh yes. Come on, church. And just for a moment. In the present tense, God is speaking. He speaks through his word. He speaks through circumstances. He'll speak through other people? Yes he will. But the question is, are we listening? You come today. You've not taken time to tune into heaven's dial. The Lord is always speaking. And if you have not opened your heart to him Now giving your life to him. And that may seem like a small thing. But do you realize? There's so many people that you work with, that you live with, in your neighborhood, at your coffee counter, were not saved. Come on, come on, come on. They don't know Jesus? That's right. Yeah, they may see Christ in you, but they don't know him. It's hard to recognize Christ in them. And so this year we're doing. Just do it. Just do it. Share with you the Bible says that thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in thy heart that God has raised them from the dead. The Bible says thou shalt be saved. Take time today to let someone know your testimonies. I was lost. I was bound up. But one day I got free. Yeah, thank you Lord. And they may look at you, but what you mean you free? So let me tell you about Jesus. That's an end for you What was the word today? Left feeling right. Oh, that's king. Oh no, no. The king. That might be an opening today. Here's what it means to be free Father, I come in the name of Jesus. I lift up even now that soul, that person who knows you now. And the truth of the matter is, if they don't know you, they're not free. That's right Free them today by the confession of faith. Believe in that you died but you rose again In Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Amen. I feel pleasant. If you'd like to slow this song as we close out, glory, glory. Hallelujah.