I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen. Whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website, I really do believe that God has a special message just for you. A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries for a worship experience already in progress. That we come tonight to give God the praise and the glory. Let's bow all over this place tonight. Heavenly Father, we do thank you. From the rising of the sun to the going down of the same, thy name is worthy. As we come tonight is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. God save someone tonight Encourage another. But when this time is done, may we give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. I want to say it's good to be home, good to be in the church in which I gave my life to Jesus. It was in this place. Some things you won't forget, Pastor. You're exactly right. I tried to forget 'em, but along the way I could hear the deacons of old singing the songs of Zion. Amen. I knew then that the Lord was yet on my side. So many others here tonight I want to thank who are here. You get in the name calling, you get in trouble. Amen. But I mentioned my siblings, and of course we've adopted another sister as well sitting next to Mama Sister Janice. Thank God for you. Amen. That's right. Always good to see the 76ers in the house. Amen. But there's a word from the Lord tonight, uh, and it comes from 2 Chronicles 7 And fourteen and during the course of this week, just keep that one passage in mind. All week long, that's where we're going to preach from. If my people were to call by my name to humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven? Forgive their sin and heal their land. I want to preach tonight on this first installment, Heal Our Land, Part 1. Heal our land, part one. Healing can often be misunderstood and sometimes misapplied because healing is spiritual, it is emotional, it is physical. And every now and then we can look in our own lives and see how God has been at work in all three. There have been times you've been down in your body and God has come along and touched you. It's not just a Bible story. He is yet a healer of our physical bodies. He will heal us emotionally every now and then in life things are not going your way. Everything is not always on the mountaintop, but God will fix your emotions in such a way that you'll be able to run on and see what the end is going to be. But God is a God who also heals us spiritually. I'm glad that He's still in the healing business. Any rumor that God has shut down his holy clinic are false. I come today to proclaim that he still will heal and deliver. In fact just want you to know he's diagnosing tonight. He's prepared to write a prescription for our situation. Don't you know that some of us over a certain age on medicine were taking one pill or two? Some of y'all who are not, praise God. We can put the pharmacies out of business, but we have to take something to help us to balance our lives. And that's what the word of God does. Just a bit in the morning, just a bit At noonday, just take some of the Lord. Even in the evening, it will keep your heart in tune. I start by this week really to not be political, but to be spiritual. All one needs to do is to see the landscape of our communities to know that the hand is in need of healing. But I stop by to let you know and to remind you of who you are. You're God's people and know that God has a plan for our lives. Now you say Reverend, I don't know about that. I'm not quite sure what I want to be. I'll ask young people, what you gonna be when you grow up? They'll say, I don't know. I go, Oh yes you do I say to young folk that you know what the Lord has in store for you because you really like that. But to be God's people, to know that God has a plan for our lives And to know that God has a promise. Do you believe his promises are still true? I do. I got enough faith to believe that if God said it, I believe it The faith is the substance of things hoped for the evidence things are not seen. By it the elders obtain the good report. I stand tonight as an optimist. Amen. How many folk just say, you know what, Reverend, I just believe he can do it. I don't come with doubt. I don't come with fear. I believe that the land is in need of healing and that God can do it. And that God will do it in our lives. It is possible in our land. And let me just say this. It's not just the land we call the US of A, but the Bible says the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof and those who dwell therein. I'm talking about the whole wide world That God has the ability to heal the lamb. I just I'm stuck right there because I want you to make sure you believe that. Do you think it's possible that God Can heal our pains, that God can heal our communities, that God can bring us together as one. I do. Amen. I believe He can do it. In our text tonight, we meet Solomon. Solomon, the son of David and Bathsheba. Solomon is approached by God. Now take it. For me, Solomon has had a great two weeks. They've dedicated the temple unto the Lord. It's a high time. I mean the glory of the Lord fell in the place. It was a beautiful place. And God still comes back and talks to Solomon. And I like what he says in this text. It's if See, Miss D passes here tonight, make sure I've got it right. I think that's a conjunction. If connects things together If is the glue that pulls together phrases. He says, you know, Solomon, if I were to cause the pestilence to come in the land, if If by chance that I'll shut up the heavens and it won't rain anymore. If maybe, Solomon, that I will have the locusts to devour the land. Yes. And that says to me that God who rules the world knows when trouble is coming. But he gives certain kinds of conditions. He says, but if my People who are called by my name. And tonight I want to deal with just that part of it. I want to just pick at it tonight. If my people who were called by my name. It says first of all that we're connected. That God so formed us from the dust of the earth and blew into us this living life that we became what? A living soul. And whether you know it or not, we all can. I thought some of y'all favored me. Amen. We are kin in the Lord Jesus Christ. Can I say that we have the same Father? And I know that we might go by different names, but we have the same Father that we are what? We are a chosen generation. We are royal priesthood. Don't you know that really pumps me up to let me know that I'm somebody no matter what the world calls me. I'm really somebody in the Lord. And so the word is, if my people, ah, in other words, he's saying, my people, that means that we belong. Otherwise he would call if them people. He said if my people that sounds inviting to me. I really feel like somebody tonight. You mean yeah? Yeah, I'm connected to someone who made the heavens and the earth. You know, we want to have connections. Don't you know I know the mayors, uh brothers, uncles, cousin, and the chief and my sister are friends. And their cousin on the other side, don't you know the superintendent is a friend of mine, but it really is his cousins, uncles, brothers, niece. We want connections with somebody, but I come to tell you tonight that you are connected To he who has all power. Connected to one who scooped up the dust of the earth. I'm glad tonight that I'm connected. And so, how does that make me feel? I feel special. I feel I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. Why? Because I've got a connection. And when you know you've connected, there's this sense that I don't have fear because I know who can make a difference. Solomon tell them that my people let them know who they are. Sometimes we have an identity crisis. I don't know who I am. Yes, you do. You are child of the king That thing is stuck over. I can preach right there. Just I'm excited to know I'm really somebody. Anyone ask you who I am? Tell them I'm a child of God. Don't you feel special? I just want to encourage your heart tonight. I want you to feel like you're really a part of not just the church, but that you are connected to He who says hi And looks oh you hadn't got that thing yet. You mean I'm connected to a God who's holy? I got connection with someone who can say that I can blink my eye and change everything. He does not change. Amen. I feel connected. And that gives me hope that our land can be healed because of who I know. And because of who I serve, and because of who I put first in my life, let them know the day my people Let them know that uh that they belong to me. Let them know that's why I sent my son Jesus Christ. See, you got a cousin you don't even know about Connected. But not just being connected, but also called. People who are called by my name. Called. Called. Called. That's an invitation. Uh-huh. He called Adam. Adam, where are you? No you're trying to hide, but in the cool of the morning I already see you Abraham, come here. Yes, sir. I'm gonna call you and send you to a place, but you don't know where you're going yet. No, come here. They may call you crazy, but go ahead and build an ark. He is calling you And a call sometimes we want to run from. Ever egged anybody and pretend you didn't hear them? When they called you and you tried to pretend that you didn't really hear the call of God on your life? Amen. I have. Yes I have. And now what did you say again? But he says I am calling them and there again it's a privilege. It's a privilege to be called Amen. And tonight as I think about this possibility of our laying being healed, we've got to put into our spirit man and our spirit woman that I'm going to call somebody It's not based on what I look like, not based on my occupation, not based on where I live. Uncle He called a whole lot of folk from a whole lot of places who were not worthy to be called and used them to the glory and use them to the glory of God I'm called. Yes, I am. Called by he who has the ability and the power to heal the land. Call. And because I'm called, that means we're again, it's a family message. We're the same family. We're called to what? To love one another. Amen. Yeah. I love you. Come here, Barney. I love you and you love me. Some of y'all know about Barney, but I it's a Barney spirit that you know what I really love you with the love of God. And Jesus told his disciples, by this, they will know that you're what? My disciples Based on how you love one another, not on what you say, not on what you wear, not on where you go, but based on what How you love them. And loving is not always got a kiss all on you and step five, but I just love you so much so that I'm praying for you. I love you so much so that I care for you. I love you so much so that I'm thinking about you in the Lord. That that's how we know that we're gone That's where we know we've already made it when we say no what? It don't matter. I was in the airport this morning getting a cup of coffee and uh you can take live oak. From there, you can't take liable out of a brother. I'm just a liable person at the BWI airport, just messing with people. Good morning to you. Well who are you? And we start talking, and it wasn't along the board and picked up some more cousins. Amen. But when you love people, you will find something to say to them to encourage their hearts. Amen. I was playing a trick, I guess, of sorts. I I do TV in Baltimore, you know they give us all this stuff. I said I'm not wearing any TV stuff. I'm gonna put on some harvest Christian ministry stuff. And somebody said, you know what? You look for me. Yes, I'm gonna say nothing. But I said, Oh, the Christian ministry, I'm slaved. That's how you know me. Amen. But we have to know that we're called to go out. and to show love one to another. That is the central message of Jesus Christ. That's what Christianity is all about. is love for God what so loved the world that he sent his only begotten Son. I am called tonight. I am connected to He who's God above all. But also I am a carrier. Ah, uh. Called by my name. Uh-huh. See they call me uh Tim Tootin, but it's really Timothy Lamar Tutin. And just turn to your neighbor and give them your full name. Not your nickname, but turn to someone and say, Here's my full name. You thought my name was butter, but here's my real, real name, the one that my mom and daddy gave me But it's not so much of a uh oh I think y'all just got acquainted. I know that was your name. It sure is my name, but they call you, I know what they call you, but my name is a child of God Amen. And to carry is to transmit. It is to take something somewhere. And in this case, if you're called by my name, why don't you take my name? Huh? Take the Lord with you children everywhere you go, in the street, in the crowd, in your home, all alone, on the highway, on the byway Take the name of the Lord with you wherever you go. Amen. The Bible says that at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow Every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. And you know what? With our history, it was Paul Levere who got the word out to the British. They're coming. They're coming Harriet Tubman said, I'm a transporter leading the slaves to the north. Come on, they're coming, and we have to carry with us the name of Jesus Christ. Anybody ready to carry the name of Jesus? Don't have much, don't look like much, but there is a name. There's a name above all names, and that name is Jesus I'm still talking about healing our land. That's why he said him. Why? Because there needed to be a name that came forward that can make the difference that can heal our land. Then I'm a carrier. What are you carrying, Reverend? I'm carrying truth. Uh-huh. Not not a Bible verse or two, but just the fact that I know him and he knows me and he loves me. Anybody who's a carrier Sometimes you say, you know what? I don't know what you got, but whatever you got, I want some of it. Ever have something just dead on you? That's what the Holy Ghost will do. You are a carrier of the power of God today And they wonder why you're so happy? It's because of the spirit of the Lord that rests upon me. I'm a carry. What you got? I got a message from the Lord. Look and live. I'm carrying a message. Anybody prepared to strap up tonight and say if I leave here, I'm gonna stop by jiffy and I'm gonna ask for a coffee, but I'm gonna carry the name of Jesus Amen. I'm gonna stop by the busy B. Oh, yeah, I got the busy B in town. I'm gonna get something there, but I'm gonna carry the name of Jesus with what you holding. I ain't got nothing but Jesus And that's enough. Isn't that enough today? Well, God is so good tonight about healing our land. And we want it to happen. Sooner rather than later. But everything is a part of God's timing. Love what the hymn writer says. Time is fueled with swift transition. Not on earth unmoved can stand. But build your hopes on things eternal Hold to God's unjust. Anybody want to hold to his hand today? Every now and then your hand will slip and you'll go back to the old you for a moment. But I declare, if you hold to his hand It will make a difference in your life. Why? Because there's healing in his hands. My hand is in his hand. I know for a fact I can carry with me the love of Christ today And that's what I'm so glad about tonight that I'm carrying something that can save a life. Carrying something that might not be an antidote, but it can make a difference in somebody's life today Are you ready to carry something today with you? Look around our world today. There's so much talk and conversation about what it ought to be and what it should be. But I want to say today that I want to end tonight with a project. A a group project. You remember a group project, don't you? And you had one in school and had to work with folk you didn't want to work with, but it was a project And some of the grade was yours. As we close tonight, I want you to stand, if you can, or to wave your hand tonight, and let's do a group project. So Reverend, what is this man talking about? Let's revive a meeting And tonight I want you to follow the instructions. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord. O ye lands, serve the Lord with gladness, come before his presence with singing, know ye that the Lord He's God It is he who hath made us and not we ourselves. We are what? His people and the chief of his pastor. And so enter into his gates With thanksgiving and into his courts with praise. Be thankful unto him and bless his name. Why? For the Lord is good His mercy is everlasting, and his truth endureth to a whole nother generation. In other words, his truth was good enough for mama, but it's good enough for me If it's good enough for me, it's good enough for my children. That's another generation. And good enough for my grands and my grands, grands and grands And so that's the good news today is that I'm going to share with them the truth of Jesus Christ. What are you going to tell the next generation? To trust in the Lord with all the heart and to lean not to the own understanding. In all your ways, acknowledge Him. He'll direct your path. What are you going to tell him that I am the way? I am the truth I am the life, no man cometh to the Father except by me. What are you going to tell him to seek and you shall find? Ask. Amen. And knock, and the door shall be opened Can I go down home for a minute? Knock, knock, who's there? Our redeemer. Knock knock. Who's there? Our healer, not not who's there, my comforter, not not who's there, the one who loves me unconditionally, not not who's there, the one who gives me peace Not not who's there the one who comes in my midnight hour. Not not who's there is the Son of Man. Not not Who's there? I go to prepare a place for you. And that where I am, you will be also. Why? In my father's house, there are many mansions. If it wasn't so, I will tell you, knock knock Who's there? It's me, the one who died but rose again. Not not who's there? The one who sits at the right hand of the Father And you tell me how can we heal our land? Well my God, we got it. It's because of the blood of Jesus Christ Oh the blood that gives me strength from day to day it will never lose its power. Oh my God, I feel good tonight. And so that's how we heal the land. I gotta be connected. I've got to be cold. I've got to become a carrier of the news. What you got on ya Just carrying Jesus. What you what what you what you carrying? I'm carrying life and life more abundantly. I want to let you know tonight that God has assigned each of us to make the difference. Well, it's not my job. Yes, it is. You've been called to let someone know that I don't want to debate you, I want to educate you to let you know that all things are possible. Through Christ. Solomon, you let him know now that there might be a possibility that I'll Uh won't let the rain fall. There might be a chance that you know the pestilence will come, there might be a chance the crops will be destroyed, but let them know that they're what? My people who are called by my name. Tomorrow, God's plan. Stand tonight all over this place. And let's give God a praise. If you know God is good to you, just praise Him tonight. I want to take the opportunity to offer Christ to you. This would be just a lecture or meeting if we didn't offer Christ to someone today So even as I look out amongst you, I'm not judging you. I don't know your business, but perhaps you don't know Jesus. If you don't know him, there's a possibility that you may know of him, but not know him. Let's bow tonight. It's good to be able to come and serve the Lord with joy and goodness. Father, we come tonight and we thank you. We ask that the words of our mouth and the meditation of our heart might be acceptable in our sight, O Lord, our strength and our Redeemer. Amen. There's a word tonight we're gonna pick up from where we left off on last night. Uh thank God for Brother Otha he could not uh make it tonight, but he's been a great champion for getting the word out and once I contacted him, he hit the ground running. So our scripture passage for the week really is 2 Chronicles 714. If my people which are called by my name shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways. Then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and will heal their land. I want to preach tonight from part two of this installment, Heal Our Land, Part Two. Last night we came together and just took a piece of it. If my people, which are called by my name, and we put the brakes on right there So if you missed last night, you just missed that part, but I'll give you a review. We talked about the fact that we are God's people, that we have this connection because of who we know and because of who he is. And I know that as we think sometimes there are folk who think they're real big and bad, but they don't know who we serve. They don't know who they're messing with. They're messing with King's kids. And so we're able to lift up at the end of the day and say, I know that God sits high and he looks low. So we talked about my people. There was some real uh kinfolk connected to that But not only that, that people who are called, that we all have something that God has put within us. You were not just created to take up space. God has a plan for your life, has something for you to do. I often ask young people, what do you want to be? I'll ask grown folk, what do you want to be when you grow up? Amen. And we ended last night talking about we're carriers of that name. There's no other name under heaven by which men can be saved. And so as we go, uh we're carrying the heavenly mail, letting folk know that there's hope, letting them know that God is still able to bring us through. Tonight I want to move a little further and pick up the other part of this passage. Shall humble themselves. Pray, seek my face, and turn from their wicked ways. And so from that, I really want to talk about not just being God's people, but about God's plan. God has a standard for us. We don't live in a society uh spiritually where anything goes. God has raised the bar in our lives that we're supposed to do certain things a certain way. Always contend that we know right from wrong. Sometimes we have amnesia like we don't, but God really has a standard for our life. The requirements for us to be followers of the King. We came in on Tuesday and when you come into the airport, uh you don't get to go right through. They want to see your ID. You can't fuss about whether you want to show it to them or not. You give them your ID. They say, take your shoes off. You take your shoes off. Uh take your compute out of your bag. Yes, sir, and yes, ma'am. Nobody fuss at the airport. They do what they're told to do. And as I thought about that, I said, you know, when it comes to being On God's side, he has certain standards and certain things he wants us to do. He talked with Solomon. Solomon, let the folk know That there could be a time, if I wanted to, I could do whatever I wanted to to the land, right? Because the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. But tell them that there's certain things they've got to do And it's right in the text, so you can follow right with me. The first thing is to do what? To humble themselves. humble themselves. Every now and then we can become a little arrogant, a little snooty. A little think that we got it going on, but let them know that they've got to be humble as it relates to living this life. Now I know sometimes we pretend to be humble. I'm gonna go ahead and put myself out there. I've not always been humble. I remember leaving here, catching the Greyhound bus, because I had a job interview in Washington, D. C. And I thought I was the man. Had a little half a tape with me and went first class on Greyhound. Uh took all night to get there, jumped a cab to uh another holiday in. I said, Y'all got more than one And when I got there I was so confident in myself that I just talked to everybody in the place, three hundred people say I'm from I'm from Live Oak and I got a tape. I've been on TV. And they set me up The committee said uh he left me all alone in the lobby and says, uh so you're the guy from Florida, right? Yeah? And you know it all, right? I said no sir. They took my tape, destroyed it, and I became humble. In your own life, there have been things that you've gone through, your own story that had to really bring you down a notch. Do I have a praying church tonight? Not that you shouldn't be uh confident in your abilities, but you have to be knocked off your high horse. Humble yourself. And you know, when we look at this sense of humbleness, the Bible says to humble yourself, therefore, under the mighty hand of God, and he'll do what? He'll exalt you in due time. No need to exalt yourself, but he will do what? He will exalt you. You just stay low and see, won't God do it? Have you done it in your life before everybody thought that you didn't have what it took? And you just kept quiet and stayed humble and looked like you didn't know anything, and all of a sudden you were the person for the job. You're the person for that position. And even Christ was what? Gentle and humble in heart. And I said to myself, well, why is there a need to say this? Obviously they were not being humble. And even today, the word goes out that the plan of God is for us to be humble people. Now I'm from the country. Humble. Is that better? Amen. Yeah, you gotta be humble. What do you mean? Same difference. Humble, umble, without the H. But God can use us in that when we decide to submit ourselves under His control. Not have the big head, not know it all, but know that God is looking for that kind of person Paul says, let this mind be in you. There was also in Christ Jesus who did what? Who humble themselves even to the death of the cross. How many folk want to be humble? Amen. Yeah, I've I've been guilty being a little high-minded, guilty of looking like I had together. He says, You tell him Solomon, I said, humble yourself But then also to pray. Reverend, I said my prayers this morning, our Father which art in heaven. I mean communicating with God, and oftentimes what would drive us to our knees are hard times. Amen. Things get rough and the hills are hard to climb. Oh, we'll pray. My God, we'll pray until times get better. And so again, maybe this was missing in the lives of the people. Why else would he say tell them to pray? The Bible says to pray without ceasing. You don't have to just pray on Sunday morning. People ask you, Doc, pray for me on Sunday. Man, I might forget. You got a minute now? Let's still away someplace in the bathroom and let me lift up the name of Jesus right where I am. I may have shared this story some years ago. They sent me to cover the prickness And I was supposed to rove around and talk to people who were already filling themselves with alcohol. And I said, uh-huh, I'm gonna get them. I stood in the corner and started doing flesh prayers. I say in the name of Jesus. I look at him. How are you doing? Get him, Jesus. And so wherever you are, you can begin to pray and whisper a prayer in the morning. And whisper a prayer at noon and whisper a prayer in the evening, it will do what? It will keep your heart in. Tell them I said they need to pray every now and then. Amen. Aren't you glad today that God gives us that avenue that we don't have to go through anybody else, but in the name of Jesus Nobody behind the curtain, uh no hocus pocus, but I can go to him with my issues and he'll do what? He will hear oh have you ever heard Joe Prayer before? I'm talking about you were down and out Didn't know where to go and you said, Lord, help me. And all of a sudden you saw help coming your way. Not what you expect it to be from, but he will do just tell it I said to pray. Bible says be anxious for nothing. But with prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, make your request known unto God, and the peace of God which passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. My God, pray and keep your mind right. Praying keep you from going crazy. Well you know I'm just praying. I don't feel good, but I'm praying because I know what he will make a way out of no way All you gotta do is just pray, and the fact of the matter is some of us are recipients of somebody's prayers. Don't look right now, but I know somebody who prayed for me when I didn't know any better And some grandmother and some mother and some father will say, Lord, go with them. Now the young generation says, What do you mean? What I mean is somebody is praying for you right now. They may have text you of scripture, but they are praying in the midnight hour, Lord, go with my child. My God, prayer makes it. I won't stop right now when we ought to just do what? Take a minute and let's just pray I mean while you are sitting right now look to somebody near you and say can I pray with you? And let's fill the house right now in the middle of the sermon with prayer. Amen? Can you find somebody near you and say, Can I pray with you? I mean even right now. In the name of Jesus, I lift up brother Hunter right now. I pray God even now that you might give him the desires of his heart. I pray that you might keep him. I pray that you might guide him. I pray that you might protect him. I'm standing in the gap for my friend. I'm praying for you And what you know when you start praying and all of a sudden prayer fills the place, something will happen when we start praying. Opening up our mouths and say, Lord, I come. Lord, I trust you in every Oh my God, let's fill the house right now with prayer Just praying that you know what I need thee every hour. That's why I'm praying. I can't wait to another time. I need somebody to cover me in prayer. And that sets the atmosphere. Nobody know what you're doing, I'm just praying. Tell them I said to pray and to humble themselves. If they want the landhill now and then to seek my face. What you mean seek my face? I mean to come into my presence That tell him I said, Come here. He said to come into my come unto me, all you who labor the heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Amen Take my yoke upon you and learn of me. What I I'm gentle, I'm meek. And so when we seek the face of God, it still tells me that maybe they were not seeking his face. Reverend that was them. No, that's us. But take a moment during the course of your day. Folk may think you're crazy in your car, but just start mumbling the name of Jesus And see what something happened, but you want to get in his presence. I want to be in the space where God is, and all of a sudden, he changes the atmosphere when I seek his face And no, no, no, some of y'all know about sneaky. You want to sneak in and see, I can't miss it, but don't you know when you look into the throne room of God that you'll know that you're in his presence, and when you're in his presence, everything is gonna be alright? Tell him I said not Someone else's face, not the boss's face, not the government's face, but seek my face. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, I mean look at me. You remember the old safe come here? Look at me Whether you were telling a big one or not. No, look at me. No, don't don't look away from me. But look at me. And God is saying tonight, hey you. Come look at me. I want you to see my face. Come look at me. I want you to see what I can do in your life Bible talks about this sense of let me see your face. Moses, I just want to check you out. So you can't handle that. So you can't see my face and live. But when I pass by, I'll put you in the cliff of a mountain. And guess what will happen? You'll catch the afterdraft. Of when I go by. But whatever I get, I'm thankful if I can be in his presence. Anybody want to be in his presence tonight and just enjoy him? And note that God, because I'm with you and because I'm seeing your face, that no matter what I'm facing, everything is going to be alright. So you got to use your mind's eye Amen. I'm a visual learner. So I just imagine that I'm right in his presence. Can we do it? And say, you know what? Let me just picture this thing. Me? In the presence of a holy God. Seek my face. What the old song says, Oh I want to see him. Oh, you really do, huh? To look upon his face, there to sing forever of his saving grace on the streets of glory. Let me lift my voice. Cares all past. Home at last. Ever to rejoice. Now don't you feel better tonight? Say, Lord have mercy. I'm going to pray. I'm going to remain humble. I'm going to seek his face. And then all of a sudden, he says something else that will bust our bubble. Turn from your wicked ways. You mean yeah, turn from their wicked evil Backbiting. Nasty ways. But these are the people of God, yeah. I I know. But in order for the land to be healed, there's some stuff that we gotta deal with. That's that's the whole council of God Tell them I said to turn from what they're doing. Amen? The quality of being evil, morally wrong, taking part in wicked stuff, amen. Sin, iniquity. Can I confess tonight that I'm guilty? See, sometimes you've got to just say, you know what? Hi, I'm Tim. And I've had some wicked ways Hi, I'm Tim, and I've fallen short of the glory of God. Hi, feeling your own name, but he says in order for the land to be healed, they gotta turn from what they're already doing And that's some stuff that we do in our lives, amen, all of us, that you have just turned from it. Amen. It has turned you, but you have to turn from it and to begin to repent and say, God, I am sorry Amen. Anybody tonight want to say that yes, I confess I've not been all that I could be, but tonight I'm going to turn from that which has held me hostage, amen, in the world, but not what? Of the world. And he says to them, with all that I've laid out there, don't leave this part out. We want to jump to he'll heal the land. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. But first, to turn. It it means to make a a U-turn. Not like on 129 when nobody's looking, but a U-turn in your life. Lord, you've spared me, so therefore I'm gonna turn from that which has consumed me. That which has messed my mind up. Amen. Can I just get real tonight? Amen. Every now and then, any of us we've been in the world and our minds will slip back into some places they ought not to be. You call them good old days, but they're wicked days And their wicked ways, and their wicked thoughts, and we're gonna do what? Make a fool all the way around you turn And turn from that which is held up, our blessing, that which has held us up, he says to turn from your wicked ways. Do it. Tell him I say it. If you confess your sins, he's faithful and just to forgive you of your sins and to cleanse you of all unrighteousness. If you say that you don't sin, you make God a liar, and the truth, there it is again, it's not in you. And so therefore, I'm committing tonight To not just to pray and to be humble and to seek his face, but to turn from that which has held me hostage Don't you feel better about that tonight? And now it puts you in a position to say, you know what, the land can be healed, but wickedness is in the land. And wicked people are in the land. And therefore, unless they turn, I can hold back what I want to hold back. And I'm glad tonight that he gives us basic instructions. Now, on the backside of that, I get excited because I said, Lord, I thank you because you've done that. You know that I had missed the mark, and that's why you came. And that's why you went to that old rugged cross for my wickedness. That old rugged cross for the things that I've done and thought that did not please you. And as a result of that, he goes to the cross. And he sheds his blood. Uh-huh. And guess what happens then? He's buried in the borrowed tomb, but he gets up on the third day morning with all power in his hands. And because of that, every time I hear that, I get happy. Amen? And I just want to close again tonight with a group project Oh last night we did make a joyful noise to the land, Lord all ye land, and you should so tonight stand up. We're gonna close it out that way That we want to close out saying that I'm so glad, God, that you have brought me through this situation that I'm happy. And so if you're happy and you know it, clap your hands. If you're happy and you know it, clap your hands. If you're happy and you know it, stomp your feet If you're happy and you know it, shout for joy. If you're happy and you know it, say amen. If you're happy and you know it says, Lord, I thank you for bringing me through another day. And that's why I'm so happy. I sing because I'm happy. I preach because I'm happy. I serve because I'm happy. Why? Because of what he has done in my life If you're happy and you know it. Say I'm going to say, Lord, had it not been for you on my side, I would not have made it. And that's what makes me happy, that weeping may endure for a night But joy cometh in the morning. I'm so glad tonight. He's made me happy. I was sad, but he turned my expression. And tonight, are you happy? If you're happy and you know it, come on and just give God some praise tonight. Oh, I'm happy. I'm happy in Jesus I'm happy that she woke me up this morning. I'm happy that she started me on my way. I'm happy that she put food on my table. I'm happy that you put clothes on my back I'm happy because you kept me in my right mind. I'm happy. I'm happy. That's why I can know you'll heal the land. Or any of you're not happy yet. Anybody happy tonight? I'm happy so I can shout for joy Shout unto the Lord, all ye people, and just give God the praise. Heal our land I have prayed, I've become humble, I've sought your face, and I have turned from my wicked ways. And that took a load off all by itself. And that's why I can rejoice now in the Lord. Amen. Can you rejoice tonight? Come on, let's rejoice in the Lord. And let's just thank him for everything he has done. Heal our land. As you come tonight. I'm trying to practice what I preach. Yeah, I c I could stick with the good stuff. But when it comes to God's decision, the government can't heal the land, a commission can't heal the land. But people of like mind who believe that God can do a spiritual thing to turn us, the land will be healed. But more so the land, I'm praying that he might heal us. From those things in life that have wounded us. As you come tonight, perhaps you don't know Jesus Christ. In the pardon of your sins. I want to just encourage you tonight to give him your heart. Never take a chance that everybody knows Jesus. But his word is so plain, it's so clear. I want to say to you tonight that God sent his son. You know when I grew up I d I didn't make a lot of that. I just I was more afraid of mom and dad than I was God. But there came a day. Sit right there on that pew. I talked with Morris Williams today. I said, man, we sat there that night on Friday, scared to death. And on Friday night, the preacher came down and we were under pressure, man. We gotta look the part. He came down and we gave him our hands and confessed Christ as our personal Savior. Tonight I want to share that with you. You say, Reverend, I forgot everything you said. But don't forget this. That Jesus Christ is still in the saving business. And he wants to save you. You know, I I believe in hip stuff and you know 2015 church, but I believe that Jesus died for me. I don't want to ever leave a revival or sermon and rush over that. And the fact of the matter is sometimes we don't know if we're saved. Been in church but not quite sure what Romans 10, 9 and 10 says. If you confess with your mouth. Your mouth, the Lord Jesus, and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. The Bible says, Thou shalt be safe. And right now, just for 30 seconds, take inventory of your own life and say, you know what? Am I really safe? Close your eyes tonight all over this place. Ask yourself that question. If I died today, would there be any doubt in my mind about where I would spend eternity? If you've confessed Christ as your Savior and believe in your heart that He raised Him from the dead You shall be saved tonight. If you're not saved tonight, you can pray that prayer right now. It's nobody's business, but yours and the Lord's And say, Lord Jesus, I confess my sins unto you. I want to be saved. And right where you are, he'll save your soul. Oh yes, he'll do it. If you only believe tonight, I thank God tonight for salvation. Think about it for 15 more seconds. Am I saved? Or do I just look the part? God, I thank you even now for the heart that you're touching. I pray but now, God, that you might save because only you can save. I yield, I yield. What must I do to be saved? We thank you and we bless you in Jesus' name. If you know you're saved, you'd like to just give God a praise. Let's bow tonight. Father, we thank you. For reminding us that you will never leave us. I pray tonight that as we come, that I might decrease. And that you might increase. Save someone tonight. Encourage another. But when this time is done, may you get all the praise. And the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. We come to this final night. It's kind of a happy shade, huh? You you get excited to come and you share, and yet you know that uh the time comes when you have to make transition. But I have been blessed by your presence and most of all by your prayers. I said to my wife, she says, aren't you ready? I said, you're never ready, because the Holy Spirit, when you allow him, he will take you places that you did not plan to go. But our theme this week has been really just one passage from 2 Chronicles 7 and verse 14. If my people, which are called by my name, will humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways. Then will I heal from heaven and will forgive their sin and will heal their lantern. I want to wrap up By preaching from our theme all week, Heal Our Land, Part 3. We began on this week talking about God's people. That's who we are, uh God's people, God's kinfolk. Uh say that because we're connected, that we have something in common No matter where we live, no matter where we are from, that we have a heavenly father who sits high and who looks low. Connected. My people who are called by my name. Something about being called and know that you're called and that you're on a sign net for the Lord I believe that starts at an early age. Folk will ask you what you want to be. I'm not sure yet. But God has a call on your life, and there's nothing you can really do about it except to yield unto Him. Now you think if I thought I would be preaching, my God, I would have avoided every turn. But God has a plan for our life. Call us by his name. We're carriers. We take with us the good news of Jesus Christ. No matter where you go, we take that name with us. Sometimes persons will call the name only when they're in trouble. Oh Lord help me. But it's good to talk with him every now and then. Have a little talk with Jesus. Tell him all about your struggles. Amen. He'll hear your famous cry. He'll come and see about you. And then last night we did part two. Talking about God's plan, that God's had conditions for us. You just don't exist. But my people who are called by my name will humble themselves And then seek my face, be in my presence. And then we ended by saying to turn from our wicked ways. And we settled last night that oh yes No matter how you look, we have some ways about us that only God can change. Or are y'all not with me tonight? Y'all help me bring this thing on home tonight now. That we have to turn from our wicked ways and see there are ways. Amen. And we thank God that we're able to go in that direction last night. But I want to conclude tonight by taking the very last part of that passage. Then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and will heal their land. I'm talking about God's promises tonight. Unlike you and I, we are, some of us, will make a promise and break it before we even say it. I know you meant well. You had good intentions, but you have broken a promise. But God will never break his promise in our lives. And the Bible is filled with God's promises to us. In Genesis he tells Abraham, I will make you a great nation. I will bless you. Not might, but I will. Jeremiah 29, 11 says, I know the plans that I have for you. Prosper you is to give you a good future. That's God's promise. Psalm 37 says, to delight yourself in the Lord also. Amen. He'll give you the desires of your heart. John 15, 7. If you abide in me, and my word abide in you, you will ask what you will and what not might be given to you, but it shall be given to you. Philippians 4 19 and my God shall supply every one of your needs according to his riches in glory by oh yo y'all know some word tonight by Christ Jesus Romans 8:28. And we know that all things work together for good to them who love God, to them who are called according to his purpose. And then how appropriate tonight? Train up a child. And the way that they should go. And when they are old, they will not depart. They might run and they might hide, but my God, we're evidence that they cannot depart from that word. And so tonight we're talking about how God reassures us, how God realigns us, and how God reminds us about his promises. Then means something is about to happen. Then means look out. Then means you better watch it that all week long we've been saying that if you do this And that, and this, and that, but then he fills the blanking by saying, Now I'll do my part. Then will I Uh-huh. Hear from heaven, I'll forgive your sin, and I'll do what? I will heal the land. See, see, we can't heal the land, but he has to And he does that so well, he's healed it before. But you know, just in terms of reassuring, then will I hear from heaven. You know, God's word is that way. Heaven is his headquarters. Amen? Our Father which art in heaven. But heaven is a place, a prepared place for prepared people. And let me just tone the record by saying I plan to go to heaven. I've already made my reservations that it's not a might or an if. Anybody with me tonight, you got plans to go to heaven? Oh, you don't seem too excited about that. That one day I'm gonna stand there in heaven and throw my crown at his feet and says, Oh, how I made it over. Is that it's reassuring to know that the God that we serve, that He will hear from heaven In other words, he's already in heaven, but he'll hear you from heaven. So that when you pray, God will answer your prayer. Let me ask you a question. Has he ever answered your prayer? Has never made a way in your life? Has they ever turned just sad face to a smile? God will do that. I'm glad I've got a journalist or two in the house tonight. You say, well, how do you know? Well let's fact check it. And you look at your own life, you know what God can do And there might be some doubters in the world who think that we're Jesus freaks, think that we're all we are. We're kind of peculiar people, we're royal priesthood, amen And so we let folk know that my God is not some big guy up there. He's God all by himself He's God who sits high. And so he reassures us. I want to let you know that I gave you a promise that I will hear from heaven. And that's not maybe, but I will That's good news. It's really true. Psalm 3410 says, I sought the Lord and he He heard me, oh yes he did, and delivered me from all my fears That's why I love the Lord today. Fear thou not, for I am with thee, be not dismayed. For I am thy God, I will strengthen thee, yea, I will help thee. Yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness. Maybe you came scared tonight Don't you know that God can reassure you he'll do just what he said he would? God has not given you the spirit of fear Huh? But of power, love, and a sound mind. So when the devil says, Woo, you say, get thee behind me, I've been reassured today that my God will do what Say what he will hear from heaven. That's why I love the Lord. He heard my cry And pitied every groan for as long as I live, uh, that I will hasten unto his word. My God, it becomes personal anytime we stand to proclaim a good. I talked to him this morning. And he heard my prayer. I talked to him a little bit earlier, and he heard my prayer. It was a heaven-to-earth connection But a heart-to-heart connection. Anybody deny? I'm trying to move on from this forward. Have you heard from heaven? Don't you know that God will speak to you? Folk may think you're crazy, but God speaks Through his word. He speaks through his Holy Spirit. He speaks through circumstances. He speaks through other people. And sometimes, can I just testify? I would have still been in my sin had he not knocked me down. And spoke through my circumstance, he still hears. Let him know. Then I will hear from heaven. But he realigns us. Why? We're some shaky people. Yes we are. Ever got in your car that didn't ride right? Pulling to the left or the right, you need an alignment in your car. Well, I'll ignore it now. Sooner or later, the wheel will start to shake. And every now and then in life, circumstances will cause your life to shake. But he realigns us by saying, I will forgive their sins. And I don't want to be a sigh of relief. Why? Because we're sinners, all saved by grace. Romans 3:23. All have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Not some, but all Isn't that good news today that he speaks from heaven and says, I will forgive your sin. Oh, you won't feel that thing yet. See, when you have sinned and fallen short of his glory, to know that he says it and declares it, then I will forgive your sin. Romans 6 23, the wages of sin is still death Get the God eternal life through Christ Jesus our Lord, but I'm glad today that when my life is going all across the road, He realigns me by forgiving me for the things I have done in my life. See, you gotta be honest. You can't reach some folks because they think that you're all holy folks. You never done anything wrong. Amen. But when you can say, you know what, I've not always been what I am today In fact, you catch me on the wrong day. Amen. Some of us will lose our religion. But don't you know that God will forgive your sin? Don't think that you are perfect. You're just forgiven I love that bumper sticker. That no, we're not perfect, but the world will try to make you seem like you're perfect. Every now and then you've got to lay some folk out in the name of Jesus. Get him straight in Jesus' name. But every now and then as we go, he will realign our lives. Put us back on the right path. And I'm glad about that. Why? It's because of what Jesus did. He sent his only begotten son. And he came and he served and he preached and he healed And he died, and he rose, and that is the news. He shed his precious blood. What can wash away my sin? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. What can make me whole again? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. Oh precious is that flow. Amen. And that is it today. That when your life is out of balance, you can depend on the Lord to come and to see about you. He realigns our lives. Every now and then our land is not in the shape it ought to be because we've not done what we ought to do. Make it your own personal assignment. I'm gonna treat folk better. Even though they talk about me, I must still pray for. Amen. So even when it comes to realigning, that the word that God used through Solomon was to let them know I will forgive their sin. And that's what's the blessing about this is that man may not forgive you. You may not want to forgive yourself, but when God Forgives us. It's how He sees us is through the blood of Jesus. Don't count nobody out and say, But see them through His blood. Oh you were a rascal too, but and when I look at you with this filter on, I see somebody who can make it Because I see it through the blood of Jesus. Everybody has an opportunity. Don't count anybody out. That comes from a realigned life. Glad about that tonight. He realigned my life. Keeps me in balance in the world, but not of the world. Amen. And I never try to act like I'm so holy ghost, but I let folk know I've been there and done that. And we ought to testify to our children. They think you ain't never done anything wrong But my God said, yeah, I messed up, but look at me now. Look at the before and the after. Here's what God can do in a blessed life and a real-life life. But finally, it's not just how he reassures us that he can heal the land and realigns us, but he also reminds us that it will happen. Not that I might heal the land, but not that it's a possibility that I can bring unity and love, but I will do it. And so we waited all week for this. Reverend I already knew on Tuesday and Wednesday what you were gonna say. I saw the whole passage. I got to peek at it. But I know you were gonna heal the land. But getting to that place and to be reassured that he will heal the land. He will heal our spiritual condition. He will heal our emotional condition. He will heal our spiritual, emotional, and physical condition. He promised he would do it. Now God is now a man that he should lie Amen. He is truth. And I'm glad about that tonight. That even though I may mean well that he will continue to let us know that he will. Does anybody believe that tonight? That God will heal the land? I'm just doing a poll. How many folk believe that God can heal the land Oh, that's about ten percent. Let me just try it again. How many folk believe that God can heal our land? Oh that's about fifty percent. Let me keep on going. It's no gallop poll, but how many folk know that God can heal the land and it starts in you? Don't say let me see what somebody's gonna do, but I know what my redeemer can do in my life that it's not a maybe, and I don't mind saying this. I'm in the news and one of the experts say I don't know What is C and N say? I don't really care. What is in me? What is thought? It don't matter. It's what the Word of God is saying. We're dealing with the truth Amen. Amen. Oh, I've been in the news for a long time, but I know the real truth. It's the truth of God. Do you believe he'll heal the land tonight? And so even now let's prepare ourselves to say, you know what? I've got to know that he will do it, and it's because of his truth. I decided this week I wouldn't go hot tech. You know, I got an iPad, I got an iPhone, I got two iPhones. But I say I'm gonna go to Walmart and get me a Bible. I got him on the phone, I got the app. But there's something about this word. Being able to feel it. It's still the number one bestseller. Oh yes, it is. Anybody got their Bible tonight, or there might be one on the pew? Just take that Bible tonight and say, you know what? This is the truth of God Amen. And once you begin to get that in the Bible says, in the beginning was the word, and the word was the cherry hole now. Amen. And so we've got to get the word in us. That's how the land can be healed. By getting the truth of God in us. So I leave you tonight. So I pack up my suitcase and prepare to leave Live Oak. I leave tonight knowing what God can do. Knowing what God will do in his people. That's why you can always deal with the truth of the Word of God today. And know that you take the truth with you, it'll make a difference. I love this old hymn of the church. Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord. He is trampling up the vintage with the grapes of wrath of sword. He had loosed his faithful lightning of his terrible swift sword. His truth is marching off Do you believe his truth is marching on? Glory, glory, hallelujah, glory, hallelujah. His truth is marching on. You know what? Now, some of y'all was in the band And you march. And I thank God tonight that we're not just people who walk in the spirit. But can I just say we also march in the spirit? Oh, some of y'all are able to get up tonight and move a leg or two. Come on, let's stand and say, you know what? His truth is marching on. And then right now do a little march. Just a little up and down if you can. Is this truth marching on? Glory, glory, hallelujah. Glory, hallelujah. His truth is marching on. How do I know? Because he's marched into my life When I was down, he marched in at the right time and said, You know what? Here I am. I am the truth. When I had no joy, he marched in to my life. And said, I give you joy unspeakable. When I had no peace, he says that weeping may endure for a night, but joy comes in the morning. But to keep you in perfect peace if your mind is stained on him. And tonight we carry with us the truth of the Word of God. It will never lose its power. I'm glad for the word tonight. I can take it and hide it in my heart that I will not sin against you. Isn't that good news tonight? I'm glad that I know the real truth. Jesus is real. I know. How do I know? Because I can feel him in my heart How do I know because I'm walking right? How do I know because I'm talking right? How do I know what's the evidence? He's changed my life around And so the healing of the land begins in the heart tonight. Isn't that good news tonight? Now on Wednesday, we did a group project Oh some of y'all remember the group project. Yes you did. We stood up and said, you know what? Make a uh a joyful noise unto the Lord all ye lands. Serve the Lord with gladness. Come before his present with singing, know you the Lord, He's God. It is He who hath made us and not we ourselves. We're his people and the sheep of his pasture. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, into his courts with praise. Be thankful unto him and bless his name, for the Lord is good. And his mercy is everlasting and his truth endureth to all generations. Amen. And then we came on last night and we talked about if you're happy and you know it, clap your hands. If you're happy and you know it, stomp your feet. If you're happy and you know it, shout for joy. If you're happy and you know it, say amen Well, live book as I pack up tonight. I want to leave you with one more group project. Amen. It's one that even the children would know. He's got the whole world in his hands Yo yes he does. He's got the little bit of baby in his hands. I think I saw a baby tonight. Amen. He's got that baby in his hands. He's got me and you, brother In his hands. He's got me and you, sister, in his hands. Amen. I'm glad today he's got everybody here in his hands Aren't you glad tonight that he's got you in his hands? He says if you're in my hand, the devil can't pluck you out. There's something about his hands Amen. And that's what the Bible says tonight. That it's something about putting it in the hands of the Lord. God promised, He keeps us God promised He'd lead us. God promised He would deliver us. So I come tonight with a report to say this just then. God is still good. There's breaking news, He's still a healer. Yes, can I break in the programming and tell you he'll make a way out of no way? Oh, but God I serve will do that and more. And so I stopped by tonight with just my own little testimony Yeah, I grew up here, but I left. And I began to go all off the road, but God brought me back. It's because the truth was in my heart Amen. So I know he'll heal the land and I know he'll heal you. So we leave tonight, and I don't want to leave you, but I got to go. Don't you know that God will make a way? God will keep you. God will hold you in his right hand. Won't he do it tonight? Has he done it for you? I'm just talking about me, but you can know tonight if he's ever brought you through You were sick, but he healed you. Amen. Won't he do it tonight? Oh, yes, he will. God will not break his promise. If My people, which are called by my name, shall And pray and seek my face then. Will I hear from heaven? I'll forgive this sin and will heal the land. And see, we're waiting for the land to be healed, but God is already doing it. And he's doing it through each of us. As we come tonight, perhaps you've come this way. I just want to encourage you in the Lord to take the Lord with you. And you become the representative and the ambassador of what is right in the world. Some folks are so negative they go, oh no, it'll never get any better. Naysay is I believe that God can do anything And that he will. I pray you are helped in some way by this message. Be sure to follow Harvest Christian Ministries on radio, CD, podcast, or over our new website. It's come toharvest. org. That's come to harvest, C-O-M-E, the number two, and harvest. org. Take time to experience the website and all that we have to offer as a ministry. In the meantime, pray that God will continue to allow us to reach a community for Christ for the cause of the kingdom. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin. Have a great day in the Lord.