Father, as we come today, we are so thankful that you provided us with a document called the Word of God. We thank you for all 66 books. From Genesis to Revelation. We thank you for the Holy Spirit who inspired man to write it. And we thank you that by following the word, it puts us on the right path as we stand today. May we decrease. And may you increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. And when this time is done, we will give your name all of the praise and all of the glory In Jesus' name. Amen. There's a word from the Lord today that comes from 1 Chronicles there in the Old Testament. It is there in the thirteenth chapter. I think sometime I spoil you with the screen. I'm not gonna spoil you today. I'm just gonna uh Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, Joshua, Judges, Ruth, First Samuel, Second Samuel, First Kings. Chronicles. There in 1 Chronicles 13, 13 and 14 it reads, He did not take the ark to be with him. And the city of David instead, he took it to the house of Obed Edom the Giddite The ark of God remained with the family of Obed-Edom in his house for three months, and the Lord blessed his household and everything he had. I want to preach today from the Samonic title Home Improvement. Home Improvement. I confess today that if you look at my resume, what you will not find is handy man. My wife would testify to that. It's not something that I do, but I am getting better. You don't believe it? Ask my friends. I become an armchair apprentice. I I know how to hold tools and hand them to the proper people And you may every now and then bump into me in one of those home improvement stores. And they I'm along with someone else trying to find the right owl And in fact, yesterday that was the case. I was hanging out with someone with skills. Uh I do have a tape measure. We got what we needed to complete a small project But just being in that store confirmed to me what I had heard is that during the pandemic, a lot of people uh who could not get the professional uh labor begin to do projects. Maybe some of you here uh started a project, maybe you finished it, but it turns out it is a half a trillion dollar business Home improvement. I do have a truck, so I can carry things, but I am getting better to God be the glory I believe this morning that the God who formed us and made us is also a God of home improvement. He's in that business. He wants to stop by your home and my home and improve us. Let's get right to the text. In the text today, Ezra writes this particular book. 1 Chronicles. It is a book that re-describes the people of Israel who had long been in captivity. And now they're making a new move, but they really put much stock then and even now in the Ark of the Covenant. Amen. The Ark of a Covenant is a gold-plated wooden chest that houses two tablets bearing the Ten Commandments that were handed down there at Mount Sinai to Moses. It is believed that in the Ark of the Covenant, that you have Aaron's rod, that you have manna, and that you have in that Uh things that are reminding you of the presence of God. We're a symbolic people. Things that you may have now that remind you and may bring you believe someone closer to you. Amen? Does that make sense this morning? And so in addition to The Ark of the Covenant. There on top is what's called the mercy seat. And you'll see that on the mercy seat there are two cherubims. Angelic beings that are there. And they were carried with two poles, usually by four persons from the tribe of the Levites They are put through the golden rings and taken from place to place. The Ark of the Covenant was actually housed in what we call the Holy of Holies. Let me just go ahead and do a preview now. When you get to Vacation Bible School, we're going to be unpacking and taking a deep dive into the covenant. And the tabernacle. So sign up for that. I think I could get my commercial in right there. But it turns out that this, which represents the presence of God, ends up in the house of Obed-Edam. His very name means the servant of God. Edom means that one who causes to blush. So here's the story. as told that Obedidin may have just been having a normal day and that he hears all the commotion in his neighborhood. And it's not long before he sees King David coming up the way with thousands of people, horns blaring, glaring. He's coming that way. And what is seen is the Ark of the Covenant in a cart, oxen taking it from place to place. Well, that's not really the way God wanted it transported. But sometimes we do things the way we want to do them, and God has to correct us. So as they're going along, one of the oxen begins to slip, and other, one of the men going alongside, reaches and he grabs the ark. and dies on the spot. David is certainly uh really moved by this And at that moment, he ordered that the Ark of the Covenant stay at the home of Obed-Edom. David, I believe, had a reason for leaving the Ark in this home But there was no resistance to it. And over time, O Bedidin would testify that there were some results because of the presence of God. Reasoning. Verse 13 says, He did, that is David, not take the ark to be with him. He was heading toward Jerusalem, but instead He took it to the house of Obed Edom. I said, well, I wonder if there were other homes along the way. How how did that house get picked? And I surmise that it says that he's one who honors God. He's one of faith He is one who I believe knew what the ark was, had some background on the tabernacle, and so perhaps that's why David left it there. It's something about having a firm foundation. You know in Matthew 7 where it talks about the parable that you build your house on rock or you build it on sand. And you know when the storms of light come through, one of two things will happen. And you'll stand or you'll be challenged. Amen. And so I believe that he looked at this. And began to say, perhaps this is the place where we will leave the presence of God. Let me ask you: do you think that it's possible that your home And my home could have been that place? Couldn't you imagine that, yes, I just want to drop it off here for a season Uh I just want to uh do it with you and I not having time to prepare. I mean, think about it. If Obedim had known It was coming. They would have prepared and they would have gotten busy. Wait a minute, the ark's coming here. Let's get ready for it. But every now and then God would just drop in. Amen. You ever had anybody just drop in? Now that's real country. Folk don't just drop in anymore. You can look through the people, look at the ring and say, Do I want to answer that door? Oh some of y'all done that. But to have the presence of God and the form of the ark to be in the space where you live. and the space where you sleep and the space where you eat. I want you to just think about that for a moment. Because, see, God knows what we need in our homes and what we need in our hearts. I want you to see both the physical and the spiritual. Amen? But there was a reason, and there's a reason why God stops by your experience and my experience. The question is: will we let them in? We allow him to come in. He will not force this way, but I just think God wants to be in our homes to improve our home. Amen. Is that something you desire today? Is that something you would welcome today? It's to have the presence of God residing right where you are Blessed be the God today. So reasoning, but I thought it was interesting that there was no resistance to the ark being there. Verse 14 says, the ark of God remained with the family of Obedidim in his house for three months. Not just overnight, but three months. He didn't seem to question whether or not it belonged in his house. It stayed for three months at the home of Otbed Didam, the number three biblically means divine wholeness. It means completeness. It means perfection. But are you and I resisting this? See, sometimes we want God just to be a part-time God. You stop in when I prepare it for you. I got something going on. Stop in next weekend. It's okay if you come by Sunday if you call in advance, but the God that we serve and that you serve is a God who will just show up. Anybody glad today that God shows up? Amen. It's been said that the home is where the heart is. And when God shows up, He's coming into what? Into our hearts. There's some things that we're trying to reconcile, and when the presence of God is there Our heart softened. I know we big and bad and we don't take no stuff. But boy, when God stops in and begins to soften your heart by the way of the Holy Spirit, you and I become different people Do you like who you are when God stops sin? Do you like who you are when God begins to minister to you? I believe that he talks. I believe that he speaks. I believe that he shows up. I want him to come by and to improve my home. Amen. I'm glad about that today. And you know John fifteen and five, because as the ark stayed there, it remained there, the text says. John 15 and 5, Jesus reminds his disciples, I am the vine. You are the branches. If you Remain in me, and I in you you will bear much fruit. Apart from me you can do nothing. He can stay longer than three months. Amen. I I hadn't planned no, but I'm glad that he stopped sending stays for a little while there and there was no fussing. No disagreement nothing in the text say now. Oh Bedalum, you didn't tell me and sometimes when God stops through He comes at a time when we were going through trying to do something and get the Holy Ghost will show up, but then the enemy tries to show up too. But I declare the word says, greater is he that's within me than he that is within the world. This sense of not resisting. Not being afraid. Not trying to keep God at arm's length. I know I've said it before, but you know we we sometimes it's not convenient for us. For God to show up. Sometimes it's not the right time for us, but aren't you glad sometimes He'll break in? Ever had a break in? I'm glad sometimes he he a break into our experience and his presence will be felt And when folks come to your house, when they come into your presence, they detect something very unusual about you because you've been spending time not with an ark But you've been spending time in the presence of God. I don't know about you, but when I come away from those moments, I feel good, I feel lighter, I feel like giving God some praise because what I've allowed him to come in And to rearrange my home. I allowed them to come in and to change some things about me. And I thank God for that. No resistance. No fussing and fighting, okay. You want well you want it over here? Well well that you can put it there. It was there. And the reasoning behind it. But I believe that it was apparent to Obedidim that he could see the results. Another part of verse 14 says, the Lord blessed his household and everything he had. Oh, you want it now, don't you? Yeah, come on in, God. If you're gonna do that, still stay six months. But but this was the proof. That those who live in the house and those who live in your home, uh, that there are blessings that come. A later scripture will show that some of the sons of Obadidim uh became gatekeepers there at the temple. They were in positions of trust. That's not happen, chance. And because we've allowed God to come in to improve our home, allow him to inspect us deep. That blessings will flow. I'm not one of these preachers to say, you know, you name it and claim it, but I'm glad that I'm blessed today. Anybody in the house blessed today? Amen. Anybody know that it's not because of you, but you just blessed. Sometimes folks, how you say, I'm blessed. And that covers a multitude of things. We're not talking about what's in your pocket, but ought you to know that you are blessed with joy, that the joy of the Lord is your strength, that you are blessed with peace. So you can keep on going, smiling. Folk don't know you're going through, but you have the peace that passeth all understanding. Everything was blessed. I imagine his crops were blessed. What's wrong with Little Beth Didum? He got a good crop this year. His livestock look a little fatter than folks in the neighborhood. Why? Because God has spent time in his home. Deuteronomy 3 talks about you will be blessed in the city. And you will be blessed in the country. I've experienced both. I'm a country boy riding on a greyhound bus heading to the city. I know he'll bless you in the city. And I know he'll bless you in the country as well. But you know what History will record that David came back. Three months later he hoisted the Ark of the Covenant the right way and began to take it to Jerusalem. On a cart. But not on a cart this time, but with the poles. But where is the art today? It's a question that's fascinated biblical scholars and theologians and Bible students and archaeologists for centuries. Where is it? Hollywood tried to find it. The readers of the Lost Ark. Harrison Ford and his crew had no success. But no worries today. We don't need the Ark. We need Christ Jesus, our Lord and Savior, who came and who died and he rose. That's what we need. If you're still looking for an ark. You're looking for something to put in your home, you just put Jesus in your heart. And therefore you carry around with you the presence of God. Jesus who came was in the home improvement business He made house calls. Think about it. His father was a carpenter. Yeah, so he knew about buildings and specks and he knew about blueprints. I told y'all I knew a thing or three. Amen But he made house calls. If you were to ask Peter's mother-in-law, she would say, you know what? Jesus came by the house. I wasn't feeling good But when he stopped into my house, something happened. The Bible says that when Jesus made a house call, she got up and said, Can I serve you? Aren't you glad about that today? That Jarius, somebody who was known there in the local synagogue, says, You know what? My daughter is in a bad way. She's dying. Can I go to your house when Jesus stopped saying And the girl is healed. She's alive and well. Zacchaeus in the sycamore tree, looking down, trying to get a little bird's eye view of Jesus. Jesus speaks him out. Hey, you, I'm going to your house today Aren't you glad today that God who serves will come by your house? And now and then he will invite himself Come here, Martha, Mary, and Lazarus. I believe it was his bed and breakfast. Because he would stop by Bethany every now and then for some rest, but he was in the home And while Martha was in the kitchen, Mary was sitting close to him. Martha got an attitude. Mary says, I'm getting the greater thing because Jesus is in the house. Aren't you glad today that Jesus is in the house? Well, one day he stopped by my house before I became a homeowner. He stopped by the house of the Lord. Or you heard my story, it was the Springfield Baptist Church. That was fifty-eight years ago. He stopped by and he's still making renovations on me I don't know about you, but I'm glad today that he stops sin and tears out the o. It says, any any person be In Christ there are new creatures. Behold, old things are passed away and all things become new. I'm feeling kind of new today because God has sent Jesus to stop in on me and aren't you glad he did it today? The old song says this old building Uh keeps on leaning. You got to move. You got to move. And you ought to just be open today to allow him to come in because when he comes in, he gives you a full guarantee Amen. And every time he stops by my experience, I'm so much better. My mind is better. And my heart is better. When Jesus stops in Well another one of his home improvement projects. Well, blessed be the God today, as I was sitting there on that morner's bench. Fifteen years ago, I remember the old mother saying, Come by here. Oh Lord, come by here. Somebody's crying, Lord, come by here. Somebody's praying, Lord, come by here. Anybody want him to come here? by us. I know you put your alarm on before you left, but when you get back there, say, Lord, I want to open the front door and I want to let you in. But not just my physical house, but I want to let you into my heart today. Hallelujah. Home improvement. Come on, give God the praise today. Come on, give God the praise today that I'm better than I was. He's still working on me. He's not done. With me yet, and I'm glad today that the God that I serve is a God who's always passing up and always fixing up. But you know what? One day it won't matter Because I'll be with him and he promised me a new body. Isn't that good news today? Home Improvement. You need a little work, huh? I know what a crowbar is. I know what a Phillip Head screwdriver is. Uh I I know a vice grip. Come on, fan today God is calling for you and I to make a house call today. Father, we thank you for this moment. Thank you that Obedim could testify, man. We stopped in things got better. And God allowed him, because of his faithfulness, realize it wasn't really about the ark. It's about the Savior. If there's one today, God, in this place, if there's one today watching who is in need of repair. Their hearts are broken, their minds are confused, and they just need to hear from you. Thank you for stopping by this house called Harvest. Father, in the name of Jesus, save someone today. Turn that heart around and may they get to know you as Lord and Savior. Oh, how we thank you for who you are. God, even from this time forward, help us to be aware and cognizant that you want to reside. In our space and in our hearts. May we invite you in today in Jesus' name. Amen.