Let's uh let's look even now in our Bibles to the book of Isaiah, the sixth chapter of Isaiah. And there verse number 18, just one passage that spoke to me, and I asked the Lord to help me to shed some light on it. You found it say amen. Amen. It says, no longer will violence be heard in your land, nor ruin or destruction Within your borders, but you will call your walls salvation and your gates Praise. We'll talk this morning from the Samadic title Hope in Our Darkest Hour. Hope in Our Darkest Hour. Evil is that which is morally wrong. That which is sinful, that which is wicked. Evil behavior includes Committing sins against someone, and in particular committing sins against God. Evil made its debut in the Garden of Eden. Showed up there and conquered up a lie and caused Adam and Eve to make the wrong choice. Telling them what God said when they already knew what God said. The enemy tries to change our minds and make us doubt ourselves. He was successful. That serpent. That raster was my mother used to call him, old Sloughfoot. But evil didn't stop there. connected with violence in that same family, the first murder recorded where Cain murdered his brother. Evil. Jealousy at the root. It didn't stop there. Evil and violence showed up at Balpa And there on an old rugged cross we saw those with hate crucified our Savior. No surprise because he said that I will be double crossed, I will be beaten, I'll be lied upon, I will die, but on the third day I will rise again. Evil and violence have found themselves in our history. boarded ships with slaves from West Africa heading to this shore. Millions died in the Middle Passage. Evil and violent. Nazi Germany, Jews gassed by the millions, but we're familiar with evil and we're familiar with violence. evil and violence claim the lives of persons like Abraham Lincoln and John F. Kennedy and Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and somebody that we know a tragedy where evil and violence were at work. Over the past few days and weeks we've seen this happening in places like Texas. And in New York, evil bowls. Evil people bollow ass And we must go beyond our thoughts and our prayers. While they may be well-meaning, we we we can't just stop there. But we must not allow evil and violence to steal the headline on the study. Or more about you. Even during the course of the week, I said, well, Sunday comes. And when I know, when Sunday comes, I got an opportunity to to lift up the name of Jesus. Yes, I can do it at home. But it's something about getting with the states. And say, you know what, no matter what's going on, our hope is built On nothing worse. Amen? So I I stopped by with some hope in our darkest hour. Some time ago a pastor colleague of mine I started a church in the Hampton area of Baltimore City and he put up on his marquee the neighborhood Hope dealer. I thought that was unique. In other words, he was dealing, well y'all caught that dealer. He was dealing hope. That's right. That every point he came to He has some hope to deliver. And I thought about that thing. I said, you know, as those of us who are in the body of Christ, in spite of what we've experienced, If we don't have hope, who has hope? That's right. And yes, we've lamented with those around us and say, this is really horrible, but then it is. But but we have not lost our In the text today it is Isaiah. Let's call him the modern day Hope dealer. He writes over in the 60th chapter and 18th verse about all the disobedience that's taking place. Isn't that a familiar thing? That folks mess up. God forgives them, calls them back, they mess up again. Can I get a witness? Cal raised of the next. But blessed be the God that he will spend someone, in this case, a prophet. A mouthpiece to remind the people that they need to be humble. People who put God on the back burner. It may seem strange to you that some people Don't believe in God. That's right. They could care less. They made it on their own merits and it causes you to s to craze. I saw somebody crazy. Oh my God. But but but that was us. We played church, we went to church, but in the midnight hours, after hours, we were just like them. And so I guess stops by to help them to realize to imagine that they were brighter. days ahead. Hope filled in our darkest hour. And that's what's unfolding in this passage. And when I read this, I I thought about it. That's kind of powerful, Isaiah. What are you saying here? And you've written this. And I said, what? is too hard for God. It says no longer will violence be heard in your land. Violence. God wrote about it by way of Moses in the first book of the Bible, Genesis 6 and 11. Now the earth was corrupt in God's sight and was full of violence. I've alluded to it. Violence didn't just start yesteryear. That's right. Amen. We always had to deal with the violent societies. That's right. won't be talking about violence and that when when God comes and does his divine work, that violence won't make the headline news. But I just believe that God is able Yes he is. Yes he is. No matter how bad it looks, that God is still a God of hope. I could just plant my seed right there that I've got a hope In the Lord. Yeah, Reverend, I hear what you're saying. I hear what you preachers are saying, but you need to get to the street and you need to get a new plan. And I hear people saying They need a new crime plan. What we need is a Christ plan. Go ahead, Pastor. Hallelujah. I mean I I run for the police commissioner and of different jurisdictions and the mayor, etc. Nice people, but they just like us. Amen. Except we've got the power, yeah. To speak it. Amen? But but to say that that that that violence will no longer be heard. Just think about that. We've had pockets of time when we've felt peace that passeth all understanding. But when I come by today As the hope dealer. Amen. These are parting words that Jesus even said just John 16, 33. These things I have spoken to you that in me you might have peace. But in the world you shall have tribulation, but be of good cheer, for I have overcome the world. I just believe that. No better roses. But I believe even in the tough times that God is still present. My God you each experienced some painful moments in your life. Folks are warning, where is your God? He's right here. I know it may not look like I'm not going to get through this, but God needs a sleep God is not out on the break. God is not on a five-star vacation. God is yet alive. God's been it before. I can feel it. In my hands. I can feel him in my feet. I can feel them all over me. Hope in our darkest. Yeah, yeah. This promise of hope. And then he goes on to say that no ruin or destruction Will be in your borders. Sounds like Disney Land. You mean is it really like that? Can God do better? Yes, he can. Had God done that in your life? You were in a situation where everything was falling down around you? And God came through for you. I don't want to push you this morning. Has that been your experience? Have you seen God work and you knew it was God? Hallelujah. That's the difference. Instead of retaking the credit, he gets all the glory. Isaiah score hope to the people and talk about how God would provide for them. How God would protect them. How God would defend them. How God would defeat enemies, this devastation and destruction, God It's yet a God of hope. You get nothing else today. So now the pastor said that Isaiah said that God is a God of hope. And somebody may ask you, well, who is Isaiah? And who is your pastor? It don't matter. The God that we serve is a God who is totally in charge. He can do anything. Any time, anyway. That's the God. I mean, that's what God means. I said, no, I'm gonna go ahead and do faith part three because I told the people that's what I was gonna do. Okay. Guess what You are preacher. If you don't have any hope, who else has hope? You are a Christian. If you were gloom and doom, well again, it's not Christian. If he upset it and don't have no hope, I have no hope either. Amen. Hope that God in securing these borders would prevent the loss of life and property. God is a protector. Yes. Psalm 121 and 8 says the Lord shall preserve thy going out and by coming in from this time forth and even But there's something about speaking his name. Amen. I love what Psalm 1810 says the Lord is A strong tower. Amen? The righteous will run to him for colour. No longer will ruin of destruction be within your borders. No longer where violence be spoken, but when I got to the latter portion of this You know how to excited. Because I've never seen this passage before. You know, some words are familiar. But every now and then God will show you a passage that you've never seen before, and it was this part. But you will call your walls Salvation and your date praying. And then I went to the message Bible because the message translation That's kind of street talk. It says the people will name their main street Salvation Wake. It will install a praise part at the center of time. Isn't that good news today? Hallelujah. Hope turns to joy in the midst of what we are going through. In the midst of evil and violence, God is still worthy to be praised. He's no less God now than he was then. He's the God as mom and daddy would say, who sits high and he looks low. That used to scare me. Amen? That God got an eye with everything you're doing, even when nobody else is watching you, that we gotta be held accountable. Well you gotta do some stuff you all. Mama and daddy just know and nobody knows. Bless me the God heal you and he still looked for your eyeballs. A God who has a perspective Genesis 1 for the 1 says, so God created mankind in his own image. My God, what a template that you come from. Genesis 131. God store all that he had made and it was very good. But what happened along the way? Sam has creeped in and got comfortable. Amen? Sam has moved in. and talking stuff and not mankind's will for disobedience to the law of God. Just know we can find our hope in Christ. He is the hope of glory. And when you try everything and you try everyone, the old papers say, uh, what's the matter with Jesus? He's alright. He doesn't know what Jesus. What's the matter for him? He is alright. And they would say I tried him and he's alright. Can I ask you a question this morning? Have you tried him? And have you found him to be alright? When you were at your lowest moment in your darkest hour, Every time, every giving him a shot, giving him a try today. Amen. He will make things alright. Amen. When he went to the cross, he made things alright. When he was beaten and crucified, he made things alright. When he rose on the third day morning, he made things. Alright. Yeah. When he got up, things were made alright. Hope is is all around us. We just met it. Amen. Hope. is in the lost and found section. And all you gotta do is is go claim your home. Amen? I got my claim ticket and I I just showed up because I need some home Amen. And we've got to do that. Come on to him and just say, Lord, I need you in this situation. Won't you? Do it today? And once you get that hope, don't be greedy. Don't hold on to. but let's notice because a child, I I was hopeless, but then I got hoped. And when God hoped me, I can tell somebody else. He'll be right there for you. Tell me our testimony. Folks will look this weakness there. We'll see how the Christian is responding. Well, every now and then they look lovely love by a shout in the house. Blessed be the God today. Isaiah says that well Yeah. It's like we've gotten spiritual amnesia. 48 28 to 31 says, Has thou not known? Has thou not heard that the everlasting father? Yes. The creator of the ends of the earth fainteth not, neither is he weary. Here's our look He giveth power to the faith. And the devil have no might, he increases strength. Even the youth shall faith, and the young men shall utterly fall. But they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their spirit. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint Aren't you glad you serve a God like that today? That no matter what you're going through, what you hold is, I'm holding some more. And the truth of the matter is, is that even in this here and now, school And very soon. We're going to see the king. No more crying there. We're going to see the king. No more dying there. We're going to see the king. I know, I know you said, well, Reverend I almost talked to my boy nowhere right now. From black be the God. We have hope in what? A new heaven and a new earth. And so that's the good news to measure in your dark hour. In your down hour, in your time of disappointment. and distress and depression, I dare you to put some hope in the recipe. I can't cook one leaf. But I used to watch Mama make those cakes and I still get them. That a bowl now for my wife. Can I have it? Can I lift the book? But looking at through all that stuff, and then she put in Some of that extract that would change the flavor. If I tell you that God has set us hope Yeah. As the expect, you want flavor and favor in your life? I tell you to put the focus. I tell you to say, Lord, I want to feel it, but I hope in you. In your darkest whole shows up. Is there was speaking prophetically? What God had told him on what to expect. You know, I feel better now that I turned and pivoted toward this message. Why? It helped me. Yeah, poor it helped you. That is the word of God today. Yes, sir. We can't be gloom and doom folks. You know, in my thoughts and prayers. said to a co-worker, what are your thoughts? The word says, your thoughts are not my thoughts. And your ways are not my ways. So clarify that. That the Lord can make a way. What you pray, not about Washington. I'm praying about a God who can change things around. Those are mine. Yes. In prayers without being political, but to be prophetic. So so so we must renew our minds today. Yes, thank you so much. Just put that soft there. Great is thy thing. God can do anything. Father, we come. Standing on your promises today. Believing what has been documented in the Holy Writ. And walking away from it saying, I got hope. I'm a whole dealer. But as we come today, they are also a hopeless. That's why you said Jesus to die our souls to save. There's one today in this place, there's one today streaming. I pray in the name of Jesus that you might give them hope that comes from knowing Jesus Christ. No 20-day plan, no reinvention, no makeover would do. it but it's only through Jesus Christ. Know the name of which men and women can be saved, but by the name of Jesus. Every knee shall bow. Yes. Every tongue shall be fixed. Father, I pray in the name of Jesus. as an ambassador for you, that you might touch that heart. Wherever they are in their walk. And if you don't, know him. Never experienced him to prayer to praise Lord Jesus coming to my heart. I am a sinner. Desire a Savior. Save me today. Yes, Lord. Do what we pray now. Yes, Batter. In Jesus' name. In the name of Jesus. Amen. Praise God. Give God a praise. Thank you for being here today and