Praise God, this is the day the Lord is made, let us rejoice and be glad in it Uh we just thank the Lord today uh for all the many blessings he's bestowed upon us and uh thank you for coming up and driving up to the uh outside worship And I say that because uh some of y'all remember the drive in. I know you weren't always holy. You watch movies uh from the drive in. Amen. King Kong and the like. But we're just so grateful to God that you've taken time to to join us. We're always prayerful uh as it relates to the transition to in-person worship Uh and I am listening and praying to God just as you are about the appropriate time. And if you watch the news, you know that people are still uh getting sick from covet people are still uh leaving this earth because of covert and so what's the rush when we have tools like this what's the rush where we can continue to give God The praise and the glory. Amen. Let's have a word of prayer to begin our services. Father, we come in the name of Jesus and we thank you for this day. From the rising of the sun which is on our face right now to the going down of the same, thy name is worthy. As we come today, God, we are mindful of so many who are going through and being challenged by so many things other than COVID. We just pray for every car represented on the lot We pray, dear God, for every family represented, those who are watching from different parts of the country, we lift you up in the name of Jesus. Amen. And we thank God for uh family all over the place. We got family out in Washington State, Oregon, etcetera. So God be the glory. Well let's let's try to do a little song here. Uh you may hear my feet padding So glad I'm here in Jesus' name. Well I'm so glad I'm here in Jesus' name. Well I'm so glad I'm here. So glad I'm here. Well I'm So glad I'm here in Jesus' name. I'm gonna pray while I'm here in Jesus' name. Hallelujah, pray while I'm here in Jesus' name Oh, I'm gonna pray while I'm here. Pray while I'm here. I'm gonna pray while I'm here in Jesus' name. I'm gonna shout while I'm here in Jesus' name. Hallelujah Shall while I'm here in Jesus' name. Oh I know Shaltwai Shout wild here, I'm gonna shout wild, I'm here in Jesus Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. God bless you, Harvest, and God bless you to and fro. We thank the Lord. I just want to again take time to say to you how much we've appreciated you even during this time of challenge. Uh you've been a blessing by way of giving. And so you can go to our website and you can see everything you need to give, to encourage It's all there in the name of Jesus. And we thank you for your prayers. I can feel your prayers. I know that you are praying uh for the family. We've got to pray for each other. And that's what good Christians do. Well, there's a word from the Lord uh that we have that we will find in the book of Colossians. Uh the book of Colossians, the second chapter of Colossians. Now you Bible students, you know exactly where that is. That's New Testament. Uh it's one of the prison epistles. Amen. You'll find it there, Colossians 2, 6 and seven. When you have found it, uh say men or blow your horn. Y'all wouldn't fool me now. Uh here's the work for today Therefore, as you receive Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him, rooted and built up in him and established in the faith just as you were taught, abounding in thanksgiving abounding in Thanksgiving. I want to preach today. I want to begin a series today called The Fundamentals of the Christian Faith. The fundamentals of the Christian faith, and for a subtitle today, I want to ask the question, how deep are your roots? How deep are your roots? There's a tree that grows in the valleys and the plains and the deserts of Nambia and most of South Africa It is called the Shepherd's Tree. The Shepherd's Tree and for centuries it has been the shelter for those who are herding goat and the like. They would go to this tree and use it as a location to get their flock out of the hot sun. And it's also called the tree of life. The tree of life as well because from that tree uh from the leaves you can hear a nourishment. Amen. And if you don't hear me there on Radio Land, just hang in. We'll keep and continue to press on. But we thank God today that this tree is one that I was drawn to because what? It has documented some of the deepest roots that you will find anywhere. And what I mean by that is the roots are two hundred and thirty feet deep. that's almost the length of a football field. In fact for some of you who are way in the back, uh that length of the roots are about that long. Isn't that amazing to think that roots go down that far? and go down that deep. And I think that I want to talk today about the importance of having deep spiritual roots the importance of having deep spiritual roots and I raise the question to you how deep are your roots? How deep are your roots Paul writes the letter to the church at Colossae. Paul is writing from the church. He's writing from to the church, from the prison, rather. And these are one of the Christian epistles. So Paul is writing to the church and he's concerned about what they're facing, concerned about what they're going through And keeping in mind Colosi uh today's in modern Turkey, I've gone there before as a part of a biblical tour. There's not much to see in Colos In fact, there are plans to excavate it, but right now we walked on top of Colosse. But when we think about what Paul was doing, his main concern was as that there was some dangerous teaching going on And you know, dangerous teaching is still around. You have to always be careful about what you hear and what people share with you, and does it line up with the Word of God that becomes so important. That's why a good Bible study is important. That's why spending time in your devotional is important. That's why being connected to a Bible teaching church and being connected to a Bible-living church are so key. One of the concerns that Paul had is that the persons who were teaching this dangerous theology, they reduced the role of Christ To them, Christ was not that big a deal. This was a challenge to the new believers in Jesus Christ those who had just come on board, those who had just given their hearts to Jesus, those who've just gotten baptized, those who are just receiving the right hand of fellowship It became so key to them. And Paul wanted them to know and to promote in a real way, don't turn back Don't lose ground. Don't walk away from the Lord Jesus Christ. How relevant is that today? You know, sometimes hard times will pull you away from Jesus. Hard times will make you question God, are you real? Oh, you've been there before. Hard times will make you say, you know what, I wonder if this is all that mama and papa talked about, but once you discover your own walk with Jesus Christ You begin to know him for yourself. Isn't that important today? And so I want to talk about the importance of being rooted in truth. being rooted in love and being rooted in Christ. I want to begin by saying what truth is not What truth is not, it's not what the majority of the people say is true. You know, we'll get on the bandwagon according to the latest poll. That's not truth It's not simply what is believed because sometimes we'll believe a lie. Oh yes, we will. If it fits our situation, we know it's a half-truth. We'll still stand with it, anyhow. Truth is something that has to be proven by facts. Well what is a fact? A thing that can be proved are known to be true. My faith, I believe, today is good on truth. Amen? I believe that God sent his only begotten Son to die for me. That's a personal truth. I believe that he has provided for me light eternal for me I'll stand on that. That is my truth. Find something you can stand on today. Reverend, I don't have fifteen verses on my belt. I don't know the Bible that well Just know that Jesus saves. That becomes so important. Stand with that Knowing the importance of truth. And so I have learned by way of the scriptures. John 14:6, Jesus said to his disciples, I am the way, I am the truth, and I'm the life. No man coming to the Father except by me. And to become rooted in the truth, it is so important, I believe, to study the Word of God. To study the world. What does that look like in your world? No, I'm not in seminary. Are you in a Bible study? Are you spending time in your devotional life Studying means to look at and to see how does it apply to me and to chew on it for a while and apply it to your life 2 Timothy 2. 15 says, To study to show yourself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not be ashamed, rightly dividing the word that is again of truth. The word of God has to go deep. It has to grow deep where we are. And it will get in the deep places of your life. And when you know that your roots are growing, your conversation will change. Amen. You don't want to be boring, but what you talk about will change. Your talk will change. Your walk will change because what? Your roots are starting to develop Uh the actions that you do will change. The responses that you have will change based on the truth of God. Become rooted in the truth, but also rooted in love. Now in the Christian faith there's no getting around this. You can do anything you want to do, but unless love is in the picture, I would say you're on the wrong path. Love is a game changer. There are no shortcuts to being a believer and not love. Okay, let me just go there for a minute. I like them a lot, but I don't love them. Watch yourself Because the Bible says we gotta love our neighbor as ourselves, and we love ourselves some self. Oh, I know you do. It is so important To love people. You may not like what they do. You don't like because they don't take the trash out. You don't like how they're raising their children. The things you don't like, but you've got to love them in Jesus Christ. It's not optional. Love is so key. You've got to be rooted in love. Let me wake you up out there. In 1977, and I was a little uh upcoming DJ, there was a top hit By a group called the Bee Gees. Called How Deep Is Your Love? Or it's probably in your midst. Uh that was a big time hit. And the question is raised, how deep is your love for Jesus Christ. John 13, 35, Jesus reminds the disciples as he reminds us that People will know that you are my disciples based on your love. Let me not know much about you They may not know where you live, but based on how you treat each other, the Christian church can be a hard church. Man, we'll beat folk up within the faith But it becomes so important in this life to love. It is necessary. I love what First Thessalonians three and twelve says. It says, May the Lord Make your love increase and overflow for each other and for everyone else. Can I just stop there for a minute? Can I just let you know how much I love you? And that I love you in the Lord, and that no matter what your politics are, I love you. No matter what you say or do. I still have to love you. I may not agree with what you do, but I got to love you in the name of Jesus Now I am no no green thumb at all by any stretch of the imagination but I can tell you this I've watched my wife uh she keeps soil in the garage and she's always repotting things. And when it comes to love and for your roots to grow, God has to repot you sometimes. Oh Lord have mercy. You've been in the same place too long. You need to be repotted Your leaves are starting to fall off. You got to be repotted in love. Your conversation is changing. God has to repot you in love so that you might grow in him. Have I told you the sermon title is how deep are your roots? That becomes so important to be grounded and to be rooted In love. That was all that was shared that became so important. If you don't remember anything else, you say, I love you. I love the song. I love you. I love you. I love you, Lord, today. Why? Because you've done so many great things for me, you have got to be rooted in the love of Jesus Christ. It's fundamental It's first base stuff. It's it's pre-K stuff is that once you get past that, then you begin to love yourself. I could go right there Do you love yourself? Amen. We have to love ourselves. Yes, we've all slipped and dipped and sinned and come short of the glory of God, but you gotta love yourself Amen. God will forgive you by way of Jesus Christ. But once He does that, don't continue to hate yourself. You ought to love yourself in Jesus. The importance of becoming Grounded and rooted in love. Rooted in truth. But we don't want to miss this. Rooted in Christ. And to be rooted in Christ Christ has to go deep down in our hearts. And when I say deep, it has to be something that He does as an inside job is that I want to be deep in Him. Acts seventeen and twenty-eight and Luke writes for in him we live and we move and we have our being It's in him. It's not in my status, not in my job, not in my network, not in who I know. It is in Christ Jesus. 2 Corinthians 5 and 17 says, therefore If any person, if any man, if any woman be in Christ, they are new creatures, old things have passed away. Behold All things become new. I don't know about you, but I feel brand new. Amen. I feel brand new because I'm not the old Tim that I used to be. I feel new because of who I know I know Jesus Christ and He lives in me. Christ came and He died. And he rose again with all power in his hands that we might have this new life. It's already been paid for. Amen. The price has been paid So that we might be in Christ. Aren't you glad today that you're in Christ? And that Christ is in you You may not be able to see it, but when I smile, I'm smiling because I got the love of Jesus. If you see me move around with this because I can feel the love of him, if you see me wave my hand every now and then, it is because I feel the love of Jesus working deep down in my heart. You know, Isaiah, the prophet talks about The metaphor roots Jesus referred to as the root of Jesse, and that he was standing as the Messiah, the sent one He will grow up before you, Isaiah says, like a tender shoot, like a root out of dry ground. Here's what I've discovered. That although Jesus was the carpenter's son, he knew something about forming. Uh-oh. He talks in a parable, a earthly story with heavenly mean, about The sword who threw out some s seas and they fell in a rocky place And there was not much soil there. It sprang up quickly because the soil was very shallow, but when the sun came up, the plant was scorched. And they withered because they had no root. Other seeds fell among the thorns and they were choked other seed fell on some good soil, amen. It produced a hundred, sixty, or thirty times what was shown. It's all in where you are planted. Amen. And I love what David says there in Psalm 1. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, not sitteth in the seat of the sorrowful. And here it is, his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in that law doth he meditate. Day and night, and he shall be like a tree planted in the rivers of water that bringeth forth fruit in season, the leaf shall not wither And whatsoever you do will prosper when you are rooted. Amen? When you are rooted in Jesus Christ. You know, I want to be that kind of tree. A tree that is rooted Spiritually in Jesus. I love the song that was written by Mississippi John Hurt, old school brother, who wrote a song that is used so often now uh in Marches. I shall not be I shall not be moved. Just like a tree planted by the waters, I shall not be moved. I'm on my way to heaven I I shall not be moved. I'm sanctified and holy. I shall not be moved. Black and white together I shall not be moved. A young and old together, I shall not be moved. The church of God is marching I shall not be moved. Jesus hung on an old rugged cross. Amen? And he would not be moved until he fulfilled his plan for humanity. He stayed on the cross so that we might see the blood flow and that blood would cover a multitude of sins. Now y'all know I grew up in Florida And when you watch the weather forecast in Florida, the wind will blow and houses will fall down and cars will turn over. You ever notice the palm tree? The palm tree just bends And and the palm tree will not break. And the palm tree will go back and forth. And you like that palm tree. Even though the situations in life may be blowing you around, don't you know you've got deep roots? Oh yes you do. Your roots are deep in Jesus Christ. And the Bible says to be ye steadfast. unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know, your labor is not in vain in the Lord. For right now I feel like a tree. I sometimes where I want to go left, the Lord has said no you go right. That's what happens when you're rooted in him There's some things you wanted to say that you should not have said when you're rooted, you'll speak or you will do still and know that he is God. I can ask the question again, how deep Are your roots? Are you a selfish thing? That when something comes along, you fall apart. No, you are rooted. in him. You are built up in him. Hallelujah. I'm glad today that my roots go deep. And every now and then you will just move in the spirit. And when the spirit starts to move you, you can't help yourself. Why? Because you're rooted and you are planted in him. How big are you how how far down do they they go You've got to stay connected to the Lord Jesus Christ. That is the word of God today. It's already blessed. Let's take time today. Because I raised that question. You say, okay, what's what's the big deal about being rooted in him? Will it make a difference? My answer is yes on both fronts. And here's why. God sent his son Jesus Christ for you and I. And surface lives. And this became important. Let's bow today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus, thanking you for this opportunity to share your word. Thanking you that you're keeping us focused on the fundamentals. But there may be someone listening or watching today And their life seems to be in turmoil. And they can't seem to find their footing. We stopped by to say Get rooted in Jesus. And to do that, the Bible says, if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, the Bible says thy shalt be Saved. If you're not saved today, if you've not accepted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, you can do it right now Right where you are. He's a virtual God. He will come to you where you are today. I pray in the name of Jesus for that soul In Jesus' name, Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Amen. Amen. Amen. We thank the Lord today. staff uh for participating thank you for your prayers and I'm a seven-day forecast guy. Now I think next Sunday they're talking about rain so I guess we're going back in the studio Uh but just keep us prayed up and continue to pray for those near you and those you may not know that God might continue to heal the land. Amen. Blessed be. Thank you for joining Harvest. For more information, come to Harvest. org. Come the number twoharvest. org Thank you, Florida, Carolina, Virginia, Georgia. I don't want to miss nobody. Thank you, Washington State. Thank you here on the parking lot for the many blessings that you just take a summer. Amen? Thank you to God.