I don't think they're going to be able to do it. Good day to you, this is the day the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. The psalmist says, to make a joyful noise unto the Lord all ye lands, to serve the Lord with gladness. Come before his presence with singing, know ye that the Lord He is God. It is He who hath made us, and not we ourselves. We are his people and the sheep of his pasture. Into into his gates with thanksgiving, and to his courts with praise. Be thankful unto him and bless his name. For the Lord is good, his mercy is everlasting, his truth endureth to all generations. I love Psalm 100. God bless you. So glad you could join us today and let your family know and friends know that the harvest Broadcast is all, share it, slap five in the digital world, let someone know that the Lord is good. That does not change Thank you, thank you, thank you. As we begin our day, we want to welcome you. We also want to start with a time of prayer. And to do that, let's just think about the importance of what we are going through uh with the mask. I don't know about you. I've got a mask on the side. I got a mask in the armrest. But you know, mask up and pray up. Father God we come In the name of Jesus, and we thank you. We begin this prayer by saying thank you. We acknowledge who you are. You are God all by yourself. Or saints of always say, you sit high and you look low. As we come today, we acknowledge that you are the only true and living God. And we thank you today. God, as we come, we come with a spirit of confession today because none of us have been all that good that we don't need to come to the altar to say, Lord, forgive me. for the things that we have said this week, the things that we have thought, and the things that we've carried out. We thank you. Even as we come today, God, we stand in the gap for so many who are going through. We think of our neighbors in Texas and some of the surrounding states. who are being challenged by the weather. God, might you be in their homes today and might they know that you can supply all their need according to your riches in glory by Christ Jesus. So Father, we come today. We thank you for what you've done and for what you will do in Jesus' name. Amen. We bless the Lord today and uh thank you even as we continue to celebrate uh Black History Month. We want to let you know that we just enjoyed sharing uh some of our family stories and we have another one today, but the choir is coming to bless our hearts. And I'll the problem in the kingdom. I got a roll up in the kingdom in a desert I got a rope in a legino in a legend I'm gonna lay down to her. I gotta say we're in a bad kingdom, ain't that good? I will lay down the top of the shoulder of my cross the same moment. Running over my cross the day over here. Amen. We all need some good news uh during the times in which we live and we just give God the praise for all of the great things he has done. We've been talking about Black History Month and I said to my wife, we talked about who can we feature. And I said, well, you know what? Why don't we just do our family? So we've had an opportunity uh for the past couple of weeks to do my father. James Toodin, my father in love, Eddie Dawson. And this morning we're going to go with the Doris Tooten, my mother I asked the Lord to please let me live to my children that where they can take care of themselves where they wouldn't have to be. Under no other mother. And right today I always say, thank you God. You know Faith and family both describe the life and ministry of Doris Tuton. Born and raised in the Sugar Hills section of Suwanee County, she married James Tooton. They raised a family of four. She served her community and her church. As for her attire, just about every hat or dress had her name on it. She was always willing to sing one of her favorite songs. Doris Tootin, today's family history. All right, praise God, old Next week we'll wrap up with Roberta Dawson. Amen. That'll be a time to thank God for our families and tell your family story and the many things that God has allowed to happen. We're getting closer now to the Word of God and I'm always excited about the Word of God. And once the choir comes, we'll be back with the Word. Thank you for me to hello. I love and go. In the glory. He is my hand. In my own and so on the year of triumph. And to go and come And the strength of my life each people have strike O commit to me. Never to leave me, never never shortly in the narrow way. My wife meaning today once the world will be grown by home to God and I'm not sure. Come, God is the joy and the strength of my life. Come on, please do me and strike. Never delay me, never ever show the way I'm not away and hurry in the hero. My life queen every day I want to grow in here we keep going I've come to far when I'll never turn that Click your DK. Amen. My God, you you need that. I don't know. Somebody I think needed that word today to remind them that not God was but that God is. It's time now for the Word of God. Let's pray. Father, we come today in the mighty and the strong name of Jesus Christ As we stand to declare the good news of Jesus, it is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. All right, if you have your Bibles open today or your tablets signed on, or if you want to look at the screen, you can do all of the above comes from the Gospel of John, and we say gospel because gospel means good news. John 6 and 35 uh just this one passage. It reads, then Jesus declared, I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me will never go hungry, and whoever believes in me will never be thirsty. I want to preach today from the Samonic title simply I am. I am. For many of us, it has taken a lifetime to discover who we really are. We're still searching, we're still putting the pieces together psychologists said it's our concept, our self-concept that we rely on. How do we evaluate ourselves? How do we perceive ourselves? Never mind what other folks say about us, but in the end, who are you really? It was the Greek philosopher Socrates who wrote these words, to know thyself is the beginning of wisdom. And then there was, of course, Solomon, the great wise man of the Bible, who wrote in Proverbs 9 and 10, Solomon says, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. And I thank God for both of them. But what did uh Jesus Christ say? Uh one time he was with the people and he says to them in a response, because he knows who he is, in the present tense, he says Before Abraham was, I am. Now there in the Gospel of Matthew, one of my favorite passages, it looks and sounds like it's a classroom setting, and Jesus seemingly gives a pop quiz. Says who do men say that I am? What are you hearing on the street? Can I modernize it? Uh what's on Facebook? What's on Instagram? What have you seen lately as you've looked at your social media page? That was not the case, but let's bring it with modern glasses. And they begin to answer. Something says that you are Elijah. Others say they believe that you're John the Baptist, and still others call you Jeremiah or one of the other prophets. And then Peter raises his hand, so to speak, and says, I I can answer that. I got the right answer. He says, Thou art the son uh God, the Son of the Living God. Amen? And so he says that to make it real clear, thou art the Christ the Son of the Living God, and Jesus says, Well now flesh and blood did not reveal that to you and it looks like my father slipped you the answer How well do you know Jesus today? That's a fair question. Is he a stranger in your experience? Is he a pie in the sky figure? Is he someone just on the pages of the holy writ? Or someone that we expect to see or feel or acknowledge on Sunday morning? Well, he's much more than that. Over the next few weeks and during this Linton season, we will learn how Jesus identifies himself. The I am statements are found throughout the Gospel of John, but what do these statements reveal about us even today? Who is Jesus? Let's start with I am the bread of life. In the text, people were following Jesus. That was not unusual, and many of them had motives. Why were they following? They wanted to see yet another miracle. Or another sign, and can I pose the question to you? Why do you follow Jesus? Why do you serve Him? It's not for the for the godly goodies. It is because God has done something through you by way of Christ. that you say I am a follower of Christ. I love that song. I want to be a follower of Christ. I want to be one of his disciples But the people in this text were people who were just trying to see the next big thing, but in their following Jesus, they got tired. And they got hungry. And Jesus recognized that the people had been following him and needed some nourishment. So he says, Listen, let's feed the people. Of course the response was Uh it's not in our budget. W we can't do that. Uh uh it doesn't add up. And they look out and see a little boy with a lunch with five loaves of bread and two fish, and they fed all the people as they sat down, the men and then the children and the women and they fed them all and there were twelve carryout baskets to go. Amen. That when they left there was still more. During this conversation and sharing, there was this debate about about Moses. He said, you know, when we were out there and uh You know, and in the wilderness that you know God sent down manna from heaven. He sent down this bread, these sweetcakes, and he provided for us day in and day out. They were trying to pull this together. In other words, they were trying to be know-it-alls. They were challenging Christ. Amen. And even as he shares with them, he is identifying himself as the bread of life. And I would just say what he shares is nutritional It's also educational and it's beneficial. Let's talk about nutritional because these are metaphors. In this particular metaphor, Jesus compares himself to bread. Bread that offers eternal fulfillment. Now now physical bread, and this could be a debate, is a staple food, it's a the whole grains have many benefits, and some of you all right now are bread eaters. Go have some for breakfast when this is all over. They can help in terms of risk and illnesses, but you know, sometimes we overdo it. You know, that extra role maybe you did not need. Amen. Or you look at the label and it says now what's the serving side? That's a sermon for another day. But Jesus as he was there in the wilderness Of course, he began this ministry, and there for forty days and for forty nights, he is holy man and holy god. As he is there, the devil himself. That rascal got things twisted. He figured that I know enough about Jesus to know what he can do. So he approached him and said, Why don't you just turn uh these stones into bread? You can do it And then Jesus comes back over Matthew 4 and 4 and says something very important. He says, But he answered and said, It is written that man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. He was playing with the right one Jesus knew what was going on. He knew his ministry. He knew that he could have changed that stone in the bread, but he had something you want us to say. Is that you've got to know that what? You can't live just by bread alone. That is for the for the physical, but you need some spiritual bread. Amen? That becomes so important. I love this next pattern, Psalm 34 and 8. It says, Oh, taste and see that the Lord is good, not not was good, not used to be good. Blessed is the man or the woman that trusteth in him. I don't know about you, but I I I I love the word of God and you do too. And you ever come across a passage that makes you say, Mm, it it tastes that good to you. It may be your favor. You may only have one or two But when you begin to put the Word of God into your life, there are just some passages that just taste good. Why? They meet the expectation that you have. They meet the experience that you have gone through. Well let me challenge you today, as I challenge myself, don't just keep the bread But share the bread. Share the Word of God with those what who may need to be fed Yeah, you got 21 Bibles and you've got uh scripture memorization one-on-one. You got a ribbon for it, but what are you doing to share it with someone else? Amen. Now you know I'm the master of of slipping it in. See, it's a beautiful day. Oh, this is the day the Lord has made. I'll I'll ease it in Amen. Oh, the sun is oh thank God for the sun shine. And you can find ways to feed people. They don't realize that they need this nutrition to live their lives Nutritional but also educational. I am the bread of life And they didn't understand the followers, this Jesus as as bread. They were still trying to figure that out. But he taught them in in a classroom setting. It wasn't in a building. It was there on the grassy lawn. He he he taught them in the field No notepad, no computer, but they had to listen to every word that the Lord was saying to them. You know, teaching is a gift You don't have to have an education to be a teacher. You've got to have some life experiences. And you know many things. You don't realize it. But I'd rather, as old folks say, see a sermon, and maybe I'm putting myself in the old folk category See a sermon than hear one. In other words, what is your life saying? You know, Joseph Jubert, the French essays, uh said this. He says, to teach is to learn twice that as you share with others what little bit you know They're being blessed. Jesus taught the people, and he kept emphasizing John 6 and 51 a little later in the gospel. He says, I am, there again in the present tense, I am the living bread. Which came down from heaven. If any man eat of this bread, uh he shall live forever, and the bread that I will give is my flesh, which I will give for the life of the world. Now people got a little worked up by that. What do you mean eating your flesh and drinking your blood? But he had to break it down to them And that's the benefit that if we want to learn and grow in the Lord, we gotta eat. I can guarantee you you get three squares plus snacks But how much of the word of God are you getting into your system? Learning, learning. He taught them. I love in Matthew 11, 29, he says, when you're going through Take my yoke upon you and learn from me. I don't know about you, but I've had to repeat some grades in life. Why? I didn't learn. Got a little hard-headed, had to learn some things. What about you? Unless you're an author student. Did you come away in life and have to do some things over again? He says, What? For I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls if you would take time to to to to have some bread I am the bread of life. You know, back in nineteen oh four it was the war journalist and uh author, uh lawyer, Ernest Kent Coulter, who began what he called the Big Brothers And the Big Sisters Organization, some of you may be a part of that. Well, I want to say in the spirit, we ought to become big brothers Sharing the word with some young man, big sisters, letting somebody know, child, I've been down that road, but look at me now. Let them know where God has brought you from. You gotta be a big sister Amen. A big sister in the spirit. I love that. I can say it right there. Become a big brother in the Lord and folk may not respond to you. Can I can I go there? Oftentimes we want people people just respond. Did you get what I said? Just keep saying it. And I believe it's getting on their hard drive when you become the person who, like Christ, wants to teach and live the word of God. It's not about getting a degree. You get a degree in living. Amen. How many folk got an AA in circumstances and a BA And then won't he do it and a doctrine and masters and I know the Lord will make a way somehow. Amen. I I like that. And so he's a teacher, amen. Praise be to God. As the bread of life is educational. and nutritional, it's also, I believe, beneficial. Amen? He says, well he says, yeah, listen to this. He says, whoever comes to me will never go hungry. Whoever believes in me will never be thirsty. He declares that when something is is beneficial, that means it's going to help you. And it's designed for you. We like to personalize so this has got my name on it. And these are my initials and some fancy, you know, shirts with TLT on them. I don't have that on this one. I got about two of those, I think Amen. And people may not know who you are, but these are personalized and beneficial to you. He says if you eat of the bread If you receive the word, what's important is that you will never go hungry. Never means that no time in the past. At no time in the present, at no time in the future, in the midst of disasters. I've heard it and you've heard it. When a disaster happens and the officials say, we want to make sure this never happens again. I say, well, God bless them only. God knows whether something is going to happen again But he is the one who makes sure that the word gets in you and that the word stays in you. Matthew 5 and 6 says what? Blessed are they which hunger and thirst after righteousness for they shall be filled. You gotta want the bread. You remember as a kid growing up and and maybe some of your parents said, you need to eat this squash And you didn't want squash. You wanted jello, but you didn't want squash. And let me ask you, you go eat this today, well, you know, the Lord would not force you You got to want to eat the Word of God. You've got to want to learn it here. He's not going to beat you upside the head or say you're not getting spiritual jello. Just take time today to receive the Word of God. And I thought this was really telling, Matthew 25, 42. He said, well, I'm doing my best to share the word every now and then. But listen to this. He says, for when I was hungry, you gave me nothing. Well you mean was was that you? And when I was thirsty, uh you you gave me nothing to drink. Well I I didn't realize that was you, Lord. And we never know who we are dealing with They may be God sent just for you, but you're busy. I don't have time I'm on a schedule stuff. Somebody won a dollar when they're stopping at the light, but they may also uh need some bread So give them a dollar, whether they get spiritual bread or not, or physical bread, and say, you know what? God bless you. You just made a deposit in someone's life today. The challenge is to tell a dying world that Jesus is the bread. And we do that not just in this pandemic, but every chance we get. You gotta distribute some bread right in your own home. Amen. I'm not talking about whether you're down and say, you know, I love the end piece of bread. I eat that. I don't throw that away. That eats good. Make a good sandwich. But you've got to share the word of God and the bread right where you are You know, in his book, God Psychiatry, uh Charles Allen, who was someone who wrote about war. He says at the close of World War II, some of the Allied forces they took in orphans. and they fed them and cared for them. But they realized that the children were having restless nights. Well, I mean they were well fed. What what what's the problem? Of course they were missing their families and trying to get some sense of identity. And someone said, why don't we give them a piece of bread not to eat, but to hold as they sleep? And they tried that. And the children slept well holding the bread, knowing that the next day I will have bread. to eat. Isn't that great news today? We can't hold on to the bread, but we gotta share the bread. How to reach the mass as men of every birth. For an answer, Jesus gave the key. If I be lifted up, I will draw all men unto me. Lift him up. Still he speaks from eternity, and if I be lifted up. And I love this verse. Oh, the world is hungry for the living bread. Lift the Savior up for them to see. And men will gladly follow him who once taught, I will draw all men unto me. I dare you to put the bread out there. And see if folk won't say, wait a minute, I didn't get the whole passage, but I like the little something you said in that. We gotta share the word of God. It's it's bread from heaven. Bread of heaven, feed me till I want no more. My God, you ought to be hungry right now. How can I take what God has given me by way of Christ, who says, I am The better life and how to be shared with someone else. Thank God for the experience on the cross. Is that God shared his son? The living bread. Who went to an old rugged cross? The living bread. Who was pierced in the side The living bread who died but rose on the third day morning with all power in his hand, and the bread is still fresh. Oh my God, can't you smell it now? The bread from heaven providing for us. He said, I am the bread of life. And if you get a piece of this, A Krama do you, you will not be the same. My God, I'm getting full already. Why? Because I still hear the word of God just continuing to rise up Goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. Oh, magnify the Lord with me, and let us exalt his name together. I was glad when they said unto me, Let us go into the house of the Lord. Huh? Jesus wept. I mean, there's so much bread in you, bread that you gotta share with the world. And don't forget, he says, I am. Not was, I am the bread of life. Let's bow today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. And we are hungry for your word today. These. And for those who have not experienced The living bread, it is our prayer today, God, that they may open their hearts and their mouths to receive what's on the menu. It's bread. Again, yeah. Bread is on the menu. Bread's on the breakfast menu of life Bread is on the lunch menu of life. Bread is on the dinner menu of life. You said if you shall confess with your mouth The Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God is raised Him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Today that may be where you are. I challenge you today to open up the word and receive a nibble of bread. Save someone today. God, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Praise God. Praise God. Praise God. We're going to go now to our newsman for some announcements. Good morning from the Harvest Family. I'm Tim Toon Jr. for WHCM News. We'd like to connect with you. For updates to what's taking place in our ministry, you can request an update by way of text or email. Just visit comthenumbertwohorist. org slash updates We want to thank you for your tithes and offerings online. To continue to support this ministry, go to come the number twoharvest. org slash give online. For prayer, reach us at contact at comethe number two harvest. org. Harvesters trying to reach the world from Jesus Christ. They are currently being watched and heard in 40 states and 30 countries. Be sure to join us on next Sunday. We'll be observing our virtual only community. For WHCM News, I'm Tim Tune J. Now back to you, Pastor. Thank you, sir. Headline news. We're going to go down to another song from our choir. We'll come back and close with you. The answer is the worship of the church. Can I give a witness? Amen. Amen means so it is on Next Sunday we'll continue this sermon series. I am. And we'll talk about Jesus being the light of the world. I'm so glad you took time to join us today as always we try and find the song to go home with before we really say goodbye, goodbye. And this is from the Loyola University Choir, Chosen Generation. Let's see a little bit of them taking us home Don't worry, don't you won't get better. But you'll be alright to make it there. Yeah, yeah. It will get better. It's in control. Now how many of you believe that today, that it will get better? No matter what you're going through, life is going to get better for you. To God be the glory. Thank you. And for the entire team here at Harvest Christian Ministries, I want to thank you for joining in share this broadcast today. My God, I'm still hungry. I am the bread of life. God bless you. From Studio C in Baltimore County, Maryland, Pastor Tim Tootin saying, have a blessed day in the Lord.