Father, as we come today, we're so grateful that you've chosen us to deliver your word, that you took a chance, that you would put your words in our mouth. I pray even now as we Come to this moment that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today Encourage another and when this time is done, we'll be careful to give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Well bless the Lord today if you have your Bibles or have your devices. Turn with me in the Gospel of John, the ninth, the tenth chapter, rather, verses nine and ten. That's John 10. Verses 9 and 10. I'm reading this morning from the King James Version. Sometimes I'll find the version that best fits what our symbolic presentation is. It reads in verse 9, I am the door, by me, if any man enter in, he shall be saved. And go in and out and find pasture. Verse 10 says, the thief cometh not, but to steal and to kill and to destroy, I am come that they might have life and that they might have it more abundantly. I want to preach today from the Samonic title I am the door. Yeah. I am the door. Over the last couple of weeks, if you've been following us, we have been uh sharing in a Presentation regarding the I am statements of Jesus Christ. And it's been a real blessing because these are statements that Jesus makes about Himself. On last time we talked about Jesus being the light of the world. And he said, anyone who follows me will never walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. What a promise that we have in our own individual lives. And then we began this series a few weeks ago talking about his being the bread of life. He says whoever comes to him will never go hungry and whoever believes in him would never be Firstly, these are strong, strong statements in the Bible. In both statements, we are called and challenged to do something, to come to him. and to follow him and now today to enter in. Now, when you talk about doors in our modern mindset, they allow us to come inside and outside of our homes. They allow us to come in and out of our jobs or retail establishments and the list goes on. But I want to show you a different picture from what you see behind me that's displayed on the screen. Put on your farmer's boots and follow me down to what I'll call a sheep's pen or a sheep's fold. Now in ancient times, after the shepherds had allowed the sheep to graze most of the day as night began to fall, uh the shepherd would lead them into a place of protection, the sheepfold. No gate to close, just an opening. The shepherd would stand or lie across the opening. Sleep there, literally becoming the door to the sheep. Jesus is using this image as he talks to those who are following him. Now, here's the story. Right before he begins to share, he had healed the blind man. And that blind man uh went back, uh healed, excited the Pharisees who were a group of religious uh up Up any people, I can say that's a good way to put it. They were always trying to challenge Jesus on everything. Uh they made fun of it. What do you mean he healed you? He he's not a healer. And so this is what Jesus had to deal with He told the Pharisees, and Jesus knew how to throw some holy shade. He says, anyone who does not enter by the gate or the door, but climbs in some other way, is a thief and a robber. As the door he does a few things. He grants, I believe, access He also raises our awareness and he gives us authority, granting access. I am the door, and by me, and me only If any person will enter in, they shall be saved, and they'll be able to go in and out and find pastor. Jesus again identifies who he is. I am the door. You know, when I when I look at this, don't allow people to misidentify you. In other words, you ought to know who you are. Amen? People will already have you uh identified a certain way and they've already got your resume as if they know you like that. But think about this. I love that song that says, if anybody asks you who I am, tell them I'm a child of God. Never let anybody define you. Jesus I said, no, that's not going to happen. And here's something that's very small but important. He says, I am not a door, but I am the door. And in being the door, he gives us access. Jesus gives us a way in. He provides for us a place of safety and security. I know you've got the best alarm system uh in the state or in in in your neighborhood, but Jesus is the one that provides for us. Can we be honest this morning? We've gone into some wrong doors. Well, I'll just talk about myself today, amen. And we've gone through the wrong gate and found ourselves uh in a place where that door Or that gate has done what? It has led us to a life of increased sin. Going through the wrong door can put you in some dangerous places. Of course you didn't think It was dangerous at the time. But they said what? He will do what? Keep us from seeing and unseen dangers. That's what the shepherd does. When he says, I am the door, uh, there is no other door. You know, one day I found that new door. And when I walked through, I knew everything was going to be alright. Amen. For so long I avoided going in that door. For so long, sometimes we didn't acknowledge Jesus Christ as Savior. Oh, let me just talk about it. We went to church every Sunday and we took Holy Communion every Sunday and we did all the good goody to shoe things on Sunday, but what about Monday? What about Saturday night? I'm not talking about you. I'm talking about me. But one day when you meet the door, you know that you are with the right one. I like what David writes in Psalm 23. Of course, David was a shepherd He says, The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green passage. You saw earlier how those sheep went in. He leadeth me beside steel waters because sheep had to go there we're spinning. They needed spill waters or they wouldn't drink it. Amen. Don't you want access to the door which is Jesus? A door where he stands guard, but not only does he grant us access, but also he raises our awareness. Now verse 10, it says, the thief Cometh not but to steal and to kill and to destroy Jesus gives us a warning. He'll warn you about things if we listen. The lights are flashing. He says, you know what? He says, the thief And the robber in this text, he was referring to the Pharisees because their theology was pretty warped. He says, there really is no other way but me. Amen? But thieves and robbers can be anyone. Can I go to 2021? Anyone, anything that seeks to take something from you, and this is not just material things They come to steal and to kill and to destroy. Have you had people who wanted to rob and steal your joy? They stuck you up for your happiness, caught you in the back alley to try and confiscate your peace of mind. But you held on. Why? Because you knew They could not succeed. They dug ditches for you. Yes, they did. And they tried to stab you in the back. But they didn't realize that you knew the door. My God, that'll work today, won't it? Who do you know? I know the door. He says, I am the door. And this leads us to a place where Christ talks over in Matthew 7:7. Says, ask And it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock and the door will be open to you. Yes, old school Knocking. Now we've got ring and we've got all these devices. Nobody knocks anymore. But ring can't save your soul. You got to go and knock. And say, Lord, I'm coming just as I am. And that's what's so wonderful about this. He gives us a heads up That even though you thought the world loved you, even though you thought everybody was your best friend because they friend you on Facebook, but he says be aware. He says, the thieves and the robbers, they look familiar, but they come to do one thing: they come to steal and to kill. And to destroy. And you can't go to the police station and report that. You report it to heaven. And he will investigate it and action will be taken. Amen. He raises our Awareness allows us to stay woke in the spirit. Now all you got to know is, you know what, Lord, I know you are the door, and you warned about those who come in. He grants us access. He raises our awareness, but he also gives us an advantage. I like that. See this the benefits that come with being a child of the king. The latter part of verse ten says, I am come that they might have life. And they may have life more abundantly. Advantage means what? You got the advantage. You've been given a favorable position a greater opportunity and that's what Jesus has done for me. It's not about who you know. You know there's old saying it's not what you know Is who you know. Oh, you need to know Jesus because he'll make a way out of nowhere. Yes, sir. Amen. I've come to give you life that is abundant Life that is running over. So many blessings you don't have room enough to receive them. Amen. That's the tithing verse. I will open up the window of heaven. and pour you out of blessing. You be saying, hold on, wait a minute, hold on, wait a minute. He will do that. He gives us an advantage It's not to put our noses up and say, well, we somebody. No. It is to do what is to share with someone the good news of Jesus Christ. And because he came to give life, John 3. 16 makes a lot of sense. For God so loved the world that he did what? Gave his only begotten Son that whoever believes in him would not perish, and there it is again, to have everlasting life. Jesus is our door. to salvation, our door to eternal life. I know you watched Let's Make a Deal. Hope I got the right show. Contest it, what do you want behind that door? And you'll sit there and try to pick a door, one, two, three, and you screaming at your teammates, and no, two. And really, that's not the way you get to Christ. There are not many doors Praise God. But there is one door, and he is the door. Amen. That being the case, your assignment today, and my assignment today, if we believe, if you really believe If you asset on the fact that Jesus is the door, can we agree with that? I believe it. I got that, Reverend. You said it 20, 11 times. Okay. How can we open the door to those around us. Ah, sometimes we're super secret. We got things that could help people and we're just holding on to it. I'm gonna save it for Sunday. No, somebody at the light Somebody in your path may need to know that Jesus is the door. Don't miss the opportunity to share with them. To let them know that there is safety in Jesus. There is security in Jesus. There is solitude in Jesus. Amen. There is soul winning in Jesus the Christ. Help that person. And they may be in your own home to gain access to the door. So you've made it sound like it was special mission that you had to have a uh you know a card to get in. But let them know that he also will raise our awareness, let them know that there's an advantage. Serving the Lord will pay off after a while. You know, I came across this story, and it's a true story. It's happening right now. In Johannesburg, South Africa, there is a mission And there at that mission, this church, there's a small metal door painted white in the side of the church. It is changing lives. I mean it really is making a difference for the people. On it are painted the words, door of hope. And this is exactly what's happening in the city. And there came a time when mothers were having a hard time raising their children, so they would just abandon them. 50, 60, leave them on the street. And what happened is This mission said, well, there is something else that we can do. We're going to install what's called a door to a baby bin. That's pretty fascinating, allowing mothers to stop by and to deposit their unwanted babies and have someone to love and to care for them. This mission is saving more than a hundred babies a year and I'm told that because of the pandemic the situation has gotten even worse. But I know of another incredible door That takes in the abandoned. It takes in the broken heart. Ever been there before? This door takes in the unwanted and it takes in the weary. He saves lives. And he does what? He becomes the door. Can I get right to the point of this? The door, who is the door, Is knocking at the door of your heart. Did you hear that? And maybe you've just been so into yourself that you miss that Jesus was knocking on the door of your heart. I remember growing up, and maybe you, I'm southern country, big time, and I remember seeing the church band that had Jesus coming to the door and knocking on the door. Now maybe not you, but in seeing that I was in the world, I used to look to the people. You ever done that? You knew somebody was outside but you weren't trying to be home even though your car was out front. Amen? But blessed be the God that one day I decided To take off all 15 locks and to let them in to my heart. I'm so glad I did that. I'm so glad I allowed the door to knock on the door of my heart. Revelation 3:20 is. where that came from. Here I am. I stand at the door. Talk Jesus. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in and eat with that person and they with me. Can I add the reverence In two cents, and when he comes into your heart, he'll start doing some interior decorating. Hallelujah. He'll move around some things in your life. I know it's been there for a long time, he'll remove some hate Amen. He'll remove some things that you've gotten used to if you would let him in. I dare you to let him in allow the door. to come to the door and to begin to minister to you. He said, I'll come in and I'll sup with you. What's for lunch today? My God. But what he'll do is, he'll feed you. Oh God, bread of heaven, feed me till I want no more. That is the good news today. He touched me when he came in. Oh, what joy has filled my soul. Something happened. And now I know when I let him in, he took over. But he wouldn't force his way in. No breaking and entering. He is the door. Amen. He made me whole because I was half and half. Oh, some of y'all know about that. One foot in the world. And one foot in the church, and you didn't know which one came first, it was like would you give him the coffee? Half and half. I want some of this and some of that. You may ask, Pastor, why are you so passionate? About this. I was telling my wife on last evening, she said, go ahead, Raven, go for it. I said, I've been called. And when you know you've been called and you know that you signed up for this then you continue to love on people. Jeremiah 3. 15 says this, I will give you pastors. according to mine heart, which shall feed you with knowledge and understanding. All I'm trying to do is to feed you with the word of God Don't leave anything on your plate because God comes by and he wants to fill you up. Maybe you've come this way today. And you don't have a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. You're still looking through the peephole. You're still in a place in life that you won't receive Jesus. Nobody can force you. He won't even force you. But can I tell you That life is so much sweeter when you give your life to Jesus Christ. This is bow today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. As we come today, we thank you for the offer you put on the table. That if you come to me, That you will be saved. The Bible says that thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. Thou shalt be saved. Do you believe that today? Can you process that today? Make your life brand new in Jesus' name