Although the for the login, Good day. This is the day the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. We're delighted that you could join us today for this worship experience. We're praying that your week has been great. We thank God for you as always. So take time now even to share this with friend family. Family, that's a new name. Family and friends. Amen. Let them know that the Harvest Broadcast is on the air. Even as we prepare our hearts today, we want to just talk about what we're facing as a nation. And I've been promoting Mask Up and Pray Up. I know that there are many vaccines that are out there, and that's great, but continue to mask. Let's pray today. Heavenly Father, we come in the name of Jesus, and we thank you that you always cover us. And I pray even now as we come to this place, God, that you might minister specifically to the needs of those who are going through I pray for every family that's represented in this broadcast and their family and their family. I pray for our nation, dear God. I pray for this world. The Bible says The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof and those that dwell within. As we come today, uh in this matter, may you be glorified. May someone be blessed. We ask all now in the name of Jesus. Amen. Again, so glad to have you today to join us here at Harvest Mask Up and pray up. Do it all the time. It is our communion Sunday, so at some point dur during the broadcast near the end, we will Take an opportunity to do virtual communion. And if you don't have a packet like this one, you can use what you have in your home, bread and a beverage, and join in with us. That's at the end of the broadcast. Amen. Also, as we come to the month of February, we know that we're also getting close to Black History. But even now, we're going to go with a song from our choir. Amen. Now at the cross where I think there would die, now we will win the must be. I beg to my heart for the blood alive. Lord is away of singing. All of the same thing run to day every day from the Amen. Glory to his name. I thank God for the hymns of the church. This is the last Sunday in Black History Month, and during the course of Black History Month, we've had opportunity to share stories of our own family. A little bit later, we'll get to that. to share in our installments and we're so grateful for our family members when they were in the land of the living, but what a legacy to carry on. You should try it for your own family. Tell that story. Document it so that someone can find information about those who have made a great difference in our own lives and that's so important. Our choir is coming again. Shop I love in Jesus Christ, no man, can I linger me? No man, can I linger me? I love in Jesus. No man in the morning. No management. No there can I hinder me. Very well, very well in the lake. No more in very well, very well. Very well, very well in the way, and well. Morning, very well, very well, in that way in the morning, very well, very well, in my way, in the morning. Can I hinder me? No man, can I hinder me? No man, can I? Praise God, right on King Jesus. No Man cannot hinder me. Thank God for our praise team and to put this together technology-wise is a challenge, but they do a great job every week. and have been throughout the pandemic. As we talk about Black History Month, we've been able to uh feature uh our parents, that is me and my wife, and so we are at The fourth one and the last one for the month in the person of Roberta Dawson, here is that report Dorothy Roberta Scott Dawson, born and raised in Virginia, but lived most of her adult life in Huntington, West Virginia. She was faithful to God and to family. She went by the names of Bert, Ma Bert, Berta, and Gaga before that name became famous. She married the love of her life, Edward Dawson, and together they raised six children to be respectful, obedient, and God-fearing. Roberta Dawson knew her way around the kitchen, serving more meals than anyone can remember from the public schoolhouse to her house for the community or those coming from the college campus. Serving was truly her gift and her passion. Dorothy Roberta Dawson's Today's Family History What great history of our family members and at some point we'll have all these up, but we are so grateful for that today. And we thank you even now. We're preparing for the Word of God. And we've gone to the archives. So if you see our brothers together, this was pre-pandemic, but they're going to prepare our hearts for the Word. All that could make us around each other. Now I should have all that perfect. And the weekend growing the honor of my kingdom for my. But I will tell you to get my rest now. Right, we have trouble for you. Good night on the earth and go. And I will be. Golden Kip And we have a lot of Yeah, yeah, yeah. All that you were Praise God, you are the center of my joy. Let's take a moment even now. Father, we come in the name of Jesus, and we are reminded of just that. That no matter what we're facing and whatever is happening around us, you remain the center of our joy. The Bible says the joy of the Lord is our strength. Weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning. Even as we proclaim your word, it is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today, empower and encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Praise God. It's time now for the Word of God if you have your Bibles handy. Turn in the Gospel of John the 8th chapter and verse number 12, just one passage today. That's John 8 and 12. It reads as follows, When Jesus spoke again to the people, he said, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will never walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, I am the light of the world. I am the light of the world. As we recap from last time, Jesus describes himself as the bread of life. And for those who followed him, he made that very plain that in the spiritual sense, he was the bread of life and also that spiritual nutrition. But he makes the promise. There's so many promises in the Bible, and one thing about Jesus, he keeps everyone. He said, whoever comes to him will never go hungry, referring to himself, and whoever believes in him would never be thirsty. As we continue our preaching series, I am, I want to unpack another one of the I Am statements, also found in the Gospel of John. He says, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will never walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. What's the brightest light you've ever seen? And that's a loaded question. I thought about that. And then last night, as I was driving away from the house And before I reached the intersection, there were bright, bright lights. I realized as I got closer that a a tow truck was there at the intersection, and the closer I got the brighter the light became. I said, Well this guy must have the latest in the light package. I could have all w most taken my sunglasses off or put them on rather and that would have been a challenge. But what is the brightest light you've ever seen? And when you think about darkness, what is the darkest situation physically you've ever been in? I think back to being in Africa back in 2006 and we got off of the The plane and the airport was about this big and then we got into a vehicle and you could not see anything. And I'm thinking, first of all, I don't know where I'm going. Uh number two, uh I'm looking for light And we did get that light. But you know, in the world of entertainment, uh people who are celebrities, they love to be in the spotlight. And maybe so do you They know that there's a red carpet before them. They are in Hollywood, but they're in the bright light. But I thank God for his spotlight I'd rather be in his light because when you're in the spotlight of God, he gets all of the attention Why? His light shines through us over and over again. And right now you may find yourself in a place. a really dark or low place. Well, I want to pass along some good news today. Don't you love good news? Jesus is the light of the world. You know, as we grow in Christ, we have to recognize a few things. The status of his light, the strength of his light, and how we can become a student of the light. In our text today, it is John the Gospel writer who uses really the word light about two dozen or more times. He says, when Jesus spoke again to the people, he said, I am the light of the world. And you know Jesus did that with authority. And what really stood out to me is that first of all he had said it before, because the word says he said it again. And you know, so often the Lord will speak to us over and over again until we finally get it. But he says, I am the light of the world. That means that there is divine reach. There are no limitations. His light is not limited to a town or a a state or uh even what we call the United States. But these lights are something that uh you know we've gotten real sporty over the years. Some of us grew up with just the You know, just the l candle and you that's about all you had. Uh now you big time. A light in every room and you have lights that will talk to you. Oh yeah. Alexa, a light on Alexa, light off. Now I'm talking to her. She might she might decide to shut us down today. But but you can have a command. Wouldn't that be something in that? But you Lord the light on me. Lord the light off. But we become uh people who do that on command. We talk to a box and the box responds. Well, you know, in the very first book of the Bible In Genesis 1 and 3, and God said, Let there be light, and there was light. Sorry, Alexa. God has been doing this since the beginning of time. You know, his status has never changed. He is still, I believe, the light of the world. And check this out. His light can never be dimmed. It can never be replaced because he is the light. And that gets me excited because thank God from where he's brought us from, that he's brought us into the light. 1 Peter 2 and 9, and Peter is writing to the church, he says, But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood A holy nation, a peculiar people. I can stop right there. We can be a little strange in the spirit, but thank God we belong to Him that you should do what? Bring forth the praises of Him who have called you out of the darkness into his marvelous light. Now let me don't don't respond. But some of us back in the day used to hang out at at establishments, I'm putting it very nicely, and it would be so dark up in the place. that you walked in and you didn't know who was who. Now where where that what was it may have been at a carnival, who knows? But I'm thinking it was a nightclub. Amen. And you walk up in the place, or as they say, walk up in the joint, and it's dark And after a while your eyes begin to adapt to the darkness and thank God that even in our walk with him He had to bring us from some dark places, change our prescription to the glory of God, and now we know the status of his light. It's for the whole world. But not just that Also the strength of his life. Whoever follows me will never walk in darkness. And you think about wattage You know, 40 watt didn't give you much, but you get 100 watt light, and it's about increasing the watt that you'll find that, you know, I need more light in this room. There's an old saying What you do in the dark will come out in the light. But there's the promise. Whoever follows me, I have to think about this for a minute. Whoever follows me will never Walk in darkness. You see, now, Reverend, how can you say that? Well, I can't. Jesus said it. And because he said it, I believe it. But I thought about it. That you might be exposed. To the darkness. You might be confronted by the darkness, but he says you won't walk in the darkness. You won't get comfortable all up in the darkness. But thank God for Jesus, what he does for us day in. And day out. Now Paul writes to the church, here in 1 Thessalonians 5 and 8, he reminds us, you are all children of the light and children of the day. Aren't you glad about that? We do not belong to the night or to the darkness. So if you are in that place, get out. And there's an exit sign. near you that the Lord wants to bring you out if you want to come out. Ah, Lord have mercy. His his light is that powerful That he can bring you from where you know you ought not be. Can I get an amen on that? He's willing to bring, but he won't force you out of darkness. But he will bring you out if you are willing to come out. See, we have grown to adapt to being in the light, but never forget where God has brought you from that light was so powerful it gave you reassurance in who you are. Amen. Aren't you glad today? That's a sigh of relief. Lord I used to hang out uh in some dark places. Can I just go old school after a DJ in me today? Uh you know, uh war slipping in the darkness. Uh uh Clarence Carter at the at the dark end of the street. I could go on down the top one hundred, but we know what that means in the physical, but thank God. And here's the reassurance David writes in Psalm twenty-seven and one, The Lord is my light and my salvation whom Shall I fear the Lord is the strength of my life, and whom shall I be afraid? Are you feeling strengthened right now? I I love to hear the word and how it reassures me that you are the strength of my life. Why? I can get weak and you can get weak, but thank God. Anytime you need some life The light from glory will switch on in your spirit. Praise be to God. The strength of The light. Amen. And the status of the light. But I got excited about this third point. It makes you a student of his life. Didn't know you were going back to school today, did you? He says, I'm the light of the world. Whoever follows me will never walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. How many persons want The light of life. Amen. And as Christians, as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, we have it. We have the light of life. But this light I believe is not to be hidden. It's not to be undercover. If you read in the fifth chapter of Matthew, they talk about hiding the light. But then 5 and 16 says in the same way, referring to other ways of not hiding your light. He says, let your light so shine before others that they may see your good deeds or your good works And glorify your Father in heaven. How many thought we just own the day? There are times you want to turn the light off, but your testimony may help someone else. Maybe someone's life has been changed because you kept the light on. Amen. Maybe someone has been encouraged not by what you said, but by what you did. Oh Lord, you didn't even realize you were being a blessing to that person at the workplace. Being a blessing to that person on Zoom. Oh, I believe the Holy Ghost can go through Zoom Amen. And through this medium, but let your light shine. Praise be to God. But to be a student, you've got to have some word in you. That is The word of God residing in you. And David writes in Psalm 119, 105, Thy Word is a lamp. unto my feet and a light unto my path. And you know, with these cell phones now they give you a light with the phone that's better than the the light that granddaddy had. You got everything right there. But thank God that when you share, that the Word of God will work through you, and all of a sudden you become a student of the Word, sharing the light of Jesus Christ. You know the Bible uh talks about Jesus and I want to say it's he's like a lighthouse. And that becomes so key. You know lighthouses are fascinating structures They're on the seashore. And they are built in such a way that they can withstand a powerful storm. And lighthouses represent symbols of strength and safety. They represent hope and even a safe haven that we might find the light. Now as the lighthouse, Jesus is the light, and his light is life-changing. Remember. uh the song of old back in the Springfield Baptist Church and this is when you knew it was revival time and the saints would say shine on me Shine on me, let the light from the lighthouse shine on me. I'm thinking, well, there's no lighthouse here. But that was the Spirit of God And the light of Christ, I think, reveals in my life the burdens that I may be carrying. The light reveals the battles that I may be fighting. The light reveals the faults that I have. The light reveals my frustrations. It reveals my mistakes and my missteps. And the light of Christ also reveals what He has given me. Now I'm starting to get excited. His peace. And his power, his love in his light. I can hear walk in the light, the beautiful light, come where the dewdrops of mercy shine bright Shine all around me by day and by night. Can I say it again? Jesus, you are the light of the world. Let me say it again. Jesus, you are the light of the world. If you just go fast forward to next chapter, John 9, that Jesus encounters a man who's blind from birth. He spits on the ground, makes mud pies, and the man all of a sudden can see Now that confession is not just for the man. Have you ever felt like that man in some way that you've never been physically blind, but you've been spiritually blind? I once was lost But now I am found was blind, but now I'll see. I see now. And I couldn't help but throw this in because it's Corinth. Paul writes to the church at Corinth 2 Corinthians 4 and 4, he says, the God of this age, whatever that God may be, that you have started to worship. The God of this age has done what? Has blinded the minds of unbelievers so that they cannot see the light of the gospel. See, it's all a setup. that displays the glory of God, who is the image of God. I can see now because of the light. You see, Jesus endured some dark moments and the darkest Was on the cross. And it was there that He gave His life for us. It was there that He shed His blood for us. It was there that He allowed us to see the light. Amen. At the cross, at the cross, where I first saw the light and the burdens of my heart rolled away. It was there by faith I received my sight and now I'm happy all the day. Can I just talk about me? I get pretty happy every now and then when I realize what God has done for me. Can't talk about me. I get this downright overjoyed when I thank God where you brought me from. Oh, yeah, I was walking in the darkness. But thank God for the light. And what I realize is that He is And always will be the light of the world. My God. That is the word of God today It is already blessed. Amen? Oh, bless God. Right now, my situation just got brighter Amen. What about you? Have have your situation improved today? Let's take a moment even now. Heavenly Father, we come today. And we thank you just for proclaiming and reminding us of who you are in the here and the now. We thank you, God, for shining light on of our dark dilemmas and letting us know that the source of light is not the power company. Because that power can go out. But the source of the light is you. Father, we come even now. Maybe there is one listening or watching who continues to live undercover. And in the dark, because they've not given the light to you. I pray even now, God, that as your word says, if you shall confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus. And believe in your heart that God is raising from the dead. The Bible says, thou shalt be saved Amen. Well bless God. We're looking forward to communion and we thank God for our opportunity to share. So we'll give you a moment even now The choir is coming in a second to get your communion, whatever that might be, uh bread, a juice, and uh we'll come back and we'll share in the Lord's Supper. Let us bring break together all night. Let us bring break together. All right, when I walk in my goal, when I need to write me. Let us drink wine together already. Let us drink wise together all the time. Oh Lord, have mercy on me. Let us pray God together on the world. I won't lie to the time of my birthday. Praise God, praise God, Lord have mercy on me. We're thankful even now. The Bible says as often as you do this, you show forth my death and suffering till I shall come again. Uh in this day and age we've done it virtual and takes uh nothing away from uh this, the ordinance of the church. If you have uh with you today, uh the Bible says that uh On that night that Jesus was betrayed, that he took bread, that he blessed it, and gave it to his disciples and said, This is my body which is broken for you. Take eat ye all of it. Then he took the cup and gave thanks and says, This is my blood, which is shared for many for the remission of sins. Drink ye all of it. We do as they did. Amen. Blessed be the God. I can remember the days of serving communion as a deacon, and you would go into the house of uh Some of the members who were homebound. And when they took that communion, man, they were just overjoyed. But we know that even as we take this, the Bible says, as often as you do it, they left that place and went down, he began that is Jesus to wash his disciples' feet. Peter says, Well, no, not not me. He says, Well You know, unless I do this, you won't have any fellowship with me. Peter says, not just my feet, but all of me. And they went out and they sang a hymn. Uh the Mount of Olives and we don't know what that hymn was, but I just feel like I could I have a little piece of that today? I know it was the blood. I know it was the blood. I know it was the blood Save me oh one day when I was lost, Jesus died on the cross I know it was the blood. Save me. Amen. How many people just know that? Amen. We'll not prepare for some announcements, let's go to our newsroom. It is our desire to keep you up to date on all of the harvest happenings. We'll be glad to keep you informed. Send your text or email to come the number twoharvest. org slash updates We can't thank you enough for your financial support. If you'd like to plant seeds online, contact us at comethenumber2harvest. org slash giveonline. With your financial support Harvest is becoming a global ministry, reaching listeners and viewers now in 40 states and 30 countries. To God be the glory. For prayer, reach us at contact at comethenumber2harvest. org. For WHCM News from Studio C, I'm Tim THU. Now back to you, Pastor. Well, thank you, sir, for a fine job, and we thank each of you each week for tuning in and for uh being a part of this family. Be sure to share it today. Well, and I always have to say this is pre-pandemic. that I have a video and we'll go through in just a minute. Uh Sister Tuesday's already started the music. Not yet, Mama. Next week, I am the door Amen. I am the door. We will be continuing our preaching series. But uh not long ago, uh during the pandemic, uh We got socially distanced, but we just thought we'd pull up a little something out on the sidewalk and uh we're gonna go home with that. Amen You know, every now and then late in the evening just needs some light. It's the light of mine. I'm gonna let it shine. It's the light of mine. I'm gonna Let it chat this little bottom I know letsha let it share the chat let it change. Everywhere I go, I'm gonna let it shine. Everywhere I go, I'm gonna let it shine. Everywhere I I'm gonna let it shine, let it shine, let it shine, let it shine. Jesus came with the slide. I'm gonna let it find. Let it shine. Jesus gave me this light. I'm gonna let it shine. Jesus gave me this light. I'm gonna let it shine. Let it shine. Let it shine. Let it shine. Amen. God bless you. I pray that no matter where you go today. Thank you, brothers. That you make sure you let your light shine before men and women that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. I've enjoyed myself today. I pray that you have from the entire team. We want to thank you. Harvest Christian Ministries, a non-traditional church, traditional values. Have a blessed day in the Lord.