Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits. and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries It's already in progress. How many folk can say they really love Jesus? Why he first loved us? For God so loved the world that he spent his only begotten son. Amen. Don't you think about that today? That's real love. Yeah. That was okay. How the fuck can know the Lord loves all of you? In spite of you. Amen? That's still amazing to me Knowing what he knows, and he still loves me. Having my Rap Sheet and He still loves me. That's the great God that we serve. Let's bow today all over this place. Heavenly Father, as we come today, we thank you for that kind of love. No one can love us the way you love us. As we come today, it is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today. Empower and encourage another. And when this time is Done, we'll give your name all the praise and all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Somebody say amen today. Praise you the Lord. There's a word for the Lord today comes from the prophet Isaiah. They're in the 40th chapter, verses 28 through 31. Do you not know? Have you not heard the Lord is the everlasting God, the creator of the ends of the earth He will not grow tired or weary, and his understanding no one can fathom. He gives strength to the weary and increases the power of the weak. Even youths grow tired and weary, and young men stumble and fall. But those who hope in the Lord will renew their strength. They will soar on wings like eagles. They will run and not grow. Weary. They will walk and not be faint. That is the word of God. Today I want to preach from the Samonic title very simply. I can't explain it. I can't explain it. This week was certainly a week that caught all of our attention. As we watched the news, as we had conversations about what happened there in Broward County, Florida. 17 people murdered in the schoolhouse, teenagers, including two staff members. This was the 18th shooting incident at a school this year. And those who keep the numbers will tell you that there was at least one shooting incident That took place about every 63 hours in America. It is a tragedy. That's hard to make sense of. In fact, when this happened, I had to move my other message I had all planned for Sunday because I felt the Lord saying, let's talk about this. Let's not take sides, but let's go to the Word of God. You know, a tragedy is hard to understand. It it's hard to process. Uh it's more difficult to try and to explain. And that's why the sermon is titled I Can't Explain It Sometimes we blame God. Sometimes we are bitter about what has taken place Loved on him, time is filled with swift transition, naught on earth unmoved can stand, to build your hope on things eternal, to hold to God's unchanging hand. Life is a mystery. Life is bigger than we can comprehend. Life is beyond us. Anyone who tells you they got it together and they have all the answers and they know uh you know the very mysteries of life. back away from them. Because each life experience teaches us something different about ourselves and those who are around us. We long for sensibility. We seek explanation. We are desperate for reason. We want to know why. Now a TV program will give it to you in thirty minutes. That thing will be solved before the show goes off. A movie will put you on the ends of your chairs, but at the end there's The conclusion. And the bad guy always lives, or the bad person always seems to starve. But there's somebody in that mix you know as you follow it. But you know, we can't find the answers from a group chat. We can't find the answers from television and debates and you know sometimes you listen to them and you take sides but there's always something that's deeper at another level. Here was the author Rabbi Harold Kushner Who wrote the book Why Does Bad Things Happen to Good People? A classic piece of work. It was a reaction to his own personal tragedy. He had lost his son to premature aging. And he wrote a book to help people who have been hurt by life To help them find the faith that can aid in getting through the tough places of life. Kind of hard to explain. But as we go about our daily living, there's some things that help us that come from the book, the Bible. So today we look at the prophet Isaiah. He's the mouthpiece. He's the spokesperson for God. He's an ambassador who God uses to talk and to share his word. Isn't God amazing? He don't really need anybody, but he chooses people to speak through. Isaiah was one of those major prophets. He talks to the people about the mission that God has given him. To tell them about the truth. His words were laced with warnings, with judgment, with restoration, but also with hope And with promise. He's calling a nation to come back to God. He's reminding them that better days are ahead. My God, who wouldn't want a better day? You may find yourself on a place that Lord, I just need a better day. And that better day was the coming of the Messiah. The better day was that Jesus is coming. And so Isaiah kind of helps us to explain some of the mysteries of life by way of what God has shared through him. And the first thing I think he does, he reveals God's identity. Verse 28 says, Do you not know? Have you not heard the Lord is the everlasting God? That by itself won't say, well, you know what? I'm thankful I know that kind of God. He's the creator of the ends of the earth. He will not grow tired. He's not like us. He will not be weary. And his understanding is something that we can't really Can't really grasp. You ever ask yourself sometimes the why questions of life? And when you don't get the answer, you continue to trust God because He knows? Folk may say you can't ask God anything. Yes, you can. God has all of the answers, and so even when a preacher can explain it. Even when someone tries to be deep and heavy and claim they've got all of the mysteries of life, God's word is there for our comfort. Have you ever had to turn to the Word of God? To find the answer you need. Can I go old school? One of those little Bible promise books, it'll give you what you need, hope. Get your big Bible and go to the back, to the concordance. I need something about healing. And it'll show you every little scripture. If not, Google it in the Bible and you will find help for your hurting soul and for your confused situation. He says, You are people who are familiar with God, but you've lost faith, and you've lost hope And circumstances have beaten them down to such a way, but he comes along to remind them of who God is in the present tense Not who God was. But God is alive even now. Amen. The Bible says that God is a spirit, and those who worship him must do it in spirit and in truth. For the father seeketh such God is yet alive. We sing a little song back at my church. God is not dead. He's yet alive. I can feel him in my hands I can feel him in my feet, I can feel him all over me. How many folk know that God is not dead? We serve a living God and he's everlasting. This name identifies God as the Eternal God. Th there's never been a time when he wasn't God. Look at that. He he's always been God. Before there was, he was. Amen? There will never be a time when he isn't. Oh my God. In other words, God is God All by himself. He reminds them he is a everlasting, ever ready ever carrying God, even when you face life situations that you can't make sense of and that you can't explain, he's still everlasting. Oh my God, I feel that thing today. That you are still God. Even when I can't make it, you God. Even when I'm mad, you God. Even when I'm disappointed, you are still God all by yourself. And get this, you also the creator. You made everything. The name identifies him as the one who made everything out of nothing. Before God there was he's always been God. The God who has the power to just speak and worlds will come into being. He can explain himself And can reveal himself if he chooses to through us. I'm always amazed every Sunday, like many other people who stand behind this desk as to what God does. I may have my little script there, but man he messed that thing up. Why? His spirit. And as I'm listening to his spirit, he'll say, Uh-oh, did you tell him about this? But most of all, the question is asked, what have you lived in that arena? I can help but trust him. Amen. I can help but trust God. And so Exodus 3 and 14, Moses is faced with a situation where God has sent him to go and tell me Pharaoh, let my people go. And Moses is scared to death. He stuttering and can't get a word out. He got his brother Aaron with him and oh you've been like that before. Couldn't get it out. He said, Well what should I say? Sent me He said, Tell him that I am that I am sent you. That even though you may not be able to explain it, just tell him I am saying that. And sometimes you gotta tell your life situations That God said he is who he is. Even though I don't get it, God told me to tell you he's still God The same yesterday and today and forever. Oh, I feel bad now, man. Why? Because I know God. And you know him. He made us. So there's this sense about an identity, but also he demonstrates His power. He gives strength to the weary. He increases power to the weak. God knows our condition. No matter how much we try and cover it up, how much we try to Do something different that we can fool the public. God knows exactly what's going on. And we grow weary. Can I just say that? Good old Christian folk get beat down entirely And upset and angry and disappointed, but God already knows. And that's why He gives strength to those of us who are weary Those of us who say I'm disappointed, I'm disgusted, I'm about to throw the towel, I had enough, but God knows I know what you need Not take two and call them in the morning. You need me in your life. Have you ever tried to live life without God? Oh yes you have. I have. I thought I had this thing together, man. I was like, yeah, I got this And guess what? I had to come back to what I knew. Can I just stay there for a half a second? I I thought I knew a thing or two. And I realized that you are nothing without God. I'm trying to move on from there. I thought I had it together. Had my five-year plan. And it got all messed up because I realized I need God in my life. You can't make it without God. He gives you the power that you need in the midst of your personal problems. and your personal issues and we all got issues. Oh yes you do? I got issues. You just don't know my issues. When I counsel couples, I say, okay, now marriage is your issue and my issue. And can these issues live together? Amen? Oh, you got issues. But thank God he knows exactly what you are going through. And so that's why he sends Jesus Christ. That's why he says, get ready, as they're 96, you know what, for under us a child is born. Under us A son is given, the government should be on his shoulders, his name shall be called Wonderful Council, Prince of Peace, Everlasting Father, my God. All of that. And so whenever the situation you're in God gives you what you need for every one of your problems, every one of your issues. Has He done it for you? You thought nobody could solve that thing and God solved it. You tried everybody else and they couldn't do it. But God demonstrates his power towards us. He can explain it best. Amen? So he's able at this point. We know who God is. We can understand his power but also and finally how he delivers on his promise. Little carry out, you got an attitude about it? See, not that you told me if I didn't get it by a certain hour, I got it free. Amen. Well God will come just well you did this week, didn't you? God will come just when you need him. He said even youths shall grow tired. No other text says no you and there's some youth in here. There's some folk who want to be in the youth department. But you're not. I'm not. But even those who are energetic, even those who are just foot-loose and fancy-free got issues Even the youth will grow tired and weary. Let me do a Holy Ghost poll in the house if you're a young adult in your youth. How many of you folk grow weary? I see y'all, some of y'all young. Amen. Look at that. And y'all didn't think they had you you thought they didn't have any problems. They grow weary. He said even. That means they're not exempt And the young men, brothers, will stumble and fall. Or as the King James says, utterly fall. And so we got to make sure we're plugged in, but those Who hope in the Lord will renew their strength. Oh my God. They will soar on wings like eagles. They'll run Excited, not grow weary, they'll walk and not faint. And so we're reminded that we're weak. We're reminded that God has given us a promise that even though we go through things He has given you and I a promise that if you wait on him, he will renew your strength. You thought it was that vitamin. Or that shake. Now sometime the Holy Spirit will just help you out. Amen? And find yourself getting Holy Ghost happy over something that God did for you. You go, oh thank you, Lord. It wasn't no it wasn't no pill. Amen. It was God who made a way. It was God who opened that door for you, and he will give you the power to do what? To soar. My God, like an eagle. In the midst of a crisis, you'll be going around the way, praise the Lord. You'll be sorry. Why? He's given you that kind of spirit that no matter what you're going through, he'll Will raise you above your situation. It may be something that holds you down. And then you can run toward him on their challenges. And you can walk in faith day by day. David writes in Psalm 125 and 1: Those who trust in the Lord are like Mount Zion. Which cannot be shaken, but endures forever. You're like a big old mountain. Amen. God has built you up in such a way. Well, I begin this message saying what I couldn't explain. But I can share with you now there are some things I can explain. I know what it means to go from being lost to being found. Amazing grace, how sweet the sound that saved a wretch like me. He took me from being a doubter to a doer. Amen. Amen. Be a doer of the word, and now I'm standing on its promises. Amen. I used to stand on shaky ground. But thank God for Jesus that can stand on him. I moved from being a fake to a follower. I have decided to follow Jesus. Though no one joined me, still I will not be determined to say, you know what? I'm not with the pack. Call me strange, call me a little off, but I put my trust in God. He left me from being a liar. Revin, you lie? Yeah. A liar to become a leader. Let me say that again. A liar to a leader. Oh, you've lied before. A liar To a leader. Amen. Lead me, guide me along the way. For if you lead me, I should not say. Lord, help me walk. Each day with you, lead me, O Lord, lead me. A slacker to a soldier. I like that part. We are soldiers in the army. How many folk feel that kind of spirit today that you are in a situation where God is using you to lead others? Amen? But it's all because of what he did. On the cross. It's all because of the sacrifice that Jesus made. It's not happen chance that things are going well in your life. It's not happen chance. It's no luck of the draw. It's because of the blood of Jesus Christ that was shed for you for the remission of sins. I'm glad about that today. Amen. And so I can explain that How he transformed my life. I can explain how he made me a new me. I can explain how he continues to work in me for the greater good. Oh my God, I'm glad. Had you known the old me? Had you seen the old pictures? Had you seen things before Facebook, you thought, oh, didn't he do it? And my question to you is, won't he do it today? Won't he lift your life up? Won't he turn your life around? And there's some things you'll be able to explain. My God, he'll give you a testimony. Oh my God, I was down, but he lifted me. Amen. And that's what the Lord would do. That even when you can't explain life situations, just know that God has everything in his word. Isn't that good news today? How many folk are ready to say, you know what? I'm ready to run for Jesus. Amen. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. Come on, stand and give God a praise today. That even When I can't explain it. Even when I I don't get it. Even when life mysteries baffle me, I can hold to its unchanging hand. Why? He makes the difference in my life. As you come today. I want to just pass along that word to you. Maybe you came in the door confused today about what to do. Your big decision is not Monday. Your big decision is today. Trust the Lord today to do it in your life. Amen. I believe that today He'll do exactly what you need. But there's something you got to do. He won't chase after you. He won't spend a part of you fossil after you. You. He won't beg you, he'll just give you an invitation. So you know what? Come to me, all you who labor in the heavy late I'll give you rest. Come on to him today. Let's take a little bit of that. Come to Jesus. He's available. He wants to help you. Now later. Yeah. She's waiting. As that played software. Some of us came running. Why? Trouble was chasing us. And it ran right into the arms of Jesus Others, maybe still holding back. Wait for the world to give us some formula. It doesn't have. But I I say to you today, the Lord Jesus Christ is as real today as he was 2,000 years ago. And guess what? He will save your soul. Amen. Are there any witnesses in the house today who say, you know what? He sure will. And that makes life. Let thou today. If you've come in this house and you don't know Jesus Christ, what that means if you've never Accepting him as your personal safe. The Bible says you can come. Right now, you believe in your heart. That God sent Jesus and you believe that He died and rose again, the Bible said, Thus shall we say. Today, Lord, save someone in this place called Harvest. Do what we pray now. In Jesus' name. Give God a praise today. Amen. Thanks so much for listening I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's come the number twoharvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com. All you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes from Podcasting or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.