Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Praise God. We thank God for being reminded. No matter what we're going through, that God is an ever presence in our lives Let's bow today. Father, we thank you for a reminder No matter what we are going through or whatever we celebrate, that we might lift our eyes to the hills from which cometh our help. All of our help comes from you. As we stand today, God, we ask for your Holy Spirit to take your word and to make it plain to your people. May hearts be touched, may lives be transformed, and when it's all said and done, we'll give your name the praise and glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Praise God. As we come today, we want to share a particular passage that was shared earlier this morning from the Gospel of John there in the fifteenth chapter. Verse 18 reads, If the world hates you, keep in mind that it hated me first. If you belong to the world, it would love you as its own. As it is, you do not belong to the world, but I've chosen you out of the world. That is why the world hates you. I want to preach today from the Samonic title. Very simple, I Do Not Fit In. I do not fit in. We don't worry about technical difficulties. We move on in Jesus. Amen? If we look at our life today, some of us can claim that we are misfits. That is not suited, not able to adjust to life circumstances, life situations But I declare today, don't lure your own morality to fit into what the world is offering you. We bow to peer pressure. We bow to social pressure just so we can be accepted by the world. Just so we can fit in. And let me just say, this is not just a teenage type of situation, but as adults, we feel pressured to be in. We feel pressured to uh be the kind of person who follows what is popular The Bible says there's nothing new under the sun. They might have relabeled it and called it something else, but sugar Everything that you're doing now, somebody did it before and may have done it better. If you ever put together a cross-word puzzle, you know that sometimes you can't find the piece that fits it. I have not that kind of patience for a puzzle, but those of you who love puzzles, if you lose that one piece You find it's hard to complete the picture that's on the box. When I say the world, I'm talking about society as it relates to people, places. things and plans. And the society does not respect God. The society is going in a whole different way. As believers, we have certain standards that we live by, but know that the world will never really get with you. The world will never really accept you. And so stop trying to fit You don't fit in. Rather than fitting in, allow your faith to be increased in the Lord Jesus Christ. In the 15th chapter of John, Jesus begins as he's talking with his disciples. Time is running short. He actually is talking about his own death that's about to come. This came as no surprise to him. He says to them as followers that I am divine, and my father is the caretaker. He goes out and he'll begin to prune or cut vines that are not producing, so what? They may produce more fruit. But in that sharing, he talks over and over again about love. He said, This is my command that you might love one another. If you catch nothing else today, know that the faith that we practice, the faith that we claimed, is based on love. You can't counter love folk. Either you love them or you don't love them. But Christ says over and over again, as I make transition, I want you to remember that folk will know you are my disciples based on how you love one another. As he's talking about love, there's this flip side. He talks about hate. Now, in today's culture, hate has become cool. There's a kind of jealousy, you know, don't don't uh hate the player, hate the game. You know. You know, don't hate, appreciate, but the world and the world system Can't stand you. The world hates you. You might be popular, but know that Christ was saying, let me pass this along to you. The world hates you, and you will not fit in. Hope I'm not being repetitive, but I know that you're a nice person, that you're light on your job, you got the Merit Award last year, uh but know that there are two different spheres There's the world and there's Christ. And they don't always go together. So as he talks with them, he's really sharing with them, first and foremost, some information. He says to them very quickly, he says, You know what? As I look at this, if the world hates you, keep in mind that first of all, it hated me. World couldn't stand me. Herod went after me before I was even born, trying to kill me. The world does not hate you. But as we look at this, know that he's saying to them, here's something for you to take on your journey. You would and that's kind of hard to process because you know you're you're really a nice person It don't bother anybody, but when it comes to the enemy, everything he does is opposite of what the Lord has called us to be He said you need to know that you're not alone. That once I'm off the scene, they'll hate you. They didn't like me. They hated me. And so you need to know exactly what's happening in that regard. This whole culture is like that. Satan The father of lies. Satan always starting trouble. Satan after us. But I'm glad what the word says: greater is he that's within us. Than he that is within the world. So God is all powerful. Amen. As we think about what this text says, 1 John 2 and 15 says, do not love the world. Or anything in the world, if anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. I'm just trying to bring this home, is it's easy to kind of kind of play one leg in and kind of One leg out that five days you're in the world and two you with the Lord and every now and then you can kind of flip and flop. The world hates you. And he says you really can't get all cozy with the world. World can't be your on the side. Your world can't be something that really embraces you because you belong to me now. And when I read this text, I really begin to look at this, is that he says, you can't really get into the world. You can't get too close to the world because if you make that choice to love the world, now let me just say this. Does that mean that Reverend do I have to always walk around with my cross on and have to always walk around and say hallelujah, thank you, Jesus, all the time. No. But know who you are and know where you stand in the Lord and know who has called you. And knowing who he wants you to be. But not just information, but also there's a separation. If you belong to the world, it would love you. As it is as his own. But as it is, you don't belong to the world. See, when we were in the world, the world had us. It didn't love us, it just had us. There was some things that the world offered you that it it knew you liked it, and it had it for you every week, every day. You knew where to call, what to do, what to go, what to drink, what not to drink. I'm just gonna break it on down this morning. That's a part of being in the world But there's this separation. He says, if the world really wanted you, but it can't love you. The world does not know how to love. And so when I pulled you away, I separated you. And some of us he had to drag. Oh you know he did. I would not have come in on my own. I was okay playing both sides. But one day he called me and said, You belong to me Some of us were fighting and scratching. We wanted to still stay in the world, put the world's face on, but there's this sense of separation. He says, you know what? If you belong, the world will love you. The world does not love you. The world system is not designed for you. You are special. You are more than a conqueror through him who love you. You are somebody. You are a child of the king. You are someone who God made in his own image. You are special. Does anybody feel special today? There's this sense of separation you won't fit in. I know you tried, but it's just not you Some time ago, I don't know what it was, but folks will look at you, you you are church boy. What what are you doing in here? The world will call you out. Did I see you at church? What are you doing here? And because the world knows how to operate, it looks at you because light shows up in darkness. So even when you try to be in the world, the world say, Oh, you're not real. The world will call you out Why? Because there's this separation about whose side you will be on. Amen? John 16, 33. These things I've spoken to you that in me you might have peace. In the world you shall have tribulation, but be of good cheer, for I've overcome the world. The world will do you no favors. The world will chew you up and spit you out. The world will talk about you and scandalize your name. It's just the world. But in me you'll find peace. Aren't you glad about that today? The things seemingly are falling apart, that I can turn to the Lord and say, Lord, I know you got me. I know it does not look good right now, but the world has battered me and beaten me, and I can't find any peace in the world. It don't love me, but I found peace in you. And there's an assurance in knowing that I'm separated. I'm not snooty, just separated I don't think I'm more than you, just separated. I'm not trying to be cute, just separated. Amen. That I am a child of the king. I'm a Christian and don't mind saying it Amen. He died just for me and just for you. Fellows, I'm giving you some information to carry along the way because when I move on, they'll be after you. I'm reminding you that there's really a line between the world and you. Anybody grew up in the country where you say you want to fight me? You draw the line. And the baddest man cross over the line Uh here's the baddest man, and the lick goes to you. So some of y'all know about that. And you fight. But I tell you what, I back away from those lines. I didn't like to fight. Separation. But lastly Note that is also a time of transformation. He transforms them. He says in that latter part of the 19th verse that I have called you. Why? Because you belong to me. You belong to me. Amen. He is always transforming us. To who he wants us to be. He's shaping us. And transformation calls for really a reshaping of what it used to be. How many folk like that, you know, that little play-doh? You could almost make anything out of play-doh, couldn't you? What is that? Oh, you know what that is. You make a stick man, but what he does is he transforms us because he's chosen us, he's called us out from the world, and we can fit in to God's equation. Amen. We're able to fit. The Bible says in the book of Romans that be not conformed to this world, but be what? Transform by the renewing of your mind. That's what the Lord does for us. He says, I've given you fair warning, and that message still goes down for eternity. But know that I will receive you, and because you're on my side. And that the world might hate you, but know that I love you. And maybe nobody told you this week that they love you. Nobody said to you that you're special. Nobody said to you that you're somebody in the kingdom. Amen. And that's what Christ told me to tell you. You are somebody. You are really a king's kid. And I'm changing you because I chose you and pulled you out of a situation because the world would do you no good. I'm glad about that today, the fact that he still loves me And that he knew what was best for me. Amen. See, the world plays by certain rules, and you would never fit in. You in the world? The world rules. My daddy used to say. He said, you know, it's my way or the highway. So what do you what do you mean? That means you follow my way. Or you hit the road, Jack. And what the world is saying, are you with me? It will throw you to the side. But when you get on the Lord's side, it makes such a difference in knowing that no matter what happened, He's with me always, even to the end of the earth. Amen. And so much so that this is such a foundational scripture. John 3. 16, look at this. For God so loved the world. That he said his only begotten son, that whosoever believeth in him would not perish, but have life everlasting. That in spite of a nasty Hateful world, God saw some hope and He said, You know what? I'm sending my best into the hateful world. Look at that. I'm sending my only son to the world. And how did the world respond? The world responds this way. The world accused Christ. It abused him. Amen? It beat him, it berated him, it cast him out and cursed him, it deceived him. That's how the world responded to the love of Jesus. It denied him. The world was evil. The world tried to embarrass him. The world feared him. The world fought him. The world persecuted him. And the world put him on an old rugged cross. The world has been charged with first degree murder. Book the world. But let me keep Jesus. Amen. I'm so glad today that he went to that cross and he really gave hate a black eye. He gave the enemy On the mat. Why? Because he rose on the third day morning with all power in his hands. And that I might not fit into the world, but I can fit into where the Lord has called me. And where he's called me from. I was sinking deep in sin. Oh, you know it, far from the peaceful shore, very deeply stained within, sinking to rise no more, but the master of the sea Heard my despairing call and from the water, he lifted me. Now safe am I. It was love that lifted me. I know what folk may hate, but love lifted me when nothing else would work. Love has lifted you while the world does not love you. Keep that in mind today, that the world can't stand you. You make the world's stomach turn. It despises you, but it despised him. But the fact that he's called us out of the world to this safe place in him. I'm glad about that today. You don't fit in. You have a style. No, no, I'm I'm in style. You old fogy. Yeah, uh-huh. You too old school. No, I'm I'm new school because I've got a new day the Lord has made for me. Some folk might talk about you and scandalize your neighbor. You know what? I belong I'm a child of the Lord. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. Come on, stand today all over this place. I don't fit. I tried to fit in, but the world would not accept me. But when he chose me and pulled me out, it made all the difference in my life. Amen. We thank the Lord today, and we come to him. I give an invitation today for you to come out of the world. Get one of those monopoly, get out of jail free cards. You better get out while you can. The world wants to destroy you. The world will never accept you. With the Lord Jesus Christ and saying, Come to me. I'm available. In fact, I ID you. I saw you. And I called you into my own. Let's take a little bit of that. Come to Jesus. Come to Jesus. He's available. Just come to Jesus Come to Jesus. He will save you. He will save How many know it today? Yes, he will. He will say you just now Just now he will save you He will stay only trust him. Trust the world will do you no favor. It hates you. Only trust it now Only trust him, only trust him Let me just say this to you. I don't want you to leave what Reverend said that we gotta just go lock ourselves up And don't deal with anybody who don't know Jesus and just be anti-world. I didn't say that. I'm just saying before you get too cozy with the world, it's not really feeling you And so don't compromise today. Well, you know what? I can be popular in the world and on the Lord's side. It's an either-or. What it does for me? It reminds me that I must stay steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. And know that I might engage with the world as long as I'm not of the world. I gotta deal with people, but I must always remember who I am. That maybe through your witness, someone might be blessed andor saved because you've been what? Steadfast. Let's bow today. Father, I come in the name of Jesus. And this is what you spoke to your followers. You spoke a truth to them. A truth that is yet alive and well today. So we don't get caught up into all that's happening in the world. And there's so much happening Within our government, with our communities, and we're being distracted by worldly stuff But keep us on our knees. Keep us looking to you who can make all the difference. God, I pray even now. There's someone who wants to escape the world today. They've been running, and the world has been chasing them, and now is their chance to be free and to come on your side. The world does not love them, but you love them. I pray even now in the name of Jesus, if there's a soul in this place today That's invested in the world that they might come to the right side. Father, I pray even now for that soul, that soul, that soul that may be opened Confused about who to follow, who to trust. I pray even now, God, they may know that you snatch them From the other side. Do it today. Bless their souls today. Save their souls. The Bible says, even now that you confess with your mouth, Lord Jesus And believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. While your heads remain bowed very quickly, if you're here today and you don't know Jesus You can know him today because of his love for you. He'll love you He'll keep you. He'll comfort you. Like no one else can. Make the choice today. Check the right box today. Come on the Lord's side While those head remain bowed, if you know you're not saved today and you want to be saved, just raise your hand while heads are bowed. Today I want to pray with you before I leave this place. Bring you on the Lord's side today Maybe you've come today and you're you're doubting which side you're really on. Today you can come on the Lord's side by confessing Him, confessing your sins unto Him He'll save you today. Is there one today? Is there one today who wants to give their heart to Jesus Christ? Is there one today? Making the call today. I know I normally wrap it up here, but is there one today? Is there one today? Is there one today? Who wants to open their hearts to Jesus Christ today? Is there one in this place? I know you come, but today's the day of salvation. And today you can come and be safe and have life eternally For so many years I I played the great pretender. I knew enough. But pressed on the issue, I couldn't tell you if I was saved or not I could tell you I was a church boy, but I couldn't tell you that I was saved. Why? I was still under the world's power. Doing my thing. But one day he's pulled me out. Thank you. Feel you're saved today. Give God a praise. Amen. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comethenumber to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.