Praise God. I feel like going on, no matter what you're facing. today. The Word of God has just what you need. It has the right prescription. How many people just feel like going on today that no matter what you're facing, no matter what your circumstance or your challenge. And we thank God for that. Let's have a word of prayer. Father, we come in the name of Jesus as we begin to share your word, it is always our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase, save someone today, encourage another, and we'll be so careful to give your name the praise and the glory In Jesus' name, amen. If you have your Bibles this morning, turn and your Bible to Psalm 56 and 8. Psalm 56 and 8. Uh normally I use the NIV version, but this particular passage uh really uh says something in the NLT, the New Living Translation. So If your Bible looks a little different, uh same meaning, but I love how uh those who collected this particular passage uh put it together. Psalm 56 and 8, it reads You keep track of all my sorrows. You've collected all my tears in your bottle. You have recorded each one in your book. I want to preach from the Samonic title, I feel you. Amen. I feel you. Every day we are faced with the numbers, whether it's over television, radio, newspaper, or the internet. The numbers that just keep popping up as it relates to deaths associated with COVID-19. Uh around the world more than two million people lost their lives thus far. In this country, more than four hundred thousand and the numbers are growing and the experts tell us and I pray that they're wrong that in the next month or two it could be over Five hundred thousand lives lost. For every life lost, a family is affected. For every death associated with COVID nineteen, someone has to bid farewell to a loved one. But think about this. Millions more have lost their jobs, signing up for unemployment. Persons have lost their homes based on the economy others have lost valuable possessions, and some have lost hope. I believe whether on earth in the earthly realm or in heaven, that there's someone sharing these three words. I feel you. I feel you. Now, they're not trying to compare your loss. Not trying to compare your pain or your sorrows with their own, but based on what they've experienced, they're trying to show empathy. Empathy is an attempt to really feel someone's feelings and to sense their thoughts. and their attitudes. It's been said that empathy is the key that unlocks the door of kindness and compassion. The Apostle Paul says it well in Romans 12 and 15. He says, to rejoice with those who rejoice and mourn with those who mourn. Jesus felt the pain and the suffering and the challenge of the people. You remember the time when he was teaching all day and uh uh the people kept following him. And he says to his disciples, the people are tired and they're hungry. Let's feed them. And of course the response was, we don't have that kind of budget. to do this. And they find the little boys to lunch and feeds the five thousand and there's carry out that's remaining. Jesus felt for people he feels what you and I are going through. There was a time when he happened to be going through town and there was the widow who had lost her only son. And that Jesus, as the Bible said, his heart overflowed with compassion. But these words, you keep track of all of my sorrows. You have collected all my tears in your bottle. You've recorded each one in your book. David is an amazing person. He writes this. David the shepherd boy, David the Warrior, David the King. was facing a difficult time, no matter what position you're in. We all have situations in life where it just gets rough and the hills are hard to climb. That was David's case. His life was on the line. There was somebody who wanted to take him out. He was hiding in a cave confused, but in that moment David realized that God could feel him, that God would hear his cry, his prayer. He knew that God was, first of all, taking notice, that God was taking action, and that God was keeping record. Taking notice. You keep track of all of my sorrows. Not some of them, but all of them, and your your sorrows may be many right now. God is aware. He's familiar. He neither sleeps nor slumbers. He is not on break. He's not on a sabbatical, but he is tracking each one of our sorrows. That no matter what you are facing, uh nothing is off limits to God. And you may say to persons, I know you think you feel me, but you don't know what I'm really going through. And sometimes we think we know And we mean well, but you don't know what happens behind closed doors. You don't know what happens in someone's life. in the midnight hour and we are well meaning to think that just because you've gotten over your sorrows Don't assume another person has. That think of your lowest point in life. Your most sorrowful moment. Did he not lift you Did he not lift you out of that place and for some? It may have taken longer than others, but I'm convinced of this. That he does keep track of my sorrows and of your sorrows. His spirit, I believe, just has a a tracking system, a surveillance system to where he knows exactly what you're going through. Well, we we need that in our nation. We need that in our homes. We need that in our churches, this sense of empathy. Hebrews 4. 15, the author writes, he says, for we do not have a high priest who is unable to empathize with our weaknesses, that he feels me. He can empathize with what you're going through. Well Jesus, how so? He knows what it means to be homeless. He knows what it means to be accused wrongly. He knows what it means to die, but then to get up again with all power in his hands. He's taking notice, but he's also taking action. That's the God that we serve. You've collected all of my tears in your bottle. I love the way David writes. He was certainly a great hymn writer, a great poet, and how he describes this has been with me all week long. I shared the word with a friend of mine. He shared it and then it kept getting shared and and uh that's how you pass along good word is that you never know What word you need? It's been said that the best word you ever heard is the word you need the most. The best song you ever heard is the song you need in the right now. That was from Bishop TDJ. So I'll just go ahead and give him his props. We interviewed him years ago and I said, what is it about your ministry? And his TD Jake's voice, well, it's the best word you ever heard. Uh he'll get me for that. I uh is the one you need. And that is the word that we may need. The idea of keeping tears in a bottle. This metaphor. Tears referred to as prayers. Nothing is wasted. Nothing that you're going through is David believed that. David had shared a million tears. The Bible often described David as crying out to the Lord. And he was that kind of person. But what do you and I believe? Do you believe that God is is taking action? Do you believe that He's doing something? Don't look now, but He feels you and He feels exactly What you're going through. One of the shortest verses in the Bible. You want a good memory verse from the week? John 11, 35, Jesus wept. Amen. You may not know any other verse, but most of the young people say, I got one. John 11 and 35. Jesus wept He comes into town, word had gotten out from Martha and Mary that Jesus, your friend Lazarus, has died. Well they were mad because he took his time getting there. He already knew what he was going to do, but but he wept. That was the human side of him. Of course, we know that he came along and said, the Lazarus come forth. And so even in our moments of being down, that he's able to feel us and then to do something about it. Amen. That is the good news today that he is taking action Taking action, doing something. You know, it's always been said that talk is cheap. Persons make promises that they can't Uh that he can't keep. We mean well, but when Jesus promises something, I just believe that He He will come through. Let me just pause for a moment. Has He ever come through for you? I mean he came to do something about it. He didn't just talk about it, but he did it. And that is the good news that our Lord And savor right now. In this moment, at this second feels you. Somebody says there's not a friend like the lowly Jesus. No, not one. None of us could heal all our soul's diseases. No, not one. Jesus knows all about our struggles. And he will take care of us. He will guide us till the day is done. Taking action, taking notice, he also is keeping record And David writes that when it comes to keeping record, he says what? He says that not only have you collected all my tears in your model, but you've recorded each one In your book. You you have lost count of the tears that you have shed of disappointment. pain, even of joy, and you may have lost track, but God never forgets. He never misplaces his heavenly notes. I believe there's a system in glory that is collecting all of our tears. that Jesus could very well go to the room of tears and just call up your name and your tears. While you thought they were wasted, they We're not. He does not have amnesia. He's the same yesterday, today, and forevermore. David realized that. And in this most challenging moment, he writes these words. That's David's testimony. But what is your testimony? You may not say it like David. You may say it a different way. The fact that he has recorded it in his books. It's well documented. Your pain documented. Your sorrows documented. Your tears documented. Your hurts documented. Amen. Oh there. Revelation 3 and 5, when it comes to keeping track, it says the one who is victorious will like them uh be dressed in white. I will never blot out the name of that person from the book of life. Isn't it great to have your name in the Lamb books of life and that it is written in the blood of Jesus That he's kept record. Just when you thought that nobody cares, just when you thought that these are tears that I refuse to share again. You ever said that? I'm not going to shed another tear I'm not gonna cry another moment. But listen, have a new perspective on your tears that they are being recorded. God sent Jesus because He He saw the sin. He felt it, this sin of a broken humanity. Jesus went to the cross because he felt the pain Of our sins. And that's why he gave his life. He rose so that we could experience victory. And in the here and now, he wants us to feel his love. And to rest in his peace and to embrace his joy for he is coming back. I thought about that this morning. I said, you know what? He's a touchy feely Lord. Yeah. Touchy feely. Isaiah had his lips touch. Touchy-feely. The blind, the blind man had his eyes were touched by Jesus, Solava. The deaf man had his mouth touched. The leper was touched By Jesus. And then the woman with the issue of blood says, Excuse me, I'm gonna touch him. Excuse me, no, no social distancing. I've got to get to the Savior because of what I am going through He touched me. Oh, what joy has filled my soul. Something happened, and now I know He touched me and made me whole. Do you believe that he feels you today? Right now, that burden can be lifted because the master knows what you're going through That is the word of God. It's already blessed. Let's bow today. Heavenly Father. We're so glad that you understand that while other folk don't quite get it, and we don't expect them to, you do. You feel us. Father, I pray even now for that person who knows not you that they may sense your presence. That they can feel you by opening their hearts and saying, I'm a sinner. What must I do to be saved? The Bible says that thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, the Bible says thou shalt be saved. Today, save someone Touch that hurting soul. Do it now, we pray in the name of Jesus. Praise God. I feel that touch right now.