I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen. Whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website, I really do believe that God has a special message just for you. A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries. for a worship experience already in progress. Amen. I'm going up yonder. Give God a praise today. When our work is done here, we bless his holy name. We thank God today just for being God. All by Himself. Anybody glad that God never changes? He's the same yesterday, today, and forevermore. Let us bow today all over this place as we now prepare. To proclaim the good news of Jesus Christ. Heavenly Father, we do thank you that you've called us and commissioned us To be servants, to be carriers of the good news of Jesus Christ. As we stand today with good news, I pray that I might decrease and that you might increase. Save a soul today. Empower another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. There's a sweet spirit. I've been saying it all morning. There's a sweet spirit in this house today. It is the Spirit of the Lord. Amen. I want to share with you from the Gospel of Luke, and that just simply means that it's good news. They're in the tenth chapter, verses one and two. After this, the Lord appointed seventy-two others and sent them two by two ahead of him to every town and place where he was about to go. Verse number two, he told them, the harvest is plentiful. But the workers are few. Ask the Lord of the harvest, therefore, to send out workers into his harvest I want to share today from the Samonic title, I made the cut. I made the cut. It had been a long Time of waiting. As a young junior varsity basketball player, we had tried out and you were waiting for the big announcement Will I make the cut? Will I get a new uniform? Will I get my new tennis shoes? Will I be a part of the junior varsity basketball team at Sawanee High School in Live Oak, Florida? Once my name was called, there was a sigh of relief that I had made the team to the glory of God. In the years to come, I would make other teams. I never got cut after that. But when I went to college, that was a different level My skill set did not match the college-level ball. I played intermule ball then, but that was not the same as playing college level And so I really have become content just being at courtside. I'm content being in the stands. I'm content being along the sideline and watching those who have moved to the next level. And when I think of persons who have done that, uh one that comes to mind is Rudy Gay He's someone who is from Baltimore County, Maryland, fine family here in the Baltimore area, and I had the pleasure a few summers ago to uh marry he and his wife, what a lovely ceremony that was. But an example of someone who didn't just make the high school cut but made the college cut and one of the few to make it to that particular level to God be the glory. And then there's Andre Davis from From Live Oak. I've even worn his jersey a time or two. Retired with the Cleveland Browns. There again, these are athletes who are above average uh played his ball there in Cleveland and Denver as well as Buffalo but they will tell you both what it felt like to be chosen and to make the cut. Two very humble men who give us an example of what it means to move to another level. But today I want to say to you, I'll stop by to remind you that it's possible for you to make the cut in life. in service at the highest level when you're connected to the Lord Jesus Christ. How many folk want to make the cut? I know you you've tried out But when they call your name, when the Lord appoints you and say, I could use you in my service, that balances things out when you know that you've been called to share the good news of Jesus Christ. Now there were thousands of people who followed Jesus and for all different reasons. Some just love the miracles. Others just said, I want to be nosy. Folk were nosy back then, just trying to see what is he doing. There were those who were agitators who followed him just to try and trap him, but of all of the thousands of people, there were a few that were chosen. And I like what he sees. I want to share this morning how he sees in us our potential. He's able to point us toward what is really a problem that we may run across, and most of all, to never forget the importance of prayer. I made it. And you've made the cut on your job. You you made the cut in your own life experience. Because God has given you a skill set that you belong. Let me just say this. You all are cool, calm, and you're collective. What does it mean to belong to an organization? What does it mean to be useful and what God has called you to do? Do you feel good about that and know that, you know, I have skills, I have a a certain attitude and aptitude that I can be used on my job? I'm talking to you church. Does that feel okay that you're wanted, that you're needed in your profession? God chooses us. He picks us for a particular reason. And that's what he did when he picked the disciples. He looked out amongst them, but only found a few. If it had been a busy day for him, he had fed 5,000 people. That alone was a great effort. He had certainly seen a boy who had an evil spirit. He had healed him He had taken his disciples, a few of them, to the top place of the Mount of Transfiguration. And they were all following Jesus. We know about the 12. That was kind of the inside group. But in the 12, there were just three who really stuck with them But there were others he sent out to do the work of ministry. He says to them now, don't look back. Once you put your hand on the plow, you can't go back. How many folk come from the country How many have ever pushed a plow? I mean a real plow, amen. And you can't push the plow forward or the mule and look back. Because what would happen is your role will go all over the place. But Jesus used a farming metaphor to connect with the people of that day to let them know he could use them. Aren't you glad today that he can use you? He's given you certain gifts and skill set to you. I'm glad to be used. I don't know much, may not look like much, but there's something that we can all do for the kingdom Now, do you believe that today? That there's something that you can contribute to reaching someone for Christ? Amen. I believe that. But let me just remind you, you are special. You are royal priesthood. Amen. You are somebody. Can I just I'm trying to get you excited today? You've got what it takes. God has put some stuff in you. You've made the cut. And therefore, He can use you. First of all, He sees our potential. He appointed. Look at this. After this, after all he had done, then he takes time to appoint 72 others, and he sends them two by two. It's good to travel with somebody. Amen? Amen. It's good to say, you know what? Will you be my role partner? Let's go in together and take him out. Let's go in together and share. And so he appoints them and sends them to every town and place where he's going to go. He sends them as an advanced team. I'm going to be going there soon, but I want you to go and to spread the news before I get there. Let them know that I'm coming. I've been fortunate enough to cover a few presidents and governors and mayors and they always send an advanced team. You won't see them by the way. You'll see some vehicles pull up and they'll park and they'll look around and they'll check you out. Somebody else will pull up and they'll scan you and then the president comes Amen. I remember some years ago covering uh Laura Bush, the first lady, and the neighborhood was transformed. Man, it was clean and looked like because they'd already been there. They had gone there days ahead of time to make sure everything was okay I tell people if you go into the White House, you don't just go like the same day. They'll say, Who are you sending? Tim Tutum? Good They take your social, they run your background, they know everything about you before you walk in the White House. Amen. I know folks are jumping the fence, but media have to go through a whole lot of stuff But he actually sends them out, but he sees what they're capable of. And that's what God sees in us. He knows what's in you. He sees your potential, even when you don't see it So I I I I know what's in you and what I can bring out of you. So don't ever let anybody talk you down and tell you that who you're not. Uh say, you know what, there's something happening on the inside of me and I've got great potential. Why? Because of the Lord Jesus Christ. He's put something in you. He's put a special chip in you that you will go ahead and announce the good news of Jesus Christ. He sent them out Two by two, those were the ones that made the cut. As they went out, they did the work of ministry. That's good news. I'm excited about that. And then there's another passage. I see in 1 John 3 and 2. He says, now beloved, now are we the sons of God. There's potential and it doth not yet appear what we shall be, what we shall be, what we shall be. We're not there yet, but we know that when he shall appear we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. How many folk know they have potential? I've got potential. Amen. Well I didn't see every hand come up. I have potential. God sees something in me that you may not see. He wants to use me. Every hand should have gone up yet. I'm taking the Holy Ghost poll. How many folk know I've got some potential? That God has put some stuff in me that's just for me that I can do and can do well. Why? Because He has supplied me with it. He saw potential. But not only that, He also saw a problem. He says, now he told them, Jesus telling the 72, the harvest is plentiful, but the workers are few. Uh-oh. In other words, there are people out there, but not enough folk are willing to roll their sleeves up and get on the field. You know I'm country. And even though you may have done most of your summer work, I worked in tobacco. I used to go out early in the morning about 5 a. m. uh you know, fully clothed and go out and stand under these big wet leaves and we would harvest that tobacco all day long in 95 degree weather We'll come back in and put it under at the barn. We might have got $15 a day. Maybe that. And 10. 9 went to mom and daddy, so you were left with a little bit. But there were times when the farmers had a problem. They had a lot of tobacco, but it was starting to burn in the field. And so they realized that we need some harvesters. That we got a big field and this money on the line. Can you find me a crew? Yes, stop by Tim Two and Town. I'm available. That's maybe a fifteen dollar job too. And so you made thirty dollars in one day. Man, you were somebody. You were loaded. Why? Because God sees the potential, but he sees the problem is that there are not enough people who are willing to say, I'll help out. Not enough to say, Lord, use me to your glory. He said, there's a problem I knew about it. I'm just letting you know, it's plentiful, you'll find folk everywhere you go. Amen And God bless our city. There's so much going on. And we can make a difference one person at a time It it's not the city problem. It's not a Baltimore problem. It's not a Maryland problem. It's a world problem. And so you've got to see that if I can affect one or feel good today. If I can affect one life. Encourage one person, you don't know the seed that you're planting in that life. And the beauty of getting seasoned and grain, and if we can remind you, you remember the time? No, I don't Years ago we ministered in the prison and I thought I was trying to preach then and the guy said man I remember you came by that day. I said what day? In the prison when you preached, I said, I did what what was it? They remember the whole word And when folk were hungry, there are people out there. Workers are few. There is a problem. John 4 9. Jesus said, you know what? I got work to do. I'm not just telling you what to do. I must work the works of him that sent me While it is day. Not catch me next week, not let me have a meeting, not get back with me, but God and what He wants to use us now. Are you ready to make the cut and to be used to by the glory of God? Because night will come and nobody can work. Your nighttime in your life might cause it. Well, if I could have got down to North Carolina, I would have. If I could have done it, well you got time. If you're up and breathing and moving and have your being, you can affect a life, you can move into that life and share with them the good news of Jesus Christ. Amen. I see the problem. But do you see the problem? And then finally, prayer. Reverend, that's simple. Yeah, yeah, he said uh now I want you to pray. But no, you just sent me out. No, no, no. I need you to pray. But then you look ask The Lord of the harvest to send out some orchards into the harvest field. And so prayer is important as you go to buy food at the supermarket I got a CD in one pocket. I've got a card in the other, and I'm praying. May I meet somebody at Produce, Lord? May I bump into somebody over by the meat counter and maybe it's not that place. But I might be going back to the car and somebody got me blocked in, and that might be the opportunity, but I'm praying the whole time that you might give me somebody to share the good news with But what if I don't say anything? You'll be amazed that when you smile at somebody, they'll smile back. Amen I'll get on the elevator. I say you smile, I don't know your name. But you smile, I'm gonna smile back at you. And when you start doing that, it might be the smile they need for the day. You're there to provide that And so I'm praying, God, that you might give me somebody to reach. Oh, you don't sound too excited about that. I mean just one, one, one, one, one, one person. I can't say the whole community, but let me bump into my neighborhood, mourn the Lord. How are you doing today? Can I use some ice water today? It might be the one person that you use You have made the cut. And Jesus says, you know what? These are my people, so I'm praying. And so he does not just tell you to pray, but Jesus prayed. Amen. Mark 135. In the morning, rising up a great while before day, Jesus went out and departed to a solitary place, and there he prayed. There she prayed. There they prayed. It may not be a long dissertation, but Lord, today when I leave this place, I'm praying that I might be used by you. I don't know, it may not be today, it may be tomorrow, it may not be after church, it may be this evening, but whenever it is, Lord, use me to your glory. And I got to pray that prayer today. It might just be a whisper as I'm getting out of my car, is there someone I can reach? My wife can testify. I asked for a loaf of bread. Why were you going an hour? I was trying to reach one. Your daddy is in the store talking to somebody. I'm trying to reach one. It's not my owl, but I'm trying to reach one. I don't need to buy anything from that owl, but I want to just smile because she smiled at me and I'm smiling back And we might have a conversation about I've made the cut. And when you made the cut, you gotta be used. How many folk know they've made the cut today? Yes indeed This was really about lost people. That's what it was all about. This wasn't just saying go front for me and no people are lost. And that's why he sent them to reach the lost. And people are lost where you live. They're lost on your job. They're lost in your community. And you have been called, you've been appointed and selected and picked. to share Christ with them. And you know what? And you got credibility, why? Because you've been lost Oh oh oh Lord have mercy. You've been lost. And so you're not saying Mr Oh I've never done no, you've done some wrong stuff and I have too. And therefore you can connect because you got credibility. Lost my job? Me too? Down to the left out, me too? Hard to stay in my house, me too? Rough and hills and hard to climb, me too. And so that's credibility. And people know when you're faking it I've been through some subtitles. I could tell you my whole story about what I've been through and say, oh no, I can reach them. Not unprovest Christian ministry, but let me tell you about where God has brought me from Having the credibility. Being able to reach someone for Christ. I love that hymn about the story. I love To tell the story. No, no, no, I do. I love to tell the story of unseen things above. Of Jesus and his glory. Of Jesus and his love. People need what we have. And you didn't get on the team To ride the bitch. See, I rode the bitch. But even a bitch guy can make some stuff happen. Dude, that was a nice shot. The bitch man would be excited And the bitch man got to at least do a layup of two in warm-ups, amen. And the bitch guy still got the same kind of uniform The same new shoes, and you got also in the yearbook. You made the picture. Amen. And so God wants to use you today. You've made the God And now what are you going to do? He sees your potential. He's pointed out the problem. And he says, you can't do it without prayer. That is the word of God today. It's already blessed. Stand today all over this place and give God the praise and the glory. I want to be used. Will you pick me? Can I be on the team? I got that. That's so important. Yes, Lord, I'm available. Are you available today to be used in the wider ministry of God? I'm gonna make you sing it today. Yes, Lord. Come on, say like you mean it today. From the bottom of my heart to the depth of my law yet Completely yes. I know that yes. Let's do it again. Yes, Lord. Yes, Lord. I don't hear you today. Yes, Lord From the bottom of my heart. Yes, Lord. Completely I love you from the fire of my heart. That's it. The death of my Lord. I love you. I really do I really much special. As we come today, I'm passionate about reaching souls. It's no happen chance that this church is called harvest. Wow, go figure. It's because it's the spirit of this pastor that I try to put on you every sun. Do you get there? There's nothing you can do to affect the life. And you're holding on to a great testimony, but you made the cut. So if you didn't make the cut, you say, Well, uh, that's not me. But you've made the cut. I want to encourage you in the Lord today to affect someone, to plant a seed. In an experience of someone that you may know or you may not know. Amen. As we come today, I want you to bow your heads. I want to pray for you First and foremost, that if you're not saved, that you might find Christ as your personal Savior. You might receive him rather. So as you bow those heads today Jesus sent them out to reach the lost. But he had to change them before he sent them out. They were fishermen, they were tax collectors, they were some rough-necked brothers. Some shady brothers, but he transformed them. They believed the gospel message and they believed the proclaimer. And so therefore they had something to take with them. No accommodations. They just took what they knew, and that was Jesus. If you've come today, you've never given your heart to Jesus. You've never said, Lord, I'm a sinner. I want you to save my soul today. Today can be your day It's the day that you make the cut. Amen. And what I mean is this if you believe that God Sent his son Jesus Christ to die for you. He came as a babe wrapped in swathing clothes and lying in a manger. Yes, I believe in Christmas. That's when he was sent. He grew up. He ministered. He died. But he rose again. With all power in his hand. The Bible said, that you believe that God sent him If you believe that he died, if you believe that he rose, that qualifies, if you believe it in your heart, that you will become saved. That's the best way I can put the message today. I stand today as a saved person. I know that I'm saved. I know that I am saved With all that I've done and been through, I know without a shadow of a doubt I'm saved. Or just think so, oh I've been converted Today you can't be too. Give yourself 30 seconds to think about it. Think about it. Think about it. Think about it today. Take inventory of your own life. Have I qualified? Do I believe it? Have I received it? Can I confess it? While those heads above today, I mean all eyes are closed. If you have not made that decision, but you want to. I want to pray with you right where you stand today. Nobody's business but yours or the Lord's today. I want to pray with you. If you're not sure, you're unsure. I want to pray with you right now and I want you to get out. You say I'll see you next Sunday, but it may not be on next Sunday. And I want you to be able to join that great crowd in glory. Amen. For the great celebration One last time, one last time, one last time, if you're here today and you know that you've not given your life to Jesus Christ, you can receive them right now Well, that tells me there's a saved house. Give God the praise today, amen. Amen. We bless the Lord today. It's been a good day. My God, y'all see your uniform is on. You have made the team. Amen. Oh, you don't sound so excited about that. Got your new shoes? I pray you were helped in some way by this message Be sure to follow Harvest Christian Ministries on radio, CD, podcast, or over our new website. It's come toharvest. org. That's Come to Harvest, C-O-M-E, the number two, and harvest. org. Take time to experience the website and all that we have to offer as a ministry. In the meantime, pray that God will continue to allow us to reach a community for Christ for the cause of the kingdom. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten. Have a great day in the Lord.