Hello, my dear friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. We are a non-traditional church with traditional values. Listen in today on our worship experience. It's already in progress. Praise God. We bless the Lord today for all the great things he has done. How many people know that there's somebody who's praying for you? Amen. Yeah, that you may be unaware of it, but somebody is lifting your name up. And you know what? You can feel 'em. Let's bow today. Heavenly Father, we thank you. For this day you've given us. And we thank you, God, for being so faithful. As we come today, it is our prayer that we might decrease. And that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Something trying to attack my voice. I don't know what it is, but we gon move on, amen. The word today comes from Romans. You heard it earlier, 15th chapter, verses 30 through 33. It reads, I urge you, brothers and sisters. By our Lord Jesus Christ and by the love of the Spirit to join me in my struggle by praying to God for me. Pray that I may be kept safe from the unbelievers in Judea, and that the contribution I take to Jerusalem may be favorably received by the Lord's people there. So that I may come to you with joy by God's will and in your company be refreshed. The God of peace be with you all. Amen. I want to preach today from the Samonic title simply, I Need Your Prayers. I need your prayers. I grew up like many of you in a church that would use this devotional hour to have testimony services. Anybody know about that? I mean uh the saints of old would stand and they would say, I want to thank the Lord for bringing me through another day. And they would talk to God by way of those who were in the house. And somebody would say, Amen. Say it, sister. And they would share what God had done in their lives for that day or for that week. And I always remembered those testimony services because they would say normally at the end, all of you who know the worth of prayer. Pray for me. Not that I would live long, but that I might be able to follow the will of God. And I always wondered about what do you mean if you know the worth of prayer? And what they were saying is: do you know the value of prayer? If you know that, then pray for me. If you don't know it, they didn't say this, but if you're not sure that God can answer prayer, thank you. God bless you But it was something in their experience that drew us. And so testimonies are powerful because they talk about what God has done and what God continues to do. Now now some of us maybe we don't need prayer. Some of us are supermen. And super women with our capes. And we say, you know what? I got this. I hope to God that you're not in that crowd. Anytime you want to pray for me, go ahead and lift my name in prayer. And specifically, pray that God might keep me humble. Pray that God might use me. Pray that God might keep me. Uh I'm asking now for your prayers. And there are oftentimes I pray for you. I know where you sit every Sunday. And God will give me a photographic memory to think about who I see. Who I don't see, but know your pastor is praying for you. And this kind of praying, praise God, is called intercessory prayer. That's when we stand in the gap for someone else. That that my prayer is not just for me. And we can be that way. Lord, it's me again. Here's what I need. Here's what I want. Here are my challenges. And we leave off everybody else. But take time this week and pray for someone else. How many parents in the house? Oh, then you gotta pray in ministry. And don't stop. Even though they may act grown, pretend to have it together, pray for your children. My mother reminds me she still prays for me. I appreciate that. But intercessory prayer is when we stand in the gap for others. And our text today is the Apostle Paul. He's one who is known. Wrote the better part of the New Testament. And Paul takes time to say, listen, I need your prayers. Wait a minute. You, Paul, you pray for everybody. Paul says, but no, no, no. In this situation, I need for you to pray for me. Have you ever asked people to pray for you? Make the request and tell them now here's what I need for you to pray, but to solicit prayers. Paul was one who would go out. And risk his own life to spread the good news of Jesus Christ. A lot of people didn't like Paul They wanted to kill Paul. Why? He represented Jesus, and Paul was always under attack. Some years ago I went to uh there in Greece and went atop Mars Hill, and that's where Paul took on all the other folk to speak on Jesus. Now, mind you There was nothing there but people who believed in Greek gods. They believed in Zeus and Aphrodite. Some of y'all took humanities. Amen. But Paul stood and proclaimed the name of Jesus, even though no one else wanted to believe it. So Paul says, I need your prayers. And each of us today make a commitment to pray for someone else. Will you do that today? Said, I'm going to take time this week and not just pray for my wants and my needs, but I'm going to pray for someone else. I believe that is what we are called to do as believers. It's our duty not to be selfish. Yeah, I think I told you this story that some years ago I picked up a book and read only the introduction. That was it. And it was the power of a praying parent. And when I read the first page, it helped me out in the sense. Now when you pray, don't go back and ask God if he answered it. Don't fall off and say, God, I I prayed for them now. Tell me what happened. It's not your business. The prayer was that they might hear the voice of God Parents, all we can do is pray that our children hear your voice. Oh, I'm trying to go somewhere different here. That as much as you want to change them, As much as you want to live their lives, say God, cover them. And right now you are evidence of somebody praying for you. Well, Paul was selective. He was specific. He was supportive. He says in verse 30, I urge you, brothers and sisters, by our Lord Jesus Christ, and by the love of Christ, to join me in my struggle. By praying to God for me. Paul didn't just choose anybody. He called them brothers and sisters. Now, while he may not have known them personally in the church at Rome, he knew they had a God connection. He says, I want you to pray for me. Why? You have a connection with God. You can't ask everybody to pray for you. Amen. But the folk you know who can get one through. So you know what? I'm not just calling the Shoot the breeze. I need a real prayer lifting up on my behalf. He says, join me in my struggle. He had something going on. He knew there was danger ahead of him. He said, I need you to help me. I can pray. I pray. I know what's going on. But I need for you to pray to God for me. That means I believe that you know God. Don't say pastors say cut some people off and give them a God test and they don't pass it. You know, I mean anybody can pray for you. But it's good if they know Jesus. Why? Their prayers will get through. Amen? And so Paul was selective by asking those saints in Rome to pray It says, do it by way of the love of the Spirit. What the Spirit does, it guides us in our prayers. Amen? He says, join me. I'm already praying, but I need some backup. How many folk need backup? Amen. You've been praying and praying and praying and may you get some prayer warriors going and and and get folk who know how how many people know about five folk who can pray I I mean I'm talking about when you call them, it's not small talking. No, listen, listen, listen, listen. I need your prayers. Big interview tomorrow. Need your prayers. Trying to buy a home. Need your prayers. Get a doctor's appointment. Need your prayers. You want folk who are selective Pick those people. Not pep talk, not motivational talk. I need somebody who don't mind praying right on the spot Paul says, put me on your prayer list. I brought today what's in your bulletin. The prayer list. And and and you've been praying and folk are being healed. Edma Cugleton, my sister-in-law, healed breast cancer. Meredith Slash, my sister-in-law, heel. Donna Jean McCoy, healed I can go down the list. Heel Bill Cyrus. Heel. The names on this list That's in your bulletin that people are being healed, whether you know them or not, lift up their name in prayer. You've been selected to do what? To pray. But Hall was also very specific. Now what do you want me to pray for? See don't tell somebody, pray for me. But that leaves up anything. I always say, what do you want me to pray for you about? Once they tell me, okay. I got it. Don't give me a blanket. Just pray. But be specific. Paul says, pray that I may be kept safe. From unbelievers in Judea. In other words, pray for my safety. About to deal with some crazy people. And so I need for you To pray that God might keep me in this strange environment. And then pray for me that as I go and take money to the people in Jerusalem, That they might receive it, pray for me in that regard. Pray that I might be received favorably. Paul knew trouble was coming, but he was very specific about what he needed. Make your request known unto God. And the peace of God that passes all understanding will keep your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. So be very specific about what it is That you need prayer for. Christmas, you make your list. I want this. Oh, some of y'all did that. And this and G. I. Joe. And I want this. But when it comes to prayer, somebody near you may not know what you're going through. And just say, can you pray for me this week? On this area in my struggle. Amen. And so Paul says, That's what I need for you to do. But whatever you're going through, be clear. Amen. Pray for me this week that I might continue to stay in the Word of God and gain wisdom as I lead as your pastor. You pray for the word on Sundays. And don't wait till Sunday. How many folk know somebody says, you know what? I know you're a church person. Can you pray for me on Sunday? On Sunday? And you telling me on Monday? You got a minute? On yesterday at our town fair, woman came by and she said uh Pray for this particular person. I said, about what? She told me. I said, can we do it now? On the spot I grabbed her hand and I called out the name of the person and the condition. And you need on the spot pray. Amen? Amen. Talking to a friend of mine, same thing. I mean, people curse in public. They lay you out in public. So what's wrong with praying in public? And so Take the time and ask the person, what is it, and can we pray right now? My God, let me do this. In the middle of the sermon. Turn to somebody near you. It's okay. If they want to give you and say, can you pray for me about this one issue? Tell them your name firstly when I know you. Say, can you pray for me this week about this? And then flip it. And I'll keep talking. I'm gonna keep it going. But whatever that is, say pray for me this week about this. Amen. Don't don't don't don't don't leave the musician out. Amen. There might be one thing you need prayer for. Amen. Now come on, give God the praise. There's nothing like on the spot Immediate breaking news. I got you. Let's do it now. Prayer. So Paul was specific. Well they still praying. Luke twenty-two Jesus tells Peter, but I pray for you. What did you pray? That your faith fails not, and that when you convert it, you might strengthen your brethren. And so Jesus prays for us. So be selective on who you get to pray for you, and you were. Be specific and also be supportive. The last couple of verses, Paul writes, so that I might come to you with joy. I need these things lifted that by God's will and in your company I'll be in other words, I want to get to Rome I'm writing a letter, going through some situations, but my goal is that one day I'll see you face to face. And then he says, The God of peace be with you all. Amen. So so Paul asks for a prayer and then gives a prayer. Amen. He looked forward to his trip to Rome. He wanted to get there. But he turned the tables on the people that he asked to pray for him, and he prayed for them. Amen? It's gotta be an exchange. Don't just beg for a prayer and not switch it up. Thank you, but I gotta go now. Yeah, get prayed for that. Now you take care now. No, no, no, no, no. Doc, what what do you need me to pray for you for? And so he is supportive in this manner. Jesus prays to his Father. And he's praying for his disciples. His prayers that their joy might be complete. Pray. Let me tell you that God answered Paul's prayer. A Paul made it to Judea. Escaped the believers. Paul made it to Jerusalem to carry the money. Paul made it back to Rome, but not in a limo. Paul came in chains, arrested by the government. And Paul came to Rome, but he was locked up But he got his prayers answered. And while he was there, he began to minister to those who were near him That even in every circumstance, God will allow you to still lift up a prayer. Paul never stopped praying Locked up, discouraged, not sure of his future, let nothing keep you from praying. Let no situation steal your joy. Let nothing destroy your peace. Keep praying unto God. Song says, what a friend we have in Jesus. All our sins and Greece to bear. What a privilege it is. To carry everything to God in prayer. Oh, what peace we often forfeit. Oh, what needless pains we bear, all because we do not Carry everything to God in prayer. Carry your burdens to God in prayer. Carry your disappointments to God in prayer. Carry your distractions to God in prayer. Carry your heartaches to God in prayer. Amen. Take everything to God. He will lift your burdens. He will deal with your disappointments. He will heal your hurts. He will ease your pain. He will solve your problem. Now do you believe that? If you know he'll do all of the above, come on give God some praise. That I know he will There's not a friend like the lowly Jesus. The same Jesus who came wrapped in swollen clothes. And lying in the manger, that the same Jesus who baffled those who were scholars at twelve years old, the same Jesus who preached the gospel. The same Jesus who taught and led by example. The same Jesus who was beaten all night long. The same Jesus who went to an old rugged cross. The same Jesus who was placed in a baric tomb The same Jesus who rose on the third day morning with all power in his hands, the same Jesus who rose will rise in you. The same Jesus, if you call on his name, the same Jesus will bring you through seen and unseen dangers. The same Jesus is present right now. Now, anybody know that name? At the name of Jesus. Every knee shall bow, every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. I just came by to tell you that Jesus is on the main line. Tell him what you want. If you need more power, Tell him what you want. You need more direction. Tell him what you want. How many people know that there's nothing wrong with praying to Jesus? Don't be shy. Don't be afraid. Don't be embarrassed. But wherever you find yourself, say, excuse me, I need to pray. Can we pray right now? Why? Because I need your prayers to make the next day. I need your prayers to get through my next situation. Anybody need prayer of the day? Anybody need prayer of the day? Anyone know what prayer can do? I know what prayer can do. Do you know what prayer can do? Do you know? I solicit. I I need you know I it may not look like it seemed to have it all together It may not look like it. I look like I'm doing okay. It may not look like it, but everybody. Needs prayer. Everybody needs somebody who's lifting your name on high. And here's the good news. Jesus is sitting at the right hand of the Father. Every time a prayer comes in. Oh yeah. I know them. And I know what they've been through. And Father, I I know him and I know what he's going through. I know her and I know what she's facing. Why 'Cause I've been through it. Why? I've been there and done that, but every time you lift up a name I'm just believing God that it goes to the throne. He goes down to the thing, uh-huh. And won't he answer prayer? As I close today, if he's ever answered a prayer for you Thank him right now. I mean, if he ever, ever answered a prayer for you, thank him right now. If he's ever given you the desires of your heart, think him right now. He's ever dried your tears, thinking. Ever brought you between a rock In a hard place, thank him, thank him, thank him for being a prayer answering God. Come on, give God the praise. The word of God today is already blessed. I beg you to pray. You go bump in the folk all the time. Excuse me Trying to find what a prayer it is. Can I pray for you? I know the next bus is coming, but you got a minute? Let's pray Oh yeah. Thank you, Lord. I know you come to back to school tonight, but you got a minute? Take time today. And pray for someone. God answer that prayer. No need to fix up today. He hears our prayers. Come you just the way you are. Come make me comment me. Life everlasting everlasting. Never, never, never As we come today, I want to pray for you If you've never received Jesus Christ, into your heart. I'm praying for you Specifically, that you might have a personal relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. It's my prayer. That you'll receive it. My prayer that you will confess unto him I'll pray for you. That's my prayer. For the unbeliever. And this is not theological necessarily. But it's been said that the only prayer that Jesus hears Is the one that says, I surrender. People say, I'm praying. And they don't know Jesus. I'm praying for you. Are you saved? No, no, no, I don't. God thank man. I'm just My old man. Who are you praying to? If you don't know Jesus, your prayers are just Bouncing. But when you pray, say Lord, come into my heart. Here's the prayers of sinners. Like you heard your prayer of mine. That's the prayer that you might save me and restore me. But if I don't know you, how can I talk with you? If I've never experienced you, I'm speaking in generalities, but thank God He heard our prayer. And he saved my soul. Now folk were praying for me, but I had to one day do it for myself. I don't want to leave you on the clutch saying, I ain't praying. I'm just going to ask for prayer. No, no, no, no, no, no. You have to pray. Let's bow today. Heavenly Father, that's our prayer today. Is that some lost soul might surrender to you? Today, in this moment. We may not know their names. But God, if they don't know you, there's only one name It is the name of Jesus. So save that soul today. May they confess unto you. And Father, for those who know you, our prayers that we might grow in you, live for you. Serve you. Love like you taught us to love. Do what we pray now in Jesus' name Come on, give God a praise today. Oh how he love you and me. Thanks for sharing. We're Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. To connect with us, go to our website. It's www. comthenumbertwharvest. org. That's www. comthenumbertwharvest. org. Also, download our Harvest app. It's HCM Baltimore in the Apple Store and Harvest Christian in Google Play. I'd like to invite you to pick up a copy of my brand new book entitled Leading by Example, A Parental Guide to Teaching and Modeling Christian Faith at Home. It's available on my website at www. timtutentv. com. That's www. tim-t-im-t-o-o-t-e-n-t-v dot com. Or on Amazon and Barnes Noble. I'm Dr. Tim Tutin, have a great day in the Lord