Good day, my friends, Dr. Tim Tooten with Harvest Christian Ministries. I'm so glad you've taken time to listen to this broadcast Today's sermon is one that will lift you up, one that will encourage you to run this race with patience, looking to Jesus Christ. the author and finisher of our faith. We're a small ministry with big ideas who serve a great and mighty God. And now today's message Let's be indeed in Lord, I there with glory. I will really create Our increased Let me be almost I can control me. We will get a lot of Inload myself. In law, my child's glory. Keep your hands upon me. That no evil cannot harm me Sun shine Sickness and pain, Lord, I am blind to you I want you to in love. I want you to in love Lord, I want to walk in your wealthy place, Jesus. God grant me favor. Oh, I pray for increasing Lord, I pray for increasing In God I pray for you and greet my Lord align my territory Oh Lord Inde Ahway boy. I'm pray for angry. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Let the church say hallelujah. Let the church say hallelujah. Amen. How many folks are praying for increase? Don't play God short. He will enlarge your territory. Won't he do it today? Don't be afraid to say, God, I I want more of you. Don't be afraid to say, I need more of your joy. Don't be afraid to say I need more of your peace. Don't be afraid to say I need more of your love. Increase. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Let's take a moment even now to bow all over this place today. Heavenly Father, we come. And that is our prayer today. Because you have been so good to us, you set your best in the person of Jesus Christ. As we come before you today, it is a sacred moment as we stand to proclaim the good news. And my do we need some good news? We thank you even now that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today, encourage another. When this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. A good day to be alive, isn't it? Amen. I was glad when they said unto me, let us go into the house of the Lord. I was always glad. I used to be sad when they drug me to church. But now I'm a grown man. I come on my own now. Amen. Amen. Say what you will or may, the Church of Jesus Christ is alive and well Amen. There's a word from the Lord today that comes from the wisdom book of Proverbs. They're the third chapter. And we'll be taking up verses 3 and 4. And it reads in verse 3: Let love and faithfulness never leave you. Bind them around your neck. Write them on the tablet of your heart. Then you will win favor and a good name in the sight of God and man. Amen. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, I've been selected. I've been selected a few days from now, some of the nation's top college football players will be on the big stage. They have had uh stellar careers on the gridiron and now comes the time and place of the NFL draft. You know, owners huddle behind the scenes and they look at the best talent. They've been watching some of these young men since high school uh since uh they played uh low league rec type ball and yet they have kept them on the radar and they're looking for the best fit Who is it that will be able to help our team maybe win the Super Bowl? Amen. But it is an investment that they make And there's seven rounds. So if you don't make the first round, you may make the second round or the third. But nevertheless, these young men will tell you of the blessing Of just being selected. Once their names are called, they come on the scene with a baseball cap and the jersey from that team. And uh I I like that. I like to watch that. They come out for every person. It makes it uh certainly an individual. So, in short, being selected of God is to receive his divine favor. I would dare say that uh that you are number one draft pick. Look at you. You had your name called and I dare say I'm in the top uh as well because we are children of the High King, uh it's not because of our talent Or what we've done so great, it is because of God's love for us. Can I back that up and make you feel important? You're the first one selected Amen. Put your baseball cap on and grab the team jersey. You have favor with God. You know, I've heard this term favor used sometimes out of context. It's been misused, it's been misinterpreted It's been mishandled because see favor is not say, oh, I got me a good parking spot. That's not really favor. You just showed up at the right time. Or I got uh the express line, I made it. And sometimes those are uh trivial things that we call favor of God. But I declare I think it goes much deeper than that. Favor depends on God's good pleasure. It's not really about you. It is what God does for us. And nothing we can do about it. Amen. That I've got the favor of God on my life, and so do you. That means God really cares about you, and that means that you are important to God. Comes by way of prayer and righteous living, but don't you feel important today that God has selected you? Well you don't select you part of the team. My God, you might want to suit up and say, coach, I'm ready to go in the game. But this sense of favor is all over the Bible. Abraham found favor with God God says, I'm going to make you the father of many nations. You. You mean me? Yeah, I'm going to use you. Joseph, who had his brothers to treat him bad and put him in a bad spot Ends up being the top man in Pharaoh's house and as a result is able to bless his own family. Tell me, God won't give you favor Ruth found favor with God in the eyes of wealthy Boaz because of her kindness to a mother-in-law. There's something about God's favor. Noah received God's favor and said, I want you to build the ark. Folk may think you crazy, but I've picked you. I've selected you. Your carpenter skills are a suspect, but go ahead and do it the way I've told you to do it. Here's the blueprint. Build the ark And he does that. Moses says, now you sure you want me? I'm a stutterer. I can't quite get my words out. No, go tell Pharaoh to let my people go and then do what Bring them out of slavery and take them across the Red Sea. God can use anybody. He uses you. He uses me. He favors us. And again, there's nothing you can really do about it except to walk in the favor of God. Anybody feel a favor today? I'm gonna push you a little bit today. I'm gonna push you. I want you to leave out of here and say, you know what? My chest all pumped out because of who I know and who I serve. And then there is Mary, the mother of Jesus. The angel Gabriel is dispatched to a small town to a teenage girl and says, You know what? You've been favored. That God has favored you. You found favor with God. You know, but favor certainly comes with conditions. It's always the fine print in living. And folks, uh oh, I don't want to find print now But there's fine print that I think even the wisdom writer lifts up in the third verse of this text. He says, Never leave love and faith behind that you need to have this sense of love for me and you must also be faithful to me So much so, take these two characteristics and do what? Bind them around your neck Write them on the tablet of your heart. How do you do that, Reverend? What do you mean? Put them around my neck. That means keep love and faithfulness close to you. Ah, we don't hear about love a whole lot. But we gotta love. Those are conditions. You don't just say I got to stand on God. And you don't love your brother or sister I got God's faith when you're not being faithful to Him. Amen. That their conditions are becoming selected. God has your background, has your resume, and these are traits that are important before you even get to Fala. Folks say fair but not fair. And they do it being bragging. But it's all really about God. And you know when they say take love and faithfulness and put it around your neck. Within the Jewish faith, that was literal. That they really copied the word and they put it in a leather case and they put it around their neck. Don't come in the next Sunday with some leather around your neck. You know, you but but that that was literal. That keep this close to you, but how many folk just want to love more Amen. Not not like more, but but love more. For God so loved the world that he did what? Send it well we don't forgot about these two already, and my God, not so fast I mean he sent his only begotten son that whosoever believeth in him would not perish for what? Have everlasting life. You've got to have love and then be faithful Amen. Just stay with God. Just continue to walk with him and continue to be faithful to him. Won't He bless you? If you just stay faithful. No matter what may come my way, I'm going to hold on to God. Anyhow. So the lesson might have rights in that way, but there are some things that I I think that might uh be able to extend this. Having favor with God also means you can have favor with people. Then you will win favor and a good name in the sight of God Of God and man. God will hook you up with the right people. Amen. Not big shots, but folk with big hearts Amen. Yes, he will. That it's not just about networking or being in the right place at the right time, but no, God will show you favor. That job you've got is favor. That position you have is favor. That home you have is favor. These are the things that God allows to happen. I remember very clearly that God had favor on a little country boy. From down in Florida and had a speech in Petamet and getting missed every now and then, but I ran into to Bill Savits And ran into pluggy day and them cats showed me some favor. So you did a good job, Tim. Beat it again. I was messing up and fumbling over words. They said, You did fine. But they took to me. And put me under their wings and encourage me in the Lord. There's somebody you ought to encourage today. Let them know you can make it. Amen. Let them know that you can take it. Let them know that all things are possible. Amen. That God has placed people in your neighborhood. You don't even speak to them, but God may use that person, but you might find favor with them. Folk on the job. You don't want to be bothered, but that very one that you dismissed at the coffee counter might be the one that God will use to bring favor into your life Amen. Maybe somebody in your church, don't look too quick, that God has placed you near, and they have you have found favor with them, not because of what they have, but who they serve in the Lord. Nehemiah, the great prophet, found favor that he was a cupbearer. He was the one that was testing the king's drinks in case somebody tried to set him up. King, I got you. And then when he had to go back to rebuild the wall in this country, the king said, you go ahead. Isn't it something about finding favor with people Not whether folk like you or not, but God will put you in a position and put you in a place that you will be blessed. And folk wondering how you know him is God. I didn't know you knew that person. It was the Lord. I was just at the 7-11. Somebody spoke to me. All I know was God found favor. And I had favor with people. That's okay You don't worship them, but won't God put people in your path? Has He done it in your life today? When you least expected it, somebody said, Oh, excuse me, and that person God will use in your life Oh you start to look now. Wait a minute. Let me see here. Let me see here. But the person you think may not be that one. Just because they've got prestige does not mean that they're the one necessarily. Amen? Praise God. Fail with people, but also he'll put you in in the right places. You'll show up someplace and folk will look like they'll know your name. So how do you know me? See, we just heard about you. It wasn't just a background check, but God puts you in places that you'll be able to succeed and be able to share with Him. Heard the old saying, your reputation preceded you. But you thought you were undercover. And folk have been hearing about you. Can I just testify? When we first moved into this theater to have worship, uh I was looking hard to find a place and been kind of moved from the school and And a buddy of mine said, I got a friend of mine who runs a theater. Go see him. I was like, a theater? Yeah, go see him. So I met this gentleman who you've seen before. And I said, you know, we we kind of need a place. He said, you know problem See he's kind of nice. He said, yeah. He said uh you need some microphones? I'll set you up for you sir. Who's this guy? But what I realized, he told me, he said, I've known you for years. At the bank, you always spoke to me in line. So no matter where you are, be nice to people. And wherever God places you, you might be a blessing. Yeah, don't don't don't be grumpy grumpy, but be nice. You don't know who you're sharing with. That was such a blessing. God will go ahead of you God will make the way smooth for you. That you're right now is not where you're going to end up. Amen. Amen. You've been trying and looking and trying to better yourself and and God is already working that thing out. Aren't you glad today? Oh, I mean you've got five testimonies about what he'll do. I gave my one or two. You can say, you know what, I would never end up in Baltimore or this job or this position had it not been God placing me. On the map. Oh my God. Aren't you glad you're on the map? But he favors you. There you are in high places. But don't let it blow your head up though. Look at let me let me put a disclaimer. Don't think it's you. Uh-huh, because you might mess it up. You start believing your own press But stay humble, the Bible says, humble yourself, therefore, under the mighty hand of God, and he'll do what? He'll exalt you in due time. Uh-huh. Your due time may not be his due time, but he will exalt oh God, I'm getting excited about that. That in due time he'll exalt you. When he gets ready. Joshua knew that. He says, you know what? I'm trying to get to the promised land. And one in three, he says, I will give you every place. Well, you set your foot. Isn't that something? Wherever you walk, God already walked it. Huh? As we walk in faith today, God has already prepared the place for you, He's already gone ahead of you. And that's good news Aren't you glad you're favored today? I'm feeling good just by preaching this word. I feel like somebody today. Amen. So there's this sense of finding favor with people And that he places you where he wants you. Don't be too anxious about moving from where you are right now. God got this thing When you spend his time, he'll move you. Don't you be fighting him in trying to work it yourself? But finally, this sense of position That is, what is my rightful place? I think all this happens because Christ is in position. He came on that cross in a position. Uh he was beaten and bloodied and murdered and put in a tomb, but he rose from the dead. With all power in his hands, and the Bible says he now sits at the right hand of the Father, making intercession for the saints. He's in position. Amen. Some of you sports fans know you gotta be in your position. You a guard, be a guard. Can't be no sinner if you want to be a guard If you're playing on the team, you can't jump out and take somebody else's position. That God has something just for you. He's going to place you at the right place at the right time. I like what Paul says in Ephesians 2 and 6. And God raised us up with Christ and seated us with him in the heavenly realms in Jesus Christ. The fact that God has positioned you where he wants you. And favor comes because he's selected you He knows what you can get through. He knows beyond your skill set. He knows what you have going. It's really about having a good heart. You ever been on a situation that you didn't have all the credentials and yet God blessed you? You will uh Amen. He's moving right along to the front Some of y'all are broke line, but God has placed you in a position so that you might be a blessing to someone else And before you move too quick, you are there for a reason. So he's using you the glory. Oh, I'm feeling that thing right now. I'm I've kind of got caught up in this thing. I'm saying is that he's got you where he wants you right now and you're really getting favor even though you can't see it. You're getting favor either you think you're already being favored where you are. That might be a word for somebody. Him give me to go in on Monday and give a peace. I'm done. I've had enough. Oh! Maybe maybe God will say, hold on. My favor is coming, don't you try to fix it? But that's the good news. You know this sense of excitement. We began the sermon talking about what does it mean to be drafted And to be picked. Every time they call the name of that young person, whether number one or number 99. You see the family says, oh, thank you, Jesus. People get excited, right? There's a celebration because they had been picked. Or selected. So if families can do it, why not the family of God? Why can't we get excited knowing that God has saved us? Getting excited knowing that God has watched over us I mean the fact that I'm favored. I'm still excited about that. Why? God favored me. And that's good news. We can celebrate that He took you in spite of your attitude. I pick you in spite of your bad behavior. I pick you even though you've come up shorty. Pick you even though you've disappointed him. He picked you even though your excuses have been lame. He picked you even though you failed over and over again. He picked you even though you've got a hidden agenda. He picked you in spite of your insecurities. He picked you in spite of your missteps. He picked you in spite of your shortcomings. Why? Just because he loves you I don't know why Jesus loves me. I don't know why he cares. I don't know why he sacrificed his life, but oh, I'm a glad somebody Amen. Aren't you glad today that he still picked you with all of your stuff? That makes me glad today. My God, I feel like number one. I feel I've been picked. I feel like I've got the favor of God upon my life. And I'm not by myself. My God, anybody favored in the house today? Anybody know God has selected you? Anybody believe that God is already making a way for you? If you do, you ought to be shouting. Thank you, Lord. You ought to be getting excited about what God is yet doing in your life. Jesus Christ in the first round picks Timothy, Lamar, Tutin. Where's my cap? And where is my jersey I've been picked. Now you won't watch the draft the same this week. God will do it. That is the word of God today. It's already the come on stand today You know today that you've been faithful. There's something about that that I didn't do anything. I know But you had love in your heart. And you were faithful. He says, Come on, just the way you are. I'll favor you in spite of you. And you'll be giving me the glory all along the way. I feel better. Now you're next in line. Just as you are Life everlasting. That's it, that's it. Don't try to fix stuff, just come. You'll take you just like you are. Come and me come with me come and meet Praise God. How many folks feel a favorite today? Aren't you glad God selected you? Listen for my name. But you know, favor is not to be flaunted. Not to be bragging. Oh I got it like that. Well as quick as you've got it, you can be humble. It is not so much about you. It's what God wants to do through you. I shared my testimony. My dream was broadcasting But the talent wasn't there. The folk kept saying, Good job, you might make it. And God favored us. Even in this ministry. God has favored us. Maybe you've come today and you've never given your life to Jesus Christ. You can't even talk about favor until you have opened your mouth to him and given your heart to him. That puts you in the draft pool once you're saved. And maybe you've come and you say, you know what, I'm not sure about whether I know him or not. Today, can I give you the prescription? The Bible says that thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in one's heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. And man, when you're saved, that means you've got life eternal. Although heads the bow very quickly if you're here today and you're not sure Have a conversation with yourself. Say self. I want to be sure. I don't want any surprises at the river. When my name is not on the road, I pray even now, God, that you might touch that heart today. Save that soul today In Jesus' name. If you know you're saved today, come on give God a praise. If you want to be saved today, you can pray that prayer. You can whisper it right now in the house. You may say, I need a minute. I don't like being around people. I need to get into my closet. But whatever you do, do it today. All we've got is right now. Songs say time is filled with swift transition. Not on earth unwon can stand. Praise God. Let's bless them again today. Maybe you've come today and you desire to be a part of this fellowship. The doors are always open. We got a baseball cap for you. And I'll go find a jersey. God really loves his people. He wants to see us do well in him. We might be able to share. How do you get that job? I was favored. Give me your background. I was just favored. I just walked with the Lord and trusted him and all of a sudden, bam! That's it. You're here today and you desire to get part of this fellowship. The doors are always open for you to come today. Come on, give God a praise today. Amen. I pray you were blessed by today's sermon. I am just so thrilled that God would use me to help you and to encourage you in the Lord. Now to find out more about our ministry, go to our website. It's www. comthenumbertwoharvest. org. That's www. comthenumbertwoharvest. org. Also Check out our brand new church app. It's called HCM Baltimore. That's HCM Baltimore. Go and search Google Play or iTunes. And then download it and you'll be blessed immensely by this app. It'll give you devotionals, videos, prayer wall, directions, and everything you will need. Again, Dr. Tim Tutin in Baltimore County, Maryland, have a great day in the Lord and thank you so much for listening.