Good day, my friends, Dr. Tim Tooten with Harvest Christian Ministries. I'm so glad you've taken time to listen to this broadcast Today's sermon is one that will lift you up, one that will encourage you to run this race with patience, looking to Jesus Christ. the author and finisher of our faith. We're a small ministry with big ideas who serve a great and mighty God. And now today's message. Praise you the Lord. This is the day the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in the day. So thankful to God that we can come this way into our friends on Facebook. Thank you for tuning in as well. Let's bow. Heavenly Father, we come today And we thank you for the gift of Jesus Christ, our Lord and our Savior. We thank you for an opportunity just to share the good news. Any chance we get to tell the story of how a Savior came from glory and his name. It is our prayer now that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today, encourage another, but when this time is done, Will give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, praise God. I want to certainly share with you this morning from the Gospel of Luke, the second chapter, verses 17 through 19. When they had seen him, they spread the word concerning what had been told them about this child. And all who heard it were amazed at what the shepherd said to them. But Mary treasured up all these things and pondered them in her heart. I want to preach today From the Samonic title, If You Only Knew. If You Only Knew Our parents raised us in such a way that there were so many old sayings that we tend to have forgotten, but they come up every now and then One of them for us was not to tell all of your business. What do you mean? Don't let everybody know every detail of your life especially strangers and often so called friends. And in the verbiage of a card game, they would say, uh make sure you guard your hand. Don't show your whole hand or some card. players are in here. I I pull a deck up right now. Y'all wanna wanna play. But I was guilty oftentimes because I was up that great in cards and we played and I would have my hand open And somebody would know what to play. And people do that. They look at your whole card. What you will share with them. But over time I have uh grown and matured and learned that uh you don't tell all of your business. Don't tell all of your secrets. It's taken some years of heartbreaks and headaches and disappointments and distress to learn that there's some things that you ought to keep personal Never mind that you're being called a private person. They may call you stuck up. You keep folk out of your business. Amen. Now, there ought to be some place you can keep things under lock and key. Things that are just for you. Can I tell you what I really learned? I I've learned that you don't tell everybody your ideas Everybody, what your next move is. I kept this book kind of under wraps with only a few friends. And then bam, there it is. There's some things you want to hold close to yourself. That's opposite of what the local media has produced in terms of social media. Man, you tell it all You tell when you left home, you tell where you're going, you tell once you get there, here's what I'm wearing. You tell it all. Amen? Can I get an Amen? In fact, we look for somebody to say they like it, or they message us, or they give us a smiley face. And I just want to suggest today that there ought to be some things that you ought to keep To yourself. There's a perfect example in the Holy Writ today of someone who knew what was important and someone who knew how to keep things for themselves. I'm talking about Mary, the mother of Jesus Christ. She often makes headlines during the Advent season, but we see her like in this picture, there by the manger. Joseph. We often see even during the Linton season, we find that Mary is there at the cross having to bear the burden of her son Our Lord and our Redeemer there on that old rugged cross. But I've asked Mary to stop by today on this mother today to kind of help us out, to give us some insight on what it means to keep things personal, keep those things that may be painful to yourself. Now you know folk will be nosy And they'll keep asking you, so what's going on? Ever happened to you, and you just say, I'm not gonna tell you, or you after a while you just don't talk. But there ought to be some things and focus there only if you knew What I've been going through. Only if you knew my dilemma. Only if you knew what God has done in my life. He's been mighty good. But be real picky about what you share with someone else. And it's the gospel rather than Luke who shares this story today that's so powerful, and theologians believe that Luke may have got the one-on-one, the exclusive interview with Mary. Said Mary, can you unpack and tell us all that you've been through? All that you have been faced with As we go to the maternity ward of heaven, we find ourselves right there in a makeshift room, a stable where Jesus is born. Some of y'all not feeling Christmas, amen. It's the Christmas story. I know I know it might be May, but this story ought to be told every month of the year. And so there, she's there with her husband There's fear and excitement. Fear because Herod has found out there's another king in town and he's got a plot to try and destroy him. Excitement because of all the Hebrew women who wanted to bear the Christ child, Mary is picked. Isn't that something? And the fact that The Lord is there, and the ones who tell the story are those who are shepherds The least of them. They get a tip from the angels about where to go. They find out that there's someone you really want to see. And they found Mary and Joseph And they celebrated. And Mary was taking this all in. She was watching this. She remembers the day when Gabriel showed up in a small town and announced to her that you've been selected And the fear that came over her, but also the joy. And she said, Yes, I'll do it. But today we're going to see kind of what did she see As a mother. And what did she hear as a mother? And what did she experience? So, in verse 17, it says, When they had seen him, meaning the shepherds, had seen Christ, they spread the word concerning what had been told about this child. Mary took note of the shepherds who left their flock to see her son, shepherds. Kind of smelly. Shepherds. Not really that popular. Shepherds. Don't you know God can pick anybody? To use my God, he picked me. And he picked you and dusted us off and allowed us to be able to say, you know what? Thank you, God, that you will use me to your glory. But the shepherds were the ones saying, extra, extra, read all about it. Guess what? We have seen this gift We have laid eyes on this Christ child. And don't you know I believe this is not in the text that maybe they heard the baby cry. Babies do cry. So perhaps they heard all of this, and Mary just Watch. It's good to observe. There's some things I've seen the Lord do in my own life that still have me dumbfounded. I say, Lord, look what you have done. Count your many blessings. Look what the Lord has done in your It's a Ripley's believer or not moment When you think about where God has brought you from and where you are today, you think, is that me? Oh, some of y'all do that TBT throwback Thursday and you see where you were then And where God has taken you. Can I just stop there for a moment? Isn't it amazing? And you look at your timeline of life, where God has brought you from. And where he's yep taking you, my God, she saw some things, right? Hey, has that ever happened to you? That you've seen some things happen. The Lord has showed up and revealed some things in your life, and you sit there saying, Let me get my glasses. God, are you really doing that in my life? And that's what we see. Mary sees all this unfolding. Afraid but hopeful Shaking, but knowing that the Lord is going to make a way. Wouldn't it be great that as a community of faith, if we didn't see eye to eye That as a nation we would see eye to eye. As a neighborhood, eye to eye, in our homes, we'll see things as the Lord sees. I love to share this oftentimes That we ought to see folk as the Lord sees them. We learn to folk out. Ain't gonna be nothing. There's a history there. But once you see folk through the blood of Jesus Christ, you see people who are hopeful. Amen. I'm glad about what she was able to see in that moment. Psalm says, Oh, taste and see that the Lord is good. Is he good today? Well, y'all got the mother's day laid back on me today. Come on, church. Aren't you glad the Lord will allow you to see some things that folk thought would never happen in your life? What did she see? But there were some things that also she was able to hear. And all who heard it All who heard the excitement, all who heard the shepherds, were amazed at what was said to them. They were specific because they had been there. Ever ask somebody tell you something and they weren't even there. They give you a third hand account of oh yeah, I was well give me more details. You weren't really there. But the shepherds had been there and they left with a testimony about whoa, if you'd seen, well we'd seen. We saw the baby in the manger. We we saw the sent one. They were able to share all the facts. I get excited now when I hear good news Amen. Amen. Whether it's in my life or someone else's. Anybody ever get excited for you? Some folks get excited when they get a blessing But my God, when you get blessed, they don't say a mumbling word. You ought to be excited about the child, you got a job, praise the Lord. I'm excited just as you are. Amen. You've been healed. Hallelujah. I'm excited with you. Amen. Based on what was heard. When was the last time you you had some good news that you could share with someone else? You don't leave here today and say, you know what? I'm excited about Jesus. I'm excited about what he's done in my life. She was able to hear all of the things as a mother that were being said about her son. No, no, no, mothers like that. That's my boy. Oh, yeah, that's that's my daughter. That's that's right, that's right, that's right. But she knew some other things were happening at the same time You never saw Mary bragging about her boy, about the Lord, about our Savior, but she was taking her time only if you knew all that she was facing in this moment. Matthew eleven twenty-five says, Whoever has ears, let them hear. And John said what the Spirit is saying to the churches, that she heard some things that really caused her as a mother. To pause. Saw some things as a mother that may have paused concern. And mothers have that special bond. Dad, you're alright. Our day coming next month. It won't be in grand, but there's something about mothers. There's a maternal bond that when a child hurts, they say, Mama Love dad, eh? But they want their mama. Amen. Praise God. They may say dad dad first, but mama is what counts. And Mary did not miss a single word based on what she could see and could hear, but also what she experienced But Mary treasured all of these things, all of them, and pondered them in her heart. Mary had some deep reflection. Mary mold over what had been taking place. Mary took time to try and understand and to interpret all that was going on. At that moment. Mary, did you know? Did you have a clue? Some theologians say that she knew some, but did not know the whole story. You're sitting next to a mother this morning who is treasuring some things in her heart. You sit next to a mother who in the midnight hour, like father, is praying for that son. You are sitting next to a mother who are having a little talk with Jesus. Amen. Mothers will go beyond the call of duty. I tell the story. I laugh now. But when the afro came out Me and my brother wanted to be here and we wanted to have a fro. It was the 70s. And my dad said, no, no, no, you ain't gonna you're never gonna wear that. And man, if mama didn't work him. Jim, all the boys are wearing that. Next thing we know, we had froze. Amen. But some of the undercover behind the scenes and well meaning that mothers have a way of holding some stuff. My God, if you could download a mother right now, you would hear her pain and her joys and her aspirations and her fears, you would hear it by way of a mother. Mary had to sew away that manger scene, Keldon. She had to put away in her heart when he became twelve and Mary and Joseph had left him back in Jerusalem. She hunted him down. When she got there, he was standing with the lawyers and doctors asking questions She said, it's good. Just put it. Boy, didn't you know we've been looking for you? He says, didn't you know about my father's business? And she maybe got more heart, but she treasured those things in her heart. And can you imagine having to go to that cross? And to watch her son give his life and to die on the old rugged cross But then able to go to that tomb and find out that he really wasn't there. That Mary had to take all of that And ponder all of that and keep all of that for a time such as this. That Jesus is now sitting at the right hand of the Father, and Mary can ask all the questions she wants to ask now. She continued to follow in the way of Jesus Christ. So when you think about a mother today, think about what they've got in life's secret compartment. When you think about a mother today, think about what they are holding on to and wrestling And yet they also have the joy and the peace all mixed in that. I like the words of the hymn writer and composer Elijah Albright Hoffman He's a Presbyterian minister from a small town, and he composed more than 2,000 hymns And some fifty songbooks. We sang one this morning, Leaning on the Everlasting Arms. On four suns we sang Uh, you know, the other song that we glory to his name, we sing that one. He wrote all of these. But there was another song that he wrote that is near and dear to my heart. It goes like this: I must tell Jesus, all of my trials, I cannot bear these burdens alone. In my distress, He kindly will help me. He ever loves and cares for his own. I must tell Jesus. I cannot bear these burdens. I must tell Jesus. Jesus can help me, Jesus alone. And so when the time was right, Mary would let it out. And so, you know, even though he's my son, he's also my savior. I love what Max Lakator says in his book, Jesus comes. He said, I wonder if she ever called him Savior by accident. And while he was sitting there looking at the moon and the stars, I wonder how she looked at him, that she had a son, but she also had a savior. Aren't you glad today he'll be everything that you need? He'll be a doctor in a sick room. He'll be a lawyer in a courtroom. He'll be a battle axe in the time of battle. And there'll come a time when you'll be able to let it all out by way of a testimony. But know that the right time will come for you to share I didn't know you were going to, but the Lord brought me through. You didn't need to know everything about my life, but can I tell you the back end of it He brought me proof. That's what you need to know. He gave me joy. That's what you need to know. I can't tell you everything, but can I tell you one thing? He saved my soul today. Can I tell you that? He made me whole. Can I tell you he's still making a way out of nowhere? Go tell that. Go tell it on the mountain Over the hills and everywhere. Go tell on the mountain that Jesus Christ is alive and well. Only if you knew. What I've been through. Only if you knew where I am right now. Only if you knew the secret places of my life. Mary didn't go telling her business to everybody, but she shared it with the right person. Jesus Christ. That is the word of God today. It's already blessed. Only if you knew What my midnights has been like. Only if you knew. What my pillow is sold. Only if you knew. But even if you don't know, he knows. Hey. Jesus knows all about our struggles. And he will guide you to the day I'm trying to finish this thing, but that's not a friend like the Lording Jesus. No, not one. He'll take you just the way you are. Will he do it? Yeah, yeah. Come and be coming Everlasting Just as y'all and you are going to be able to do that. Comment se Come with me, come and As I was standing here, I was reminded that when you tell Jesus, it's a safe place. Your business won't get out. In fact, he already knows your business. But he says, Come unto me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. As you bow today, make that a private moment. If you don't know Jesus Christ, then the pardon of your sins. You can go to Him. Say, Lord Jesus, save my soul today. Nicodemus did that. He said, I don't want to go public, but I'll meet you at night. I'm a big shot. I can't be seen with you in the daylight But can I meet you somewhere? Can we talk? And he raised the question: how must I be safe again? And that may be your question today. It is to let Jesus Christ in to your heart. The Bible says that thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus And believe in thine heart that God has raised him from the dead. The Bible says, Thy shalt be saved. Today, think about it Ponder it. Hide it in your heart. And let him come in. Your life will be brand new. If you're here today and that's your desire, I pray that you might pray or whisper a prayer to him, and he will save you. We ask it now in Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Amen. Maybe you've come today and you desire to be a part of the Harvest Church. The doors are always open. I pray you were blessed by today's sermon. I am just so thrilled that God would use me to help you and to encourage you in the Lord. Now to find out more about our ministry, go to our website. It's www. com,thenumber2harvest. org. That's www. com the number two harvest. org. Also, check out our brand new church app. It's called HCM Baltimore. That's HCM Baltimore. Go and search Google Play or iTunes. And then download it and you'll be blessed immensely by this app. It'll give you devotionals, videos, prayer wall directions, and everything you will need. Again, Dr. Tim Tutin in Baltimore County, Maryland, have a great day in the Lord and thank you so much for listening.