Good day, my friends, Dr. Tim Tooten with Harvest Christian Ministries. I'm so glad you've taken time to listen to this broadcast Today's sermon is one that will lift you up, one that will encourage you to run this race with patience, looking to Jesus Christ. the author and finisher of our faith. We're a small ministry with big ideas who serve a great and mighty God. And now, today's message With G From my choosing And say Oh, sweet Jesus never It said some Into your peace It is not my Keep my tea. Don't waste time of time So Yeah, yeah, yeah. How many glad about that today? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, glory to God. Aren't you glad? That even though the world would have wanted to have it that way, but when he came down, they put him in a borough too. And they closed up the tomb and sealed it. Oh my God. Something happened three days later. He got up with all power in his hands. And I'm glad about that today. Somebody give God a praise today. That distinguishes our faith from so many others. Folk may be on the same page with you. I believe in a God. I believe he had a son. I believe he sent his son. I believe the son died. And for them, end of story. But for the believer, something else happened. That that no one else has been able to accomplish. I'm not talking about you know heaven type experience. I'm talking about getting up with all power in his hands. Amen. Let's bow before the Lord today. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the gift of Jesus Christ. That we know, we believe, because our faith rides on the fact that you died, but that you rose again As we come today on this Resurrection Sunday, it is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase Save someone today. Encourage another. And when we are done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. There's a word of the Lord today that comes from the Gospel of Luke, the 24th chapter, verses 28 through 32. As they approached the village to which they were going, Jesus continued as if he were going farther. But they urged him strongly, stay with us. For it is nearly evening. The day is almost over. So he went in to stay with them. When he was at the table with them, he took bread, gave thanks, broke it, and began to give it to them. Their eyes were open and they recognized him and he disappeared from their sight. They asked each other Were not our hearts burning within while he talked with us on the road and opened the scriptures to us I want to preach today from the Samonic title, If You Don't Know Me by Now If you don't know me by now, I can still hear the tape recorder in my mind of my parents saying to me Be careful with the group you hang out with. Be careful with the kind of company in which you keep. Well, Ma, these are just my boys. They are my running partners and they are good people. But she had in mind her own life experience My father, his own life experience. In my teenage years, I got a glimmer of what all that meant. And begin to grasp it, but it really is akin to uh this saying of association reads assimilation. Who you hang around with. Eventually, if you're not careful, you'll become like them that can be good, bad, or indifferent. And so in the test today, by now the word has gotten out Jesus has arisen from the dead. The tomb has been rolled away. He's no longer there. And he's in no rush to catch the next flight back to glory. Scholars agree that host resurrection, that Jesus hung out for 40 days or more. Bumping into folk, hanging out and sharing with them yet the good news of Jesus Christ And so for a month he encountered people wherever he would go. And on this particular day. The day that he got up from the grave, the Bible takes us to the road to Emmaus, about seven miles from Jerusalem, and there are two disciples. One is named, his name is Cleopas. The other is not mentioned, but they are walking along and they are sad. And they bump into a stranger. Ever been going someplace and you're walking and somebody comes up on you and Start having a conversation. You don't know him, but you're good morning to you. You kind of play it off. But in this case, this stranger, they didn't realize was Jesus himself. Can you imagine going about your daily walk and feeling someone in your presence? But as far as they were concerned, he was just another stranger in Jerusalem. And they begin to pull him. Man, and I'm putting in my own words, crying shame. You know, Jesus died and The tomb's empty and the ladies went there they couldn't find them. There were some down brothers. And Jesus the whole time is walking with them. And then he becomes a part of their conversation. He begins to chat with them and talk with them about him. Does that make sense? The conversation is about him and don't realize it is him. Isn't it great when God comes into your space and Every now and then, I don't know, I talk to myself every now and then. Why? Because I sense he's in my presence. He gives them a Sunday school lesson of sorts about what has taken place place about his own death and his own burial, his own resurrection, but it was getting late in the evening And being two kind fellas, they said, well, you know what? It's getting late, man. Why don't you come on in and let's grab a bite? Can I break it on down? Let's go by the the double tea. Grab a bite. Let's go by Bob Evans. What you you got a minute? I don't know you, but can we go ahead and get a burger? But in that sense, Jesus, still not revealing himself, goes in with them and begins to grab a bite. Eating with a stranger, but they don't know who he is. If you don't know me by now There are some things in the text I think that will help us. First of all, Jesus, they realize, is the answer for their sorrow. He's the answer for their sorrow. Verses 13 to 24 says that when he comes and meets with them, they are downcast. And they are sad. And Jesus begins to have a conversation with them. The tomb is empty. And what has happened has jolted the whole community, even though he said it. No surprise. He says, you know, I'm gonna be beaten, I'll be double-crossed. I'm going to be pierced in the side, I'll be wearing a crown of thorns, and yet I will rise in three days. Don't you know Jesus will walk with you during your time of sorrow? And your time of sadness, everybody doesn't have an update every day. There are things in life that will challenge you, that will cause you as a believer to become sad. Well aren't you glad today that Jesus is the answer for sorrow? There's nothing that he cannot handle. If anybody is sorrowful, it would have been him. After all that's happened, but he becomes the answer. So while they they look apart, anybody ever come and say, you look bad. You haven't a bad day. What's wrong? Sometimes your countenance Will tell just how you're feeling, even though you say, Oh, praise the Lord, I'm doing great. But deep inside, there's sorrow taking place. And Jesus could detect that something was not right, even though he knew what the issue was. And don't you know that he will walk with you and talk with you in your time of sadness? He'll be with you in your time of being talked about. Your time of having situations, even in your own family, that might cause you to lose hope. When you're down in the dunks, Jesus is the answer. How many folks believe that today? You can call on any of the TV people. I can't call names, but they give great advice between four o'clock and about news time. But don't you know that they can't remove the sadness? It can only come from a relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. You know, and earlier he had said to his disciples in John fourteen, let not your heart be troubled. We believe in God also believe in me that in my father's house there are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. So bring your sorrow today. Bring the things that have caused you to become secluded, and know that this stranger on the road has what you need. He's also the answer for confusion. He realized as he talked with them that they didn't quite get it They had missed a Bible study or two, but he began to talk with them in verse 25 and 27 about this sense of the tomb being empty. They had lost hope. I know what he said. But the report we got by way of breaking news is the tomb is empty. There are those outside of the faith who want to say somebody stole the body and there many conspiracy theories, but he was up. And walking through your neighborhood. He's up. And walking through your workplace. He's up and walking through your experience as a mere stranger. Paul talks about how you ought to treat folk. That you might get a stranger and it might be an angel in disguise. I don't mess with folks who say they want a dollar. If I got it, I'll give it to them. Why? It might be Jesus on the corner. It might be an angel at the stoplight and you roll your window up like you don't see him He is in our midst. They were confused. It was complicated. I know what he said, but it's not making sense. They were confused, they were baffled, they were bewildered, they were perplexed, they were puzzled at a loss, they were flustered, they could not make sense. And in your own life. There are situations that will cause you to become confused. I know you got two Bible verses under your belt, but Every now, I don't care who am I making sense? I don't care who you are, there will come times in your life that you can't make sense out of life Amen. And so there they are, talking with a stranger, trying to figure out why it happened. What are we going to do now? We are confused, and there he is giving them encouragement along the way. The Bible says that God is not the author of confusion, but peace. Anytime some stuff comes along and everybody's confused, say, God, you're not in this. Amen. But he is the answer for those times when we just can't make sense out of what we are going through. Maybe you've not I'm trying to move on from this point, but maybe you found yourself on a place that is just blowing your mind. I love the Lord, I'm a Christian, but but this I'm confused. Don't you know that Jesus is still the answer? For the world today, he still has what you need. Call on him in the midnight hour and say, Lord, I don't get this. It's not making sense. Help me, and he will do just that. He was their answer for sorrow. Hearts are heavy. Realizing that where is Jesus? He is their answer for confusion, but at one point He becomes their answer for joy. Amen. I like what that says there in the 28th verse is that they had no joy This joy that I have the world didn't give it to me. But every now and then, I'm just trying to be real this morning. As believers, that's some time when you ain't got no joy. Amen. But about this time, that's when they take a turn, and they say, Well, why don't you come on in and grab a bite with us? It was at that time when he began to serve them. I mean, maybe they didn't catch the nail prints in his hand. Maybe they didn't realize they were with the Messiah, but he breaks the bread and gives it to two sad Downtrodden brothers, and then all of a sudden the eyes open up. And by then, He checks out. He does that in the Bible. He'll just be here and he'll be there. Supernaturally. But here's what I like about this text. That they turned and said, you know, something was strange uh about that. Did did you yeah, did did you that I I think that was I I think that was Jesus. That that we we couldn't see him earlier, but if you don't know me by by now And this is there now when they're looking and say, wait a minute, did not our hearts burn? When he broke open the word and shared it with us, did not our hearts catch fire? Did not our hearts become overjoyed? Once we realize that we've been walking. And talking with the kids. Oh my God, you never walk with it. I'm talking about folks think you're crazy. You're walking around the parking lot talking to Jesus and you realize I know him and he is with me even now. Do you feel the fire? You have a moment, you're just sitting there wondering about life, and you say, I just said somebody was up in here. It was the Holy Spirit working on your heart. Jesus will give you the kind of joy that will allow you to go on the extra mile. You know, Jesus so often has been misidentified. In our experience. Maybe we miss him when we were down and out and had no place to turn. Is it possible that we we miss him As we were busted and disgusted, is it possible that through all that we're going through, we miss him through our hopelessness? And I hurt him. Is it possible we miss him when we're on the mountaintop, put loose and fancy-free? Is it possible on our level to say success that we really miss the fact that he was with me all the time. Aren't you glad about that today the Lord is yet with you? As you move about? Is it possible that you just miss them at the grocery store? Is it possible that you missed them in something you were going through? Do you know me? Amen. In your trials and tribulations, could you have misidentified? When the lineup from glory came, you said, I don't know. It looks like him, but it's not always a look. It's what happens on the inside. That I know the Lord is with me. I know the Lord is in my presence. I know the Lord is making a way of no way. Why? I know him by now. Isn't that great? Oh songs, I know a man from Galilee. If you in sin, he'll surely set you free. Oh, do you know him? Can I testify today? I know him. I met him many years ago at the Springfield Baptist Church at about six years old, a little boy, and I met him, and my life has never been the same. Do you know where you met him? Do you remember the day that you met him? Amen. And when you think about when you met him, your life will never be the same. You mean you don't know me by now? After all, I brought you through. After all I've done for you, if you don't know me by now, you will never, never Never, never know me, but can I flip the switch? But you can know me. Thank you four tops. But I'm talking about the one who comes back and say you got a chance even now to know me. So when you walk out of here today and going about your own business, a stranger might walk upon you. Don't make it be Jesus, but you want to feel something and you'll know it's him because there'll be a burning. There'll be a fire taking place place. My question today to you is do you know him? That is the word of God today. It is all we're going to be come on stand today. All over this place. Could I miss him? Is it possible that I almost ran over him? Is it possible that I bumped into him and said, excuse me? Is it possible I said, pardon me? Not realizing that everything I need is in my presence. Come to Jesus. We offer Christ for you today. How many folk know him today? I mean show enough knowing. I can't take a chance. Uh my sister What'd he do it? You know I stopped by the day just to to look at this narrative. By now we know we got up. But the times when he shows up in your experience at your lowest moment he just shows up And the question becomes, do you know me? It's a fair question. It's an honest question. Let me just pick a moment now. And share with you the realness of Christ. You know, I was kidding with some friends of mine, we Co-workers were getting to be a certain age now, so we're talking, well, one day maybe we'll retire, I guess. Whatever that is. But you think about the faithfulness of God How he's kept you along the way. And provided for you, not just materially, but spiritually. In your time of sorrow, time of confusion, time that you didn't have any joy. I then begin to realize, you know, this is real. We serve a real Savior who's in the world today. If you've come today and you're not sure, you're confused. I want to tell you about this thing. He is so real. He'll walk upon you. He's so real he'll ask you questions about him. He's so real he'll break a piece of bread with you. Back to the statement. Bow your hats today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. In case there's one in the house today who does not know you by now. Now is the time of salvation. Touch that heart today, God. What greater time to give your heart to Jesus than on resurrection morning? I pray in the name of Jesus that power that you display at Calvary that you might touch that heart today Go deep, God. Look deep. Say deep today. That person who needs a personal relationship with you. God, we count it done. We believe you can do it. And we declare victory even now. In the name of Jesus. Amen. If you hear that you know you're saved, come on give God your greatest praise. I mean, you know That's you know. That's you know that you know that you know that you know that's a no no no no That you know no no no no no no come on give God some praise today if you're really sure I'm saying And that heaven is my home. I pray you were blessed by today's sermon. I am just so thrilled that God would use me to help you and to encourage you in the Lord. Now to find out more about our ministry, go to our website. It's www. comthenumbertwoharvest. org. That's www. com the number two harvest. org. Also, check out our brand new church app. It's called HCM Baltimore. That's HCM Baltimore. Go and search Google Play or iTunes. And then download it and you'll be blessed immensely by this app. It'll give you devotionals, videos, prayer wall directions, and everything you will need. Again, Dr. Tim Tutin in Baltimore County, Maryland, have a great day in the Lord and thank you so much for listening.