I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen. Whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website, I really do believe that God has a special message just for you. A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries for a worship experience already in progress. As we bow today. That is our request from the Lord that we might feel your power today. God, we come Because you've called us to this work and to this time. We can't do anything without you. I pray even now that I might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today. Change that heart. Encourage another. When this time is done, we'll be so careful to give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Praise ye the Lord. The Lord is good. And He's worthy to be praised. We come today to share from the Acts of the Apostle. And that simply means that this is what I call a highlight reel from the early church, the acts that they performed under the power of the Holy Spirit. Chapter 2 verse 1 says, when the day of Pentecost came, they were all together in one place. Suddenly a sound like the blowing of a violent wind came from heaven and filled the whole house where they were sitting. Verse number three says after that, that they saw what seemed to be cloven tongs falling upon them, separated and rested on them. All of them were filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit enabled them. I want to speak today from the Samonic title, In Case of Fire. You may have missed it, you may have overlooked it. The last time you were near a public elevator, you saw the sign to the right that says, in case of fire, take the stairs Now, I pray you never had to use it, but before you press the button, you say, well, just in case, I'm on the 15th floor. Just in case this thing is not working, I can take the stairs back down to the first floor and to get out. In fact, fire experts always tell us there's some things that we ought to remember when it comes to fire safety Know your way out of the building. Stay calm and look for an escape route. Don't stop or go back. And perhaps in your own life you have situations where you may have been caught in a fire. It was something I'm sure that was frightening even at that moment. But even in your own home, perhaps you have a fire safety plan. In the event that the smoke detector does not go off, in the event that something goes wrong, how can I get out of the building to avoid a fire? But the fire I'm talking about today is not the convention of fire that we're speaking of, but I'm talking about the fire and the power of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is a person, not a knit, and he lives in the hearts of the believer. The Bible says that our bodies are the temple of the Holy Ghost. So essentially, the Holy Spirit has taken up residence in who we are. So wherever we go, we ought to take the Holy Spirit with us. We cannot separate him and say, well, I'm going here now. You stay till I get back. But wherever you go and whatever we do as believers, we take with us the presence and the power of the Holy Spirit. I don't know about you, but that makes me want to live right. Yeah, that everything I am doing, I've got the fire in me. Uh wherever I go, and what the Holy Spirit will also do, he will convict you. Won't he do it? He'll pull you up, nobody has to say anything, tap you on the shoulder, he'll say, Now you know you were wrong. But in case of fire, there's a great scene that I noticed that I watch a little TV And NBC has a program on uh called uh the Bible AD. But it really paints a real picture of what it may have looked like that day on the day of Pentecost. The Bible says they were in that upper room, and the Spirit of the Lord came down upon them, and they began to speak in other tongues, but the Spirit is still moving. The spirit is still present. There were those who were so sure they had been drinking. And the word got out, I'm sure they had wine a little early today. But even now, the Holy Spirit can still come and empower us even where we are. Let me just give a disclaimer today. You don't have to shout to have the Holy Spirit You may not move a finger, but the Holy Spirit has a way of moving in your life. Amen. You ever felt him before in your life? My God, I can feel him right now just talking about him, that it is a force. It is the third person of the Trinity, God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit Check it out tonight. I'll give NBC a promo tonight at 9 on NBC. But this morning I want to go a bit further in this to really talk about this fourth verse All of them were filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit enabled them. In case of fire, the Holy Spirit. And so today, in order to do that, I really want to talk about the importance of the Holy Spirit as it relates to no one was left out of this experience. They had opportunity to speak out during this experience, and they were helped out during this very experience while they were there in the holy room waiting. Let me just talk, first of all, about the sense of being left out. It says all of them were filled with the Holy Spirit. That means that nobody was left out. Now, you know, I I mentioned that this week. It may not seem heavy to you, but I was just talking about this passage as I was driving to work, and it hit me that all of them were filled. That anybody in that room got some. Amen. So it doesn't say that some of them were filled, but everybody who showed up in that place had the opportunity. And I got stuck on all That means everybody got what they had coming to them by way of the promise Jesus has said to his disciples, he says, you receive power after the Holy Spirit has come upon you. Sometimes we want power, but no spirit. Let me back it up one sign. You'll get power after you receive the Holy Spirit. And this is the day of Pentecost, so they're all there. It's fifty days after Passover And it's a celebration, it's a festival, and they've all come together. It's called Pentecost, but they're able to share together, and that no one in the room missed anything. And that includes me today. I'm so glad today that when I gave my life to Jesus, and so did you, that when you do that, the Bible says you're at that point filled with the Holy Spirit So you say, whoa, I got it, yeah. You got it. Are you saved? Yeah. Well the Holy Spirit lives in you then Okay, I just want to just do a little one-on-one. If you receive them as your personal savior, at that time the Spirit of God takes up residence in who you are. Now you ought to feel powerful just knowing right now that you got some dynamite in you Amen. Oh, you shouldn't feel that. The Holy Spirit lives in your house. The Holy Spirit lives in you, and while you know that, you ought to sense that you're really somebody in the Lord. I'm a powerful person. I'm not Wall Street, not fourth list of richest people, but I am filled with the Spirit of God. Can you say that today? I am Come on, church. I am filled with the Holy Spirit. Oh, I'm going to back it up one more time. Today it's a sleepy Sunday. I am. Filled with the Holy Spirit. Now give God the praise today, just knowing that I did not get left out. That when He was passing it around His Spirit, I got some. Amen. And so as they gathered in that room, as this experience happened, nobody was left out, and including Mary. The mother of Jesus was in that group of about 120. And can you imagine she who had a son who was conceived by the Holy Spirit, Jesus, all of a sudden now is being filled with that who allowed her to bring forth Jesus. In other words, Mary was conceived Jesus by the Holy Spirit, and there she is, having been at the cross, having been to the open grave, and knowing he's not there, but saying, I'm in it too. That I'm with the all of them. I've not been left out. I'm glad today that I can feel his spirit. You ever been left out of something? Didn't get an invitation to the party you feel mad about? Got an attitude 'cause your name was not on the plaque at work? Amen. But with the Holy Ghost, you're not left out. I want some of this. I want the Holy Spirit to reside in not just my heart, but in all of me. We've heard the term being baptized by the Holy Spirit. Yeah, I've been baptized by the Holy Spirit. He's all over me, and I'm glad today that he lives in me. Anybody still feeling left out? No. In case of fire. Not just being left out, but taking a further piece on that, because Paul lifts this thing up. He says, you know what? Don't be drunk. With wine, wear it in excess, but be filled with the spirit. It really is a command, not an option. And and can I let me just testify when we had other spirits We talked crazy. We had other spirits. We said stuff that we didn't mean to say. Unfortunately, I was coming home last night from taking my daughter into the city. And as we're getting on the exit to get off, there was a man there that he was under the influence of the other spirit. He was wobbling and had money in his hand trying to hack, trying to find a riot. But there was another spirit that had overtaken him that was not the Holy Spirit Ever wonder why they call that getting my spirits? That's stuff that'll make you crazy. Amen. So y'all too perfect. You've never done anything wrong Never never nipped never yeah yeah I'm talking about that kind of spirit but when you get the Holy Spirit uh and you begin to speak to yourself in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord, that's when you feel filled with the Spirit of God. I don't feel left out. But then they spoke out. All of them were filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues. Ah, this was a gathering of people from a lot of different places. And so they spoke out, and they spoke in that language. I didn't do good in foreign language, so much I didn't even take a foreign language close. I avoided anything that was near being a foreign language. It hurt me because I can't speak anything but English okay. They took time because they were filled, there was a reaction, and they spoke out They begin to speak in other languages. And that's what happens when the Holy Spirit resides in you. You will speak a language that somebody can relate to. Been there, done that. Amen. And so you can't dismiss anybody because you say what I can speak your language, bruh. I feel you, sis, because I've been where you are. They spoke out, and even if you're from a different part of the country, I love to pick on New Yorkers because they sound like they're from New York. And we used to pick at New Yorkers back home because we were southern guys and we talked real slow But no matter where you're from, we got the same holy dialect that you know what? He died for me. Can you relate to that? Now you speak in my language. He saved me from my sins. Anybody with me today? Are we on the same page? Do you feel me? He made a way for me. They spoke in other languages so they might be able to what? To reach a larger group And what was fascinating is that while those who were there who thought they were drunk, and they really weren't, they were drunk in the Holy Spirit, they could say, he he's speaking my language Has somebody ever spoke to you and you said, you know what, you're on my street. You've helped me. You may not have known my situation, but what you've spoken today has been a blessing to me That's what conversational community is all about. Having older women and men to speak the language to the younger generation. Been there, done that, and not going back. They spoke something that was a blessing, and it was not just for them. Yeah, I said something today, though. I spoke it. No, but this was something that would benefit the church. Pentecost really was the church's birth and its birthday And even as we looked at the sense of speaking out, Jesus had given the word to his disciples in Mark 16, 15. He said to them, Go into all the world and preach the gospel to all creations. That was not optional. I don't have a license to preach preach good news. I'm not uh no that's for the preachers. No. If you have something to tell and to share, you ought to share it. Yeah, you can share that Jesus kept me. Jesus led me. Jesus protected me. And so I'm saying you get out of here. Go. When you leave the place today, don't just take something with you. Nothing else in case in case of fire Uh try this. Get in your elevator uh this week and look for that sign on the wall that said in case of fire and say, you know what? We talked about that Sunday. Bam! It's a way for you to get in a testimony to someone else He says, I want you to take what I've given you and not just sit back, but go out and share it. Speak it to someone. Anybody want to do that today? See, I want to take what the Lord has given me. I want to share it with somebody. I don't want to just keep it to myself and let them know that you're on high alert because God has given me something and they've spoken a language. I like that. You all know I like to talk, but not just any kind of talk. I'll try anybody to try and say, you know what, let me tell you about what the Lord has done for me We are obligated to spread the good news of Jesus Christ. That's why you've been called. You got the stuff that folk need. You got something that can help them along their way and you're holding on to it. Shame on you for not saying anything about Jesus. The repaired man comes to your house. That's your house. Tell him about Jesus. Mechanic fixing on your car. That's your car. Thank you. Praise the Lord. It's running Take opportunity to let some folk know that I know and serve a risen Savior who's in the world today. His name is Jesus. Y'all don't seem too bold today. I I want to challenge y'all. Y'all being ashamed, taste it. Let somebody know that yeah, it's all because of him. That I live and I breathe and I have my being. I got some fire in me, and it's the Holy Ghost. Oh Lord have mercy. Oh Lord have mercy. I'm saying today, don't you let the devil try to pour your and put your fire out. Uh-uh Uh-uh find a way to let someone know that I'm on fire. Fire! Call 911 if you want to. I'm on fire for Jesus. Amen In case of fire. Notice you've not been left out. And now you can speak out. I got something to say, but finally, you've been helped out. It says, all of them were filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit enabled them. They got some help. And and the Holy Spirit is a helper who will come along aside you to help you. And so therefore, uh, you didn't do it on your own. Yeah, I I did that because I've been good. No. You ask somebody to help you out. And that's what happened in their experience there at Pentecost. He comes alongside. He helps me. He helps you to make it plain. And that is what drives our testimony today. And letting folk know about why is it so important to share this? Why can't I just keep it? To myself. Because other folk are missing out. Remember the time when somebody was on your case about Jesus and you kept avoiding them like I don't want to hear it today, and now you become that person Who will find any way to let folk know that I serve the Lord and He's kept me? He says, you know what? I'm doing it because the Spirit has helped me out. I'm not Superman, that the Spirit says, I'll give you what to say I'll lead you and guide you where I want you to go. I've been abled, enabled by the Spirit of God. Have you ever helped you out before? I know you big and bad. You'll be no help. You're a superman, superwoman. But I need the Spirit of God to help me to come every Sunday to share the Word. I may have worked on the word all week, but without the Holy Ghost working, I'm just talking. And so sometimes you'll see me go off. I'm not going off pace. It's the Holy Spirit. And he gets me excited. I love just talking about him. And in talking about him, he gets a hold of you and you can't help yourself. Am I by myself today? Anybody ever felt good deep down in your sanctified soul that you didn't know why you were smiling? What's wrong with you? He's been good to me Why you smiling? I got the Holy Ghost moving in me, working on the inside, but I'm showing it on the outside, but it was all because somebody helped me. You need a helper. Yeah, come on. Come on, go with me. Let me let me help you share the good news with somebody. Let me let your light so shine before men that you may do what? Glorify me. He enabled them. And Jesus has been saying this all along. So I'm giving this to y'all. Because I'll be gone. John 20, 22. And with that, he breathed on them. And said, receive the Holy Spirit. Nobody didn't say, I don't want it. Nobody denied and said, can you check with me next week But they're with the Lord of Lords and the King of Kings, and he breathed on them. I'm glad about that today that he continues to fill me up. How many folk got gas this week? I know it's going up Yeah, well you go get something before the day is out. It's still going up. But when you go and you can top it off, you know, you try to get that last sense You ought to want the Holy Ghost like that. I want some more. I don't have enough in me. Get on my last nerve. Yes, I need some more. And you ought to just pump that thing in the spirit Fill me up, Lord, that I might be able to share the good news of Jesus Christ. Enable them to go because they were filled. The Bible has so much to say about this fire. Amen. That I just need the fire. Moses said I was on the back side of a mountain. And minding my own business and a bush caught on fire that would not be consumed. It was God speaking through a bush. Now say he'll catch you. He said, you got a rump from God, he might catch you on a back road somewhere and somebody will catch on fire. He spoke to him uh as the man Speaketh to another man, he says, you know what, I want to use you. But in that is some theology. The Lord was in that bush. It was a manifestation. It was what's called a theophany. It's when God Himself says, no, I ain't no angel. It's me. He ever showed up in your experience and look at that. I'm gonna burn something around you to get your attention I'm going to allow some things to happen in life to get your attention. Moses would never look at that bush that caught on fire. And sometimes in life we need some things to catch us on fire. Amen. Not just that, but think about Elijah. Elijah said, you know what? I'm going up against the prophets of Baal. I'm outnumbered. They say their God is better. I'm gonna show you. And they built their altar. All pearly in need and they called down their God and their God wouldn't come and they started cutting themselves on the wrist. Elijah called my God today. He came down with fire and began to burn everything up Aren't you glad today that you serve a God who will put you on fire and just let you burn and burn and burn? Ezekiel got mad with God Folks are hard-headed God. You know, I'm I'm not gonna do it anymore. Yeah, he talked about what God could do to help him get through. And there was Jeremiah as well. He said he was a you know Jeremiah said, you know what? I tried to keep my mouth shut. But when I started getting it was like fire shut up in my bones. And when you try to keep your mouth shut, you can't help yourself, Holy Ghost will call you out on the spot. And that was those Hebrew boys. They had said I'm not gonna buy the Almaking devils never. So we're gonna throw you in the fire and gonna turn it up too. Three times we're gonna bake you today. And the world has been trying to bake you Oh they put you on broad. Look at you now you're still standing. They thought you were done. They left and came back and they realized, wait a minute We put three in, but there's a fourth in there. It must be the Son of God. And they came out. Suits still looking good. Came out Hat on the head came out with no smoke on it. You've been through something and you've come out of it and you've not been through, oh my God, in case of fire. I'm glad today he does that in our lives Peter loved to fish, but on this day of Pentecost, he put the Holy Ghost on the hook. And what he began to do is to preach that word. And the Bible says on that day, 3,000 souls were saved. Why? He was under the anointing, under the influence of the Holy Spirit. Things that happen in your life, not because of who you are, but because of who resides in you. That's what I want you to get today. You're carrying around a package on the inside and you've you you you shortchanged yourself You you plagued yourself down. You are child of the high king and the Holy Spirit, that fire lives in you. You ought to bump in the football say, ah, what happens? I'm sorry, I'm on fire. You ought to go places the folks start waving and calling now. You know you ought to have something in you that there ought to be evidence that I'm on fire for Jesus. Anybody wanna be on fire today Do I have a witness in here today who says I don't mind burning? Let me burn. Don't put me out today. Let's stand today all over the church and give God the praise. That is the word of God. It is already blessed In case of fire. Don't call Baltimore County. In case of fire. Don't Baltimore City. But say let him burn. Just as I am. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. I'm on fire. And when I get done preaching on Sundays, I just can't turn that fire off. I take it to Bob Evan, still burning up. Hey! I take it to the food store and I'm still on fire. I take it to double tea and I I can't put it out. The fire is still burning Anybody want to get on fire today for the Lord? Oh no, once you get a hold of you, you just say, you know what? No, no, no, no. Don't put me out, but let me burn. Let me burn. As we come today. Well, but I don't qualify. No, come as you are today. He'll reside in your heart. Don't try to fix stuff and say, well let me I'm a little fireproof now. Let it mean. To your heart today. I pray you are helped in some way by this message. Be sure to follow Harvest Christian Ministries on radio, CD, podcast, or over our new website. It's comeetoharvest. org. That's come to harvest, C-O-M-E, the number two, and harvest. org. Take time to experience the website and all that we have to offer as a ministry. In the meantime, pray that God will continue to allow us to reach a community for Christ for the cause of the kingdom. I'm Dr. Tim Tutan. Have a great day in the Lord.