Amen. It's time now for the Word of God. Let's have a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come today and we thank you for this opportunity to be able to share your word. And in God, even as I come, I ask that I might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another, and when this time is done, we'll give your name all the praise and all the glory it deserves in the name of Jesus. Amen. Uh open your Bibles today to the gospel as pinned by Luke. There in the second chapter. We're going to be looking at actually two different passages from Luke to And 19 and then Luke 2 and 51. Let's just read the first one. Verse 19 says, But Mary treasured up all these things and pondered them in her heart. And then look over to Luke 2 and 51. It reads, that he went down to Nazareth with them and was obedient to them. But his mother treasured all these things in her heart. I want to preach on this Mother's Day from the Samonic title, In Safe Keeping. In safekeeping. Eighty billion dollars is a round number of what we spend every year for home security. Uh we see it as a priority to keep things that we consider valuable safe. And we've even bought additional safes to uh make sure that our gold and our silver and our diamonds And our money is safe. Amen. Why? Because people steal. I was doing some research as I prepared uh for the word of God and I looked and found out what were some of the most valuable items. ever stolen. And the list was interesting. A copy of the Mona Lisa was stolen. Someone stole the deeds to the Empire State Building. Someone stole the red shoes that Dorothy wore in The Wizard of Oz. We value material things, but in the natural, I believe that mothers are blessed with the ability to keep important things, can I say it, in safekeeping. Things close to their heart In our text today, we look at the biblical character of Mary, the mother of Jesus Christ, one who is highly favored. is encountered by Gabriel the angel. He begins to tell her that you have been selected. Isn't that amazing? That's still a great story and what a moment that you are highly favored of all the persons who believe they would be the one to bear the Christ child, the Messiah, that he comes to a small town and approaches Mary. But check this out. She is personally challenged. I mean you you don't walk away from that. Say, okay, I got this. I mean inside she must have really been struggling And then once this process is over, she goes from Nazareth to Bethlehem. Joseph Her husband puts her on a donkey. It's a ninety-mile journey from Nazareth all the way to Jerusalem. And we can do that if we're on the limit. If we drive to the limit, probably an hour It's in change, some of y'all may do it quicker, but this was a five-day journey, and just think of what was going on in her mind. and her spirit. And when she gets there, uh no accommodations. She had to stay in a stable. And there we witnessed the birth of Jesus Christ. Think about her emotional state. Pregnant teenager, unmarried, all the rumors swirling around town about what had happened, tired, weary. exhausted and she gets to this point. But she's able to keep all that she has experienced, I believe, in safekeeping. And these were things that were, first of all, that were personal Things I believe that were protected, and things I believe that leads us through a process that God takes her through. Let's talk about personal. And the word says, but Mary treasured up all these things. She treasured up, she stored up all these things. I mean, what things? We begin to list them. All that she faced, all that she had to go through, all of these things she put close to her heart And they're on the moment, or at the moment that Jesus is born, the shepherds are there. And as they're there, they're excited. They've gotten the word from the angels that you know what's going to happen. And they're the ones to deliver the good news. Amen. And they were excited and creation was excited. And Mary was doing what? She was looking at these things and had taken them very personal. They were very private And God has told you some things that you have kept under wraps. Some things that you have kept close to the vest. I've always said that there's some things that mama knows that no one else knows. Amen. I know fathers are important, but sometimes, every now and then, uh, we're the last to find out some things. Why mama has kept them. Mary kept some things that Joseph may not have been aware of. And there's nowhere in the text that we find that she said anything, but it was what she took in privately and what she took in personally. Now, mothers of today, that's a word for you. Keep some stuff. Amen? Keep it off social media. Keep it off the gossip line. Know that God was trusted. Don't say who said that, but keep it in your heart. Not everything is to be shared. Think about the first book of the Bible. There's Sarah, Abraham, and she was certainly barren, could not have any children, and she kept those things Personal. It was no you can't have children. But look at what God does in this personal time. She laughs about it, but he said, Guess what? You're going to have a child. And so at 90 years old Here comes Isaac, a bouncing baby boy. Don't tell me that God can't keep some things personal. And then the moment comes that when that which is personal, God will allow you to share it. Personal, but also when it comes to safekeeping, having something that is protected. Let's look at this passage again. But Mary treasured up all these things and did what pondered them She pondered them, she meditated on them, she examined them, she weighed them, she gave them some serious thought And when you do that, know that there are always forces trying to do what? Trying to break your firewall. Amen. In technology there's a firewall. That you keep things from coming in and going out. And the enemy will try and hack you The enemy will try to get you to say some things that you ought not to say, try and get you to live a certain kind of way, but these things are protected. See, when you ponder things, you're just keeping them. And you're mulling over them and you're chewing them and you're thinking about them. And that's great. God has given this ability, I believe, to mothers. Father, you would get your day on Father's Day. But I'm talking about Mama the Day. There is a time when you just have to ponder it. Amen. Just keep it. And know that in doing so, that God will have again that godly firewall around what you have kept To yourself. Mothers of the day, you know, God will do this. Amen. That you are so concerned about Is it going to get out? And what if I let it out? And what if somebody uh finds out? What if they get the record? What if that's okay. Know that God will protect it Amen. Under the watchful eye of the Savior. Think about Hannah. Here is Hannah. She goes each year up to the place of worship, a chilo, and she is not able to have a child. And she struggles with that Amen. And she prays to God. And people start to mock her and make fun of her. Yeah, look at her. She must have been drinking at the happy hour, but she is praying unto God. God, if you give me a son, I will give him back to you. It was between her and God. It was a protected conversation, A and B, and so many folk want to get into your business, but I want to say to you there There ought to be some stuff that's in safe keeping. Mocked, ridiculed, but she refused to let go. What a word today for the mothers. Just continue to live for God. Just continue to have the Lord to minister to you and keep it. I know we want to tell everybody, child, and and a testimony time will come, but there are times when folk want to know what's happening in your life and you're just trying to keep it. And you know what? He will protect it. Amen. It's personal. It's protected, but then know that it is a process. All in this same passage. Mary treasured up all these things. And pondered them in her heart. That that was the place the Bible more than a thousand times talks about the heart. The heart is not that's ticking inside of your body, but it is a spiritual part of us where our emotions and where our desires stay. The heart The Bible talks about in Proverbs is trust in the Lord with all your heart and lean not to your own understanding in all your ways acknowledge him and he will direct your path. It was stored deep in her heart. It was not visible for the world to see, but it was in her heart. I love that hymn that says, since Jesus came into my heart, she kept those things about the Savior. And there became a moment, and we mentioned this passage at the very beginning in Luke 251, is that twelve years later, now that's a long time to treasure something. Twelve years later, they're leaving Jerusalem, and uh Mary and Joseph realize that uh Jesus has been left behind. Well They go back to Jerusalem, they find him in the temple courts, and he is baffling some of the great minds. And Mary speaks, in other words, can I put it in the modern vernacular? Have you lost your mind? And he says, I am about my father's business. And what does she do? She didn't pull out a switch on him. She said, you know what? She treasured those things. In her heart. And then at the age of 33, she finds herself still carrying those same matters, those same private and protected things, to the cross. And there she has to watch as our Lord and our Savior is there hanging on an old rugged cross. And she is still pondering. But that doesn't clue in this. That even as she ponders, I believe that what is in her that's been deposited in her comes to this moment at Calvary. Because keep in mind, when there was that angelic appointment. They were able to hear the angels say that you will bear The Christ child. And he will be called the Son of God. Well that was enough keeping, wasn't it? But but now that it's gotten out, and now that it's been released. Now that it's no longer redacted, we know what it was that kept her holding it. Because there at the cross, where I first saw the light and the burdens of my heart rose, that is so important. The burdens rolled away because she realized whether it was the cross or the grave. But she carried some things. And mothers And you can carry some things, no that you can take it to the Lord in prayer. He knows what to do with it. God will Keep his promise. Yes, he will. Now you may find yourself in a lonely place. The word says, I will never leave you, nor will I forsake you. You you may be tired The Bible says I will strengthen you in those moments when you're weak. And mother, sometimes you carry it all. Amen. Sometimes you're doing 9 to 5 and 5 to 11 in the overnight shift. Whatever you may find yourself, but my God. You have taken time to talk with Jesus. When you become weary, the word says, Come unto me, all you labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. And when you fall short None of us are beyond that. If you confess your sins, he's faithful and he's just to forgive you of your sins and then to cleanse you from all unrighteousness. He is a God. Who will keep his promises? I love that hymn. It says, standing on the promises of Christ my King through eternal ages, let his praises ring. Glory in the highest I will shout and say, standing on the promisedness of God. What are you standing on today? Are you standing on your education? Are you standing On your good looks? Are you standing on your bank account? Amen? Because you already let everybody know about that. But what are you keeping in your heart? Stand on the promises of God And my God, keep some stuff. Because here's the real deal. When the time comes, God will allow you to release that you treasure. That at the right moment, some young person, some young mother will need to hear what you treasure. Praise God. Oh, look at the Holy Ghost. There might be a person that at the right time would want to know what you've been carrying around in your heart. They call it another wit, but it is Jesus' wit. Amen. But blessed be the God that at the right time, amen. The Holy Spirit will come along with the right key and he will open up And you will be able to share letting someone know, child, I can make it. For that child who's wayward, I can make it. For that child that you've been praying for, you can make it. Why? Because God is with you in safe Keeping. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. Blessed be the God. We're going to come back and talk with you about opportunity for you to change your life after the choir comes. We won the house we are being working. And we cry holy holy holy and we cry holy holy. We may have to have a beauty of the great and round with the love to have me. I only know me to shine. Blessed be to God. Maybe you've tuned in today, maybe you've by this broadcast on this Mother's Day and you've not given your life to Jesus Christ. I never assumed that everybody I run into has a relationship with Jesus Christ And that is my role. That is your role as a believer to tell them about the goodness of Jesus. Now that's one thing you don't want to ponder too much. but you want to share. And so maybe you've come by today and you want to know what does it mean to have a personal relationship with Jesus Christ? Well I can tell you, it means that you have to confess Christ. The Bible says if thou shalt confess with thy mouth, the Lord Jesus and believe in my heart that God has raised him from the dead, the Bible says thou shalt be saved. Aren't you glad today that there's this offer on the table? I'm so glad that he saved me It was 1965, June the 6th, there at the Springfield Baptist Church. I'll never forget that night that I gave my life to Jesus Christ, and he's continued to build me up and grow me since then. So let's bow today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus, if there is one heart, one heart that has not confessed you as Lord and Savior, it is our prayer today that they may hear your voice Saying, I yield, I yield, what must I do to be saved? We pray for this generation. God, maybe there's some mother out there who just needs to get that salvation and destroyed in her heart. Father, we come even now believing in the name of Jesus that someone's life has been changed in this moment. We declare it, we believe it in the name of Jesus. Amen. God bless you. We always want to keep you up to date