I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen, whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, Podcast, or our website I really do believe that God has a special message just for you. A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries for a worship experience already in progress. Praise God. How many believe that the Lamb has overcome? How many believe the Lamb has overcome? We come today as overcomers. That means something got in your way and blocked your path. But you have overcome it because of the blood of the Lamb And we come today and celebrate. Why? Because we've gotten past something. That which tried to bound you did not work. And the fact that you're sitting here today means you know what? I'm over. How many overcomers are in the house today? Amen. Let's bow our heads all over this place today. Heavenly Father, we thank you. For the blessing of a brand new day. As we come today, it is always our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. God save someone today. Encourage another. But when this time is done, we'll be careful to give your name the praise and the glory. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. Happy Resurrection Sunday to you. How many folks are just glad to be in the house today. Amen. Nobody was going to stop you today. Get out of my way. I'm going to church. Amen. The mall was crazy. Excuse me. I need to get my outfit. I'm going to church on. We got a new suit every year on Easter. We thank God today. He wants to share with you a passage or two. As it relates to our word today from the Gospel of John. And there in John's Gospel in the 20th chapter, verses 19 through 21, on the evening of that first day of the week When the disciples were together with the doors locked for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood among them and said, Peace be with you. After he said this, he showed them his hands inside. The disciples were overjoyed when they saw the Lord. Again, Jesus said, Peace be with you, as the Father has sent me, I am sending you. I want to share today from the Samonic title, In Search of Peace. In search of peace. Everybody is searching for something. Might be a new job. Might be financial security, might be a mate, it might be just me in life But I believe we're also searching for peace. Peace that comes from God It's been said that peace is freedom, that peace is harmony, and we're not born with a peace chromosome. Peace is something you have to acquire, and it normally comes through tribulation and trials and struggles, but the Bible says over in Isaiah, He will keep you in perfect peace if your mind is stay on him. He told his disciples one time on the backside of a mountain, he said, Blessed are the peacemakers. For they shall what? They shall see God. And as we come today, we're just grateful to know that we can find peace. In our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Maybe you've never had a situation that had storms brewing in your life Maybe for you it's always been just Stephen. Stephen, everything's been, can I say copostatic? That's old school. But in our lives we'll find that you will need to find peace, need to get to a place in life where you can take a breath and say, Lord, I thank you For not allowing me to lose my how the forget I almost lost a mind. I'm just gonna get it. I mean life became so heavy it became So tough and you couldn't find any peace anywhere, but you begin to trust in the Lord with all your heart and to lean not to your own understanding in all your ways you acknowledge him. He what he directed you a path. The fact that you're here today, and in your right mind, you have found peace. Amen. And when it comes to peace, I think that it's important that we've got a few things working. That through that peace we'll have some restoration, being restored. We'll have some confirmation. Is this really it? And we'll have some demonstration. Take my peace and take it out and let other folk know I truly have peace. See, when you have peace, you ought to announce it. I got peace. People will know you got peace. Why? Because you'll smile You won't let stuff rattle you. You won't let stuff shed. You know people will pick on you just to see what you're gonna do. And when you've got the peace of God that passeth all understanding, you say, you know what? I know what you're trying, but deep down you can't see it, but I've got the peace of the Lord working in my life. How many folk want some peace today? Amen. In our text this morning, we find there at the tomb that The women show up. They're looking for peace. They've come to anoint the body of Jesus. It's tradition for them to come. Never mind that there's a stone that must be rolled away, but by the time they get there, they realize that the tomb is already open. And depending on which gospel you read, because each one of the writers gives you a different view, whether it's Matthew, Mark, Luke, or John, but in John's sharing, they meet an angel Who gives them some information because at that time the headline has been Jesus is dead. That was the news of the day. But more news was about to break. And they were able to share this good news that he indeed has risen. And I want you to go and tell my disciples, because they are afraid. That I am alive and well. Let me pose a question to you. Do you believe that he's alive? It's a one-on-one. It's either a yay or a nay. How many folk believe that he really is alive today? Amen. Remember my first seminary class And probably kept me in school. The professor said, I'm holding this Bible. It is alive. And man, I heard that, you know what? It is. The Bible you have is the written and the spoken word of God. My God, you want something alive? Just pick that Bible up and begin to read it. My God, it'll liven you up. It'll give you peace and joy, divine. And so Jesus makes his way then to those disciples. They're afraid. They've locked the door. They've double-locked it. Why? Because they've been hanging with Jesus. And so at this point, let's face it, they're a public enemy, number one, because they've hung out with Jesus. And every now and then you will receive some backlash. Why? Because you're a Christian. Why? Because you praise God. You ought to be able to acknowledge your own faith. And then know some some other faith as well. So you can say, you know, I can declare what my Lord has done. And so He comes to them He finds them and he approaches them. What they need in that moment is some peace. I want you to become a disciple for a moment. I want you to say, you know what, Reverend, I'm in that room too. And place yourself there. Yes, there were some who did not believe it was going to happen. Yes, there was John who went to the cross But they are pretty much frightened about what's happened and peace is nowhere on the radar. First of all, there's a time of restoration. On the evening of that first day of the week, when the disciples were together, the doors were locked For three of the Jews, Jesus came among them and said, Peace be with you. Now how do you know what they needed? Because he's Jesus He came in and said, you all remember we talked about peace earlier before I went to the cross. But now I need to restore you because all of a sudden now you've got a little amnesia, you've forgotten what I've done in your life. And so he comes to restore that peace. The other day I was riding And the news vehicle and I came up next to a 1970 Nova Chevy. And man, it was looking good. And the guy had it painted well. It was restored. Man, that car looked good. I rolled the window, hey, can you hit it one time for me? Man, he floated as he pulled off. But that vehicle had been restored. And what the Lord wants to do, He wants to restore the peace that's been robbed from you. Ever had a moment when you really lost your peace? Nobody knew But you were afraid, you were scared about the future, afraid about what your tomorrow would bring, and then you were shaking in your boots. Can I testify? I mean I'll have some fear, maybe for a moment. Maybe for an hour, maybe for a day, but then I realized that the peace of God, which passes all understanding, I think, you know what? I know the Prince of Peace I'm gonna call it a principle. You know what? I am not worried anymore. For God has not given you the spirit of fear, but of love and power and a sound mind. And so have you ever been there before Maybe I'm not talking to anybody today. Have you ever found yourself saying, I don't know what to do? I'm about to lose it. And all of a sudden the Holy Spirit allowed peace to invade your space, and you came out cool. Everybody see you when you went into the wilderness and this the whole, I don't know if they're gonna make it. My God, have you heard? Did you hear? And when you come out, you say, you know what? I ain't got no smoke on me. Because God has kept me another day. I've been restored in him. And that's what he gave them that day. They were in search of peace. He brought it back and said, you know what? Y'all had it one time. I come to speak it to you again. How many folks feel like you've got some peace today? Amen. But it wasn't just restoration. It was also a time of confirmation Verse 20, after he said this, after he said, What? Peace be with you, he showed them his hands inside. The disciples were overjoyed when they saw the Lord. Now they were a little skeptical. He was on the cross. I remember that. He was buried, but then he had the confirm form. And when you confirm something, you're saying, here's the evidence. It's true. If I went to the airport and I might be on TV and there's some mothers on TV on here, but if I don't have an ID, you you not anybody without ID? Are you really who you say you are? Yeah, well show me your ID You won't board a plane unless you've got a ID or a passport. They want to confirm that somebody is not trying to be you. Well y'all missed that. Or you trying to be somebody else? And so they will check your idea to make sure you're the right person. And so there was a confirmation because they will say, Okay, are you really him? He said, Let me show you something. Look at him. See what happened? He here's my side. He does a show and tell, and here's my hands. And so there's confirmation that if there's any doubt about where my piece is coming from, he said, I want y'all to take a look at this. And every now and then in life, you gotta confirm some things in your own experience. Are you really the one? Saint Simone would say I'd rather see a sermon than hear one. I try and live the life that I preach about and that I try and sing about that folk will see you on Monday. Uh and then are you ready to one? Did I saw the other day? There was confirmation. I believe he really is the one. And it says they were not just thankful, they were overjoyed. Yes. He's the one. And they remembered what he had said about I'm going, but I'm coming back. Let me hit that thing again. How many folk are overjoyed? That means joy and some extra old type of joy with a style order of joy to go. Amen? And that's what the good news is, is that I can look at this and say, you know what He showed them something to let them know that I'm really the risen Savior. You know the other text, Thomas said I wasn't there. I'm not buying it. He came back. Here I am. Thomas, okay. So let me see your hand. And he placed his the hand on the side and touched my hand. And every now and then you ought to just reach out Say Lord, I can't see you. I know you're a spirit, but I want to just feel a touch today. Amen. Just to know that you are here That you are with me, that you are the Lord on high, that you are the King of Kings. Have you ever had to say, Lord, I don't I'm just double checking. Are you really there? How many people can be honest today? So you know what I don't know. And that's when doubt and fear will come in. But you see what? I believe he's making a way for me. I believe he's opening a door for me. I believe he's doing everything for me. What I can confirm But he is the risen Savior. Amen. There was this whole sense of restoration and a time of confirmation. But then there has to be some demonstration. Again, Jesus said. I like the text. It says, peace be with you. Didn't he just say that? As the Father has sent me, I am sending you. And when it comes to demonstration, it means to show and to explain what you do. I teach a course, a college course, and I have a textbook for the students teaching them how to be writers and how to go on TV and I can do my book and then say, mm-hmm. I say, give me a microphone. Let me show y'all how to do this thing. Give me a camera and I'll begin to demonstrate how it works. And in your own life, that's some stuff you gotta do. He's saying it's great that I've seen you all again and you got some peace, but you can't hang out here. You got to go and take the word on the road. Amen. See, we can't just say, well, I got it. I'm gonna hold on to it. Praise Jesus. I went to church today on Easter. Hallelujah. But you know what When you leave this place, you ought to take the Lord with you. Amen. Wherever you go, he ought to go with. In fact, you ought to change the atmosphere, right? Because you know what? I'm a believer. When you walk in the door, the atmosphere ought to change because what? I got peace. Ever walked in some place and it's got crazy and you walked there and say get a cup of coffee and all of a sudden the atmosphere changed? It wasn't you, but it was the peace of God And the Spirit of God working on the inside, I beg you to try it. Go in a place and just kind of whisper a prayer. They took prayer out of schools. No, they didn't. You pray over your kids when they go in there. How do you know what you're mumbling? I'm gonna pray anyway. But Jesus, I thank you, Lord. You've been good to me. And so you can always pray, but change. the atmosphere by demonstrating your faith. Take the Lord with you everywhere you go. In the street, in the crowd, in your home, all alone, on the byway, on the highway, take him with you. So well Reverend to Starbucks. Take him with you to giant. Take him with you to the stuff, this goes to the distal. Take him with you To the hookah lounge. I heard about that. Yeah, I heard about it. I ain't never been there. That's that funny tobacco stuff. Wherever you go. Take I know y'all wake up on that wouldn't you? Uh-huh. A hookal now. You heard about it. Amen. Take him there. In other words, there's no place you ought to go That the Lord, oh I got y'all awake now. Let me go ahead. Let me go ahead and preach now. Y'all with me, amen. Wherever you go, don't leave him and say, I'll catch you when I get back. But take him with you and the presence of the Lord. And that's what peace to do. You don't mind taking another shame of Jesus. I'll take him with me wherever I go. Isn't that me? I have decided to follow Jesus. No turning back. Though no one joined me, still I will follow. Have you decided today that I'm gonna follow Jesus showing up that nobody can hold me back? I'm not sure her I'm gonna go out there and give God some praise today. I got the peace of God working in my heart, and they were looking for it, and guess what? They found He who is peace. That's the message. That you might restore what he's already given. One time you were a laid-back somebody. But life came along, and you got scared all of a sudden. Don't want to speak up. Hiding in the corner. He wants to restore what's already. And he said, you know what? Paul told Timothy, stop. The gift that's in you, man. You got some stuff in you. I know your grandmama and your mama, your family, you're shy. Come on, serve the gift that's in you, and then as a result, be able to say, you know what? I know it's him I can't touch this time. But let me tell you what he's done for me. He woke me up this morning. Started me up. It was him. And got and he did all of that. And therefore I can confirm it's him. But take him with you that you might not hold a demonstration, but demonstrate your faith That is the word of God today. It's already blessed. How many got peace today? You got peace standing up all over this place today? If you got real peace, the kind of peace that passeth all understanding And that will make you shout. That'll make you get happy. Because you remember what it was like. And nobody knows your story the way you know your story. That for so long I've been looking for peace, but I found it when I found Jesus the Christ. Amen. Let's bless this name today Come on, let's celebrate the Lord today. Everything He has done. My Jesus, my Savior. My David Lord, there is none like you. All of my days. All of my days, I want to pray the wonders of your My conflict my shelter will refute and strength and every breath I am. There was these two pressure view Starting the No Hour and madness be praised again. Mountains bow down and the sea will roar at the ground. I think for joy at the work of your hands. Forever I love you forever I'll stand. Nothing compares to the promise I have in you. Jesus, I say God for there is none like you all of my day I want to pray What a praise. The wonder of your comfort. Our breath is constrained to have every every breath All that I am never season. Come on, step together. Shout. Shout to the Lord the man just people. Praise the king, mountain bow down, and the sea will roar at the sound of your head. I think for joy at the work of your hands Forever I'll love you, forever I'll stand nothing compared. Let's do the proper fire in you in the comparison of God in God. Amen. Let's bless God today. How many came to shout today? Peace will call you to say, you know what? I'm not ashamed of the gospel. We come today. I want to present Jesus Christ to you. As I do every Sunday. Maybe you've come today and there's a chance that you've never given your life to Jesus Christ. How's that possible, Reverend? It's possible. I played the great pretender for many years. I had about a half a piece of church in me, and I could fake the rest of it. Don't pressure me. I'll give you a made-up something. But today you can be honest. About where you are. Life really is filled with swift transition. We don't know what's gonna happen the next moment. And today I want to offer Christ to you. As you bow your heads today, I want you to take this so serious. And I want you to begin to search your heart today. And say, do I have a personal relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ? What does that mean? That I know him in the pardon of my sins. And that I've confessed unto him. He knows everything. Can't hide anything. But when we come clean with him, we say, you know what? I messed up. But I want you to come in and turn my life around and just save me and forgive me. And the Bible says If you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, that shall be saved. Today you can accept him in this place. On last week. A soul came out and said, I want to find this Jesus. And today you can do the same. While those heads above, I won't belabor the moment. But I want every eye closed, every head bowed. And be honest with yourself today. If you know that you don't know Jesus, while those hints about I want to not point you out, I don't want to flash the light on you, but I want to pray with you Just show me a hand today. Show me a sign today that Reverend, I want this. I want to be saved. Think about it today. It's your opportunity, it's your chance to give your life to Jesus. I can tell you And the other witnesses of this nothing like, man, I'm so glad I'm saved. Oh Lord. I thought about what would happen when I wasn't saved, or when I played both sides You know what I'm talking about? Well you're gonna act like you say, but you weren't. I said, Lord, if you don't take me this time, I won't do it again. And I did it again. But he has cleansed me from my sins. One more time today, you're here. Just raise your hand. I want to pray with you. If you're here today and you don't know Jesus Christ, even though I can't seek your hand What matters is that you confess Christ today. As you bow those, I want to pray with you today, whether I saw your hand or not, whether you hold your hand up. Here's what's important. Father, I come in the name of Jesus I pray for that lost soul that is in this building today. That you might break open the understanding to them. The enemy is trying to say, you don't want to hear all this. You came to church, but I ain't got to hear all that. Devil, you a liar. He's the father of lies. He tries to grind us with other stuff. How good we are and what we do, our works. But I'm here to tell you today, he'll save you right where you are today. If you open your heart up, he'll do it. Father, I pray even now that you might save that person. You might restore them. That you might let them know that their confession That I'm sinner. But I believe you died and rose again. That when I confess that, when I say it, not to preach it, not the pastor, not A neighbor, but I have to speak it myself. Whether it's on loud, hallelujah, I see the hand. Hallelujah. Thank you, Jesus. Hallelujah. Father, I pray right now in the name of Jesus That you might feel that heart today. You are the great Savior. I pray in the name of Jesus, God, that you might dwell in the heart of that person today. And that as they say, Father, I come, I'm a sinner, I want to be saved, you promised. You would say them. And we take you at your word. Thank you. Is there another today? Is there another today who once received Christ into their life? Is there one more day before we leave this place? No pressure. But I want to just get right to the point. All that we've done today, this is the most critical time. Do you want to be safe? Hallelujah. Let's bless God today. Give him a hand, amen. Maybe you've come today. You desire to be a part of this fellowship. That's the easy part. Keep coming. We'll just claim you. But more than membership, my church. I'm more concerned about am I saved? And so if you want to come today Sometimes I'll miss the call and get called up in the hallway. You're available to come today to this fellowship if you want to join this fellowship, you want to be a part of it. The doors are always open. You can walk when you want to walk. You can catch me after church, in the line, over a coffee, you name it. But what's most important. Are you saved? Ah, the spirit is moving today. I really want to move right to communion, but I I I want to give you an opportunity just to receive that peace. I preach peace, but do I have it? I pray not now. Let's bow those heads again. Father, I come in the name of Jesus. And God, I pray for your peace today. Whether it's confusion, whether it's turmoil, I pray for peace. You didn't tell those disciples that is just a quote or something to say. You knew where they were. The state of mind you said, peace I give with you. And God today give peace to your people And they might receive it and know that it's from you. It's spiritual. God given, God directed, God created peace. Do it now, I pray, in his name. Amen. Let's praise him today. He's worthy. We're not making transition without Holy Communion I pray you are helped in some way by this message. Be sure to follow Harvest Christian Ministries on radio, CD, podcast, or over our new website. It's comeetoharvest. org. That's ComeToharvest, C-O-M-E, the number two, and harvest. org. Take time to experience the website and all that we have to offer as a ministry In the meantime, pray that God will continue to allow us to reach a community for Christ for the cause of the kingdom. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin. Have a great day in the Lord.