This is Pastor Tim Tooten, the pastor of Harvard's Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland, and we're bringing you a special time of Christmas by talking to real people about everyday life and And the spirit of Christmas and so we took the journey to go out to speak with people and to hear how they would describe this time called Christmas. What you're hearing are the sounds of people who are preparing for Christmas. In fact I'm on the parking lot of a major retail establishment in America and it's going down. But I wanna just talk with people about the Christmas spirit. What does it mean? to embrace the spirit of Christmas. So I'm really walking down uh out in the parking lot and I see a young man here. Sir how do you embrace the spirit of Christmas? Um, well I really enjoy it. Um I just know growing up when I was younger It's just been a great time to just spend time with the family and just give it back to people. Have a great Christmas. Merry Christmas to you. Thank you. All right, I'm just taking a walk here. How you doing, ma'am? How would you describe the spirit of Christmas? This is for all the young. Oh, I don't F Right here? How would you describe the Christmas car? Yeah, I'm gonna take your cart. I don't need the car, but I'm gonna ask you a question. Okay. How would you describe Christmas, the spirit of Christmas? Oh my goodness. Well, we're out here amongst the people. The spirit is Christmas. Well, I believe believe in Jesus so for me it's a nice time of year to celebrate what God did for me and everybody who believes in him. Um but I think that in like a larger sense, the secular sense that at the very least Christmas stirs at least a one time a year um thinking about others and giving and not being selfish. So that's nice. That is excellent. Excellent. This is gonna be actually part of a larger documentary I'm doing on Armed Forces Radio Network going out to all of our troops on basic Thank you. Have a great Christmas. You have a good uh interview voice. I didn't need your your card after all, did I? Thank you so much. We're we're making the rounds here at a major establishment. It is the night or the day before Christmas. How would you describe the spirit of Christmas ma'am. I see you're about to wrap your things up here. This is it all live and you're here. How would you describe Christmas? This whole spirit of Christmas. The whole spirit of Christmas it's not the same anymore. It's like it's just Christmas. Why is that? I mean 'cause we you know It's when you get older, um, everybody doesn't appreciate actually what Christmas stands for. And they think it's all about gifts and it's not. It's about Jesus Christ. So do you do you share that when you go around and people look at you and you say, Well did you you all forget that it's the real reason? My family knows that, you know, but I don't press no religion or anybody else. What you believe is what you believe in, but my family knows that so Well you have a great Christmas thing for Lala and I said you have all your paper there. Last minute paper. My mom thought she had paper and she's like, I don't have any paper. I was like, give to a wrap. God bless you. The spirit of Christmas. We're in a parking lot of a major establishment and we're just talking to people about the spirit. This guy's almost done. Tell me about the spirit of Christmas. What was it mean to you? You got your mouth full of gift cards. Yeah. Tell me about the spirit of Christmas. Oh to me, well, just being with family and celebrating Christmas and birth of uh of Christ and just having a good time. Is there a certain joy of I mean we're we're all part Some sometimes. The hustle and bustle here is a little uh making people a little edgy, but you know, uh they gotta smile. So the Grinch did not steal crucibles. Not not not to me. Thank you, my friend. We're just we're just making the rounds here Yes indeed. On a major parking lot just talking to people about the spirit of Christmas. There's brothers on the phone. How you doing sir? Right, how you doing listen, tell me uh about the Christmas spirit. I see you got a phone on one ear. Yeah, and uh the Christmas spirit, I love the Christmas spirit. To me it's about Birth of Christ. Absolutely. Birth of Christ, spending time with family. And of course I spent a few dollars here. Um but I I'm grateful for what Jesus mean to me. You think people sometimes i it get can get lost in they can get lost in the shock in the malls and all that so when I'm out I'm constantly talking about Jesus, talking to people about j about Christ. So this is bigger than a holiday. Bigger than a holiday. It's a holy day. It's a holy day for me. Awesome. Thank you so much. I've been sharing people this is going to be a broadcast over the Armed Forces Radio Network. Okay. And it goes all over the world with people who are out on ships and in bases. Okay. And I'm just doing a one-in-one, just walking around talking to people. God bless you. Merry Christmas to you. How you doing today? I'm about to get hit, but I'm walking on the parking lot of a major American establishment talking to people about the spirit of Christmas. Do you feel the spirit of Christmas? I do. It's been wonderful. Everyone was nice in the store. So happy. Sh should we get that more than one time? Absolutely, all year long. So what what do you say to people who may be having to struggle this time of year, challenges? Uh you got a big smile. Can you can you spread some of that? Well, there's always a silver lining to everything that's you know, if sometimes Things are gonna be bad, but there's always tomorrow. Tomorrow. Well we're gonna embrace Christmas. Thank you so very much. We're making the rounds, people on the parking lot. And we're just having a great time talking to people about The spirit of Christmas and I'm being the reporter. How you doing? Brother, I'm on my way to my daughter-in-law's house. I gotta get there. Well, brother, just tell me how you how the spirit of Christmas. Oh, praise the Lord. Spirit of Christmas is about Jesus Christ. This is what it's about his birth. It's about our It's about life. Today, tomorrow, the two greatest days, Christmas Eve and Christmas. Praise God. I'm just getting smile. You gotta give me a little something. I know you guys can be rolling But when you think about Christmas and I we're on a parking lot of a major place. But tell me about what is it a feeling? I like feel I like family. I like getting together with my family and I wish it was snowing instead of raining. Now I grew up in Florida. Oh wow, no. I'm a pre I'm a pre Pure Bred Marylander. I like this now. Well God bless you. Have a great Christmas. Thanks for stopping. Second to you. And again, we're just getting some great interviews here, uh talking to people about the spirit of Christmas. And everybody who wants to talk to, they're stopping and they're giving me some time. And they're allowing me to interview them and this is awesome. So we're gonna make some more rounds. The spirit of Christmas. Again, making the rounds, talking to people about it. I know this lady. Listen, I'm talking about the spirit of Christmas. Can you tell me what this means to you? I gotta hug from you. It means a lot because uh they had this thing on the radio of giving more than re uh would you rather give or receive. I'd rather give because I give so much of my time at the hospital and frankly square. And it just means a lot to me. Is there a certain feeling about this season, this day? It just to be that uh everything is going better than it normally does throughout the whole year. Great smile on your face too. Merry Christmas to you. So great to see you. All right. It's got me a a Christmas hug. Young people, we're trying to talk about embracing the spirit of Christmas. What does Christmas mean to you? To me? Yeah. You can't hear me, right? Having family around and um and friends and such. Now they got you pushing the cart. Uh that means that uh and everybody's running. Tell me come on the street so we don't get here. We're on the shopping lot of a major establishment. Tell me about the spirit of Christmas. What does that when you hear about spirit of Christmas, what does that mean for you? Just think about it for a second. Jesus? Whoa, that's a great start. And it is about Jesus, right? Yes. You think sometimes young people kind of miss that or that maybe that they don't know or have not been taught that? Yes. And how how how disappointing is that if that people just don't really know why they're celebrating? Yeah, it's pretty disappointing. at least like teach them, you know, that they need to know where the like the roots come from. All about the roots, huh? Yes. Yeah? Do you agree with that? Yes. Have a Merry Christmas to you. God bless you. All right, here on the parking lot. Well make your shopping estate. establishment asking people about the spirit of Christmas. That's a Tennessee guy. How does uh when you think about this season and this day, what what comes to mind? Is there a certain spirit about this? Uh family. Spending time with family. That's the biggest one for me. Now is it kind of a a Warm and fuzzy, is it a a smile? Uh it's security, it's a feeling of warmth and secure. Oh yeah, I think that's a good one. Thank you my friend. All right, we're just having a nice time talking on the parking lot of a major establishment about the spirit of Christmas. And I just to see two young ladies here. When you think about Christmas, is there a certain spirit that that you feel or that you sense about this time of year? Uh yeah. This is for Armed Forces Radio Network and we're gonna be broadcasting this to troops all over the world uh on bases on ships and I just want to ask people about Christmas and what it means to them in the spirit of Christmas. Well it's just the time to reflect God and uh think about You know. Uh just so much of the streets and we say thank you for all they do for us. You think sometimes we kinda lose not we, but w then people may lose sight of what this is all about. Um It's okay. This is the reason for the season. Well well absolutely. And this is just the whole two two two generations here. And uh this is this is work, doesn't it? And do we need we need peace in the world, don't we? Oh yes. Oh sure do. Sure do. Well how not like my time. when I was young. I'm not I'm gonna be ninety-five years old in March and I I sometimes I think maybe I'm glad I'm ninety-five and ready. Take me back a moment. I I've heard take me back to your childhood and what Christmas was like then and then bring me up to this period. Well, when I was young didn't have the Christmas tree put up to Christmas Eve. And and then you got out you just couldn't wait for Sandy Claus to come. And uh you got older and you went to school and it was different at Christmas because this little woman say, uh, uh, no Sandy Clause. Oh I think she still believes though. Well God bless you have a wonderful Christmas. Thanks for sharing with me. Thanks for the thing. Uh young people. I'm walking with you all Tell me about the spirit of Christmas. What does Christmas mean to you? Christmas is the time I feel my family to enjoy the holidays. Is that right, the holiday? You're you're a teenager, right? I'm twelve. You're twelve years old. Now who's this behind you? My mom. And she's taught you by Christmas energy. Yes. What wh what are you trying to pass along? Of course we gotta get gifts, but what do you pass along to young people that they should really embrace? Uh, just to let them know, um, when it comes to the holidays more about spending time with family than getting gifts, um, enjoying um being with the ones That's so awesome. Thank you so very much. Merry Christmas to you. You got your list together yet? I know, right? Are you all done? Oh no. I'm talking to people about the spirit of Christmas. Okay. And I'm just walking with you on the parking lot of a major establishment where people are getting Oh, Nancy. What does this mean to you this time of year? Family, friends. And getting your list done? Presents and not present. Thank you so very much. Thank you. Have a wonderful Christmas. I'm just talking to people. And people are nice. They're talking to me. Oh good. Great. That's right Amen. Here on the shopping center, the major establishment on Christmas Eve. And this is a when you know it's a good sign of Christmas when you hear this bell coming from the south. Salvation Army. You're standing here with a great sl are people being generous? They are. Now when you think about the spirit of Christmas, you see more faces than anybody because you see them when they come in and when they leave. What is it to embrace Christmas? Spirit? Um just bringing back the true meaning of Christmas. And that meaning is trying to help the needy. Yeah. That's fantastic. Oh and keep ringing your bell You look you're all done. Pretty much. I'm talking to people about the spirit of Christmas and just being able to embrace that spirit. What does that what does that look like for you when you say Christmas and Christmas spirit? Happiness, love, togetherness, family. Wow. Merry Christmas to you. Uh there's somebody coming. They're they're serious. Yes indeed. They've uh come right on now. Just walking with people as they come out And about the spirit of Christmas and what that but you've got a lot. Think about the spirit of Christmas, what comes to mind for you? Actually family. My father in law just passed away yesterday. So this is all this is this is irrelevant. Well I've present with her. You're pulling everything together but Think of a how important is family. This time of year especially. Extremely. But it's not really just about family, it's about Jesus. Ooh. So I that's what I was getting. I'm proud to say that. You know. May the Spirit of Christ comfort you and your family. during this time. Merry Christmas to you. God bless you. You got everything you all done? I'm talking to people about the spirit of Christmas and what it means and and so in your own words, how would you describe this time of year? I don't know. Um Joyous? Joyous. I've heard family. I've heard Jesus, of course, that's important. Of course. Of course. Um, but joyous, it's time for family, it's time to uh reconnect. Yeah. And it's it's I've heard people say it shouldn't just be the one day. Should we have this kind of spirit like maybe the day after the day after people ought to be just as nice? I agree. It should be. It should be something ongoing all the time. That way maybe it wouldn't be so much killing especially see here in this city. And meaning the city of Baltimore and all over the world. But thanks so much for your time. That's Christmas style. Thank you. God bless you. All right. Being able to share with people and to see even young people all set for Christmas. Now I bet she's been good. She's been good? I bet she's been good. How you feeling today? I'm feeling good. Good, good. Everybody set for Christmas. The Christmas spirit. That's right. So we're here uh reporting on people coming out of a major shopping establishment and they're excited about the Christmas and we're just getting some comments that pass along, uh especially to those who might still be serving there in our country and abroad. You're a young man, what does Christmas spirit mean to you? Family? You know Are you in college? No. You're out of college? Take me back a few years that I hadn't meant very long ago about what this time meant for you getting up that morning, uh seeing your dreams come to light. Well when I was Yeah. Right. Hey, that was fun time. Just family getting together for you. What do you think's missing these days when it comes to the season? I mean we're certainly commercialism. Um, what's missing? Um it just seemed like like families change now. Christmas is not the same no more, you know. So it's like try to you gotta try to uh bring the old tradition back. That's a great tradition. Thank you, my friend. Merry Christmas to you. All right, God bless you. How are you doing today? Good. We're talking about the spirit of Christmas and what it means embracing the spirit of Christmas. What's the sphere that comes to mind for you? Giving gifts to the kids. And uh remembering Christ's birthday. Oh that's awesome. And when you see these faces on Christmas morning, uh it still brings joy to your heart. Certainly does. Does it take you back? Yes it does. G give me a page out of out of your Christmas morning uh from years past. Well mom and dad always had oysters and while they were having breakfast kids, there were six of us. We were tearing presents open. It was it was fun every year. I'm from Garrett County and we always had snow. So you'd have to dream of it, it always came. Uh it was most of the time too much. Have a great Christmas. Thanks for stopping talking to me. This is gonna be broadcast by the way over Armed Forces Radio Network. Alright and I I was in the service. Well let me just say this thing to those who are uh on bases and ships around the world, what do you say to them during this time of year? A Merry Christmas and and God bless you. Have you had times when you were away on Christmas? Do you do you recall that maybe been time when you served? Oh yeah. What was that like? With the guys it was always fun and we always had a good Christmas. of us. We wanted to be whole, but we couldn't be. God bless the America. Thanks for serving my friend. Thank you. All right. Merry Christmas to you. Second time I've talked to you. Is that right? What was the first time? Um you gotta take me back. I'm having a great time just out on the parking. a lot talking to people. We were having coffee at a restaurant over um it was positive. Oh yeah. I see you on TV a lot. I I like you. God bless you. Thank you so much my friend. America. Merry Christmas to you. God bless you. Thank you so very much. All right. We're talking to people about the Spirit of Christmas. Some of those I'm familiar with, some of those I'm not familiar with, but about what does it mean to embrace the Spirit of Christmas? Christmas in everyday life, everyday living. I keep hearing about family and about tradition. That becomes so important. It's having people to connect one with another. That is the spirit of Christmas that you will hear as you walk along and talk to people uh knowing they're only hours before the actual day come, and even though we're on the East Coast, people are looking forward to sharing the good news of Jesus Christ. ask you about the spirit of Christmas. We just heard the horn blow, somebody's getting a little worked up. When you think about Christmas, what what comes to mind to you in terms of the spirit of Christmas? Um, people losing focus on what it's all about. Pharrell to me, they don't really embrace what Christmas is all about. 'Cause it's not really to me with the flamboyant things that was gold. Break it down to me. I'm just saying I just feel people lose focus with that. You're not teaching the kids the moral of what Christmas was about, how Jesus Christ was born, things that were done, how it was showered technically. And man has changed it so much. You can't do nothing but stick and down in front of a T V and let them see things. The old school way. Old school works. Old school. Because we didn't have all this technology what kids are asking for. You know, I'd rather have the kids that don't have anything and give to them. My kids, like I said, what do y'all want? We okay. Nothing. Where does it come from? That's that's what you put in there. Yeah, 'cause my mother's from the country, the old school. Down south, way, way, way down south. down south. Down Danville, South Boston, Virginia. Oh, you you you down south. Do you remember some of those things, Christmas? Do you always spend them here in Maryland? Did you go down there sometimes? Down there, 'cause we buried my mother there five years ago. We took her back home. around with her family 'cause Henrietta Lax is my cousin and we go all the way back and I'm only came back here with my eight 'cause I have eight kids. Only came back 'cause my older sister had a stroke and she wanted to be home. So I'm taking care of her Once a good Lord takes her, I'm going back south where it's peaceful. No time. You no nothing. You you're carrying on a tradition you mentioned about your family. How important is tradition on this topic? Oh gosh, right, right, right. And it's hard because I've been married for nineteen years and splitting with my husband and my kids has never not been with me on a holiday. It's always been me, my eight kids, sisters, every Sunday they come to my house. I'm like Big Mama. Oh Big Mm. The young the young Big Mama. 'Cause you're very young. Yeah, oh well, forty four. Shearing peace. Yeah, it is young, but they always come to me. What's on the dinner menu every Sunday? They always come to my house. All about family, isn't it? All about family. God bless you. I'm holding you up from doing some major stuff. And by the This is going to be airing uh on Armed Forces Radio Network. Okay. And it's so people on ships and bases around the world and veterans will hear just people talking about Christ and Christmas. Yes, yes. I really appreciate it. Thank you. Mm-hmm. God bless you. I'm talking to people about the spirit of Christmas and how important it is. Uh just what does it mean for you to be able to come out and to share? What what's what's the meaning of Christmas for you? Oh, it's for my kids. It's def it's not for me, it's for my baby. That's a nice bike too, by the way. Oh, thanks. That's not even our kid bike. That's his God sign bike. But it's great to be able to share and to give, isn't that what it's all about? Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Well, I wanna just say Merry Christmas to you. And have a great one. Enjoy. You too. May the Lord bless you. Real good. Yeah, we ate. All right. God bless you. We're taking time to talk to people. We're on uh the parking lot near a major shopping establishment. about the spirit of Christmas. How you doing today, ma'am? So you don't want to talk about it? Is that right? Now we have we not even met. Well I pray you have a great Christmas. Is that all right? It's not a camera, it's just your voice. Well you keep smiling, okay? God bless you. We're taking a moment to talk to people about the spirit of Christmas and what Christmas means for them. How you doing, brother? What does this time of year mean? mean for you. I really can't. I'm trying to listen to my radio and work. That's important. Give me a few words then. It's all right. It's all right. Well you do your job. Merry Christmas to you. Merry Christmas to you too. God bless you. People are everywhere. and they're sharing uh just the business of the season but also the meaning of what this all means and that is that Jesus is the reason for the season. So we're actually just taking time on this really is recording on Christmas Eve, but the Time is winding down and those of you who were celebrating Christmas Day uh all over the world, it's so important that you might embrace some of the things we've heard, family, tradition. We've heard those kind of things, and they become very important to people. who are celebrating Christmas. It's not just the date on the calendar, but it's much more than that. So we're finding people everywhere. That was a beautiful car. Thank you. Now I've got you here. Explain to me the meaning of Christmas, the spirit of Christmas. What do you think about that? Oh, you recording me? It's recording, but can nobody see here? All about all your voice. It's all about basically. It's all about Jesus. All about Jesus. Who's that? Can I catch her? She she ran and left you. And she's but you love her in Christ, don't you? Yes. Okay The spirit of Christmas, God bless you. Amen. We'll take an opportunity to walk around and to talk. Sure, how are you doing? I'm talking to people about the spirit of Christmas and what what oh that thing is moving in there. Tell me about the spirit of Christmas. What does that mean to you? Means Jesus was born. Wow, you think sometimes people have forgotten some of that or they lost track of it? That's it, yep. But I believe it. Amen. It's all by believing. Thank you, my brother. Alright, we're having a time talking to people on the parking lot of a major shopping establishment about Christmas. This doctor drama documentary is for Armed Forces Radio Network and people are going about their day As they celebrate this holy day. Not a holiday, holy day. When you hear the Christmas spirit, what does that mean to you? First thing come to mind is family. Family, that's the first thing. Uh that's been a time of year where I can I'm almost guaranteed that I'm gonna see all or most of my family. Um and secondly I was in the service so that was always a time that I put aside to make sure I would be there. So it has uh it's very important to me. It's my favorite time of the year. People seem to just act nice of it to be each other. Seem to uh be more c more considerate of each other. Um in between And and I think most of all at the end of it you gotta understand if we cele we're celebrating the birth of Christ. You know, you said something key and this broadcast airs all over the nation on All Force Radio New Network, right? All over the world. And so to those of y'all who are either retired or out there on the ships and the and the bases. What do you say to that? Um, what you're doing and what I always kept in my mind was we're keeping the ones that we love safe and the way of life that we are blessed with in the US. And that is the number one thing about serving special when you fall away. Just remember who's home that loves you and you love and that's why you're there. That sounds like Christmas period. That's that's what it is to me. God bless you, sir. Christmas spirit. What what does that mean to you? Oh, I got the Christmas spirit. What does that mean for you? Uh that means that you're in the spirit of getting. That means that um you know the Christmas the Christmas spirit means that you're into giving to others. It's not about you, it's about giving to others and you know, being charitable to everybody. So You know, this is gonna air over the radio documentary on Armed Forces Radio Network. Okay. And so I ran to the brother who was a veteran. Did you serve? I am. I I was in the Marine Corps myself. I served from two thousand one to two thousand five. Um down around So it means a lot to me, um it's a gift to everybody. I mean whoever you can, your family, friends and everything like that. What do you say to the the men and women who are who are gonna be hearing this all over the world, facing shifts? What do you say to them about this time of year? Oh man, this is all impromptu but uh Um I just all I can say is that um keep your head up. Um we back us back here in in in Baltimore, specifically Baltimore, Maryland, but everywhere in in the country, we all love you, we're all thinking about you. We want you to come home safe. And I know I've served already too, so I know how it is to be away from your um family. USMC stands for I had to say this you got me have to edit this. USMC stands for you suckers miss Christmas. So I I I understand that and I missed it a couple times too but um you guys are doing the right thing. Fight your power freedom here and uh back in the States and uh we're we greatly appreciate it. What was that like to be a way I mean you got pictures and you got but you you weren't there. What do you mean? Oh yeah yeah definitely you get we got pictures back when I served we really the the smartphones weren't really out yet. So you didn't you couldn't FaceTime and all that. Right. Um but uh, you know, being back at home you would call and they would say Merry Christmas Sometimes I was um not even in the States. I was in another country somewhere in Japan so you know Christmas weren't on the same day. You know, 'cause we it's a big it's a big lag. But um but they called and they said uh you Mary Christmas not the same but it's good to be home but um you know for the people that are serving abroad, you know, just when you come back we're all waiting for you, we love you and uh keep your head up. That's about it. It's about all those you know, our troops, you know, cross country and protecting our country and as well celebrating birth of Jesus Christ. And I think it's all about the children. Children. I mean they're So vulnerable, innocent, happy, joyful. And you remember those days of feeling. I'm fifty one years old and I'm I'm there still. Yeah, I'm talking about security. It is a feeling. that comes about us, doesn't it? You get one fuzzy feeling everywhere you go. People are happy, they're always smiling. It's just gosh, it it's great. Make you want to just package that for the whole year? Absolutely. Why can't we do that for three hundred and sixty five days? Oh yeah. Thank you, my friend. All right. I pray you've been blessed. I pray you've been reminded. I pray you've been encouraged about the meaning and the spirit of Christmas. Continue to listen to this network and of course to check us out. at Harvest Christian Ministries Weekly. Our web address is www. comthenumber2harvest. org. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. God bless you. And Merry Christmas.