Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. By this power in the name of Jesus, the Bible says that even the demons tremble. at that name. Father, we come today and we're standing on your name as we proclaim your word today. It is always our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase Save someone today. Encourage another. But when this time is done, we'll give your name all the praise. And all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. It's good to be able to know that you got a name to call. Anybody ever called that name uh uh in this week maybe you had to call it. Uh maybe this morning you called that name. Maybe somebody cut you off and you said in the name of Jesus, didn't you? There's a word from the Lord today we want to share with you that comes from the Gospel of Mark. And as we always say, Mark is one of the writers, John Mark, but the gospel simply mean good news. There in Mark 9, 38-41, it reads, Teacher said John, we saw someone driving out demons in your name. And we told him to stop because he was not one of us. Do not stop him, Jesus said. For no one who does a miracle in my name can in the next moment say anything bad about me. For whoever is not against us is for us. Verse 41 says, truly I tell you Anyone who gives you a cup of water in my name because you belong to the Messiah will certainly not lose their reward. I want to preach today from Samonic title, It's All In the Name. It's all in the name. Names are assigned to places and things, but most of all, names are assigned to people. I would dare say there's no one in here that does not have a name. You were given a name at birth Your parents were happy to have you. They had been talking about it ahead of time, and they named you who you are today on the birth certificate. And on top of that, they gave your weight and they gave your length, and that became a document to describe who you are. Aren't you glad that you've got a name today? That folk can't call you all other kinds of things out of your name, but you know your name. And that's important. Well, my name is Timothy. Lamar Tutin Sr. Now I added that senior on there because I shared it by name with another fellow whose last name is Tutin but Jr. Amen And you know, over time people give us nicknames. I don't need to know what yours is, uh, but people may call you something and you say, wait a minute, who is that? Uh some years ago I went back home and the fellows were calling me by my nickname which I won't tell you. My wife said, Who what they call you? They called me Baal. B-E-A-R. And I was like, alright. So I begin to call his name Boogie. You know, I mean, you y you know how it goes. And if I did you a background, folk would call you all kind of names that I don't even know about. You don't put those on Facebook, but there's something about the name of Jesus. You try to figure out why they called me bear. Never mind. But when it comes to the name of Jesus, it is the most important name that we can associate with. Would you agree today that there's something about his name? And so the Bible is filled with The name of Jesus. We know that God promised that he would send his only begotten Son, and He made it plain that He wouldn't be named anything but Jesus There was no debate about can we call him something else? Can it be Joseph Jr. ? No, no. His name will be called Jesus. And we really want to kind of pick up in a sort of a to-be-continued. In this ninth chapter of Mark, I just stayed with the story that some time ago we talked about Jesus going to the mountaintop For the Mount of Transfiguration, and there he spent time with Peter, John, and James. Took them to a high place because they were a part of the inner circle. And while they were on top of the mountain, he was transfigured. The Bible says his raiment became very light Really bright and they were excited to be in the presence of Jesus and Elijah and Moses were on the scene. And then they said, Lord, why can't we just build three tents and hang out here? Never find a place you want to just hang out, you know, in the moment. And God said to them, listen to my son. They came down. from the mountain, all fired up, and there was drama at the bottom of the mountain. Because the man was there who said that my son is demon possessed and your disciples down here could not heal him. And so Jesus kills the boy and then tells his disciples that some things come by by prayer. My God, that's worth repeating that you can work in your own power, but there is something about the power of prayer. And he gave them that lesson. Not long afterwards, they're on the road arguing about who is the greatest. And they're having a debate about who's going to get the big seat in the kingdom. And Jesus all the while is focused on trying to fulfill his mission and that mission is during this Linton season is to go and to give his life and to die, but to be raised on the third day morning. That's theology of 101. All you know is that God sent Jesus, who died for my sins, and he got up from the grave with all power in his hands, but they were focused on who was the greatest. He said, you know what? Get me a child and bring him here. Now here is a picture. Here's a show and tell of what greatness looks like. Talking to them. You would think, okay. But then today we find those same disciples with some other issues. They are concerned about uh who is using the name of Jesus. They they they want to know uh who is it that is casting out demons in the name of Jesus. And let me just say there that demons are real. Demons uh are real. When Satan was kicked out of heaven, he took with him those fallen angels. Demons, evil spirits, unclean spirits, lying spirits, and I may as well call it the way it is, there's always demonic activity And sometimes you're fighting people, and it's really warfare. Oh my God. The Bible says if you wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities. against spiritual wickedness in high places, but what put on the whole armor of God that you might be able to withstand the wiles of the devil, you mad, ready to fight, and it's really a spiritual warfare. And you gotta say in the name of Jesus, somebody made you mad this week and you plan to get them on Monday. Don't do it. Why? Because you were in some warfare. Because there's always demonic activity as believers. We can't be possessed. But there can be influence from demonic. And the goal is to destroy the plan of Jesus. But I tell you, I tell you, I tell you, I'm glad That we have the name. Aren't you glad today that we have the name of Jesus? And so three areas of focus today about the power in that name. And that Jesus gives permission to use his name, and it is a privilege to carry that name. And so we begin. There's power in the name. Teacher says John. Well meaning John. We saw someone driving out demons in your name. They had the audacity to say, Jesus. And we told them to stop it. Because what? They were not one of us. Uh-oh. Yeah. And Jesus, we we just told them. Y'all think y'all are. Y'all not part of the posse? How can you use that name? And and his reaction, Johns, was upset. He was mad because he said Whoever this person is is not a part of the clique. Uh-oh, I'm going somewhere today. Uh-huh. This person is not a disciple. They're not in our club. They're not a part of our clique. Can I tell you today that you don't own the name of Jesus? And neither do I. Now we think we do sometimes. I not none of y'all feel special. Like, you know, I'm gonna look I go to church every Sunday, so that way I've got, you know, I've got some credibility because I'm in church. Amen? And and and so we think that we have certain shares like a stock portfolio. And we got so many shares of Jesus and the man on the street does not. So you're saying that because he's not a part of the church or she did not go to Bible study that they can't use the name of Jesus? Oh no, no, no. See that's power in that name. And so they thought it was exclusive. And we told them you better stop it. And you said it not verbally, but you've told someone who do you think you are? My Bible's in my car. And my palm branches around my rearview mirror. But don't you know God can use anybody at any time? His name is full of power, and anybody can use that name And get you straight with the name and you will get upset because you don't think that they qualify. Uh let's admit it. We've looked down at other people. Oh yes we have. And I suddenly go to meetings. Wait a minute. Now you caught me at the store. Now you got uh I got a few scriptures up my I'm the pastor. I'm a Dick, I sing in the choir. And folk can still proclaim that name and get results. But the good thing is, is that the name was effective. Why? It was for a good thing. That demons were being cast out in his name. We think we got the copyright. On Jesus. We think that nobody can say it like we say it. My God, you better be careful. There are folk out there being proclaiming Jesus' name and working miracles, and you never know it. Because they have come to realize there is power in his name. John would get it later. John 14, 13, he says, and whatsoever you shall ask in my name, he records this. Jesus says, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified. If you ask anything, hold on, let's stop right there. Anything, anything. Anything in my name and I'll do it. Let me let that thing sink in for a second. You mean anything? Yeah You mean anything. You know my issue. You mean anything. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You mean that situation? Yeah, yeah, I mean you mean my trouble. Yeah, I mean that anything. I will do it because there's power in the name of Jesus. But there's also permission. He gives permission. Jesus responds, do not stop him For no one who does a miracle in my name can in the next moment say anything bad about me. For whoever is not against us is for us. Don't you love the word of God? That's what Jesus said. He gives consent. He gives authorization for someone to use his name. That's a good thing. That if they're doing something In my name, why are you so worried about it? I've already cleared them. You know what it means to be authorized. You don't put something in that account and you wait for something to happen And you've been cleared. Praise God. You've got an open uh possibility there. And so he gives them permission who are using his name In response to what the boys were saying. That that if they got my name, they can't really be against me. Yeah? I I wonder how how they took that Because in their minds, he was not with them. But Jesus said, chill out, and so many words, and and and Pastor Tud's words, that that you know He's not against us. So sound like to me that even though he's not a part of the disciple church He's still effective in doing things in the name of Jesus. Before you talk down that person who's not going to church, who's not in your fellowship, who's not in your work Bible study, you better watch it. Because they're working miracles all around you and you business saying, hmm. God through Christ has given them permission Jesus is endorsing all who claim to follow him. If they're not on the team, then they're outside. But it sounds to me like we ought to give them a jersey. It sounds to me like we ought to style him up. It sounds like a first-round draft choice. That person, he gives submission. We shouldn't hinder people. Just because their walk is not like I walk. Now I mean when you look back for a half a second, think of where God has brought you from. Uh-oh. Think about what He's brought you through. And there was a day you didn't come anywhere near talking about in the name of G it was in your name. It was in the name of Tim In the name of education, in the name of my job, in the name of your good looks, in the name of somebody you knew, in the name there was always somebody else. But once you got a hold of the name of Jesus, things begin to change. Be careful. 2 Chronicles 7. 14 says, if my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves. And seek my face and turn from the wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven. My people, aren't you glad you in the group? My people. I get excited when I see a cousin that I've never met. It happened some years ago in Lynchburg, Virginia. I understood that there was another tutent out there I say, man, I wonder if that guy's I said let me hit him. Tutin, uh uh do you have people in Florida? He Who is your daddy? Yeah. Well, I know him or knew him, and your granddaddy is my uncle. I I knew Cuddin Putin had a boy. So I texted him back and then I said, can I meet you? Yes At the holiday in in the lobby, cool. He walks in, I say he'll tootin. I could tell, I said, boy, if you don't look like your daddy. I could see his look. I say, you're too. And so We're God's people. And we gotta accept each other as children of God. Permission. Power, but then realize it's also a privilege. Verse 41 says, Truly I told you, anyone who gives you a cup of water Thank you, Pastor Zay. A cup of water In my name, because you belong to the Messiah, will not lose their reward. You mean A cup of water? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Because they've been granted a special right that if you're doing it in my name and if you belong to me, then there's a connection. And so I'm coming each Sunday, I'm privileged just to share the good news of Jesus Christ Excited, in fact, to be able to serve you as the pastor. But it's a privilege. It's a special right that God has given me. And if you come early, you'll see people picking up equipment. It's like a cup of water. They're doing things that are helping the body of Christ. Hang around and see brothers grabbing equipment, loading it up, picking up equipment, folks at the table trying to help you to come in. It's like a cup of water. And so as long as you are doing something in his name, it ought to be a privilege That if I can just help somebody, if I can just do one thing for the kingdom, I'm just privileged. I'm doing it in his name. I just held the door for somebody in his name. I just had a smile that I shared with somebody in his name. I just be able to do small things, but small things will get you great rewards in the kingdom. It's not about showboating. It's in now now last week I did this, this, and this and nobody helped me and I ought to get a an award. Just do it in the name of Jesus. Don't look for a pat on the back and don't look for I saw you on the on the tape. No, just do it. Anybody feel that way today I do That if I can just help somebody along the way, then my living will not be, and you won't even remember that you did it. But my God, my God, you got a reward coming because you have been faithful To just do it in his name. Matthew eighteen twenty says, For we're two or three or gathered in my name. I'll be in the midst. Now just give me a person or two. I don't need a big crowd. Get me a praying deacon and a singing sister. And we get together, we can have church right there. Give me a brother at the Dunkin' Donut rubbing show. We can have church right there at the door. The why? We're talking about Jesus. And somehow realized that there was that name. That we knew somebody. We have somebody in common in his name It's Jesus. Oh Lord, I'm getting excited. I'm getting excited. And so, and I think about closing this up. Acts 42 says there's no other name Under heaven, whereby we must be saved. No other name, no counterfeit name, no nickname, no special person. It's only At the name of Jesus, that you can have salvation that is available for you. Romans 10:13 says, for whoever shall call upon the name. Of the Lord shall be saved. It's all in the name, in the name, in the name, in the name. Philippians 2:10, that at the name of Jesus. Every knee shall bow, every tongue shall confess in things in earth and under the earth. Aren't you glad today that you carry that name? The world wants to destroy that name, but the world won't win. The world took that name and hung it on a cross, but the world did not secede. The world was sure that when he died on that cross, that that was the end of the name. But my God, aren't you glad that Three days later, that the name got up with all power in his hand, and Jesus is still sitting At the right hand of the Father. And he's making intercession for the. . You can call him up. In fact, it's a toll-free number Just call him up and tell him what you want. My God, those one will say Jesus is on the main line. Tell him what you want. And so he's right there, won't cost you a red cent to get. In fact, right now, it's permissible. Right now, I beg you to call him up. You don't need yourself, but I dare you to call on the name of Jesus Christ. I I dare you to dial up heaven. I I dare you to tell them what you're going through. I dare you to say, can I get through? I dare you to say, I need to talk to one who carries. The name of Jesus. Do it, do it, do it. Read even can't get through. You've tried everything, but it won't. You want to call on the name of Jesus. It makes all the difference. Back in the 70s, there was a popular commercial. And it was very simple. Advertising a credit card It says don't leave home without it. Man, I said when I grow up, I'm gonna get one of those cards. But you gotta be careful. You might want to leave that one home. Amen. But I want to say to you, don't live your life Without him. Don't live your life without the name of Jesus guiding you and supplying your needs and showing you the way in which you ought To walk. Take the Lord with you. Children, everywhere you go, flesh and mouth, in the streets, in your home. On the highways, on the byways, on your jobs, wherever you go, take the name of Jesus With you and he will help you in every situation. Can I just tell you how he's helped me? My God, when I was in a rough place, I called his name Well I didn't know what to do. I called his name. It wasn't a long prayer. I just said, Jesus, I need you to come and see about me. And even right now My God, I'll pause in traffic and just call his name. Anybody ever done that? I don't have much to say except Jesus. And didn't he turn the situation around? Didn't he make life better for you? Just Because you realize I can call on his name. There's no power in my name. And there's no power in your name, but there's wonder working power In the name of Jesus, my can I just let that name I'm trying to let it go, trying to let it go? I just want to say Jesus, Jesus, Jesus Jesus. The power in that name. He gives you permission to use that name. And my God, it's a privilege. To have that name and to use it. That is the word of God today. It's already there. Someone give God a phrase today as you stand all over this place. Mine. You mean it's it it's is that all it takes? See, I I've been trying other stuff. I've been reading other self-help books and I've been reading Change Your Life in 30 Days And somehow, all I had to do was say, Jesus, help me, Jesus. Guide me. And it makes all the difference. I challenge you today to speak That name. I I challenge you to share that name. Challenge you today. Just to say, you know what? Jesus. Let's speak that name to together. Jesus. Jesus. So you've deposited Jesus in a movie theater. So when folks sit down today for the Latin A There's some Jesus in the sea. There's some Jesus in the hallway because y'all have been spreading it. Y'all been depositing The name. Movie was different today. Something was different about that. It's Jesus. As you consider today, what he can do. He can do great things in our lives. And know that he's available right now. To save your soul. He'll do it. He did it for me He's done it for you. And you never test that name. You ever tried something out? You don't buy a new car without trying it, do you? Let me test drive it. Let me see if I like it. If you try his name, I guarantee you, you'll leave satisfied. Let's bow to the hell over this place. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. In the case of the text today, that name was used. To cast our demons. And that name can still be used today To deal with evil situations, evil people, evil predicaments. And so no matter who speaks it, as long as it's spoken, may we share it in the atmosphere and that we not be afraid to say it not not a higher power Not the big person upstairs, you know what I mean. But help us to boldly proclaim Jesus. Jesus, Jesus. As we come today. Your word says that God so loved the world that he sent Jesus to die for us. And the Bible says if you believe that Jesus came and that Jesus died, And that Jesus rose again, thou shalt be saved. You can believe that. In your person, He'll do it. Maybe you come today. And you've never boldly spoken that name. You've never invited him into your life. Today you can do it. Why? You know what name to use. You know to be your passcode to unlock God's blessings and God's favor and God's protection in your life So I pray today, God, if there's one who knows not you, they might receive you by way of Christ. We believe it today, God. In Jesus' name. In the name of Jesus. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired. Of course, by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comethnumber to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called Seeds of Encouragement. You can get them by way of iTunes from Podcasting. or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.