That God is. Not God was, God is. If you have your Bibles today, open them to the book of Deuteronomy, the first chapter of Deuteronomy That's in the Old Testament, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy. And there in the very first chapter of Deuteronomy. Let's begin at verse number six, and we'll read six, seven, and eight. Let's pray first of all. Heavenly Father, we come today and we thank you that you are Uh all in all, I pray even now that you might bless our time together. May I decrease and may you increase. May someone be saved today. May someone be encouraged today, but when the time is done, may you get the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. So Deuteronomy 1, 6 says the Lord our God said to us as Hurub You have stayed long enough at this mountain. Verse 7. Break camp and advance into the hill country of the Amorites. Go to all the neighboring peoples in Arabah in the mountains, in the western foothills, in the Negev, and along the coast of the land of the Canaanites and to Lebanon and as far as the great river the Euphrates. Verse number eight. See I've given you this land. Go in and take possession of the land the Lord swore he would give to your fathers, to Abraham. Isaac and Jacob and to their descendants after them. I want to preach today from the Samanic title, It's Time to Move On. It's time to move on. I have many memories in my journalism career. Among them was taking time to be assigned to the White House. Here and there. And I recall uh moving to Washington DC from Florida, uh just a country boy, and they sent me to the White House First of all, I had to understand and learn how do you get a cab. Don't y'all laugh at me. No, y'all not all city slickers And I went to the White House, and of course, to get into the White House, there's a lot of security. They've already checked you out. They know that you're coming. And they run a background check on you. But once you arrive at the gate, there's another process. They will scan you. They will search your pockets. They will ask you more questions and then they'll send someone to escort you to the right place. Amen? Not many years ago I was able to go to the White House uh because of an event uh that was taking place there and there was a local connection uh from baltimore And as I went to the ceremony, of course, when you're in the White House, you don't move. Wherever you assign, you stay there. And as the event ended, This educator was starting to head out on the White House grounds and I wanted to get his attention. My goal was to interview him outside the gates You know, while I was in Washington, you know they get the whole background that we're in DC, we're at the White House, and I couldn't really get his attention. And so I looked at him, I gave him my eye movement like And the Secret Service looked at me and said in one motion, you need to move on I was bold that day. God bless me. As we further moved, I said in a whisper, can I talk with you, meaning this educator from Baltimore? By this time, the Secret Service agent had had enough. He gave me a stern look and said to me in so many words, it's time to move on. that is off the grounds, out the gate, back into your car, back to wherever you came from. Now, as it turned out, we got the interview with that Baltimore educator back in Baltimore. So much for the trip, but there are times in our spiritual life when we have to be prepared to move on. Such is the case for the people of Israel. There they were in Egypt as slaves. God sends Moses to bring them out of slavery They come to a point in their journey. Pharaoh and his army are charging after them, and God opens the Red Sea. and the people able to walk through on dry land. And God provides for them there in the wilderness, food and light and shelter, gives them victory over their enemies as well. He had talked to them about this promised land. It always amazed me when I hear this because the Bible speaks in words. A land that flows in milk and honey. What a witness this promised land But using Heaven's GPS, it should have taken them 11 days to get to the Promised Land. Instead, it took them forty years. Can you imagine Moses preaching every Sunday, every day, the same sermon entitled It's time to move on. What a word today. The people had worn out their welcome They have gotten comfortable where they were. That is at the mount of God. And so we become a bit comfortable in some places in the Lord. We've chosen to stay at the same place for too long. And sometimes I believe that God has to move us. in order to mold us. He wants to put distance between, first of all, the places and the people, and he wants to move us toward Our promises. Let's talk about places. The Lord said to us at Harub, he says, You have stayed long enough. At this mountain. This was an important mountain. This was also called Mount Sinai Moses had gone up to spend time with God. And when he came down, he was not the same person. There's nothing to be said about spending time in the presence of God It's where he got the Ten Commandments. It's where the people of Israel were able to do a contract or covenant with God. But somehow we have stayed too long in our harbs. We each have one. That place that's become familiar. That place that has become comfortable. And if we're not careful, we'll stay in the wrong place Too long. We'll begin to set up shop at a place that God never intended for us to stay forever. Amen? And that was the case. They had become physically, emotionally, and spiritually attached to Harab. They they'd been there so long, it looked good on them. Now think about where you are today physically, emotionally, spiritually. Are you in that place too long? Have you cemented your life in that place? You know, there was on an occasion when Jesus was with his disciples, Peter, John, and James, and they went out. to the Mount of Transfiguration, Matthew 17, 4. They went up to the mountain and some great things happened there. He was transfigured. Clothing became white, his face shone, and Peter got excited about that. Matthew 17, he says to Jesus, Lord, It is great for us to be here. Needless to say, he did not want to move on. Lord, it's good if you wish. Look at Peter. I can build some tents or shelters right here. One for me, one for you, one for Moses, one for Elijah, and he start carrying on And the word is that you can't get too attached to a place and get excited about a place because the Lord God, I believe, wants to move you. Am I talking to somebody today? to move you from the place where you are. It's time. It's beyond time. It's past due time for you to move on. But not just the places, also the people. And there in the seventh verse, Moses says to the people, by way of God's command, break camp, pack up your tent, advance into the hill country of the Amorites. Go to the neighboring peoples in the Araba, in the mountains, he describes it very clearly, in the western foothills, in the Negev, and along the coast to the land of the Canaanites and to Lebanon and to the great river the Euphrates. So there is a place That God has planted them. He says, I want you to go from this mountain and look at all the places I want to send you Look at all the places. Some of you who love to travel or see the brochures and Lord look at this. This brochure said this is some place. But you got to get on the plane And you got to go to where God is sending you. Now look at this text. I'm saying now, he is saying to them, you've been with the same people too long. And so as I move you, all the land belongs to me, why don't you go over here? And why don't you and your family go over here And why don't you go over there? And you might meet new people. Amen. I recall moving to this area. I had met new people I never had left the state very much. I was in new locations and moving into new communities. And so many of you, you knew. I didn't grow up with you all, but you are my family now. This is important. Sometimes God will move you away from people. Sometimes He will move you away from people. Let me say it again. Sometimes God will move you away from people so that you're able to grow. Well uh you know my folks will always tell me mind the crowd you hang with. In other words, you are identified by the people that you associate with, and so often It can stunt your growth, or you can stunt theirs. But you've got to move on from people. He's saying to them, all of this belongs to me, but I don't want you to get too comfortable staying here. Move out. Get out. Pack up. Leave the people that you've become too familiar with. I love what David says in Psalm 24 and 1. He says, the earth is the Lord's. He already owns it, and the fullness thereof, and those that dwell therein, that would be you and me In other words, it's all about what God wants to do in your life. Don't worry about people. Amen. You spend Late nights thinking about people, what they think, and how uh they're gonna judge you, etc. You ought to know that you've got some self-concept. There's my little one class in psychology Feeling good about yourself. Amen. Praise be to God. And so for you to move on, you've got to be able to move on from people and through places, but then also to move toward God's promises. Verse number 8, see. I could just stop right there. I have given you this land. I've given you this land. Go and take possession of the land. The Lord swore he would give to your fathers. Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and to their descendants. There's already a contract. There's a deed. God is always about keeping his promises to us. We break promises all the time, but God will keep his promise. He says Moses tells the people to see, open their eyes and to see what I've already done. You ever been someplace and realize that, you know I've been here too long, and I realize that God already has something better for me, but it's on me. I can't blame anybody else. I can't point the fingers. I've got to listen to the voice of God to know without a shadow of a doubt it is time to move on. and to move toward the promises of God. He never breaks a promise. But let's face it, sometimes we get spiritual amnesia. Isaiah talks about that in a real way, 40 and 28 Has thou not known? Question mark. Has thou not heard that the everlasting God, the Lord, the Creator that he fainteth not, neither is he weary. We have forgotten, yes you have, let me jog your holy memory, that God has prepared something for you. His promise does not change. He does not go back. on his word. And so the challenge today for us is to move on. This is not uh your final destination. It's just a rest stop. I remember driving across the country and man if you were tired behind the wheel, you couldn't wait to see rest stop. 30 miles away. Oh, blessed be the God. You all behind the wheel say, Lord, I need a rest stop. And some states have more than others. But there comes a time in life when you got to focus And maybe you've lost your focus. Psalm 121 says, I lift up my eyes to the hills from which cometh my help. All of my help cometh from the Lord which made heaven and earth. He would not suffer thy foot to be moved. He that keepeth thee will not slumber. He that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep. Why the Lord is thy keeper. And the Lord is thy shade upon thy right hand, and the sun shall not smite thee by day, nor the moon By night. I love this. The Lord shall preserve you from all evil. He shall preserve your going out. Are you moving And you're coming in. You're going out. You're moving. And you're coming in from this time forth and even forevermore. Jesus knew what it meant to move on. Oh yes he did. There were people who hated him. He moved on from hateful people Why he says in the text, he says, you know what, the world hated me, so don't be surprised if the world can't get you. He moved from faithless places, even his own hometown of Nazareth. He says, you know what, there's no faith in this place. I can do no great miracle here. And he moved toward the cross. And that's the good news today. He moved toward Calvary. And there he went on that cross and gave His life for you and for me. Amen. And then he moved on to glory. The Bible says he sat at the right hand of the Father, making intercession for the saints. In other words, you need a ticket to glory land. One day we too will have to move on. The old song says you gotta move. When the Lord gets ready, you've got to move. You may be high, you may be low, you may be rich, you may be poor, but when the Lord gets ready, you've got to move. You have a new address. He says, I go to prepare a place for you that where I am, you'll be also in my father's house. There are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I'm thinking about the Jeffersons right now. Moving on up to the east side to a deluxe apartment in the sky. It doesn't matter whether I've got a one room. Yeah. It doesn't matter about a two-bed room. All I know is that he's gone to prepare a place for me, and I've got a moving date, and so do you. So don't spend your time caught up With the wrong people, staying in the wrong place, but no, it's time. It's time to move on. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed Let's take a moment even now. Maybe you are stuck. Maybe you find yourself in a place saying, Pastor, I'm trying to move, but there's so many things. Holding me back. I stopped by today with some good news for you. Follow God's direction today. I don't know where you are Spiritually and physically and emotionally. But I can tell you this: it's time to move on. The mountain has been a great place. Great things have happened where you are. But does it take 40 years for you to move? Does it take that long for us to get it? Well, I can testify today Sometimes God has to push me and to boot me and say, you know what? I told you, it's time to move. Today, as we bow, Father, we come in the name of Jesus. There may be one today with a desire to move. But has not heard your voice. We thank you for Jesus, the Christ. The Bible says, thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus. And believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, the Bible says, that shall be saved. Move today. Move by your spirit, Lord, for that soul. In Jesus' name. Amen.