Again, we thank God for you and for the day that I pray you're having. And even though we can't see you physically, we are the church. We are the body of Christ. And I just so love you in the world. Let's take a moment just to pray. Father, we come in the name of Jesus and we thank you for this day. God, no matter what our week has been like, you have been faithful even through our challenges, our trials, and our tribulations. I pray even now that you might bless our time together in Jesus' name. Amen Well, God bless you. I want to let you know that I'm certainly uh happy to see you, to communicate with you, and uh you may not be a part of the Gathered harvest ministry, but I just claim all of you as families. No matter where you're tuning in from, welcome, welcome, welcome. This is the Grace and Mercy Broadcast. I may as well go ahead and just name it. Amen During the course of our setting today, we will do something that we've probably not done before. We'll have an opportunity to uh have our palms and uh we'll be able to wave them uh the members of Harvest this week who were able to get palms into their hands for their family so at the end of the broadcast we'll do that. Maybe you don't have a palm uh at your home, but my God you got a hand You may just wave your hand and shout Hosanna. And then of course near the end of our broadcast as well, we'll be doing Holy Communion. You may say then how is that possible? Well God has made it possible to have these packets Some of you have them. Our leaders have their communion kits. They're going to serve their families. And certainly because this is symbolic. of what happened to our Lord and Savior, what is being remembered, you may have products in your home that you can join in with us as well at the end. Well I've said plenty. There's a word from the Lord this morning, and I'll, of course, repeat all of what I just repeated a minute ago, comes from the Gospel of Mark. That is Mark the 11th chapter. If you I don't have your Bible nearby, uh go ahead and get it. Mark 11, 8 through 10. I kind of have the Bible and I have the uh the tablet as well. So I've got both. I may as well tell you the tablet is a bigger print for me It helps me out. Amen? Mark 11, verses 8 through 10. Mark 11, 8 through 10. It reads, Many people spread their cloaks on the road. while others spread branches they had cut in the fields. Those who went ahead and those who followed shouted, Hosanna. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Blessed is the coming kingdom of our Father David, Hosanna in the highest. I want to preach today from the Samanic title, Keep Your Distance. Keep Your Distance. Much like you, I'm a people person. I love to shake hands. Uh I love to hug people, I love to uh connect with them in some kind of way. Uh maybe it's a part of my southern upbringing. You don't meet a person unless you extend your hand. Of course We can't do that in this present season. I go with the experts, and I'm sure you do as well, who are telling us that we need a certain distance. uh from persons that we may not know, may not encounter, uh, to keep a distance. And that's so important. And I believe in what the government has laid out there that I believe it will save lives There's nothing to prove that it does not. So we're living in a social distance world at the moment. But can you imagine uh through your spiritual lenses, what that would have looked like on this day that we celebrate the triumph for entry or Palm Sunday, which so many people gathered to see Jesus and think if they had a rule that said social distancing. That would be certainly amazing. Why? Jesus not was, Jesus is the kind of person Who likes to get close to people? Aren't you glad to get close to you one day? He really does. He would touch those who were blind. He would touch those who were lepers. He would touch those who were deaf. And the woman with the issue of blood would tell you that she touched the hem of his garment and she was made whole. He was and is a relational savior. And that's so important. But if we look at the Gospel of Mark today, it is one of the Gospels that certainly tell this story of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ and his coming into Jerusalem. You know, this begins a challenging week for our Savior. I mean, you may have had a rough week. You say, Reverend, if you knew the week I have. Or if you've known what I've been through, or you may not know the day I'm having. Well, let me tell you that Jesus had a rough week coming ahead of him because he was taking us that much closer to fulfilling his mission. He said it over and over again that I'll be betrayed, that I'll go to the cross and I'll uh be die and I will arise again on the third day with all power in his hand. So He is heading into Jerusalem. He is coming not by way of a rental car company. He didn't get the 999 a day. He comes not by way of a ride share. But he comes on a colt, riding on the back of a colt, one that had never been ridden before, as he heads into the city. And scholars say that there were a lot of people there. This was great fanfare of people that heard that Jesus was coming to town. They knew the route. They were prepared to see him. And this was a route that was really laid out for those who had been in the war. conquered uh victory. They would come in and so many people want to celebrate those who had overcome. And scholars say there were more than two million people that day. waiting to celebrate the Passover. That is what God had done and what He had demonstrated in the life of the Hebrew people by passing over their homes. But you know the Bible says that there were a lot of people that day, the crowd. And the size was so large, the text says that there were many people. Many people. There was no no senses, no head count, but they were there. But can you imagine? There was no way for them to keep social distance They were close together. But I believe there has to be some spiritual distance. Uh one that cannot be measured spiritual distance because as believers in Jesus Christ we're always trying to draw closer to God. But you know it's not so much how close they were It wasn't about where they stood, but what kept coming to me in this season is their shout. So it wasn't just the fact that they uh, you know, I don't know when did they shout. What they shouted and why they shouted. Those were things that just stood out to me. Those who went ahead and those who followed. They they saw him, and at the point that they saw Jesus coming, they got excited And started shouting. You say, well, I can't relate to that. What do you what do you mean? Let me put it to you in modern terms. You may have gone to a concert or two I don't mean a gospel concert. Yes, you've been saying praise the Lord. But we've gone to other concerts. Are you with me this morning? And I'm not going to call it artist, but you showed up and you were shouting Because your artist was coming on stage. That band was coming. You had just heard the CD or heard the tune on the way to the concert. And you shouted. And when they left the stage, you also shouted because you wanted an encore. They've not played my song yet. But what I'm saying to you is that they had a reason to shout. They had been following Jesus. But you know, we have reason to shout as well. When God has shown up in your experience. This week, there was a moment you had to pull away and say, you know what? I just need to shout unto the Lord. Maybe uh it was a situation where God had uh developed a breakthrough in your experience. You say, you know what? I just need to pause right now with what I'm doing and just shop. Maybe this morning you got up and uh You have some doubt about you know what all this means, and you would love to be in your home church and waving your palm and and wearing your nine-piece suit and wearing your hat, but you can't do that Technically, so that does not keep you from shouting. And they shouted because they saw him They shouted because they found themselves in a place. Some had come and they had laid out their palms. They had laid out their cloaks. They wanted to see Jesus. Psalm 98 and 4 says, to shout joyfully to the Lord, all the earth, break forth And sing for joy and praise. And so let me just say that. Maybe you just say, Reb, I need a moment right now just to shout unto the Lord to thank him for where he's brought me, to thank him for how he's kept me. It wasn't so much what What's happening in terms of the distance, but they used their voices. They uttered unto the Lord. something that they knew would get his attention. Okay, so so what did they shout? You know, shouting to be shouting is one thing, but they shouted Hosanna Hosanna. Because they knew there was a need to be saved. And they knew that he could save. And did you know that Jesus is in the saving business? His business is not closed. It is essential. And anytime you want to call on his name, all you have to do is call him by his name. I come to you in the name. He never closes. The Bible says that God the Father never sleeps nor slumpers. But they shouted, save me. And when I thought about that, I thought about the day that I gave my life to Jesus Christ as a mere six-year-old boy there at the Springfield Baptist Church in live. I got saved on that day. I got converted, and the Lord has been moving me ever since. But for me, it may not have been Hosanna, but I did say, Lord, I want you to cleanse me from all of my sins. And get this, they have been following Jesus. People who were there had gotten the word on the tip line that Jesus is going to be in my community. He's coming by. And they knew that he had made other invitations before. This isn't the first time. He says, come unto me, Matthew 11, 28. All you who labor and are heavy laden and I will give you rest. You know, he is still giving rest. Let's face it. There's so many things that are uncertain these days. I was out last night driving around. I do that sometimes, and there was nobody out. I mean it's Saturday night, but the world was on pause. And I believe that God is yet speaking. But you know, he can bless you from a distance. Let's take those ten lepers. Jesus came by in Luke 17 and 12 and they shouted, Jesus, have mercy on me. There was no six-foot rule. It was because they were unclean, they had to keep distance, but it did not stop their shout. And no matter what is facing you today, let nothing Put distance between you and your shout. What they shouted and when they shouted, but then why did they they shout? Amen. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosetta, the letter part of verse 9 and then verse 10. Blessed is the coming kingdom of our Father David Hosanna in the highest. That's another level of saving. They knew who who sent Jesus. They were waiting for the promised Messiah. Blessed is the coming kingdom of our Father Hosanna in the highs. And we can shout because he's brought us through this crisis. We can shout because he's keeping us. But let me just put some tension in the text. They were shouting because they were expecting an earthly king. They were shouting because they said, oh, he's going to come here and set up his kingdom. And you got to be careful. Some of the same people who shout for you may not be shouting with you. And the Bible talks about some of the same people who kept their distance, some of the same ones who shouted, were also saying, crucify him. The world meant this for evil. Well, yes, he was crucified. Can I just fast forward to Easter? Yes, he died on an old rugged cross, but he got up with all power in his hand. Every day ought to be Easter. Every day ought to be a day of Lord. I'm glad that you went to that cross. And while other folk had different intentions, you knew what was going to happen. I may have kept my distance from mankind, but nothing ought to be able to muzzle your shout. There was some shouting people. Can you imagine the applause that was going forth on that day at the triumph for entry on Palm Sunday And I think about this passage because I love this particular verse. Psalm 100. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands. Serve the Lord with gladness. Come before his presence with singing. Know ye that the Lord, he is God. It is he who hath made us, and not we ourselves. We're his people, and the sheep of his pasture. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, into his courts with praise, be thankful unto him and bless his name for the Lord. is good. His mercy is everlasting. His truth endureth to all generations. Do I have a shout this morning? Do I have a shout? If you've got a shout today, give me a thumbs up, hit a sign, hit a heart, because there ought to be something bubbling up in your heart. It's not about your condition, but it's what God has brought you through. He is never too far. Distance is not an issue for the master. And maybe today, maybe today you feel far away from the Savior. Maybe today you feel like he's just too far away from you Maybe today you've come through anxiety and depression because you're confined to your home for the most part. I come to tell you today he can come right through the wall. into your experience, into your heart today. There are no rules. He relaxes the rules when it comes to keeping your distance. And today I just want to encourage you. Thank God for this narrative in the Gospels. But I like to put myself in there. Yeah, maybe I was in that two million. Can can you can you see me with my palm waving it? But more so, I know. who it is that causes me to shout. I know why I shout. So for a moment now, I want to help to close the gap. Maybe you are watching this broadcast and you've never really been a church person. You have enough Sunday school in you to say, you know what, it don't take all of that. But during these times, maybe you've re-examined your faith. Maybe you realize now that you can't do anything without the Lord. I want to pray for you today. Let us bow. Heavenly Father, as we come today, we sense your presence today. Your word says we ought to draw near to you. I pray today, God, for that person who feels like there's just too much social and spiritual distance that they may sense your presence today. The Bible says that if you shall confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. And there it is again, Hosanna. Save me. Today, God, do it. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. What a text. And the challenge for the clergy is always to find something that stands out in a familiar text. I've said to my friends, ought to be a few days a week you know what you're preaching and what text you're using, and one of them is Palm Sunday. Well, God bless you. I want to take a moment even now at the beginning of the broadcast, I want to kind of invite you in to my home. And while uh there's no communion table set up, uh here in the house and uh yes I've got a branch. You may or may not have a branch. If you got your branch, go get it. If you've got your hand prepared to wave Do that as well. But we'll take an opportunity to talk about Hosanna and then we'll go and we'll uh do the Lord's Supper. And I know there's been some debate Whether or not that's possible. Reverend, you on Facebook, you online, how can you give me communion? I've gone to people's houses all the time as a deacon. and took my kit with me and served them. And so me and my family will be administering communion today. They'll lead us from Harvest. I ask that you might gather your families even now. And if you're there, you say, Reverend, I don't have a kit, I don't have anything with me. It is symbolic. Maybe there's a beverage in the house, and maybe there's bread. Take it. And it's really all about you and the Lord. I'm not here to judge you to say, wait a minute, now you can't do that. That's not the case. So I got some poems. Right here. And they're wide. But you know, uh I grew up in Florida, so I I know about palm trees to a degree. But we have these and some of you have already made them to go in your car. But let's take a moment and just to wave our palms. Hosanna, and we know the song Blessed be the Rock of Our Salvation. And there's something about the movement. There's no power in the palm. But it is a reminder of what happened on that day. The Bible says they went out and cut them and threw some of them on the ground. They were able to wave others. And so today, if you don't have a palm, that's all right. But do you have a praise? And do you have a shout? Just wave your hands in the name of Jesus. Amen. Well, take a moment even now. We're going to uh take this time to uh use uh to uh take holy communion and The Bible says that on the night that our Lord and Savior was betrayed, that he gathered his disciples together. And they sat around and the word of God says that he sat with them. It says that he Reminded them of what was going to happen. The Bible says that he took bread. He took the bread and during this time of communion. And the Bible says that he broke the bread. And gave it to his disciples and said, Take, eat, this is my body which is built in for you And then he took the cup. This is my blood which is shed for many for the remission of sins. Drink ye all of it. Amen. It is to remember. The word says, do this in remembrance. Of me. We've done that today. I pray that you've been blessed today. I pray that you've been encouraged today. I want to remind you that you can certainly be a blessing, both as a part of Harvest in terms of giving. online. You will find everything you need on our website. You may be old school, remember in the mailbox. How the Lord leads you, continue to be a blessing into your ministry and this ministry if the Lord so leads you. And you'll be able to watch this over and over and over again and share it during the course of the day. I'm just excited that God has brought these tools to us that we could use to the glory of God. Also, this coming Friday, it is Good Friday, and so at noon we'll be set up and prepared to uh talk about the seven last words and so we'll be live here as well uh and there'll be minute services going on to us and at high noon on this Friday. And of course, next Sunday is Resurrection Sunday. To God be the glory. Easter is coming. I remember getting a new Easter suit every year. Man, I would enjoy that. Got a fresh haircut and an Easter suit to the or some of y'all got your hair dead on that day. And it looked real well. Man, this time you may not be able to do that, but just know that the joy of the Lord is in you. Amen. I want to thank you certainly for joining us today And uh one day I'm gonna get credits because I want to thank uh the team, uh the production team, my wife, my daughter, my son, who make this happen for us each and every week. And I pray that you are blessed. Amen. God is good. He's worthy to be praised. From the rising of the sun to the going down of the same. The name of the Lord is worthy. Let's close with a word of prayer. I almost don't want to let you go, but I've not got to let you go. Father, we thank you. For this time we've had together. Father, I thank you for your word that it might resonate in our spirits. We might rise up and say, you know what? I refuse to sit around today. I refuse to be down. I want to just give him praise. I want to shout. I got to know that there's no distance when it comes to me and my Savior. We ask it all in Jesus' name. God bless you. Beloved, have a fantastic day. We look forward to seeing you real soon. Amen. Amen. Praise God. Have a great day in the Lord.