Paul's Loves of the Church at Rome twelfth chapter in the twelfth verse. If it sounds familiar, it is because for the last couple of weeks we have been preaching from this one passage. Just let you know that there is so much to the Word of God that one passage can keep you filled up For a good time. And here's the word of God. It says to be joyful in hope. Patient in affliction. Faithful in prayer. Romans twelve and twelve. Be joyful in hope Patient in affliction, faithful in prayer. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, Keys to a Productive Life, Part 3. Keys to a Productive Life, Part 3. As we recap, from the last couple of weeks, we have certainly been following Paul the Apostle. One of the great theologian, writers, church founders of our time. In fact, the better part of the New Testament, those twenty-seven books, are written by Paul. Paul had quite the testimony. He was a rascal at one point, chasing down Christians and uh making sure that they got the name out there so they could be punished, and then he met the Lord one day On the Damascus road and life changed. Have you met the Lord in a place that he changed your life? Uh, changed your direction, changed your path? And so he writes oftentimes from prison just to encourage those on the outside about the goodness of the Lord. This letter to the church at Rome was to encourage them. It was to let them know that they could make it. And so he writes just in this one verse, he says, I ask that you might be joyful in hope, patient in affliction. We talked last time. That affliction, a tribulation, is something that nobody signs up for. Nobody volunteers for hard times. Nobody says, why not me? Am I next? for the trouble that may come your way, but you know trouble does not last always. That in the midst of what you're going through somehow you can remain calm. Folks say now how in the world did you get through that? I just leaned on the Lord. Amen. Anybody ever been through something? And as you look back over your life now and say, Lord, had it not been for you, I would not be where I am today. It's because I had to endure some hard times. I had to endure some backbiting. Had to endure some jealousy, but yet I stand on the foundation of the Lord Jesus Christ. And then we talk about joyful hope. The hope was in short supply because the early church faced persecution. They couldn't come on a parking lot, let's have church. They would have been arrested. Uh some folk out here in law enforcement. They'd have been locked up. Uh if they did not have the freedom To bless the Lord. Amen? The freedom to say, you know what? I can let folk know how I believe and what I believe and feel real good about it. And so we move today to wrap up this series to talk really about the challenge of being faithful in prayer. Faithful in prayer. Right now I can smell uh the rest of us back behind up. But don't y'all smell breakfast? Yeah. Right right on the other side of the woods there's a restaurant there. I don't want to advertise them, but man, I smell bacon. Uh I smell potatoes and grits. And uh but thank God for this Spiritual food. You know, prayer is another key to that productive Christian life. Matthew 16, 19, when Jesus he is uh encouraging Peter He says, on this rock I build my church and the gates of hell should not prevail against it. And then he says, I give to you the keys to the kingdom of heaven. that what you bind on earth will be bound in heaven and what you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven. That for prayer to be used effectively, I believe, there must be a purpose. And there must be a place. There has to be a pattern of prayer. What is the purpose of prayer? Why do I need to pray? Things are fine the way they are. I got a nice job and got a nice ride and you know, got friends and plenty of money in the bank and everything's okay, so I don't feel the need to to pray. Pra pray for what? And some people feel that way. They don't see the need to pray. And to pray is to acknowledge God and who He is. To pray is to praise God. And to thank him. Let me just pause for a moment. Didn't you learn coming up to say thank you? Thank you has gotten lost. Now just say bye You know, I mean the courtesy of saying thank you for all the things that God has done for you, all the things he continues to do for you. And to express our love for him. After all, God so loved the world that he said, what? His only begotten Son to die for us. But to pray is also to come into the presence of the Lord. Ever got lost in your prayer? You came with the list that was Nine pages long, and once you got into prayer, the Spirit of God began to work in you. Some of y'all smiling. And the prayer went over there. You and Sister Susie wouldn't get along, but the Holy Spirit said you ought to pray for her. Don't get ready to fight. But pray. Amen. And so we come to be in the presence of the Lord. We're not telling him anything that he does not know. Like surprise. I'm going through. He says, I know. But I I want to sleep with you. I want to spend time with you. And we pray to ask for wisdom. We all have decisions to make and when our little admiration run out and our good you know our gut feeling run out, what are we going to do as it relates to Lord, what do you think about this? Not what everybody else thinks, but what do you think about a decision I'm trying to make? He said, well, it's a big decision. All decisions are big. Amen. And there are times and moments of tragedy And moments of trouble, and moments of disappointment, and moments of fear that we just pray on the spot. Ever since it said, oh Lord, thank you. Or oh Lord, I need you right this moment. I don't have the opportunity to say let me get myself together, get my prayer candle. No, you just say Lord. I need thee right now. Anybody ever been in that situation where you have to just say, you know what? I don't really have the time to do a long prayer, and not that anybody is having me on the clock. But just even to say, Lord, thank you. Or Lord, I need you for bringing me through this situation, it is important to be faithful in prayer. Paul writes to the church at Thessalonica, he says, pray without ceasing. In other words, every chance you get, just pray. And let's do a little health exercise. I know you're there, and I'm here. Uh but but you know I can feel your prayers. Old Brother was saying, Lord help the preacher. I mean, as you pray As we pray, the Lord will give us what we need in this time of exchange. I don't have to hear you praying for me, but I can feel your prayers. Amen Oh let me say that again. I I can feel your prayers. I don't know who you are. I don't know when you pray, but I can feel the prayers of the righteous and the Bible says they'll be over. Thank you I just felt that prayer. You sent my way. Blessed be to God. And we come today with this mindset. Matthew 11, 28. Jesus says, come. Unto me, all you who are labor and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. He won't pull you into prayer. He won't force you into prayer, but prayer is something that you gotta want to do. Let me back that up for a minute. He won't call you as you but come on and pray. He won't push or kick you to pray, but life will force you to your knees. Amen. Things will say, you know what? I don't try anything else. I might well just pray. Whereas prayer ought to be the first thing that we think of. Sometimes it's the last thing. You've tried the five-step plan. You've tried the formula. You've tried the me in five years and look at you now. But when you begin to lift up to the Lord, say, Father, I need you. Father, I stretch my hands to thee. No other help I know. Well, something happen. Oh, come on now. Uh something will happen. When you pray and when God answers, you say, wait a minute. And sometimes we forget. So he asked that already. Having this purpose. The why of prayer. But what about the place of prayer? Where? The location? Your spot Uh, it could be home. It could be behind the wheel of your car. Some of y'all car prayers and think you folk make you crazy. You got you at the light and you just pray. What what's wrong with her? I got tenant women, so somebody don't know. Be in the heaven church. And praying like I know, but that's okay. You can pray in your car. There's nothing that says you can't pray in your car. At your desk. Amen? In church. But the assignment is the same. Where is the place for you? The story is told of some early African converts. Who were on fire for the Lord. And they would go out into the thicket. Let's just say something like this behind us. And they find their path and be in their place. And that's what they did. And along the way, life gets busy, and you get a you get off of your prayer schedule, and somebody in the blue says, wait a minute You've not been praying. How do you know? Because the grass has grown up in the path that you normally walk to head to prayer. Don't let the grass Come around your prayer life. Don't let anybody or anything stop you from lifting up your voice to a mighty God. Find your place. Matthew 6 and 6, Jesus said. But when thou prayest, enter into that closet, and when thou hast shut the door, pray to the Father which is in secret. And he'll see, will reward you openly. Amen. He practiced this. Mark 135. The Bible says Jesus got up early in the morning before dark. And went to a solitary place to pray. Everybody don't have to know you're a praise spot. Amen? It's not their business. She been in the bathroom awful long time. I wonder what's wrong. None of your business. She been gone for a while. I wonder what they've been doing. None of your business. There's somebody in this congregation I see oftentimes out running and I he just praises the Lord. No, he waving at you. He's running and praising. And so wherever you find your spot, just lift up a word unto the Lord. It was a secret place. and a quiet place that it is the place where you meet God, wherever that place is, to meet him there. Amen. This sense of having a place to pray. You can pray wherever you are. This closet thing is real. You know, come on to my room that you know you might bless some stuff out. It's I know I won't be bothered in this place, but I want to pray to be faithful in prayer. To be constant in prayer, to be persistent in prayer, a place, the purpose, and then a pattern. It is something that we do over and over again. Your prayer is not like my prayer. Some folk have a warm-up prayer. My warm-up prayer is the Lord's prayer. But then I'll go on from there. Or I may have an opportunity, Lord say, no, I need you to start this way. But however you all work it out, just pray. Amen. The disciples were concerned. We want to pre-elect John's disciples. Well let me let me help you out then. Matthew 6 and 9 says, when you pray, say our Father Which are in heaven, how will be thy name. And check this out. Prayer is two-way communication. Always keep the lines open. Clear your mind and your heart so that you might have the right connection with heaven. It's not always about what we say Now let me just say I'm in the talking crowd. That's my business. I I talk for a living. Amen. But there are times when you need to just listen. Let me say it again. Just listen in prayer. Martin Luther, the great theologian, says The fewer the words, the better the prayer. In fact, studies have shown that we spend less than half of our time listening. We want to talk And I love the song, have a little talk with Jesus, but every now and then listen to Jesus to see what he is saying to you. I love the book that was mentioned and I found the source. I'd always talked about flash prayers and you all know I've used that Uh many a times where you can just be driving along. Uh Frank Laubach, this great uh theologian, talked about how he would start something. He'd just go and start praying for somebody. And they wouldn't even know it. He'd just look at them. Start praying. And then see the reaction. Amen. I was trying it this week. I was on Northern Parkway. I said, you know what? I'm behind this car, I don't know who's in there, but I say Father in the name of Jesus. I begin to pray for those in the car in front of me. And they made the light. I said, Well, praise God. I didn't have to go like on my horn or you know, some people have that rage. Move. And I just I just prayed and man traffic went smooth. But even now, you just try a flesh prayer. Even now, look around and you may not know the person's name, but look at them and just And just do a flesh prayer. Hallelujah. But as I look at you, I'm I'm whispering a word of prayer. In the name of Jesus. I I'm praying that your week might be a good week. I'm praying that the thing you've been praying for that God has given you courage of. I'm praying. And you didn't look at someone. Just walk to the store and just say, Mmm. They think you just you ain't gotta move your lips. Just begin to pray. Amen. When Hannah prayed, they thought she was crazy, thought she was drunk Because she was just moving and lifting. Oh, she's crazy. No, you're not crazy. You know what it means to get a prayer through. You ain't lost it. You know the God you serve will bring you through. You're not crazy. You know that God will bring you through. That today because you've seen the results of prayer, you've tried the pattern of prayer, and it's made a difference in your life. Somewhere that says, I am thine, O Lord. I heard thy voice and is told thou love to me, but I long to rise. In the arms of faith and be closer drawn to thee. I I I heard The voice. In the midst of my trouble, I heard something that gave me clearance that I could make it In the midst of my down moment, I prayed and I heard the Lord says, you can make it with a reverend. Does he speak that way? Yes, he sure can. Amen. He can speak audibly. He can speak through his word. He can speak through other persons. But the fact that I heard his voice and told thy love for me. Amen. It says, draw me nearer. Nearer. Blessed Lord. To the cross where thou hast died. Draw me nearer to thy bleeding side. Oh, it just got glory, didn't it? Yeah, the bleeding side it is real Because he shed his blood for us. The bleeding side is something you ought to picture for a moment because he went to the cross and he died to give his life for us He went to the cross and and that's what the bleeding started represents that Father you sacrifice when you sink Christ who died for me. Even on the cross, he prayed for those. Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. And even today I believe that Christ is sitting at the right hand of the Father, making intercession for the saints. Praying for you and for me. Be faithful in prayer. Let nothing get between you and your time of prayer. Well, the day I'm gone now. Don't pray. It doesn't got to be late in the evening. Pray. It's mid. and I'm blessing my lunch a little longer than I normally bless it. Pray. Just pray. As we come today, we we thank God for this line of communication. Have you tried it lately? Oh, someone said Jesus is on the main line. Tell him what you want. You need more power? Tell him what you want. Express it. Need more hope? Express no don't be ashamed and nervous. Tell him. You already know, but he wants us to say, Come to me. What is your prayer today? As we bowl over this place. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. We've not always been faithful in prayer. We've hit and we've missed. And life has driven us to a place to call out to you. But we come today voluntarily. So I just need you to guide me. I need you to give me your comfort and your peace and your joy. And I come not on my behalf, but on behalf of others. Pray for my children. One by one and name by name. And pray for my neighborhood. Pray, dear God, for those on the workplace. Pray for those I've never been. met before but I'm praying for all the the Johns and all the the Peters and all the Susans all over the world. You know what we're going through. As we come today, it is our prayer. to pray for those who don't have a relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. I pray. The Bible says that thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in our hearts that God is raised him from the dead. The Bible says Thou shalt be saved. Somebody today needs prayer. Father, I pray even now that you might change their heart. You might give them clarity today to know that prayer is. real results are real I ask it even now in the name of Jesus and just as a practice I I I want to pray for you and I and to Traditionally you say, come to the altar. Folks, oh, they must I wonder what they got going on. They went to the altar today. Boom, I wonder. You have to go anywhere today. Right where you sit today. I want to pray for you. Some of you are I know your stories. Many of you I don't. But as I about today, it is my prayer. Father, we come today. And for every situation, We pray, we stand in the gap for that family, going through with the loved one, that that family, dear God, struggling to get by week to week, that that family where there's struggle. wife in the marriage, that that family that is having some challenges on the workplace, that that person who already had in their mind that come Monday, they're gonna get it. Lord, I pray. That the decision they make might be one that lines up with you. God, I pray for this body of believers. I pray that there might be a cloud over this place of prayer. Pray, dear God, that you might bless every inch of this property, this land, that those who walk on it might know that no matter what it was, it's now a place of prayer. Pray for this building, make it a house of prayer. And for the whole In which we're reaching, God, I pray even now. Start in the basement if there is one and work to the ceiling in the name of Jesus today. God, we just pray. We just pray, we pray, we pray, we pray because we know that you answer prayer, we pray, we pray, we pray, because God, you Fall into four