Here and as I looked out this morning and behind the mask, I was able to see uh a great friend uh for many years, a fellow disciple in the person of Timothy Weddington. I think that might be Reverend Bishop or whatever I want to call him. But we go back uh many years early in the faith. We used to call early in the morning for prayer And I thank God for his tutelage and his friendship down through the years. Amen. So we've come today because God is moving us into a new direction I want to thank you for being here. Thank you for your prayers. Thank you for your giving. Thank you for all that you do. And we could stand today. to preach the first sermon unofficially on these grounds. Amen? Oh yes. Blessed be the God. This is our promised land. And I Want to thank all of you for your loving kindness. And to those who are tuned in today, thank you. If I could afford it, I would have flown you in this morning. And set you up in a seat so that you can join me. But I am so, so thankful. As we come today, we want to be mindful of those who are Sick and shut in, being challenged today, uh oftentimes with our deacons we'll just get the word and we'll send a text and they will respond saying we're praying And we know the prayers of the righteous do avail much. There's so many within our body who've been going through, and we pray for them that God might raise them up, that they might be healed. Amen. And by the same token, we're thankful for those who are back in our midst who have been evil. But we thank the Lord anyhow Well, there's a word from the Lord today that comes from the book of Romans. Romans the 12th chapter. Romans the 12th chapter. I can hear now we got birds. They don't mind giving God the praise. Amen. Y'all from the country, you're not afraid of a bird flying, would you? I want nobody running. Amen But there's a word from the Lord today, and even as we come to that word, we bow for a word of prayer. Father, we come today, and we thank you for this opportunity just to share the good news of Jesus Christ. We come today, God, and our prayers that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today, encourage another, and when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise. and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Romans the twelfth chapter and the twelfth verse Romans, it says, be joyful in hope, patient in affliction. Faithful in prayer. That was so short. Can I read it again? Romans 12 and 12 reads, be joyful in hope. Patient in affliction and faithful in prayer. I want to preach today from the Samonic title Keys to a Productive Life Part One. Keys to a productive life part one. Most people I know want to be productive. They want to be useful. They want their life to count for something. Even now when you get to be a certain age, you think about legacy. That means that what happens after I am gone, may the work I have done speak for me. But for so much of society the buzzword nowadays is self-improvement. How can I make myself better? Nothing wrong with that. I can hear my late grandmother, Pastor Ollie Graham, saying these words, if you can do better, do better. I said that's pretty deep. If you can do better in life, do better. If you can do better in serving, do better If you can do better in loving, do better. But for most Americans, our quest to do better comes with a price Ready for these numbers? I came across some market research numbers the other day, and it says Americans spend about $796 million a year on self-help audiobooks. 800 million on self-improvement books. The same group spends twenty-seven million dollars a year on self-improvement apps Press a button and somebody tells you it's going to be a great day, but no mention of Jesus Christ. One billion dollars a year on personal coaching services, life coaches another billion dollars a year on motivational speakers. And I found this one very interesting. Ninety-four percent of millennials, and I I'm not in that group, that's the age 25 to 40. This group was polled and said they will be willing to spend three hundred dollars a month on self-improvement. How desperate are we as a nation that we need somebody to tell us how to feel good void of Jesus Christ? Amen. Now I'm not that great in math, but that's a lot of money for someone to tell you that you can make it. That's a lot of dough for somebody telling you, I see great things in you Nothing against motivational speaking, but I stopped by today with a proven pathway of sorts for a productive life. And it comes in the letter that Paul writes to the church at Rome. Paul, one of our great uh theologians of his time, Paul, who wrote the better part. of the New Testament, Paul who would be in prison, telling folk on the outside, child you can make it, won't you be encouraged? Most of us would wonder nobody came to visit me. I don't know when I've got a parole. But Paul writes with words of encouragement. And really in this twelfth chapter He begins it by saying, therefore, brothers and sisters, he says, in view of God's mercy, offer your body as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable unto him, which is your reasonable service. And then he says, be not conformed to this world, but be ye renewed by the transforming of your mind that you may do that which is holy and acceptable unto God. This letter covers Christian conduct. Yeah, Christians get out of line. And we need to have some word of correction. And Paul always heard something, and when he heard it on the hotline, he'd write back And say, here's how we ought to act as Christians. Amen. He talked about the importance of the body of Christ surviving and doing the work of the Lord. Paul talked about the importance of having gifts. Amen? And note that when you accept Christ as your personal Savior, the Holy Spirit, Will give you a spiritual gift. In fact, the Bible says he gives them severally. Amen? But he talks about the importance of love. Being able to honor each other. Isn't that something our society, you know, we always beat each other up. In fact, it's been said that Christians are some of the worst at this. Oh, we'll beat folk up in the name of Jesus sometime. But he's saying, why don't you love each other? Honor each other. And this is important. And so this week we're talking about just a portion of that 12th verse, being joyful in hope. Right. Joyful in hope. That that sounds like a key because hope is a virtue, a a moral standard and my God, don't we need that today? In the Bible, more than 129 times, we find the word hope. And some people consider hope as wishful thinking You know. Yeah, I hope so. Uh other folk view it from different lenses. I think that it is confident expectations. Hope is that over the top of the mountain things will be better Hope is when I turn the next quarter, life will improve with me. Any hopeful people today, yeah, I I know you Holy Ghost filled and sanctified, but my God, you hope That life will be better. You hope that your tomorrow is better than where you are currently. But have you ever had hope and then lost hope? That folk look to you as being the strong person and the worst of way like well, you do go to church, don't you? Yeah Aren't you a deacon? Yeah. Don't you say on the choir? Yeah. But there are opportunities that come along, and there are challenges to where we lose our hope. Can we be honest today? You're not always up. You're not always over the top of the mountain, but there are some challenging times in life. But thank God for hope. Earlier Paul writes in Romans 8 24, he says, We are saved by hope. The hope that is seen is not hope. And why does a person hope for something that they already have? Aren't you glad today that God gives you hope? Amen. I recall and I've shared this story before that during travels to Africa, being there in Liberia. And being in a hotel that was long uh war-torn and there were people living in substandard conditions and somebody interviewed one of the brothers said, Well, what do you what do you see? He said, I see hope He said, oh well. And so even in the toughest of circumstances, thank God for hope. But but it describes rejoicing in hope. Amen. That you can find joy In your hope. Your hope may be in short supply, but thank God there's some joy within your hope. That is the key to productive living. Amen? And and and and joy is not happiness. I may as well say it. I thought about Al Green. He said love and happiness Amen. I'm with the Lord, but happiness will come and happiness will go. Some of y'all pet your foot. Y'all know where Al Green is. He he he rapping Al Green now. Amen But happiness is an emotion which we experience that range from contentment to satisfaction to bliss to intense pleasure. But here is why joy is different. Joy is a fruit of the Spirit. In the Bible, the word fruit is described as a person's outward actions that result from the condition of the heart. Aren't you glad today that you got some joy? This joy that I have that the world didn't give it to me and the world can't take it away. Weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning. Galatians 5:22 lays out the whole fruit basket. Amen. The fruit of the Spirit is love Joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness Gentleness and self-control. I saw you Bible students. Y'all were mouthing that thing. Amen. Blessed be the God And this sense of being productive is really about what are you doing for Christ that will last. Amen? Whose life are you impacting? Who are you bumping up against that they'll come to you and say, you know what? You helped me out last year. You say, Who are you? That means that you did something by way of encouragement and you forgot it. Amen Jesus told his disciples in John 15, 15, I chose you and appointed you so that you might go and bear fruit. Fruit that will last beyond the parking lot, beyond Sunday, what are you doing at the drive-through to bear fruit? Beyond today, what are you doing on the workplace to bear fruit? Beyond this moment, what are you doing in the company of complete strangers. So you know what? I've got hope and my hope is based in Jesus Christ. Amen. And so when you mix joy with hope, I believe it will change your perspective. It'll change your outlook. It'll change your vision. And it has done just that for me. I know, I'm I'm I'm Mr. Happy. Amen. I love the encouragement. But every now and then you need somebody to encourage you. Anyone know one person who calls you not with gossip, but to say, child, I was just thinking about you And I want to just encourage you in the Lord. Amen. I know you got the encouragement award last year, but somebody called you in the midnight hour and said, you know what? I just want to give you some hope And let you know that God is still in the blessing business. Oh, hallelujah. I received that today. And every now and then you need somebody and thank God for all this technology. Just text me some hope Just Facebook me some hope. Just Instagram me some hope. Just Snapchat me some hope. Just TikTok me some hope. Amen. I want some hope to know that I can make it along this journey. You are not alone today. You are not by yourself today. The Bible is filled with people who have some hope hiccups along the way. Amen. That means they got a comeback story. I love the story of Joseph. He did the best he could, but his brothers double-teamed him and sold him into slavery. He at home He came out of that situation. Listen, I know who y'all are. I'm gonna still feed you anyhow. David had some more challenges. Didn't do always the right thing, but thank be to God he knew how to run back to God. He found hope in all that he did. Elijah had to deal with hope and criticism along the way. Nehemiah was discouraged Hannah was picked at. Oh, you're going to have a child, all right. And every now and then you've got to continue to look to the hills from which cometh your help. All of your help comes from the Lord Well God is my key in life. He'll open some doors. Didn't your mama tell you that that no man could shut He will shut some doors that no man can unlock. Thank God that we're reminded in Colossians 1 and 27 that Jesus Christ is the hope of glory. Or aren't you glad about that today? That Jesus is the hope of glory. And he sits at the right hand of the Father making intercession for the saints. And don't you know that he's setting things right in your situation right now? I don't know about you. Sometimes you wonder, has life put me on pause? Sometimes you wonder, am I ever going to move from this situation? Sometimes you wonder, am I ever going to leave this situation? But God is right there. Saying, you know what? Here's the key You need a key of hope today and carry it around like the janitor. Can I put the custodian? Sylvester Bryant. They called him Tick. Man Tick had a key to every room in the entire school. But you knew when he came walking, you would hear his keys Amen. And God has given you a key in the person of Jesus Christ. Matthew 16, 19. And I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven. And whatsoever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven. And what you loose on earth can be loose in heaven. I can sing because I got some keys. Amen. I can shout because I've got some keys. I can praise him because I've got some keys, oh my God, in your pocket right now. Some of y'all got a key or two Amen. Yeah, I mean, you got a key. And it goes to something. It goes to this treasure that God has prepared just for us. But you glad today you got some master key. Amen. It's one thing to have four or five different keys. You can't tell what's what. But when you have the master key, you can go places. Amen? Because the master's key will open up any door. The master key will open up situations in your life you've been long wanting to unlock. When you got the master key, you've got hope unspeakable today. Amen. You and those disciples are out there on the water And things got a little rocky, and Jesus was in the hinder part of the ship. And he was sleeping. And they said, Master, cares not that we perish. He got up and said, wait a minute, peace be still. As though in your situation today, know that God has given you the key. not to success, but key to holy living. And don't you know today that this key has been issued just to you? So when life gets tough and the hills become hard to climb. Just pull out the key that you know and that key is Jesus. Can I preach this afternoon here on the parking lot? Of harvest Christian ministries. Every now and then when you don't see your way, say, wait a minute, I've got a key on me, and that key gets me to where I want to be in the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm so glad today that Jesus died, but that he rose again with all power in his hand, and that gives me Not by way of the world standard, but my home is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and his righteousness I dare not trust the sweetest frame, but wholly lean on Jesus, oh Christ, the solid rock I stand All on the ground is thinking, I feel good in the Lord today. Why? Because every now and then we lose hope, but I dare you to go after hope My God, hope just passed you. Get in a new lane today and run down over the wait a minute, wait a minute. I just want to touch the hem of his garment. Come here, woman Who had the issue of blood? She said, you know what? If I could just get in the right lane and just touch the hem of this garment, I'll be made whole. You got to have a faith that moves. Amen. Keys to productive living, joyful in hope. Part two next week. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Oh my God. I've hoped myself today. We have told you that story I know I have when you've been a part of the congregation, I heard that already. I remember being in the hot fields of Florida on the tobacco patch and I was the last man in the field. And then them guys can work. I was talking. And they left me in the field. And I remember Brother Ivey says, Tutan, can I hope you I was like, what? Can I help you? Some of y'all country folk know what that means. I said, you want to help me? Fine. I won't hope you. But as you come today, let's bow before the Lord because there are people who need hope. They need Jesus. Father, we come in the name of Jesus today. And as we come, we thank you for salvation. And salvation is available to every person who will believe. In this day and age, there are many fads. But we thank you for faith today. In Zy prayer today, there's one listening or watching One sitting or standing, who has never confessed Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, they can do it in this moment. All they have to do is to pray a prayer and to say, Lord, I'm a sinner in need of a Savior. I believe that God you sent Jesus Christ and that He died for me. I believe that he rose again. Father, I pray even now that you might touch that soul, that man, that woman, that child, that they may have a lasting and loving relationship with you. And that's where hope comes in. Do it today, we pray even now in Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. The great thing he has done. And uh good to see y'all. Y'all looking good outside too. Bless be to God. Want to submit to thank you. Uh for your devotion and thank you for your giving. We we're getting there. But things are in God's time. But thank God we got a place now to Knock a flyable if you want to, amen. But we thank uh be to God and for those who are out there who want to be a part of this uh campaign to give we're looking to raise a hundred thousand dollars this year amen see some of y'all didn't even move on this and you know some of God like that in Jesus But we I believe that we we can do that, and you've already started on the right track and we thank you for your faith for this. uh in the Lord Jesus Christ. And let me do this. I've not been able to do this because I haven't had an opportunity. If you are looking for a church home Uh uh you you can walk right down the parking lot right now and become a part of this ministry. And uh we're not being able to do it, you can't do that virtually But you can do it in person, amen. And that's old school. Come on down. Maybe you want to be baptized and give your heart to Jesus. We can do that. So even now, we thank you for your coming. Amen. Come on, let's just give God a praise today. And let's end out with a song. This little light of mine. I'm gonna let it shine this little light of mine. I'm gonna let it shine, this little light of mine. Oh Lord, I'm gonna let it shine Let it shine, let it shine, let it shine everywhere I go. Come on, church I'm gonna let it shine. Hallelujah! Everywhere I go, I'm gonna let it shine. Everywhere I go. Oh Lord, I'm gonna let it shine. Let it shine. Let it shine. Let it shine. Amen. It's always thankful for the technical staff. Somebody who pulled a wire, somebody who carried a flower. Thank you And uh we look forward to got you all just put songs for us. Can we go another hour? No, we'll be all right. Well thank God for you. And if you're here today I'm gonna do benediction, sweetie. My wife got me. Yes, yes, ma'am, mama. Um for those who may have not you've not gone inside the building yet, uh and you you want to kind of go in and Look around a little bit. You're welcome to do that. Uh uh not exactly a guided tour, but uh you can certainly go through uh the sanctuary and and uh the harvest house to God be the glory. Let's look to the Lord now. Father, we thank you for this time together and we thank you for your presence. We thank you for our coming in, but also our going out. May you protect, keep, love, and direct each of us. From this day forward in Jesus' name. Amen. Blessed be the God. Amen. So good to see each of you today.