So good and so gracious. And even though you don't think you have faults, we all do But the fact that he looked beyond our faults and our mess ups and our issues And saw what we really needed. Anybody been in that situation before? That's because we know each other so well Let's bow before the Lord today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus, in the strong name of Jesus. There's power in that name, there's deliverance in that name. There's healing in that name. There's joy in that name. There's peace in that name. As we come today, God, we ask even now that you might make sure that we decrease. And that we might get out the way that you might increase. Save someone today, encourage another, and when this time is done, we'll give your name all the praise. In all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. This is the day that the Lord has made. We can rejoice and be glad in it. Thank God for each of you in the house. Even those who During the course of the week and the day, check in on us on Facebook. Thank God for that medium. There's a lot of stuff on Facebook, but thank God you can put the word out there as well and reach people There's a word from the Lord today that comes from the book of Revelation, there in the third chapter of Revelation Verse number 20. It reads, Here I am. I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in. And eat with that person, and they with me. Want to preach today from the Samonic title, Knock, Knock, Who's There? A few summers ago, my grandsons thought they were doing something real big when they cornered me to say, Pop Pop, we want to tell you a joke I'm thinking, okay. And they did what we did back in the day. Knock knock. Who's there? It's almost impossible to get the right answer because you don't know what they're putting out to you So they got me good. As I prepared today's message, I called them up. Hey, this pop pop And I got something for you all. What is it? Knock, knock, who's there, the spiritual edition. Knock knock who's there heaven heaven who haven't seen you in ages after I got him on that I doubled back Knock knock. Who's there? Noah. Noah who? I know a man who will build you an ark. So I told them that uh I was gonna bring it out today So the competition goes on. I'm sure they will get me back. Nowadays few people actually knock on your door. They actually either will ring the doorbell or they will press a doorbell that will in turn give a video that you'll ask the question. Can I help you please I've said over the years that folk ought not just show up at your house anymore. In the country you just did there. Let's go by and see so-and-so. Nowadays, if somebody knocks on your door, you say, who Who in the world is at my door? Uh peep around the curtain But times have changed over the years. This morning I want to really use that metaphor, that work picture, for you to see Jesus Christ. Standing at the door of the church. And that's what he's doing. If you ever have one of the old Bibles, you'll see, when it comes to pictures, you'll see Jesus. An image of Jesus knocking at the door. He is not forcing his way in. Essentially he is outside because the church will not let him in. What do you mean by that, Reverend? The church is the body of Christ. The church is not a building, but Jesus, even in two thousand and nineteen, is knocking on the door of our hearts. The book of Revelation is a book that is referred to really as the revelation of Jesus Christ, filled with mysteries about things to come. Might cause the hair to come up on your arms, but it is about the final warning, about judgment The book of Revelation gives us a glimpse of heaven. A few years ago, thanks to the Harvest Church, I got a chance to take a tour with some other students from my seminary. To Turkey and Greece. And one of the places we stopped was along the route of the seven churches of Revelation. We stopped in the cities of five of those churches. Had breakfast at one and lunch at the other. But there was one particular area that we stopped, was Laodicea. And that is the church that Jesus writes about today. It is the church that he says, as he has John to write that letter from the Isle of Patmos, there where he's in prison He said, say this to the churches, to the people of Laodicea. He had already accused them of being lukewarm. He said, I'd rather you be cold or hot. But I don't want you to be lukewarm, otherwise I will spew you or spit you out of my mouth. As we were in Laodicea, there was a body of water there. As I walked along, I could see that on one side of that body of water there was ice. On the other side, there was heat. I'm saying to myself, wait a minute, what kind of stream is this? But it made sense what Jesus was talking about In that region there is a body of water that is cool on one side and it is warm on the other, and he's saying, I'm using something you're familiar with, I'd rather you be one or the other. The Landasian church was complacent. The church was rich. The church was self-centered The church did not want the Lord's presence. If we're not careful, we'll find ourselves in one of those categories. I know you're saved, sanctified, and filled with the Holy Ghost. But this letter was written to Christians saying straighten up and fly right. Amen. As John wrote those letters, as he was inspired by the Lord Jesus Christ to let them know that Christ is knocking at your door. So what left to this word? Oftentimes it's things that happen in our own experience. Black you, I got a busy schedule. Black Q, I'm somebody We run ourselves to the end, don't we? Yeah, one thing after another. And so during the course of this week, I was in my move, on the move, and seemingly I felt a nudge. I experience a knock on my heart. And and what it was saying in so many words is you need to to slow it down. And you need to give me more of your time. Can I just testify today? No about you. I get busy. And if you're not careful, uh things would begin to crowd your time out with the Lord. So I was convicted this week When it came to just slowing it down and just making more quality time for Christ. Not there yet. Still working on it. But that thing stayed on me all week. Knock knock Who's there? I knew who was there, and I politely took time to open my spirit man up and allow him to come inside. It's freshened me. My thinking is anew. I feel better now that I've been obedient to the knock. Have you ever heard the knock in your own experience? I mean the knock that gets your attention when nobody's talking to you, when you're driving in your car and you hear the knock. When when you're at home on the job, you hear the Lord say, I I need more of your time. I need more fellowship with you. Jesus is still on the outside. He's still knocking on the doors of our hearts. Instead of our saying, who's there? We're just giving him the egg game. We're just ignoring him or pretending that we don't hear. Don't leave me out by myself today now. I'm just talking about me, but have you ever had that kind of experience? That you knew that you'd just been a little too busy. But when times were tough, you were spending time with God. When you were at your last wish, you said, Lord, I gotta spend time with you, but once things got better. Once you went to the mountaintop, and once you experienced some joy, you say, Well Lord, I'll get I'll get to you, but not right now. Some of us know that we're not night people. So I'm gonna be with the Lord and get with him at night until you fall asleep. I'm a morning person, and so I try to spend time with the Lord in the morning. Well that said, I believe we must place our lives in a position to receive, to respond, and to retain. Verse twenty says, Here I am, I stand at the door and knock. Scholars say that Jesus didn't knock softly. That if you made that video, he was actually pounding on the door of the church He was trying to get their attention. It was not a easy knock. It was a you know I'm out here. And when the Lord does that, we have to be in a position to hear what thus says the Lord. I think of my roommate, Joe Ritchie. He was something else. His trademark was to come by your apartment. And try to take your door off. I mean, I knew it was him. You know, even though even though I I knew he's he would just go to and just start banging the door as hard as he could I said, ma'am, what you doing? Two, what's going on? I said, I bought need a new door But that's what he did. I knew it was him, and that's what the Lord does in our own experience. He he's not been softly banging on the door of your hearts. He's been pounding on the door of your hearts. Am I on your street today? That that he takes time to knock on the door. This specific church had those particular issues of thinking they had it all together. And the moment we think we've got it all together, state them with foolish to say, you know, you are all that and a bag of chips. But it's always great to get a reminder. No mistaking is not. It is unique. It is spiritual. He knocks on the door that is shut. He says to his disciples, I am the door of the sheep. There was a place when the sheep came, there was a sheep's door. He says, I'm doing something that you might relate to. I am at the door of your heart. Will you receive me? But not just that. There ought to come a time when we ought to respond to that knock. If anyone hears my voice Jesus has never been accused of breaking and entering. That's another way he operates. You watch the news long enough you'll see there was a break-in today. It was forced entry. You've ever had your house broken in two or had your belongings uh compromise, it's it's a hard feeling to see where somebody just broke their way in. You had the best luck in town, but a thief found some way to get in. Jesus will not do that to us. It's boggles the mind. That we know we need to be forced, but he won't do it. Isn't that amazing? He gives us free will. He will not bust his way in. He will not force his way in, but he wants you not just to hear the knock, but to hear his voice. He will come in if he's invited. He has something to say. The Bible says, He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. How does he speak? He speaks in a small, still voice. The Bible talks about the storms came. And the wind blew and the floods came. Oh that must be God. But he speaks in such a unique way. Do you hear my voice? Amen. He speaks by way of his holy word. He speaks to us by way of his holy spirit. And because we are saved, the Spirit of Christ resides in us. He speaks often through circumstances. I'm going through something right now. You just don't know where I am. God is speaking Greater is he that's within us than he that's within the world. He's speaking through circumstances and he will speak through other people. You can't tell me nothing. God might have sent that person just to tell you a thing or two. They can hope you amen. Never dismiss what someone is saying. Hear them out. God used a donkey to speak. Oh Balaam. You're going the wrong way. I'll make the donkey speak to you. Hearing his voice, it is our responsibility to respond to the voice. And so often they're distractions. They're things that crowd our lives. They're things that are important, but they get in the way of our hearing the knock from Christ. Well meaning things. Uh-huh. But they get in the way. That was just laughing at your the cell phone. Now they'll let you know how many minutes you were on. Like you came under this week. You were thirty-two minutes less than you did last week. We spent a lot of time with these things. If you're not talking to them, we're doing something with them. They're part of our life. But Jesus teaches us, as he did in Matthew, he says, ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. And look at this. Knock. And the door will be open. He knocks, we knock. Knock, knock, who's there? Responding, receiving, and then retaining. I will come in and eat with that person if they let me in and they with me. That sounds like a dinner day. Amen. King James says he will dine with us. He'll come in. Don't ask what's on the menu. The fact that he wants to stop with us is a huge deal. Amen. What you gonna order? I'm gonna order some peace. And some joy, some understanding, and I'm order some forgiveness. But isn't that amazing that that once you finally open the door up, he comes in to your space, to your experience, and says I just wanna I just wanna hang out with you for a while. I just want to dine with you and you with me. What an invitation to have the King of Glory to come into your experience and to spend He really wants to spend time with you When you're going to pray, it's not really about you. You say, Oh, you got time for me now. Amen. And so during the course of the week when I was all messed busy, man, I put that thing down in low gear And when I did, I could hear his voice better. When I did, I could order from the divine menu because I realized he wants to dine With me. He he wants to fellowship. Wants to give me some spiritual food. The kind of food that will stick to your ribs. Y'all country folk know that. I mean grips will do that, amen Man, you eat grits, you that that'll last you just about all day. I ain't said cream of wheat. I say grits And some tators. There's some stuff you don't need to be saying I'm hungry again. Can we go about the daily? No, there's some stuff that'll stick with you and what he gives us will stick with us It will satisfy us and we'll be saying, Oh, taste and see that the Lord is good. Here's the bottom line. If you abide in me and my word abide in you, you will ask what you will. And it shall be given to you. But but but but but you got to hang out with me. But but you you got to let me in. But I don't want to come in the back door. I want to come in the front door of your heart Anybody want to let him in today? Let him into your experience? This old song from the gospel radio that talks about the mother. And her son is sick and they're on the road. And they say, can somebody get a doctor? Yeah. Well the doctor's nowhere nearby, but we'll we'll try to reach one And while she was waiting, she said, D do y'all have a closet? Mama went up in there and says Come on in the room. Say Jesus is my doctor. He writes out all my scripts. He gives me all of my medicine in my room. Do you have a room today in your heart to let Jesus in? And let him stay for a while. Now if you let him in, he might rearrange some things in y'all. If you let him in He might move some furniture. If you let him in, he might change some attitude. If you let him in, he might improve you, but you've got to let him in. My God, that's the first step. I began this sermon talking about knock knock who's there. I'll end that way. Knock, knock. Who's there? Almighty God Knock knock who's there, Alpha and Omega. Knock knock, who's there, the author and the finisher of our faith. Knock knock, who's there, the bread of life? Not knocked who's there, the beginning and the end, the first and the last, not knock who's there, the good shepherd. Not not who's there I am that I am. Not not who's there, the King of Kings And the Lord of Lords, and the light of the world, and the Prince of Peace, and the rock in the weary land, and the resurrection in the life. And the shelter in the time of storm, and the true bind, and the word of life, and the way, the truth, and the light. You want to know who's knocking on your I'm glad you asked. It's Jesus who's knocking on the door of your heart Oh thrust I heard the voice of Jesus say Come unto me and rest lie down thy weary one lie down thy head upon my breast I came to Jesus as I was, weary, worn, and sad But I found in him a resting place, and he has made me glad. Aren't you glad about it today? Old David says in Psalms 122, I was glad when they said unto me, let us go into the house of the Lord. Anybody glad today? Glad to know that he'll never give up on you? Even when you give him the st he'll keep knocking on your door. I'm I'm just trying to to get in. I I I I've got something for you. That that's why I'm knocking. You know who's there You know who was knocking on the door of your heart. Now you won't be the same not because somebody go stop by your house this week You'll say who and you'll be reminded. I hear ya. I receive it. I respond. I'll retain it. That is the word of God today's law in this. Come on, stand today all over this place. Yeah. No no mean you don't recognize me. I'm the one that saved you. Who? I'm the one who died for you. Who? I'm the one who bled for you. Who? I'm the one who got up on the third day morning with all power. You know who I am? Of Jesus. All by myself. That's who I am. Well, if you don't know who I am, you know me. And you know my not by now. I'm Jesus. Hallelujah. Don't you hear it? Go ahead, now, go ahead and Thank you. Just as you are Let him in, let him in, let him in. Just as you are As you all Come and me, comment me Forever and forever. That's the promise today. I want to take you back to that experience this week. It was so so real and so convicting at the same time. I mean I was literally going from one room to the next And it was like I went. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Now I I I know you the pastor. I I know you read and tootin'. But but you've been missing my knocks. It changed me. Yeah, I'm I I got a devotional life, but I was I was a little too busy. And that thing just kinda went It wasn't no nobody didn't have to tell me. But all week long I went back and dug up one of my old devotionals. Put in my work bag. I got a minute, I said. Hmm. This morning when I rose, I got off my knees. I found that the books and I said, oh now what's the takeaway? What's that piece of meat I need for today? See what comes out of your personal time with the Lord that will refresh you and guard you from some of the foolishness that you fight with. I just tell you I need you ain't done you get up and just went to work. But when you still away and give God his time and respond to his knock Man, you be smiling. How are you doing? Praise the Lord. Because I heard the knock. Let's bow today. Heavenly Father, we come and we thank you for your word. We may as well be the church at Laodicea. But we hear you today. And we've opened the door for you to come in and to dine with us. And we'll leave from this place, filled up. Good meal, good advice. Good wisdom, great knowledge. Even now, God empower your people that this week we might do better. This week we might open the door and let you in Father, today as we come, there may be one in this place who does not know you. While this is out of us to the saved church, you're also knocking on the doors of the unrepentant. Those who don't know you, there's a knock. Bible says thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus And believe in your heart that God is raised him from the dead, the Bible says, Thou shalt be safe. Save someone today, God. May the knock be answered. Come into their hearts right now. And we'll be so careful To give your name the praise in Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, celebrate the Lord today. That's it. People need the Lord. Yeah, you need the four one K, but you need the Lord. The Lord. My God At the end. He's the open door People need. Oh, yes, we do, in our experience Three, four, three, those. How many believe it today? How many we didn't need him today? Come on, give God a praise today