Amen. Thank God as always for our online viewers. That's what pandemic did to us. And there are folk everywhere checking in and to God be the glory for each of you. There's a word from the Lord today that comes from 1 Peter 1, 15, and 16. 1 Peter, the first chapter, verses 15 and 16. I'll be like the old church when you found it. Save me. Amen. If you're looking on the screen, say amen. But it's always good to have your own copy, because the screen can act up. In fact, it did this morning. There you find with verse 15 it says, but just as he who called you is holy, so be ye holy in all you do. Verse 16 says, For it is written, be holy, because I am holy. I want to talk this morning from the Samonic title, Lessons on Holy Living. Lessons on Holy Living. Most of us have heard the term holier than thou. Some of us have embraced it. In short, it is an attitude. An attitude connected to pride. In short, it is an attitude that's displayed through both words and actions. Can I put it in a modern term? You think you're all of that. And the bag of chips. When we're in that state of being holier than thou, is when we consider ourselves to be more righteous or moral than someone else. based on standards and based on judgment. You know the world we live in, sometimes people do think they're just a little better than us. And sometimes we put our noses up just because we come to church. And you know there are people in the street who have more word than you and I. Can quote more scripture, can pray uh fervently. But I want to draw the line today between what the world calls holy And what God calls holy. Lessons on holy living. I remember my Uncle Charlie, my daddy's brother, would stop by the house and say, hey Uh are you getting your lessons? And uh what does he mean? Are you getting your lessons? What he was saying is how are you doing in school? Uh what are you learning? You see, neither my uncle or my father uh had an education past the sixth grade. Sometimes it's good to put the history in there. They both uh stopped school and worked to take care of my grandmother, their mother, and their sisters And they even went to the war not long afterwards to support them, but they saw the importance of this sense of an education and learning Now when I say holy, what does that mean? Holy. That's a holy person. The Hebrew word for holiness is kadesh. Which means someone or something set apart, separated, sanctified for a special purpose. My God, if you were to ask Moses when he went up on that mountaintop minding his father-in-law's sheep, and then all of a sudden a bush caught fire. And he heard a voice from the bush. Take off your sandals, for the ground that you stand on is holy ground. Exodus 3 and 5 If we have an idea of what holiness is, what is holiness not? According to the late preacher and biblical scholar G. Campbell Morgan. He says, holiness is not an exemption from conflict, but victory through conflict. Holiness is not freedom from temptation, but power to overcome temptation. Holiness is not the end of progress, but the deliverance from standing still. In our text today, we get to meet the Apostle Paul. Peter, rather, who's teaching this lesson on holy living. You remember that Peter was one of those recruited in the early days of the ministry of Jesus Christ. He and his brother there casting their nets into the sea, and Jesus comes by and says, I want to make you fishers of men. They dropped their nets and they hung out with Jesus for a little while. Amen. And because he was a disciple, here's his credibility. He spent time with Jesus. He witnessed firsthand the teaching ministry of Jesus. He checked out the healing ministry of Jesus. He looked and was able to chart the preaching ministry of Jesus. And so in the text, now some 65 years after the crucifixion and the resurrection and the ascension, that Peter writes a letter to the church In Asia Minor. In fact, there were a number of churches in what is now modern-day Turkey. And Peter could talk to them about holiness and about getting through because what? He'd been through some things. You ever had anybody say to you uh on a particular topic, oh yeah, you'll make it, and they've never been through it. That become our testimony. Let me put it this way. Anybody know what it means to be down to your last dime? Hallelujah. Anybody know what it means to be in a situation that you find yourself that is challenging, uh disruptive? Down out. And if anybody can talk to you about that, and they say, listen, I know where you have been. I I feel you, Peter, could feel them. That in spite of all the persecution, it does not exempt you from living a holy life. I kind of looked at this now. People, don't you understand? Man, they're going through. Don't you understand that they may not be hitting all the right keys, but he says that does not mean that you do not Strive to live a holy life. In the midst of your own persecutions and your own challenges and your own struggles, like those Christians of all we were commanded, that's what the Bible says To live holy. Well, I could just stop right there and say, listen, I mean what am I doing in my effort to live holy? I don't know about you, but I blow it often But blessed be the God, I can continue to go to him and say, you know, I struck out yesterday. Oh, I don't have a praying church today. Anybody ever just struck out? I mean, just blew it, and yet God continues to keep you in spite of it. Lessons on holy living include, I believe, a few things. Knowing the teacher. Staying on task and taking the test. But just as he who called you is holy, so be holy in all that you do. God, among other things, is a teacher. Some of you have spent your careers in education. The students still remember your name. But God has quite the resume as a teacher. I do a little part-time teaching over at Loyola and some of you college students know you can go online and rape the professor. So yeah, he's alright. Yeah, he gave me a B. And yet when it comes to God, there's no rating system because God and God alone Is holy. Oh, I know I'm right today. And his holiness is not disputed. He calls on each one of us to also be holy. God expects it. God calls for it. It's what we ought to strive for every day. And so Peter really is quoting scripture from Leviticus 11 and 44. Where it says, I am the Lord your God. Consecrate yourselves and be holy because I am holy. More than six hundred times in the Bible we see that word holy. If you read the Bible, you're gonna bump into holy How you doing? You're gonna come across it in some way. And it also caused you now to think about the life that we're trying to lead. Holiness. But knowing that God is the standard. You're a pretty good person, so am I. Yeah we we do some good stuff. We're part of the community. Uh some of us buy Girl Scout cookies. Uh we we buy the pizzas. I mean we're supportive people and you figure I'm living pretty good. But when you begin to search your heart, I begin to search my heart, uh that there's room for improvement. That I need a lesson or two. I need a quick study on what it means to walk in the spirit that I don't fulfill the lust of the flesh. I'm just talking about me. I can be better. I'm striving toward living a holy life. Not to look down on anyone else. If I just take care of my holiness, that's enough all by itself. Hallelujah. And so the fact that I know the teacher, you call me the teacher's pet. I know the teacher, and because of that, uh I can learn more about him. I got through college on office hours. I would stop in to see the professor and nobody ever came. He said, Mr. Tutin, you came by for office hours? Yes, sir. He might slip to me what the test is gonna be about. It pays to go by and see the teacher. Amen Ah, some of y'all did it too. It pays to stay in touch and have a little talk with Jesus and tell him all about your struggles. It pays to know who your teacher is But but not that only, but also to stay on task. So be holy in all that you do. The enemy is working overtime to keep you and I from being holy. Yeah, yeah, the enemy says, Oh, you try to be holy? Watch this. Enemy will throw a curveball at you. So you want to be holy today? Well let me come on your street. Let me set somebody up that when you come in the building on Monday morning They give you a real dude and you go off on the ma maybe the enemy is saying he is like a roaring lion seeing whom he might devour. I don't like giving the devil much credit, but he's real Amen. And so we have to be up to the task. He wants us to live unholy lives. Just the opposite of what God is commanding us to do. Peter writes, be holy in all that you do. All means all. We don't get to pick and choose someone to be holy on Sunday, but don't mess with me on Monday. I'll get holy on Saturday evening and then I'll you know I'll go back to the old me. Well that's it's the Bible says that the flesh and the spirit are always warring. Amen. There's a war going on And so holiness is not part-time. Amen. You don't get to switch it up. But you and I must each and every day, I mean, really try really strive to live holy lives. And there again, Peter is talking to people who are being persecuted because of their very faith. We can't be holy all by ourselves. We need help. Some of us are so big and bad. I got this. No, you need the Holy Spirit. Ah, you need the Holy Spirit, uh-huh, the power of God to help you and I along the way. Amen And John 14, 26 says, but the Comforter, who is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, look at this, he shall teach you. All things. I see you in the back just raise your hand. I got another question. He will teach you and then do what? Bring all things back to your remembrance. If you put something in, something will come out. Just trying to stay on task. Whatsoever I've said to you, that it must be, we must stay on task as it relates to living a holy life. Hebrews 12, 14 says, make every effort to live in peace with everyone and to be, there it is again, holy. It says, without holiness, no one will see the Lord. Say what? That's why holiness is so important. Amen. And as I go through this, I I I it sounds repetitive, but this sense of holiness does not mean wearing the longest dress It does not mean giving the most serious look to look. What does looking holy look like? Man looketh on the outside, but God looks at the heart. And I'm glad about that today. Yeah, the old song says Lord, I'm running trying to make a hundred because ninety-nine and a half won't do I almost did something good today, but I don't know about you, but I'm gonna fight my way through to try to be the kind of person that God has called me to be Trying to stick with the task. Keeping the main thing, the main thing, and to know the teacher. I'm still the teacher's pet. But then finally, prepare to take the test. Oh, Reverend, who wants to take a test? Life is like that. It it's test time. Pull out those study notes. Find the cliff notes. And Peter was prepared to respond to those. I imagine and said, Peter, we're trying, but do you know what we are going through? This persecution and this testing and they may have asked why. Why should we be holy? You may be asking why? I I like the way I am. I'm not bad. I don't want to be too deep into this. And there was a day when I gave folk just enough of church to leave me alone. I could talk just enough stuff. To sound like I was really a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. I could tell the story of my mother singing the choir. Nothing to do with me. That's well, not my mama sang in the choir I live next door to the church. I went to Sunday school. That does not give you an hour pass. There still is a test. And no one is exempt for there's no curve in life. Amen Why should we be holy? Why? Because I am holy. That's God's answer. Why? Kids ask you now why. Some of us couldn't ask why. Had to just swallow it and keep on moving. But you can ask why. Oh Lord, because I am We told Moses they asked who sent you to say I am that I am sent you. Well that's a bad response in it. Who sent you? I am Tell the devil today, I am, so I can be holy. Who I am, the one who scooped the dust out of the earth and made me. I am that one, the one who allows me to live a life that is pleasing. I I am and in taking the test there will always be questions. All types, multiple choice, true and false, matching, completion And the essay. I love some essay. Knew a little bit and wrote about three pages. Professor said, Tudon, nice try. You wrote stuff, but I did not have a mastery of the information. Amen? There are closed questions and open questions and probing questions and leading questions and loaded questions. Uh and funnel questions and recall and process questions and rhetorical questions. But the bottom line is this: your faith will be tested. But God has made a way for you and I to pass the test. You want to know how? He makes this an open book test. Oh, some of y'all like that. You mean the answer is yeah, that's an open book test. The Bible is the book If you want to know what it means to live holy, just open the book. You want to know what to say and how to make a decision? Open the book. It's all in the book. That's how you pass. Amen. James 1, 3, and 4 says, because you know that the testing of your faith produces perseverance. Let perseverance finish this work so that you may be mature and complete and liking nothing. So what what what have we learned today? I've learned today that I'm a long life learner And this goes beyond a degree or two or a certificate, but God will have a graduation. It'll be a ceremony where there won't be a cap and gown But there'll be a crown and a robe. Oh my God. Oh my God. And Paul wanted folks to see. You know, folk will build you up. So well, you somebody say, You know what, brethren I count not myself, they have apprehended. But this I do forgetting those things which are behind And pressing forth to those things which are before, I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling in Christ Jesus. Don't you see me pressing Are you pressing the day toward the morning? No, I'm not there, but I'm trying. I don't always get it right, but I'm trying. Seek me. I thank God for the tutor, the one who will lead me. And guide me along the way. For if he leads me, I cannot speak. Lord, help me walk. Each day with thee. Lead me, oh Lord, lead me. Anybody want to be led today? Yeah, I'm trying to get this. Holding this thing right. But every time I go, somebody gets in my way. Every time I try to live right, somebody lying on me. Every time I'm trying to live, somebody back biting me. But I'm gonna keep on pressing Amen. My my my my my word will be tested. As a believer you'll come before the judgment seat of Christ. But you know what? Sign me up for a new course. As I leave you today, all I gotta say is sign me up For the Christian Jubilee. Ah, isn't that good news today? That keep my name on the roll. I just want to be ready when Jesus comes. Can I save the day that every day that I get up, I'm trying to get ready because none of us know when that day is the last day But I tell you today I'm so glad that Jesus has lifted me to a place to where holiness is at least in reach. I'm not going to stop until I reach that city called heaven. And don't you know there's a place called heaven where holiness will be all over. Amen. Just open your heart up today and decide up today and know that there's a course with your name on it. You know, some courses won't let you come in without a prerequisite. If you didn't take 101, you can't take 202 But I'm glad today that the God that I serve, it don't matter. I may have failed in the past. I may have been held back for a grade, but thank be the God today that he still is able to use me. Anybody? It feels used today knowing that the God that you serve He's looking for holiness and not something holiness two point two but holiness Anytime you want to feel like you're reaching that place, you just put your hand in there and say, I need thee every hour. Hallelujah today. I'm just trying to pass the course in holiness. I'm glad today that God is He is my keeper. That God is. He's my provider. That God is the one who will keep you through seen and unseen dangers. God is the one who will bring you through. God is God is, God is, hallelujah. Lessons. My paper is late The dog ate my home word, but it's in my heart that it makes the difference. Lessons on holy living. That's the word of God today. It's already a blessed. Come on, stand. I'm trying. Yeah, try harder. Just wanna just wanna get this thing right. Yeah, I just kind of want to be a Christian, always feel like one, but it's in It's in my heart. Lord, you know my heart. He does. Be ye holy as I am holy. I'm the standard, not Brother Joe, not Rev Doctor, not Sister Susie, but I am the standard In my heart. Lord, I want to be Christian in my heart. In my heart. In my heart. What nobody can see. In my heart. As you bow your heads today. Reverend that's that's a lot to ask, man. I mean holy You mean fell apart? You mean separated? That's what the Bible declares today. If you've come into this place and you desire to have a personal relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ, Open your heart today. What does that look like? Heart that is that would control our emotion. And just say, Lord Jesus, I'm I'm a sinner. I felt holiness three or four times. But I'm coming for for a makeup exam because I want you to come in and to change me. I believe that You sent Jesus Christ to die for me. I I believe that he died and he rose again. Right answer? And I want to just let him in today. Father, if there's someone who's not made that declaration, may they do it today. Only you're in the saving business. Hallelujah. Father, even now, while those heads are bowed. Maybe there's one and we're not worried about who's in here or what the camera's picking up. While all heads above. If you don't know Jesus Christ, just raise your pinky today. I want to just pray with you. If you're not sure, if there's some doubt today about Am I saved if Jesus came back today? Would I go with him? I'm not sure. I want to offer Christ to you today. Hallelujah. Amen. Maybe you've come today and you you desire to be a part of this fellowship. We're open to you today. If you want to come this way, you want to go online, whatever you want to do. God is prepared to receive you into this fellowship. Blessed be the God. Come on, give God a praise today. Amen. Take your seats for about one minute.