In the name of Jesus. And so today, make victory yours, make joy yours, make happiness yours today. Well, it's time for the Word of God. We certainly want to take a moment now to pray before we get there. Father, we come. In the name of Jesus, and we thank you for your word. We thank you for what you have left on record. We thank you for breathing on mankind. that they may document that which you have said. As we come today, it is our prayer that we might decrease, dear God, and that you might increase. Save someone today, encourage another, and when this time is done, we'll be so careful to give your name the praise And all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Again, thank you for joining us today. There is a word that comes from the Old Testament prophet of Jeremiah. Jeremiah the 18th chapter of verses 1 through 6. I always like to say that the Word of God is so full. And in the words of the Uh late Dr. Charles Edward Booth, he would say you've got to walk around the text, ask it questions, interrogate it. So I've been trying to do that this week. Jeremiah 18, 1 through 6 reads as follows This is the word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord. Go down to the potter's house, and there I will give you my message. So I went down to the potter's house. And I saw him working at the wheel. But the pot he was shaping from the day, from the clay weather, was marred in his hands So the potter formed it into another pot, shaping it as seemed best to him. Verse five says, Then the word of the Lord came to me. He said Can I not do with you, Israel, as this potter does? declares the Lord, like clay and the hand of the potter, so are you in my hand, Israel. I want to preach today from the Samonic title Lessons from the Potter's House. If I was trying to describe to you play-doh for the first time, I would have to use my holy imagination and say It's soft and it's smooth and squishy. You can change and make different shapes with it. And you would say, oh, I've got some play dough. It still is a popular item uh in light of all the electronic equipment out there, Play Doh still is old school. But when I was growing up We didn't have play-doh. Maybe you did. We didn't have something like that that we could actually make or use, but we did have a substitute. We had clay. Some of y'all just got country on me. No matter where you are, if it was visiting family, somewhere you encountered clay Now the Bible does not talk about play-doh, but it does address and talk about clay. It was common during this time to use clay to to make you know pottery to jugs and pots and dishes. And the Bible, I believe, in so many ways compares us To clay. I think it's because God is always molding us. I'm glad about that today. He's always changing us to what to be in his image. He wants us to be like his son, Jesus Christ. And so he's always in the process Don't you feel God's hand sometimes shaping you and molding you and getting you into a place that you might receive Him? He molds our minds He molds our emotions. He molds who we are today. And thank God that we are in His hand. You know, the Bible has a special way of speaking about symbols. I mean something is common as clay and how that is being used to get a message across. Well, it is in Jeremiah that we meet this young prophet. He starts declaring the word of God at the age of seventeen, and of course he is the mouthpiece for God. He is someone who God uses as a spokesperson to talk and to deliver a message to the people of Israel hard-headed people, disobedient people, but there he is declaring what thus saith the Lord And what I like about this is that in describing him, he is often called the weeping prophet. He took it personal that when he delivered a word to the people, he was really intent that they would listen to it. He all but begged them to listen to the word of God. Isn't that amazing how the people of Israel are so much like we are today? Oh, we're hard-headed and we're stiff-necked and we're disobedient, but God still has a word for us. He is on assignment. And so really we're going to talk and unpack those passages by saying that where did he go? Where did God send him? And what did he see? What did he scope out? And what did he have to say as a result of the visual? Let's unpack that. God has some place for us to go. He had some place for Jeremiah to go. This is the word that came to Jeremiah. Go down to the potter's house, and there I will give you my message. Uh uh Jeremiah obviously was was aware of where the Potter's house was. He he knew the neighborhood. He knew uh that was a profession in the community and so thinking how God will use something that you're familiar with to do what to speak to his people. So he goes down and he sees the potter there at the potter's house. I believe that God is sending us some places. Amen. He's sending us to some physical places. He's sending us to some emotional places that we need to go. He's sending us to some spiritual places He didn't beg Jeremiah He just says, you know what? If you're speaking for me, I need for you to go. My God, we would question God. We would give God a questionnaire. Why do you need me to go? And why uh where's the potter's house again? And you know, I'd been down there one time before. Oh, we give God all kind of uh mouth and amen. But he sends us to a place Why? Because he wants us to engage in it. God, we miss so much stuff because we don't go where God has sent us. He doesn't have a spiritual GPS. I recall so vividly uh my senior year of college and I thought I was all that as a bag of chips And I remember bumping to Professor Phil Kirstead, the late professor there at Florida AM University, said, Mr. Tootin, he went, yes sir, Mr. Kirstead, I think you ought to go to Washington, D. C. and uh and try for this program for reporters. And I was saying, I don't really want to go to Washington, D. C. I thought I was the man there in Florida And so I said, okay, I I got my ticket from Greyhound, uh got on the Greyhound bus, rode all night long. Going to a place I'd never really been to before, but there was something for me to see at that place. So when I got there, I thought I knew everything, but that particular moment was a big change in my career because in going there it helped me in my journey. Do you see where I'm going? Is that God is trying to send you to a place in him. Don't buck it. Don't reject it. Don't take a detour. He has someplace for you To go. Think about it. As a community of faith, what if we just listen to God and go to the places that He wants us to go? Can I just change this thing a little bit? Uh, you know, young people say, Oh, you didn't go there, did you? Yeah, yeah, you need to go there sometimes, even in conversations with family members. Oh Lord, I know I'll get some heat for this, but every now and then, because God has sent you. You need to go there. And so Jeremiah goes to this place. But I like what the gospel of Luke says when Jesus is sending those disciples out. He says he appointed 72. And sent them two by two to do what? To go and to declare the good news of Jesus Christ. There is some place to go, and it may be your potter's house, but it's also something to see where God sends you So I went down to the potter's house and I saw him working at the wheel, but the pot he was shaping from the clay was marred in his hands. So the potter formed it into another pot, shaping it as what seemed best for him Jeremiah took notice of the clay pot. Can you see him now just saying, looking and observing to see all that was going on? Can you see him focusing? right on the potter and the wheel as it was going around and the hands of the potter. But what he sees is that there's something wrong with this piece. It's marred. In our own lives sometimes, that is our experience. That means that this particular piece of clay was tarnished. It was blemished, it was disfigured, it was unperfect, and that's where we are today. So what happened to the clay When it becomes marked, well the potter uh does some transformation. He didn't throw it away. He said, listen, I can use some of this And God did not throw you away. He saw something in you. He who has begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. And so don't be so quick to throw people away Don't be so quick as oh no, I need to start over again. I need to delete this. No, stay with it. God is a God of transformation, and he takes a life that seems messed up, blemished Marred and he uses it to his glory. I mean there's some folks that you and I have counted out a long time ago. They don't have it. No, they don't have it. They're like that clay. They're marred. They don't have the right stuff to succeed Well, find them on Facebook now. Let them know. Look at what God has done in my life. Amen? That God has allowed them to succeed, not just in the world. but to succeed at their relationship with him. We can't count people out. Were you one of those people that Got counted out. You were at the back of the line. You were not in the advanced class. You were just not the person. You were not on a role or on a society. You were not honorable mentioned. You were just going along in life space. But look at God today. Look at you now. My God. Look at your hands and look at your feet. And look where God has taken you today. We cannot count people out. We cannot throw them away because God did not throw us away. Praise be to God. And over in 1 Samuel 16 and 7, you know, David didn't look like much He was just a rough looking fellow out with his father's sheep. And it was his stature that people say, oh, he's a small fella. He he won't amount to much. But God used them. He says, don't look at the outward appearance. Mankind looks at the outward appearance, but aren't you glad today that God looks at the inner you, that God knows that there's something taking place in. Oh, I know you you you qualify for that Amen. That God sees something that man can't see. And when he does, he builds it up. I'm excited. God can testify. I thank God today that he saw something in me I thank God that he continues to develop me into who he wants me to be. And so there is an opportunity to see people as God sees them. So go back to your count it out list and take people's names off. Because you know what the truth of the matter is, you were right where they were. Or you hadn't testified right today But thank be to God that he sees something in you and you ought to change your glasses and see something in someone else, all from a Potter's house lesson All from going down and Jeremiah, wait a minute, he could have thrown that away, but he shaped it and he worked it to the glory of God. God has something for you to see, a place for you to go, but also something for you to say. It was all about the message. Amen. He said, can I not do with you, Israel? as this potter does, declares the Lord, like clay in the hand of the potter So are you in my hand. God had a way of making it plain, didn't he? Something is simple And go into a potter's house, seeing a messed up piece of clay, and God said, you know what? The same way the potter shaped that piece, I can shape your life. And so there was a message to these hard-headed people. That was the message to these disobedient people. And what conclusion have you drawn from where God has sent you? And for what God has shown you, you know my conversation is not what it used to be. Amen? My message has changed. Amen. I I try my best and solely you to do something uplifting the people to encourage them. Whereas before he was like, you know what I got mine, you got yours. But when God does something in you, your message changed. He has given us a handbook by giving us the Word of God My God, you ought to have something to say about what God has done for you. There ought to be some kind of message based on what he has seen in you and what you've seen and where you've gone, there ought to be something you ought not be mute. You ought to tell somebody about the good news of Jesus Christ He has equipped us earlier in Jeremiah 1 and 9. He says the Lord reached out to me. The Lord touched me And he put words in my mouth. I'm glad today that God still does that. As I begin to read This 18th chapter, it would have been easy to shut the books. All right. He went down, he he saw the clay, uh, you know, it was marred, and the potter made something of it, praise be to God, but it did not end there. The people did not receive the message from Jeremiah. They wanted to hear a different message. Amen? They didn't want to hear a message of correction. They wanted to hear something else. And so they plotted against Jeremiah. You wonder why he was called? the weeping property because folk mess with him. They wanted him to be quiet and to stop. And I don't want to hear that. We don't need him to teach us or give us any advice. Does that sound familiar? Amen. Let's spread rumors about these are vicious people. And we live with vicious people today. They want to take you down, bullies in the spirit. Amen. They wanted to ignore what He said. So to you, beloved, don't be discouraged that that son or daughter is not getting the message. Don't be discouraged if that brother or sister is not getting the message. Don't be discouraged if that wife or husband is not getting the message. Don't be upset and mad if that coworker or neighbor does not get the message. Don't you know that they may not want to hear the message, but you gotta keep declaring. I like what the hymn writer says, if when you give the best of your service Telling the world that the Savior has come, be not dismayed. When men don't believe you, he will understand and say, Well done. We must never forget that we are clay in the hand of the pot. I know you're good looking and you got it going on, but you're just clay. Amen. And the potter wants to work with you. I brought along a couple of clay witnesses today. David will tell you that he brought me out of the monk and the Maury clay. David was in some slippery places. Isaiah says, you know what? There's something about the hand of the potter in my life. Job acknowledged I am formed out of the clay from the dust of the earth. Paul says, you know that the that that the clay can't tell the potter what to do. The potter tells the clay what to do. Sometimes we get that mixed up. And John writes what he sees in the ministry of Jesus when he comes across that blind man. And he says, you know, I need to see. And what does Jesus do? He spits on the ground, makes a mud pie out of some clay, and puts it on the man's eyes. He is able to see. This is the same Jesus who died for you. This is the same Jesus who rose for you. This is the same Jesus who was bred when you were hungry. This is the same Jesus who was watered when you were thirsty, the same Jesus who keeps a roof over your head, the same Jesus who puts holes on your back The same Jesus who's a fence around you every day is the same Jesus who's a battle axe in the time of battle. The same Jesus who's a lawyer in a courtroom in the courtroom. The same Jesus who's a doctor in a sick room. Amen. Can I sum it up by saying that Jesus is all the world to me? Have thine own way, Lord. Have thine own way. I am the clay, but you were the potter. Don't get it mixed up and don't get it twisted. He is still trying to shake you to the glory of God. But you've got a want to be molded. You've got a desire to be shaped. You've got to say, Lord, here I am. Use me to your glory. And you thought the trip to the palace house was a field trip. Well, yes, it really was. A field trip for you to see something And to say something. That is the word of God. We have an invitation for you, and we'll come back and tell you more about Jesus. Like the morning red after the rain. Let's kingdom show every way, but there's something about All have no way, but there's something about. Hallelujah. There is something about that name. Our whole life depends on what we make of Jesus. Amen. The Bible says at the name of Jesus, every knee shall bow, every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God. We'll take a moment of your time today to invite you to give your life to Jesus Christ. If you've never Uh open your mouth and confess to the Lord Jesus Christ that Lord I am a sinner. I've missed the mark, and yet I I want to change my life. But I can't change it. I need for you to come in and to do the work, to do the heavy lifting. Here's what I've discovered over time. There's power in that name. Let me tell you, he can transform your life. You may find yourself in a dark place, in a low place today, and you've tried everything else. Can I recommend Jesus Christ to you? Well, Reverend, how can I do that? I'm not in the church house. I'm just watching you or myself. Well, right where you are today. Jesus can come, He can touch your heart. And here's something that you need to do The Bible says, if thou shalt confess with thy mouth, you've got to say it, the Lord Jesus, and believe in your heart, in your being, that God has raised him from the dead. The Bible says, Thou shalt be saved. The saints of all would say, Have you been converted? Has your life changed? Begin anew today. And give your life to Jesus. Let's pray. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. And this is serious business. That is the business of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I pray today For that one person who's been in the valley of indecision, that they may decide today that I'm going to speak it in my own time, my own place, and say, Jesus Christ, I am a setter. But I want you to save me and make my life new. And I've come by to tell you he can do it. Touch that soul the day we pray, even now In the name of Jesus. Amen. I pray you made a decision today. You can reach out to us by way of our update. Reverend Tell me more about it. I'll be more than happy to unpack it more, give you my personal testimony about what great things can happen when you commit your life to Jesus Christ. Amen. Let's check in with some of our announcements. It is our desire to keep you up to date on all of the harvest happiness. We'll be glad to keep you informed. Send your text or email tocome the number2hartest. org slash updates. We can't thank you enough for your financial support If you'd like to plant seeds online, contact us at comethenumbertwoharvest. org slash give online with your financial support Harvest is becoming a global ministry, reaching listeners and viewers now in forty states and thirty countries. To God be the glory. For prayer, reach us at contact at comethenumbertwoharvest. org. For WHM News from Studio C, I intend to uni. Now back to you, Pastor. Thank you, sir. Always a pleasure to have uh the voice of harvest to come in and to give us an update on what's taking place. Well I pray you were blessed today. I pray that you will uh take time to share the word of God uh with someone near you. Uh we all fancy now amen But before we close out today, I'm going to close a different way. Uh and I know the technicians gonna get me it wasn't on the format, amen. I get in trouble sometimes. Amen. But I want to say to you that we we we thank you. Uh stay tuned to your updates. Uh weather permitting next week. We uh may go back to drive, but but you make sure if you are not on the list, if Big Mama is not on the list If Cousin Jake is not on the list of getting updates, sign them up today so they might receive in their hands what's happening in the life of Harvest Christian ministries. Amen. So let's uh close out with always remember Jesus, the choir's coming, and then we'll go out. Amen Six. Me the dummy We can say goodbye on behalf of the entire Harvest team. We thank you for joining us today. Have a blessed day in the Lord. Why? He's God of all. Take care of yourself