I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen, whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, Podcast, or our website I really do believe that God has a special message just for you. A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries for a worship experience already in progress. But it felt strange to end up stranded between an army and the sea. They must have felt good taken wondering why God wasn't all he said he'd be a birth against no more is the hardest Praise the Lord somewhere between provision and impossibility. God will make no way when there seems to be no way forever. Oh my god When the world says crying and love And this rather kill this way is almost God. The carry on the carry on. Trouble on it all God did make that coin what it seems to be long way. Whatever he will make all those with. I know that you make a wave that you may. God will take no way to be but make seek to be no way forever. God will make our way. God will make a way. How many believe that today You'll make a way out of nowhere. Mama would say he's a way maker. As we bow today all over this place, Father, we thank you that you are the way, the truth, and the life. No one coming to the Father except by you. As we come today, God, we are reminded of just how good you are. Reminded of your blessings. The ones that we don't deserve, you are great God. As we come today, pray that we might decrease and that you might increase God save someone today. Encourage another, but when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen Amen. God is good. I had an opportunity by being away and to see my mom recovering. I know he's good. Amen. Thank you for all of your prayers in that regard. There's a word from the Lord today. It does come from the first book of the Bible, the book of Genesis. 12th chapter, verses 1, 2, and 3. The Lord had said to Abram, Leave your country, your people, and your father's household, and go to the land I will show you. I will make you into a great nation and I will bless you. I will make your name great and you will be a blessing. Verse 3 says, I will bless those who bless you. And whoever curses you, I will curse, and all peoples on earth will be blessed through you. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, The Power of Letting Go, Part 1. the power of letting go part one. In fact, over the next few weeks, we'll talk about the importance of letting go of places. Letting go of people, letting go of things. Can I get Amen? Sometimes we hold on too tight and we refuse to let go of people and places and things that may or may not be good for us. Amen As I think about this whole sense of moving and this whole sense of places, I remember moving from my parents' house in Florida, 588 Martin Street, and moved to the dormitory at Florida State. And from there to the apartment complex down the street, which still stands, the Regency. And from there to Jacksonville, for my internship, I lived with Ms. Georgia Munge on Kings Avenue. And I had a room in her home and from there back to Tallahassee in a mobile home with my homeboy. And from that, I moved away to Washington, D. C. I stayed with a friend of a friend until I got my own place in Adams, Morgan, and went from there to West Virginia. Got my own apartment there. And then things started to change. I met the love of my life. We had a little apartment that was yay big, second floor in a house, hard to get the Christmas tree upstairs, from there to our own home And then I moved to Baltimore alone to the east side and then our first townhome and now where we live. So Add all that up. It's been 37 years, two states in the district. I've moved around a little bit. But when it comes to places, there's one who knows about moving and learns a new lesson in the person of Abraham. He's called Abram because God at some point changes his name from Abram to Abraham and his wife from Sari to Sarah. You know, God will change your name Folk used to call you one thing, but my God, you keep walking with the Lord, and all of a sudden your name will take on a new meaning We find him today at the age of 75 making his first major move. What he does, he helps us to see the importance of letting go of places And he moves to an area called Haran, which means crossroads. He was born in Ur, and he was headed actually to a place called Canaan. He didn't know then. All he knew was is that God had a place for him to go, and he had to let go of where he was to move to the place that God had prepared for him. Am I making sense this morning? Amen. About 500 miles. And so if you take that in real time, that's like driving the Detroit. going to Portland, Maine, or going down to Charleston, South Carolina. It was a journey, but he didn't know much about the details, but he was willing to go wherever God would send him There's something about our faith, we can talk a good faith game, but when it comes to being obedient, he hears from God. Well, Reverend, how do you hear from God in 2014? The same way we heard from God back yonder. God speaks through his word. God speaks through his Holy Spirit. God speaks through circumstances. That's most often how we really hear him. You down and out. You say, oh Lord, I hear you. Uh he speaks to other people that God will send you away. It may not be somebody you know that would drop a piece of wisdom on you uh in the elevator and you'll be blessed by it. But this sense of obedience is what we see happening in the life of Abraham. He hears what God has to say. And although he's been where he's been for all those years, had made connections with his family, to pack up And to move is something that really must have caused him some trepidation. Let me ask you right now, how many folk are not from here? Look at that, okay. So y'all had to move. And you go back down home and folk remember you when and how you doing. But I took a greyhound bus. It was all night. A footlocker, a suit bag, and a suitcase, and a dollar or two in my pocket. And I moved. Abraham moves. And God makes promises to him. He makes promises thus. And first of all, he says to him that it's going to be a new place. A new place. The Lord has said to Abram, Leave your country, your people, your father's household, and go to the land I will show you. We're privileged. You buy a home, you get to see the model, don't you? And walk around in it and pick your carpet and the whole deal. If you buy a new car, you get to test drive it. In Abraham's case, none of that. He just had to believe God that there was this place he was going to show him. Didn't know where it was. But God was going to move him to a place that I will now you ever have somebody say I'm going to show you You don't see it yet, but that's what faith is, is not being able to see it. But here he is, and can I just get down home? 75 Prophet Senior Center playing bingo And you got to move me where? He responds to the Word of God to this new place that he's never gone to before. But you know what I like about this? It's not just a physical place I think God is trying to move us spiritually from some places in life. Amen. And that's what I like about the walk of faith, I'm not in the same place I was 10, 15, 20 years ago, I didn't move to a physical location, but I'm not the Tim that I used to be, and you're not the person that you used to be. Why? You've moved to a new place. How many folk want to go to a new place in living? A new place in prayer, a new place in giving, a new place in moving in the will and the way of God. That's it. Didn't go nowhere, but I moved. My spirit man moved to another location that I'm not the person that I used to be. How many folk want to move today? To a new place That's it. If any person be in Christ, they're a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things become what? New. Are you ready to move yet? Pack up the things in your life and say, I've got to move to a new place. I gotta let this place go in order to move to where God had. Well, Reverend, I don't know where it is. That's what faith is. All you know is that he's got something better prepared for you if you're ready not to debate him but move. That's exciting to me. I didn't go nowhere, didn't get no mileage on the car, but I'm not the old man. But he's doing a new thing in you. New place. But then there's a new person. That's what's exciting. He said in verse 2: I will make you into a great nation I will bless you. I will make your name great, and you will be a blessing. You can't take an old person into a new place. Your old ways into a new experience. He's saying, I'm going to do something in you that you're not even seeing it yet, but you won't be the same Abraham. Because I'm gonna do something with you. Things that you could never have imagined in your own life. He said, I'm gonna make you into a great name. You're gonna be somebody. Ever had forecast you and tell you and you're gonna make something out of yourself. When you left home, didn't they tell you that? Now go represent us well. Didn't your family tell you that? You carry our name. He is able to hear God tell him that I'm gonna make something real big out of you. And it won't really be your doing. See, we don't have the control. We said if I'm going to do a new thing in you, you don't get to call the shots. How many folk love to call the shots? Oh, you know you do. Yes, you do. You like to call the shots God is calling all the Scots. And I will bless you in the process. And blessing is not what the world paints it to be. Blessing is not necessarily, oh I got a raise, that's a blessing. You know, I got a new car, that's a blessing. A blessing is getting up in the morning and being able to breathe Being able to know a left foot from right foot, being able to go downstairs and get a little piece to eat, that's a blessing Being able to know that the Lord has kept you all night long, that's the new person. He said, I will bless you in addition to making you a great nation, a real somebody, not a great state Not a great town, but you're gonna be over some you're the father of faith. You ain't realizing yet Abraham. I will make your name great. We like that You mean on the billboard? You mean in some translations they I will make you famous. Oh, we like that. Yes. This week I was at the White House and doing a report about the education, the teacher of the year. And I was in my little spot and next to me was ABC News. And then a guy walks up and says, Hi, I'm so-and-so. And I said, Well, you know I'm Tim Tootin. And I didn't know who he was. Until he sat down in the next booth. And the guy said, We have with us today fifth from Scandal. How many of y'all watch Candles? Come. Some of y'all didn't raise y'all hand. All I knew was, I say, excuse me, may I say I don't really watch your show, but my house does. I say, I believe that there are many preachers who have said, next week I'm going to preach your scandal, and they pack the churches I say in fact there are scandals in the Bible. I took 30 seconds to get fixed. He may never see me again, but I got a chance to witness to him And he was somebody who was famous. People taking selfies. I was like, I didn't know you, man. But while I've got you, let me drop 30 seconds on something that's faith-based. So now watch it in the fall off. Yep, it's I'm Tim. You will become a great person, but it's not because of your name. Ah, it's the name that you proclaim, I believe. See, there are many Tim's And I found this mother Tim Tutan still. I met one not long ago. We laughed by that thing. He said, man, I say, man, you're a Tim Tut. I'm Tim Tutin. Did they forget you too? Yes But when you take the name of the Lord with you, that really allows you to say if any person be in Christ, they are new Christian. I mean, you'll take that name with you. And so it's not about making fame for yourself, but because you represent God. You're really carrying that name. At the name of Jesus, every knee shall bow, every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. And you will be a blessing. You'll bless folk, and they won't even know it. You'll just be that kind of person. So there's a new place. When you let go of the old place, there's a new place. And then in the process, you can take an old person, old meaning not your age, but your experience, into a new place. So you become what? A new person. But finally, you'll gain a new perspective. He says, I will bless those who bless you. Abraham said, huh? You're gonna do what? And whoever curses you, I will curse. Whoever mess with you. I'm gonna get them. Sometimes we're trying to fight our own battles. But you be still and let the Lord fight your battle. You'll keep smiling. Once we get our flesh in it and we give them a dirty look, come on Christians. But you will gain a new perspective because anybody who messes with you, I will take care of it. Greater is he that is in me than he that is what? In the world There's no weapon formed against you that should prosper. I've got your back. Aren't you glad today that God has your back that you can't fight all your enemies Once you knock out one, the other one's coming, and once you kind of get that person back, somebody else got to on the left hook. Amen. But he said, I'm gonna take care of you that you've never seen anything like this before. His perspective changed He had a new prescription. Quite a few of y'all wear glasses in here, including me. They call him progressive now, but you know what that means You gotta bend down. And some of y'all got contacts. And some of y'all need glasses. Amen. I was about to keep it real. Make it wake up and make an appointment But when you begin to let go of some places that God has prepared new places for you, you will get a new look at your life. Isn't that good news today? That I can look a different way. And it says at the end, all peoples on earth will be blessed through you That's amazing. It's not his responsibility, but it's what God is going to do in him and through him. You busy trying to get the headline. He said, I will take care of you. I will bless you. I'll call you on the cell phone. Amen. But what I'm saying is that this perspective will change your life And you begin to see things in a new light. Are you ready to let go some places now in your life? And to move on from the places that you've been so familiar with. Even if it means too familiar with what you've become in life, now it's time for that next step. What I'm glad about today is that Jesus Christ knows about moving from place to place He was sent from a place called heaven, born in a place called Bethlehem, raised in a place called Nazareth went to a place called Golgotha got up from a place in a tomb and said I am going to my father's house I'm going but I will do what I will come back to this place. And the good news is, he says, I go to prepare a place for you that where I am you will be also in my father's house. There are many mansions. If it were not so I would not have told you. Aren't you glad today that when this life is over, there's another place not built by hand? You can't even imagine that thing. I know, I mean, one day you won't walk this earth, but you'll be In glory land, giving God the glory. Seeing the wondrous love of Jesus. Showing his mercy and his grace. In his mansions, brightness, blessing, he'll prepare a place. When we all get to heaven, that's a place. What a day of rejoicing that will be. When we all sing Jesus, we'll sing and we'll shout the victory. Oh my God, you ain't got excited. I'm talking about a new place he's prepared for you. That while you are here, you can give God the praise. But there will come a time in that new place. In that new Jerusalem, where you can say, you know what? All day long my job is to praise him. All day long and my job is just to bow down and to worship him. Why? Because he's God of all. Let go of that place. There's power in letting go. You'll become a new person. And you'll see it differently. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. Please stand all over this place today Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries for a worship experience already in progress. There's a word from the Lord today that deals with prayer. As we come, I want to share from 1 Samuel, 1 chapter 24 through the 28th verse. Says when the child was weaned, Hannah took him to the tabernacle in Shiloh. They brought along a three-year-old bull for the sacrifice. and half a bushel of flour and some wine. After sacrificing the bull, they took the child to Eli. Sir, do you remember me, Hannah asked? I am the woman who stood here several years ago praying to the Lord. I asked the Lord to give me this child, and he has given me my request. Now I'm giving him to the Lord, and he will belong to the Lord his whole life. And they worshiped the Lord there. I want to pick up from last week and talk about the power of letting go, part two, but letting go not just of places, but letting go of people. Letting go of people. Some time ago I had the assignment to document a Marine Corps boot camp down in South Carolina. It was something that was going to make the news and I dressed up in my uniform that they'd given me and I did some of the exercises. I wanted to be a Marine for three days. I think there might be a marine or two in here. I went to the top of a platform to repel, climbed up on the side and Got to the top and had second thoughts, but the camera was rolling. I could not quit at that point. And they put around me Belt me, put a rope in my hand. The sergeant led me to the edge of the platform. Okay? Remember as you step off, you must allow the rope to have some slack. In doing so, it will get you to the bottom safely. I heard the instruction, but I did not follow them. And so when I stepped off that platform, I refused to let go of that rope. Tim, let it go. In my mind I was saying, no way. I held tight On to that rope to the point that my hands began to burn, and I realized that I needed to let go. As I loosened the rope I slid down to the ground with no problem. I would not do that again. But in the process, I learned how to hold on. And how to let go. And that's a blessing in both. Holding on to the person of God. But letting go of people in our lives. If there is one who knows about holding on and letting go, it is one by the name of Hannah. Hannah shows up each year at Shiloh. They go to worship and that's why they brought uh bull and the flower. and the wine, because during that time, that's what took place. You would sacrifice an animal in order to worship. Thank God today we can just give God the praise. Why? Because the Lamb has already been slain in the person of Jesus Christ. That's why he's called the Lamb of God. But each year they would go up. Hannah and her husband and the other wife. And the culture will have it of such that he had two wives. The one wife had children, but Hannah was barren and could not have children. But she did not stop that. At that point, she prayed. And she made a vow unto God. She made a pledge unto God. God, if you give me a son. I will give him back to you. I'm holding on to your promise, but I'm also prepared at the appropriate time because I've made the pledge to let him go. Letting people go is not easy. There are persons that we cherish, it's hard to let go. There are persons who may not mean us any good, but yet we still hold on to them. as a way of security, but I submit today that there's power and freedom in letting people go. There's somebody in your life right now that you have not let go. You said it, but every time you try to hold on to them. I'm a product of that. I remember the day when I boarded the Greyhound bus heading north. Never thought how my mother felt to say goodbye. I turned the corner and she waved. Some years ago I said, Mama, why did you, why'd you let me go? Why do you you could have said, man, you don't want to go to Washington That's too far from home. And if she'd said one word, I would have unpacked my stuff. I said, no, I'm staying home because mama said so. But her and dad let me go. And she said to me, she says, I knew what your desire was. I knew what you wanted to do, and so therefore I could let you go. And there's some people in our lives that we have been trying to let go. But Hannah helps us today She goes to this place and people are making fun of her because she's been praying and nothing has been happening. And people have looked at you and said, I don't know why you're still praying for that When there's no result. But each year they would go to Shiloh, this place of rest, and they would go as a family, and they would pray unto God. And so she made this pledge and she prayed. And she went back and God answered her prayer. You ever had God to answer your prayer before? I mean you really prayed in earnest for someone And you've seen God make a difference in their lives? I've said before, sometimes you've got to help God. God, I'm checking in. Did you do it? I don't see no change in their lives. Our prayer is that they might hear the voice of God. We so much want to control that thing. I don't see any evidence that Johnny is doing any better. I don't know why she's not doing right. I've been praying for her, and we've got to put it in the hands of the Lord. But she knew how to pray and she made a pact with God that after he's born I'm gonna bring him back and present him to you. You see what I'm saying? Is that yes, hold on. But also know how to let go. And if a benefit really in both, she would not let go of God until her blessing came. But she was obedient to keep her word that once he got to a certain age that she would give him back. And what we learned today is that there has to be a plan to return. She goes back to Shiloh, back to the place she used to go, when folk would pick at her and say, I don't know why you're praying. And she goes before the priest Eli and says, Sir, do you remember me? Yeah, me. Three years ago I was here. I'm the woman who stood here and prayed unto the Lord. And sometimes you gotta go back to the place. To when you first prayed. Back to that situation to say, you know what? It was rough three years ago, but I can say now that God has answered my prayer. And in the process, he's also changed who I am. And she said, you remember me? Now Eli may say well I don't know if I remember you or not, but she says, Well let me help you then. I am the woman. And you are the woman, and you are the man who prayed unto God, and God answered your prayer. You said, I'm going back Just to check in to let folk know, look at what God can do. Amen. Every now and then you've got to go, not to brag, not to say I'm all that, not to say I had a hand in it, but I'm going back to the place Well he blessed me and saying I am the person you remember crying and upset and didn't know if I was gonna make it and you had some things in your life that you've been through and you say I'm back. I got a plan to return to the place where I first started praying, and sometimes we give up. Oh, yes, we do. Don't see no answer. Don't see anything happening, but we never stop. She goes back and she says, I prayed unto the Lord. That seemed like a small thing. She just hit it now and then. Oh, she prayed. It wasn't it when I get around to it, I'm gonna get a quick pray in But anybody knows that the fervent prayer of a righteous person avails much that folk have been on their knees for you you don't even know about. They've been praying and praying and praying Praying for you and praying for you and praying for you. And then you walk in the door and they're smiling. Why? Because they see prayer. You've come back home. There is something about going back. And that's what Hannah did. Some have come back to church It's going to come back to the place that you remember that. Well, I I grew up in church, but I really tried not to go when I got away. But you came back to the place where you learned how to say your prayers Well you learned that Bible verse to the place where you went on the little church picnic. There are some memories that you have, but she comes back. Are you willing today, as you let people go, to just say, well, I'm going back, to let them know what God has done Is that making sense this morning that there's just you gotta make a a U-turn? See sometimes we get it and say, Well you know what, it was us and we never go back. Never go back to the place where God has brought us through. You ever mark some territory off? You ever go back home and you mark on a tree. Some of y'all are too silly by for this. You mark on the tree somewhere and you go back here, it is still there. I was here When they're doing the pavement and the sidewalk and you know you ain't supposed to do it, you put your initials in there. We were on the beach that long and my wife put stuff in in the stand. You're on a marker place In your life experience about where I was here when he brought me. Let me get my name right here. About what he has done for me. There was a plan to return, but there was also A position to receive. She got herself in a place. I asked the Lord to give me this child, and He has given me my request. She brought evidence with her. Here is little Samuel right here. Is that I prayed And here he is. And you ought to bring with you some evidence. I used to be in the world, but look at me now. I'm going to suit the day. That's not what it used to be. But as I come back To share, know that I've received what I asked for. Let me ask you a question. Have you ever prayed for something And my God, you got it? Yeah. Any anybody, I'm just putting it out there. I mean, you really said, you know what? I prayed, and look what God has done And I brought with me States Exhibit number one. Something real life that I can show you. Look at him. This is the boy that I pray for. Look at me. Look at what God has done in my experience. And we've asked for some things. And God has done just that. And there ought to be something that you can show. What is it that you can show? Is there a changed light? Do you not say the things you used to say, not the places you used to go? Something ought to be different about you when you come back You don't want to talk about what he's done and then you're the same person, my God, keep the gun a good work and you will do what? Perform it until the day of Jesus Christ And so she's not bragging, but she said, I just want you to know that there is power in letting go. I came back and to remind you, because you had Eli, and after I got there, I want to show you that here he is. Here is the job I prayed for. Here's the relationship I prayed for. Here's the situation I prayed for. Here's the new life I've been transformed to. It's all in front of you. I have received what I got. Some of y'all say only at Christmas and you turn your lips up you didn't get what you wanted. Won't you know that God would allow you to bring, if nothing else, the old you back? And say, that's where I used to be, but look what God has done in my life even now. I'm a different person than I was before. But she could not have been the same, Hannah, because of what God had done in her life Elton, he still doing things in your life today. You made the request, and Lord helped me to pass this test. I see college students in here, high school students, and Lord, you did a praise the Lord It wasn't an A, but it was a B plus. And I thank you for that, God. Why? Because I prayed for a passing grade and you gave it to me. I prayed for a diploma and now I've received it. I prayed for a new situation and you've given it to me. Amen. This is the returning and receiving. But then there comes this point. You gotta prepare to release. Now that God said all this, I am giving him to the Lord And he will belong to the Lord his whole life. She made good on her promise You ever step something to God and when it came time you said, well now I didn't mean it like that, God. There was a page two that I didn't really want to to do that. I don't really want to release. And as a parent, you know How tough it is to let go. In situations, even in times of tragedy, it's tough. But because you have made the vow, she gives them back To belong to the Lord for his whole life. Now he wasn't but three. I know. Just learning his ABCs But there was a need in the land for a leader, and because she had prayed for a son, it was not just so that she would get the benefit, but The country needed a new leader. Eli was messing up. His sons were messing up and the need to be someone else. And so she gives, she releases the son She let go. And it lets you know that it is possible to let go of people. Those that we love, those that we cherish, those that we still say, I'm still your daddy. And I'm still your mama. And as long as you're in my house, as long as you're in my house. Amen. But once we let them go. But she didn't just say go with anybody, but she knew that God would take care of him. She knew that God would keep him. And they said at the end, and they worshiped the Lord there. She didn't need sad. She started right there on the spot, giving God some praise. Not no need for a bull and flour and wine, but they were anybody ever worship God Once you've let something go that's been burdening you down, you say, you know what? I've let it go now, and I've made room to worship. Only when I release this can I say, Lord Now it's really all in your hand. I trust you. I trust you're gonna take care of the situation. And she was able to go back every year and see that boy. He made little holes for him. She would go, but she had done what? Made good on her promise to let him go. And every now and then you've got to let yourself go. As long as I give myself away so that you can use me See, as long as you're the old person, you ain't tell him at least nothing. But when God does a new thing in your life, when he changes who you are, My God, you ought to just release the old Tim. Yeah, I don't know, not the good old days, but Lord. Take that Tim, because he's not all he should be. But he who began a good work in you will do what perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. Anybody want to be able to let go the day of yourself? Maybe you've held yourself too tight and you let yourself go so that God can use you to it. Don't you know he wants to use you? To his glory. God knows about letting go. One day he let go of his son. Jesus Christ. Let him go. He saw the condition of mantime. And so he let him go. Aren't you glad today that he let him go? Had he not let him go, I'd still be lost in my sin. Had he not let him go, I would not have peace that passes all understanding. Had he not let him go, I would not have joy That comes in the morning. Had he not let him go, Satan would still be on my track, and I would have no hope for tomorrow. But because he said, I'm releasing my son unto you. Why? There's a need that I see And I'm glad today he still lets go. Aren't you glad today about that that he said, you know what? I know what's needed. And then he got there and he served and shared and killed and he went to the and then Mary had to let him go She was troubled in the heart, but she let him go, and because of that, we are the better because Christ died on that cross. But more so, he got up On the third day morning with all power in it, and that's why I can let go. Why? Because he let go, and so that's why we come to give God the praise today. There's power that's gained in letting people go. There are those who uh may mean you know well, it's a toxic relationship. You need to let them go. And there are those that we love that we let go, but nevertheless know that he is the one that takes care of it all Weren't you glad today that he does that in our lives? That there's power and saying, you know what, I'm not gonna hold one pinky on it. I I kind of let it go I kind of let them go, but I'm gonna still check behind them, but there is freedom and power in letting go. It was a hard thing for a mother Men can't relate to that. We're wired differently. But when a mother Can let go. When a mother makes a pledge or a vow of God, it's a powerful thing. And that's what Hannah did. Hannah, thank you. You showed that there's a time to hold tight. And there's a time to let go. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. There's a word today from the book of Job. Beginning in the first chapter, verses 1 through 3. In the land of us there lived a man whose name was Job This man was blameless and upright. He feared God and shunned evil. He had seven sons and three daughters. And he owned 7,000 sheep. 3,000 camels, 500 yoke of oxen, and 500 donkeys, and had a large number of servants. He was the greatest man among all of the people of the East. And then over in Job in the very last chapter, 42nd chapter, verses 12 and 13 It says the Lord blessed the latter part of Job's life more than the first. He had 14,000 sheep six thousand camels, a thousand yoke of oxen, and a thousand donkeys. And he also had seven sons and three daughters. I want to conclude our series. uh this morning by sharing from uh the power of letting go part three, the power of letting go uh part three we've dealt with really uh letting go of places. Abraham talked about uh God will show me this new place I've never gone to before and he moves based on the command from God. We talked about that and how many of us would say, Lord, I hear you, I'm packing up. And it's not just a place physically, but where God is moving us spiritually in our walk with Him Well last Sunday we uh talked with Hannah and she talked about the importance of holding on and letting go. being persistent in prayer, but being willing uh to go through with the pledge we make to God that we'll let folk go. Amen. And more so to let ourselves go. It's not always somebody, but every now and then we find our own selves in a position, in a place That we need to let go of ourselves and allow the Lord to come in and do the work. That's kind of a scary thing, isn't it? Just to give, I mean to take all the brakes off and say, Lord, I'm yours You ever done that before and say, you know what? Whatever you want to do, Lord, and then the Lord does it, and we get really excited, don't we? And that's so important in our walk of faith. But we're going to talk about things today, letting go of things. Certainly if we think about what we see on the news all across this nation a few weeks ago uh storms that came and hit uh persons from Arkansas to Tennessee, uh Alabama, leaving devastation. One thing about tornadoes, they just hit. As a Florida boy, I mean they'll tell you that hurricanes are coming. You get a chance to pack up and move if you want to, but tornadoes will come at a moment's notice and will destroy property. People who live in these states know what it means to lose loved ones, to lose people. And to lose their homes, places that they call home, and to lose things. Things they have gathered over the years. You'll see people going through trying to find old pictures If there's one who knows about what it means to lose everything, it really is Job. Job is one who knows what it means to lose everything you have. Job was someone that if he was modern day, he would be on four's list of richest people. I would imagine that Job would be Wall Street's man of the year. He would be that 1%. Job had it like that. He's one who had the wealth, but he also believed and trusted in God I'm not a preacher who talks about prosperity, but you know what? God can give you the desires of your heart. Amen. And that means that we can listen to him, make the right investments. And God can prosper us. So it's I don't believe that because folk have money and have it like that, then they can't love the Lord. Amen. Sometimes we make that assumption, but Job is one Who gives the example of being the kind of person who loves God. And because of that, he's also one who is very much rich. Let me just break it on down, quit painting it up. He was he had he had a Job was loaded He had things, I mean look at all the uh oxen that was worth something. And he's the one that could talk and tell you about how uh he was able to accomplish this, it is through the hand of God I mean, we don't want to always be owing somebody. I'm it's not a seminar, and I'm not qualified, but it wouldn't it be great if you didn't owe anybody? I mean we'll turn this thing. I mean how many folk got a bill or two? Or three. Amen. And the day will come, you know, that you you'll pay some stuff off and you'll invest uh some folks raised their hand. I praise God talking to y'all But Joel paints that kind of picture as one who's able to accomplish even in God based on what he's done as a believer. But as we look closely at his life, there's some things that we can glean from someone who is going through. And in a moment's notice, Satan is patrolling. Satan is always on patrol He makes this pitch. So you know what? He comes and he talks with God. I don't know about you, but right here this door said, Lord, don't let me be Joe. Can I be honest? Nobody wants to be Job. But Satan says if you took away all that he has Take your hand off of him, he wouldn't serve you. It was a challenge of sorts. And God said, Oh no, I can show you that he will still stay with me. What is God saying about you? If he was presenting your case, could he say that I found one who will stay with me no matter what? through ups and downs, through difficulty, through the valley experiences. What would he say on your behalf and on my behalf? If there was that kind of I wondered about that thing theologically, uh why why would God six Satan only Why would he allow it to happen? God had a bigger plan and a bigger purpose. Greater is he that is within me than he that's within the world. And so we know this story so much so we say, well, Reverend, I've heard it in Sunday school. But there's something we can learn from the pain and the challenge Job goes through, but there's a comeback story. God turns it around. I think first of all it is his faith that we can look at. In the land of us there lived a man whose name was Job. Now honestly I said the other day that I don't think I know anybody whose name is Joe. But I heard a name being called at the ballgame last week, a principal whose name was Joe. I said, Lord, I don't think I've ever met a Job before. But he was blameless, upright, feared God, and shunned evil. He was someone who took his walk serious. This is not what Joe put on his resume. Guess what God said about him. He said, Let me tell you about my my servant Job. Can I can I brag on him He's blameless. Now, he's not sinless, but he's blameless. You won't find Job called up into stuff. Job was a man of integrity. He was upright and could not stand evil. See, sometimes we'll court evil a little bit, front with evil, but he's one that could not get with evil things. Why? He so respected God How many folk disrespect God with all this going around about you know it's my thing, do what I want to do, it's a new day, Reverend, you gotta get with it. But I really reverence God That's one area of life I will not play with. Folks start cursing, I'm starting to leave. I'm sorry, cursing. But I fear God that much. Do you fear God? Is there reverence in your life that God is God all by Himself? He's not somebody up on the I believe that God comes and he's in our presence. And so it is his faith that defines him. He is someone who's blameless Upright, integrity, who tries to do the right things. My God, I'm I'm still striving. Uh people say, oh Reverend, you must you you're a preacher and you know you're a good man, praise God. But I'm walking daily, maybe me by myself, trying to be the kind of person That pleases God. I don't always hit the mark. What about you? Oh, y'all always hit it? But Falling short, he is someone who was intentional about trying to please God. Not please people, but please God. People will leave you high and dry, but there's something about staying with God through thick and thin. That was Job's MO. Amen. And so when God picks someone, he said, I got the right person. Job. You try him now. Of course, Satan disappears out of the picture. All kinds of things happen in Job's life. He he loses it all. I mean in one day he gets one break and news story after another. You know, the children there. You know, all your oxen, everything, everything you got is done Not over a week, but in the same day they kept coming back saying, Job, we just found out. Here's some more bad news. And bad news we don't want to receive, but it can come by way of a telephone call, email, or a text, or a tweet. Bad news happens, but Joel stood strong in his faith. It wasn't just his faith, but he was also one that had fortune. I mean, he had children, and children are valuable. Amen. Talking to the parents here today. I mean your children are important and you can look at your own life and know the value that your parents put in you. My God, uh parents who are still paying for a college education for their children Still saving up for. Why? Because they are investing in them, because they are important. You want the best for them. And that's what parents will do. Job had children, but he owned stuff. He didn't say that Job had his own credit. He was already bought and paid for 7,000 sheep. That was like money back in the day. 3,000, I mean, he was somebody. And he didn't let his fortune get to his head. Didn't have the big head, but he had things. I believe it was because his faith in God, he was able to make wise decisions, even in investing. Had a large number of servants and Job, what do you need? I'm here. Job was a man who had fortune and he had faith. People knew Job. He dropped Job's name, man. He somebody. And sometimes we're not careful, we'll enjoy our name on the big screen. We'll start believing our own press. But in Job's case, he says, I can handle all of this, and still praise God Isn't that great to know that no matter what I have, whether I have a little or a lot, I'm still holding up my hands and giving God the praise? It's just stuff. Amen. That's it. And so he shows us whether we got a dollar or a million dollars. Who who wants to be a millionaire? You ever seen that? Everybody wants to be a millionaire. A millionaire now is not a big deal, have a million dollars. Folk win the lotto and they they get the money and they lose it within a period of a few years. But he had fortune But he never got away from God. But Satan said, I guarantee you, if you take it away, he'll stop serving you. We know what happens is friends show up and man you must have done something wrong. We have friends like that. Say you ain't What did you do wrong? You got some hard times now. I ain't got anything, but maybe you have done something wrong and they are not really good friends, but they begin to debate him. But he holds strong. His wife says, Man, you in bad shape. You sick, you look bad. Why don't you just curse God and die? And what did he say? You're talking like a foolish woman. That's nothing negative to a women. Don't get me in trouble now. That's what he's saying. She saw his condition. Everybody woke up there, oh Lord. He he said what? You ought to left. You know, and folk may say to you not like that. You go to church every Sunday and pay your tithes every Sunday, but your condition is no better. I will stay with God all the way. How many folk know that you know what? No matter what I go through, no matter what I face, I've still got my faith. And things will come back. And that's my third point. Is that it's his faith, his fortune, but also his future. The Lord blessed the latter part of Job's life more than the first. He lived to be 140 years old, talking about blowing out a birthday candle. had fourteen thousand sheep doubles than what he had before. Six thousand camel double A thousand yogurt oxen and a thousand everything kind of doubled up. That your best days are yet to come. I was in the food store the other day and Uh bought a sandwich, you know, sent to the sister. She must not have been that old. How you doing? I don't know. I said, you know, God's good. Yeah, but I'm about done. I said, you ain't done I got my Google up. I couldn't think of the description. Let me find this thing. I Google up without a day and plus, you know what? Let me just read this to you at the cash register. That your latter days will be greater than your former days. How many folks believe that your best is yet to come? You're not washed up, you're not done, don't throw the towel in. God still has more for you. Not just things, but my God, more peace and more joy, and more love and more understanding. I believe that today that there's a future that when Job gets to this place, he even has more children He does not give up. Even though he had to let go of people, places, and things, God will restore it. Do you believe that today? That no matter what you have lost, and you might be in a tough place right now and say, well, this is it, don't count yourself out. Amen. The world may have counted you out, your friends may have counted you out, but stand still and see the salvation of the Lord. Prophet Joel says that he will restore everything that the cake were made up. Everything folk took from you, you'll get it back. Like any witnesses today that you've lost some stuff in life and God has brought it back, you didn't think that you would get to be any further than what you were, but because you trusted in God to believe He'll make a weight with you. God, look at it. I can double that. And I can triple it. But just keep on giving me the praise. It's about having a holy connection with the real God Aren't you glad you served that kind of God? Oh y'all won't y'all won't feel me this moment. Let me just hold on for a second here. Aren't you glad you served the kind of God who said I'll supply all of your need according to my riches in glory, that no matter what you're facing, that you're not done, get up off your knees and say, You know what, God? I'm gonna walk in the spirit. I'm gonna be up and say, God, you've got a promise. Job said, I can show you what he'll do. I kept running, I didn't give up. They talked about me. My name was in the street, for I believe in God. And that almost sounds foreign today to the new generation. Believe in who? I believe in God who sits high and looks low. I believe in God who's the Father of our Lord and Savior. I believe in God who sits. I believe in God. Do you believe in God today? I mean that God is real. You can fill him all down in your soul every now, and then you'll say, you know what? I'm a risen Savior. He's in the world today. His name is Jesus. Yeah. I don't watch many movies. My family know. I'd ask them now, how did that end? But I watched one or two all the way through. The Matrix. And there's a part I thought was cool in that movie, is that Neo found himself in the matrix. And whenever he needed to make this transition, he'd be running, man, trying to get to a phone. If he got to the phone, he can make a connection with the operator, and then we're getting back into the real world. And you may have found yourself today caught in a kind of matrix that you say, you know what, life for me has been so tough. I don't know if I can make it. I've lost so much stuff, I've lost almost lost my mind. But get to the nearest phone. And make the connection in a way. If I can just get myself and get a call into God, He will hear my prayer and bring me around. Isn't that great today to know that you can still make a connection? My God, the space of old said there's a phone in my book. Every time I need him, I can call him up and he will hear my cry. And so don't allow yourself today to be down Don't allow yourself to say you know what I don't know. Woe is me. I come by to tell you that God can do it. And God will. If you just stay connected, keep believing He'll do it. Keep having faith in it. Say, God, I don't see it, but I believe that you're working on my behalf. And when you see God break through, my God, you won't be able to hold it. It was God that did it You won't be cool and calm. You'll be giving God the praise. Why? I may have lost it, but I've got it back. And I'm not gonna flaunt and say, I told y'all I'd be driving a beer. No, I'll just say, you know what? It's all because of the Lord All that I am never hoped to be is because of him. So you might lose some things. And lose some people. And lose some places, but I really believe that God will restore you. That's what faith is. I can't tell you when, I can't tell you where, but I believe that God will turn things around. Do you believe that today? That no matter where I've been, Reverend, I ain't lost nothing. That's not for me. But you never know how life will come. And what angle it will come. But continue to stand strong in God. That's good news for me I'm glad about that. And that is the word of God today. It is already blessed. How many folk are coming out today as you stand all over this place? You say, you know what? I'm on my way. I may not be able to see it just yet. But I'm on my way. Joe, thank you. Maybe you were you were down And you were out. And nobody wanted to put your shoes on. No, let me be Moses. Can I be Abraham? I'll even be. Paul. But Lord, don't make me yours. Uh-uh. But when life comes along and throws you a curve, Know that God's got you. I believe that today. I really do. I can't. I'm stuck on that thing. I do believe it. But He'll bring you through. Do you believe it today? If you believe it, come on, celebrate the fact that it may not look like much. Now I I can't even see above water, but I trust God. It's my faith that will keep me. When peace my glory Them my way when the walls like we'll draw It is well. It well. It's well with my law. Can you say that today and really mean it? Now I think it's well. I've I've been a good person. I've stayed out of trouble. I'm a good person neighbor. I help ladies across the street and buy Girl Scout cookies and buy Joe Carpy pizza. I bought many of those. But it's not the things. It's having this assurance. That's what faith is. Is that I can't put my hand on it. But God has so much history. He's done so much until how can you doubt a God like that? That when you look at your grandchildren or you look at your age, you know what? I'm about third quarter. Look back over my life. Look where God has brought me from. And you can't help but say, Lord, thank you. I didn't know any better. You brought me a mighty long way. I want to submit. Never take for granted that you know Jesus. What do you mean know him? You accepted him as your personal savior. The Bible says that we confess with our mouth, Lord Jesus, and believe in our hearts that God has raised them from the dead, thou shalt be saved. You know my story. I joined church at an early I joined church at an early age. I joined church. I joined the church. I joined the church. But I had to grow in my w Walk with Christ. And I was grown man. In church. And that thing became so clear that if I confessed and believed that God sent his son, uh-huh, I believe that. Because I like Christmas. And I can believe that he died. Yeah, and yeah, Easter. That I shall be saved, and I say it. I was like, wow, you mean that's it? And anew I prayed that prayer. I was in my mid to late 20s. But I gather. I was just doing church again. I joined in a relationship with Christ. And today Take a moment and give your heart to Jesus Christ. As you bow those heads today. Father, I come in the name of Jesus with no power to save. I'm just presenting And making the case. God, for those who may have come today and can't say really that they have a relationship with you that can change today. By confessing, by speaking, by whispering, by connecting with you. A God they can't see, a God they can't touch, but He's listening. And they can say, God, I believe that you sent your son, Jesus Christ. I believe that he died and he rose again. And then something happens. The angels in heaven started to throw a party. We got another one in Today you can change your life. Take a moment and make it personal Ask yourself the questions. Okay, talk to yourself. Am I saved? If God took me today, would heaven be my home? If you're not sure, I would recommend today that you accept him into your life, that you might have eternal life. That is to live forever with him. Take those 30 seconds today. As all eyes are closed, all heads are bowed. If you're not sure today, you want to be saved. I want to pray with you right now and to reassure you that your life can change on the spot. If you come today, you're not sure. Raise your hand. I'll pray with you right where you are today It's not to point you out, not to flash the light on you. I've told everybody to close the eyes. It's not about them anyway. It's about you in Christ. If you're not sure about everything that's in me, I live for this moment. I stay up late for this moment. I wrestle with the passages for this moment that somebody might find Christ. Today you can do it. By opening your heart today. By praying that prayer. Is there a hand today? Is there one who wants to know Jesus in the part of their sins? Is there one today? Nothing to be ashamed of. See, I'm gonna do it today. This is my day. Thank you. That means that you're saved or that you've worked it out with the massive. Pastor. Look for some great things to happen in your life. Because you've done that. Let's give God a praise today. Amen. Maybe you've come today and you desire to be a part. of this fellowship called hardness. We're regular folk. We're not snooty. We can't doubt home people really. He might get a good laugh on two gang around us for a while. From the deacons on across the board. Why? Because there's a joy. I don't want to go to a church by. I can't smile. Can't laugh a bit at myself or nobody else. But I feel the power of God here right now. If you desire to join or walk, or you say, Reverend, I'll see you later. That's fine. Just keep coming. It's God's church. It's a theater. We've got to get out of here in a little bit anyway. But I pray that you had bumped into God today. That you were impacted in some way. That if something happens, you know what? I can take that home with me. How many of them got carryout? You got too much to eat? You say, can I give a thing for that? I'm taking it home. I pray you got somebody can wrap that up and say, I'm gonna take this with me as I go. About my day. Never forget Dr. Two, my preaching professor, Reverend, is it portable? Can they take it with them? Yeah. Today is just something you can take with you. Join the day. Just give God a praise. Doors always open. I pray you were helped in some way by this message. Be sure to follow Harvest Christian Ministries on radio, CD, podcast, or over our new website. It's comeetoharvest. org That's Come To Harvest, C-O-M-E, the number two, and harvest. org. Take time to experience the website and all that we have to offer as a ministry. In the meantime, pray that God will continue to allow us to reach a community for Christ for the cause of the kingdom. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin. Have a great day in the Lord.