Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Somebody ought to say amen. I love the hymns of the church. They take you back. Remind you of the time when you sit in church. As a little boy or a little girl, you were wondering why everybody got so excited in Jesus. They knew something about those hymns. What they meant and what they've been through. And when you've been through some things, you know that God is faithful. So as we come today in that same spirit, let's bow today. Heavenly Father, we come in the name of Jesus. For there is no other name under heaven by which men and women can be saved, but at the name of Jesus every niche above Every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God. Father, even now, bless our time together. Save someone, encourage another, and when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise And the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. It's excited for Jesus today. As we come before you, there's a word from the Gospel of Matthew. We always say, gospel says simply means good news. And there in the fifth chapter, verse 14, it reads, you are the light of the world. A town built on a hill cannot be hidden. Neither do people light a lamp and put it under a bowl. Instead they put it on its stand, and it gives light to everyone in the house. Verse 16. In the same way, let your light shine before others that they may see your good deeds and glorify your Father in heaven. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, Let It Shine. Let it shine. The next time you turn on a light switch in your house, uh you can think Benjamin Franklin. He took a key, he took a kite, and a bad storm, and from that was able to dabble with electricity. Not long afterwards. It was Thomas Edison who moved that concept a bit further by creating what we now call the light bulb. And even in Edison's death, there are close to 400 patents that he has to his name that deal with something that's power-related. When he became so big and the competition grew, he connected with another company that formed General Electric. Some of y'all either got some stock or a refrigerator in your house. G-E. But as we think about what those men did and what others have claimed to have done Long before that, in glory, God turned on the first light. Amen. Looked down from heaven, and in the very first book of the Bible, In the very first chapter of the Bible, it says, In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth, and the earth was formless, it was dark. over the surface of the deep, and the spirit was hovering over the waters, and God said, first word God said, let there be light. And there was light. You know when God says something it happens. We've come to an era now that we have Alexa, we have Siri, and we can talk to them. Siri You know, turn on uh the light. I may as well get in trouble this morning. Uh Alexa uh is in my house. Every now and then I hear my wife fussing with Alexa. Alexa, turn on the light. Alexa comes back for something smart and they go after it. I had to come in and and break him up. But nevertheless, nevertheless, we thank God that I would get in trouble later. That was a good illustration, I thought. But when it comes to the life that we live, we ought to always know that God is the light. He is the light of the world. In our text this morning, Jesus steals away. And goes to a high place, away from the crowd, away from the critics, to spend time with his disciples. He takes them to a high place and begins to give them a Bible study, what we commonly call the Beatitudes. He began to refer to those that he's come in contact with as the porn spirit, those who mourn, the meek. those who are merciful, those who are pure, those who are peacemakers. And as he shares with them, he continues this line of teaching by reminding them, and what I love about the Lord, he takes ordinary things. and finds a way to make a point. He says, you are the salt of the earth. How many use too much of that? Amen. He says, but salt that has lost its flavor is no good and has to be thrown out so that men might trot upon it But he's making it plain to those who have decided that they want to follow Jesus. And when you make that decision, you have to follow his commandments He tells them who they are, and then he says, You are the light of the world. He he calls them something that they did not know they were. And God is calling us something that we've not even become yet. But aren't you glad today that he sees something in you that why you didn't think you were qualified? Didn't think you had the pedigree. He says you are somebody. He tells them you are the light of I believe that the light he's referring to speaks of our value, of our visibility, and of our vocation. You are the light of the world. You know, God talks about our worth. And even though other folk may not see something in you, God sees great things in you. Anybody ever tell you you weren't gonna be anything and you weren't gonna make it and now they go on Facebook and there you are But that's what God does. He takes ordinary people and does extraordinary things. He says, I'm complimenting you by calling you The light. I'm giving you credibility that you've not earned you are in the present tense Not was, but even today in 2019, did you know that you're the light of the world? I was convicted about this a couple weeks ago. I said, you know, it's easy for us to be in the gloom and doom I tell you, things are getting bad. And we'll sound worse than the world, but I don't know. We overlike We have hope. And so no matter what's going on, we never lose hope. It is the value God puts in us. It is who we are right now. You know you're a strange bunch. First Peter 2 and 9 says you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood. a holy nation, a peculiar people, that you should show forth your praise of him who's done what? Called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Aren't you glad you've been called out? Amen. From where you were, from what you were doing, from what I was doing, he sees something in us. He sees the value of who we are. And that should resonate with you today that right when you're feeling down on yourself, right when you think that you're washed up Right when folks said, I don't know, you used to have it. God is saying that you are important and I want to use you to be a light and a dark world. He makes the promise. I am, first of all, I'm the light of the world. So that you know I can make you who I am, and whoever follows me will never walk in. Darkness. Yeah, there's a dark side. Amen. But thank God for Jesus that even though you didn't think you were in the dark, let me just go here as well, for a few of us who were in the club. Uh back in the day you walked into some joint and it was dark. You could barely see your way around. Maybe two people. And then after that, you you you you're okay then because your eyes adjusted to the darkness And in the world, we just got comfortable being in the darkness, but God sees something in us, and he calls us out of dark situations, dark relationships, dark predicaments, and said, you know what? I'm gonna make you something that you're not. You are the light of the world. Ephesians 5, 8, for you were once in darkness, but now you're living as children of the light. The light of what world? Your world may be your home. I'm the light of my home. Maybe the light of your community. Maybe the light of your job You may be the light in your neighborhood, but you have accepted the call to be the light. Now the world may not mean catching a 747 and going anywhere except wherever you are, there ought to be light. You go to the store, folks ought to say, Look, do I know you? There ought to be something about you that sets you apart. Why? He sees the value in you, but the fact that he calls us like It's all about our visibility. It says a town built on a hill cannot be hidden. Neither do people light a lamp. and put it under a bowl. Instead they put it on its stand and it gives light to everyone in the house. Y'all know I'm a small town guy. I knew every light we had. But when I came to the city, I was like, oh man, you know, this is the bright lights of the city. I moved to DC And I d try to be cool, I would just turn my head. You know, everything. I would act like I was, you know, had been in DC for a while. But when you go into a city, you will see the lights of the city. And you know that you are big time. Amen. And we must know that we are a reflection of Jesus Christ. In the home, lamps are put in certain places to light certain parts of the house So that it might be seen that you can make your way around. I love what the old mothers say. They say I'd rather see a sermon than hear one. In other words, you can talk to me until the cows come home, but I'm watching your walk. And people are always watching us. Why? We came to church on Sunday. So we ought to know something We carry a ten-gallon Bible. We should know something. We are visible because they put their hope in the Christ who is in us. And so know that you are an example as you go to and from. Amen? Bible says in Psalm 21, the Lord is my light. In my salvation, whom shall I fear? And letting it shine, it's knowing whom you are. I love first John 5 and 7 6. Here's for us who may have slipped every now and then. If we claim to have fellowship with him and yet walk in darkness, we lie. And do not live out our faith. But if we walk in the light, as he is the light, we have fellowship one with another. And the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, purifies us from all sin. That's pretty deep. If we decide to keep walking in the light. If we decide to continue to follow what Christ has laid out for us, we ought to let these lights shine that we are witnesses, that folk might know there's something different about us. And I just I say that again, folk are watching us. You got that palm crossed in your car. So you can't cut folk off like that and and they say, wait a minute, I thought you were uh you was at Palm Sunday But we can't be like the world. Our visibility. There's some places we ought ought not go. Amen? Some places you ought not to be seen coming out of. If you are the light. Because folk have put you in such a place, and Christ has placed you in such a place that you will do what? You will cause them to stumble. Not a pedestal, but see I thought I knew. I knew that rascal. See there? He like everybody else. He cussed more than me. Amen. And so being the light, we gotta be different. Not perfect, but different. Our visibility. our value of who we are, and then it is our vocation. Verse 16 says, in the same way Let your light shine before others, that they may see your good deeds, and glorify your Father in heaven. Your job is to let your light shine. Your job description is let your light shine. Your duties and responsibilities is to let your light shine. And as we let our light shine, we remind people of who God is. You're not God, but folks ought to see something in you. We can't afford to hide our life. Too much is at stake. We can't afford to join the bandwagon of everybody else. Amen. This week sharing with a friend of mine and we we brought up not the passage, not the chapter. We said, you know what? We gotta be careful You see that little speck in somebody else's eye, and there's a big old plank in your own eye. And the person said, well, that's the old wives tell in this. No, no, no. That's in the word. Amen. And so we got to be examples when it comes to what we see, not being hopeless, but knowing because we serve a risen Savior and because we are light, it is your job. You don't get to take a vacation on Jesus. Well I'm going to the beach this week and I'm going to be my own person. No, no, no. You catch me on Sunday, but right now You know, I uh I'm not red and deacon suster, anybody, missionary, nobody. No, no, you are who you are. You are the light of earth. The wife gets on me. Went to the beach one year house, I ain't got CDs on C Won't you give it a break? No, I'm gonna reach one on the beach. Praise God. I'll hang up to you. Hey God, darling. Here's the cause. I don't mind doing that. Why? Light folk do that And however you approach them, you can help yourself, but be what? It's your vocation. It's your job to try to lead someone to Jesus. Well, I know that's not no no no no in some way I didn't say be the biggest talker but your life ought to be of such that folk will say there's something different about you let it shine To do that, we gotta be charged up. Don't let yourself go down. My God, we got nine charges. I sell or not. No, I gotta be charged up. You got remote self. But when it comes to charging up our lives, we need the word of God. That's what keeps your light shining when you are praying and you're fasting and you're doing what? You're in the Word of God. Amen. The word is a lamp until my feet and a light unto my path. And we can't fall into this gloom and doom. We get no time off. If you're a Christian, you're a Christian. Don't have to adapt. You can be cool and still reach one. You can slap five to some depth, amen, and still reach one. Praise God. I didn't say you gotta be square and not being able to fit in, but you know who you are. In fact uh you know years ago folk wouldn't know you didn't belong. What you doing there with your church self? You know that they knew you were a church boy. You up in there trying to trying to get in the line. Man, you get man you why you in the soul train line? If you're a Sunday school teacher, you're trying to fit in. Amen. But we're able to adapt, knowing who we are, we are the children of light. And children of the day, we do not belong to the darkness. Here's the part as I wrap up. That portion, it says there's a reaction. Is that people will see your light and then glorify your Father in heaven. That you'll be helping someone without trying to help them, but folk will get a reaction They won't be the same because of your life, in your lifestyle, in your witness, and what you share with them, and don't be afraid of anybody. Don't be afraid of somebody. It don't matter. Some years ago uh Joel Oldstein was in town and You can hear this with Joel Lawstein. Yeah, Joel, you got a minute? Let me pray over you, man. I laid hands on Joel Oldstein and said, God, in the name of Jesus He's just a man. And so don't be afraid to encourage somebody. They need the light. They need encouragement. And you are there to do just that. You always notice that coal miners they will wear the kind of helmets that have lights to guide them through the dark places. Even having lived in West Virginia, I knew a mining I never went to a mine, but you knew that when they came out, they had these lighted helmets on. It allows them to be able to see where they're going. And that's what we have to do as believers in Jesus Christ. is to let our light shine. Light strips away darkness. Light enhances our vision. And our knowledge. Light reveals the truth of who God really is in our life. Light leads us in the right direction. Light warns us when there's danger on the way. Light keeps us from stumbling along the way, and we're all, you know, we we could stumble. Light, strong or weak, bright or dim, what kind of light are you? You knew it was coming. Are you a 40 watt? Are you a 60 watt? Are you a 75 watt? Are you a hundred watt? Are you 150 watt? See, it it takes a certain amount of light That is fueled by the wattage. And and the higher the wattage, the brighter the light And more power it uses. But know this: because you've got the power of the Holy Ghost, your life will continue to burn. Because Christ lives in you, you want to go and say, wait a minute, let me go turn this thing on. No, you just walk in the light, the beautiful light That's what you'll do. Why? Because you have been assigned to let your light shine. And the power comes from the Holy Spirit. Jesus is the light of the world. And power became available when he went to the old rugged cross. And the Bible says he died, but he rose again. It was the power that lifted him And the word says the same power that raised Christ from the dead can raise you up today. So all I'm saying to you today, church, is wherever you go, you ought to just be bright Amen. Where you go? I'm just going in for a minute. You ought to walk down the aisle and folk ought to see something different about you. Amen. You ought to be the light in your home today, letting folk know that I know who turned on the light And every now and then the world will have a blackout and you're looking for candles, but thank God for Jesus, you can always be that light. As a boy, I was always amazed by those lightning bugs. Fireflies, whatever you want to call them. Man, we get those things and put them in a job. That was probably a cruelty to do that. Amen. But you would just sit there and go And you watch that light. And when the folks see you, you're like that lightning bug. They're watching you to see if you're living right. They're watching you to see if you're talking right. They're watching you. Why? Because you claim to be the light of the world. Oh, I'm so glad today he's made me a light. And he's made you a light as well. Let it shine. Yeah, but see I'm I'm low. I didn't pay my bill. No, no, no, no, no, no Jesus paid it all. And all to him I owe. Sin has left a crimson stain, but he's washed me white as snow. I I I I challenge you today Leave this place. Say, man, I know you know my real name. My middle name is Light. On the street they call me Light You are the light of the world. That is the word of God today already blessed. Come on, stand today and be sure Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Accept your assignment today. I gotta come just as I am Who are you? Light. I'm just trying to to live right So that might be a witness. Just as you are. He wants to use you today. Just as you are. As you Wherever Pray for the dealing water. And see When you go home today, look in the mirror. And don't say mirror, mirror on the wall. Let the mirror know. You know what? The word of God says I am the light of the world. And because of that, I gotta live a certain way. And share a certain way. And be a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. Let me just say the other day and maybe it's a word of encouragement. The word ought to get you so excited, oh man, I'm really somebody. And when you think about what he declares and what he calls us to do. That's exciting. And yet, by the same token, it means I gotta be on my spiritual Ps and Q's I don't want to be a 40-white brother. 40 watts and light dim and you know the Bible talks about Moses Time and time again he would go up and spend time with God. Moses came down from the mountain and said, man, it we we can't even You've been with God. He was so bright. Yeah. Is that he had to put a bell on. There's Moses. But then Moses got busy. Life got rough. But he he still Even though there was no light. Our challenge today is that staying in the Word of God and praying and living for Him, it increases our wattage. So the will walk around and say, look out. No, it's shining today. Maybe you've come today. Maybe you're watching over Facebook You may find yourself trapped in a world of darkness, looking for an exit. Can I tell you how much Jesus loves you? And how he's provided for you today. He's waiting for you to turn the switch on. And that switch comes by way of your confession of faith The Bible says that thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in my heart that God has raised him from the dead. The Bible says, thou shalt be saved. Just like that, and the switch comes on. And it changes your whole life. Are we gonna witness this today? You remember the day when that light came on? All of a sudden you were like, wait a minute. I see what he sees. Through all the disappointments and all the challenges. See that. I want to pray for you today, Father, in the name of Jesus. If there's one here today seeking you, you're always available I thank you, God, today for sending Jesus Christ, who is the light of the world. I pray even now, God, that this word might help someone. To go a different path. Help someone to declare, I want to live for Jesus. I want to walk and live in the light. Do it today in that life, in that experience, we pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. Somebody give God a praise today. Amen Anybody ask you who you are? What you gonna tell them? Yeah, I'm a child of God. I'm a light. I'm a light carrier We bless God today. Thank God for each of you. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D. But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.