Well uh today's reading in the scriptures, uh they are so familiar that uh we know the Christmas story Uh we've done it in plays. We have sang it and yet it is always new. We can always find something embedded in the text that we did not know before. There in the gospel as pinned by Luke in the first chapter, Luke chapter 1, verses 26 through 35. And it reads, In the sixth month of Elizabeth's pregnancy, God sent the angel Gabriel to Nazareth, a town in Galilee. To a virgin pledged to be married to a man named Joseph, a descendant of David. The virgin's name was Mary. The angel went to her and said, Greetings, you who are highly favored. The Lord is with you. Mary was greatly troubled at his words and wondered what kind of greeting this might be. But the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary. You have found favor with God. You will conceive and give birth to a son, and you are to call him Jesus He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. The Lord God will give him the throne of his father David. And he will reign over Jacob's descendants forever. His kingdom will never end. How will this be? Mary asks the angel, since I am a virgin. The answer answered, the Holy Spirit will come on you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. So the holy one to be born will be called the Son of God. Let me just back up to the 34th verse again. How will this be, Mary asked the angel, since I am a virgin And the angel answered, The Holy Spirit will come on you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. So the Holy One to be born will be called the Son of the Lord. I want to preach today on this first Sunday of Advent from the Samonic title, Life's Interruptions. Life's interruptions. Interruptions. They they they happen without notice. They force us to stop what we're doing and make adjustments on the spot. Amen. And none of us likes to be interrupted. In fact, we get downright mad. If somebody cuts us off in a conversation, uh stop us from doing something that we've already planned. In real life, we deal with interruptions. But have you ever had God to interrupt your plans? I know I might interrupt you Your spouse might interrupt you. Your children might interrupt you. But what happens when when God interrupts your plans? Not just the small things, but the big things. Amen? Like whom will I marry? Where will you live and work and where would you go to school? I didn't know any of that in my early twenties, but thank God he sent me the right woman Thank God I came to the right city. Thank God I got the right job. And thank God for so many things. But oftentimes what we come across in life's journey are interruptions. Amen. But I find that over time we we tend to recognize that God is doing what he knows how to do, and better than we know how to do it. Amen. Let's be honest. We got mad with God when He changed our plans. We got an attitude and got upset back when God put us in a different direction. But now that we've gotten a little more seasoned Now that we have grown in our faith, we thank God He didn't give you this or that at the time that we asked for. And the Bible is full of examples of people who had their lives interrupted by God. Noah minding his own business. And God says, build an ark. And folks thought he was crazy, building an ark, and there was no water anywhere nearby. Abraham, just take your family and go. Go where? To a place that I will send you. His life was interrupted. Moses, there on the back side of a mountain, having run away from God, finding himself, go back to the very folk you left and tell them that I said To let my people go. And then what about Saul? A madman, a persecutor out chasing Christians, and God catches him on the Damascus roll and says, What are you doing? And changes his life altogether and changes his name. All I'm saying is that really there's a pattern of life's disruptions. In our text today, God continues his patterns by interrupting the life of a teenage girl. By sending Gabriel, the angel, to say to her, I've got an announcement to pass along to you. You ever just mind your own business? Make this thing right here. You know, we got our own business. And God steps in oftentimes by way of a nudge from the Holy Spirit. Because we kind of hard-headed We'll hear God, but we won't hear Him. Anybody can testify that God spoke something to you and you say, Well, when I get ready. And guess what? He did not force you through time. You lived, you made a mistake or two, and you had to learn. But he shows up, Gabriel, to this teenage girl who's minding her own business. And with the interruption came this announcement that I will change your life forever, and as a result, it changed our life forever. Knowing that we believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. And the Bible gives us the details, the inside story, the scoop. Mary comes face to face with this heavenly visitor. He was on an express mission right from God. It happened when Mary's cousin, Elizabeth, was six months pregnant. And you look at how the text, well, well, why did he put that in there? He wants to give you a time frame. And as you'll see later in another preachment, that there was some reason for that And so he shows up in Nazareth. Not the best part of town. In fact, later on the question was, can any good thing come out of Nazareth? Amen. Everybody ever talked about your hometown that way? About your side of town? I mean I grew up in the East End. We thought we was all that And the folks in the west then felt different. But can anything good come out of the east end? Anything good come out of west of Baltimore and East Baltimore, wherever you're from, but he comes to this small town, and the time that he comes is seen as an inappropriate time. I mean, Mary had already made plans for wedding, about to marry Joseph, the carpenter. Uh can I just change it up a little bit? Invitation is already out in the mail. They already got the uh the venue lined up and Got the contract done and the limbo service has been contacted. Everything is straight. And then God sends by a messenger to interrupt her life. Do you feel that today I want to keep harping on your own personal challenge? But this was an interruption. And then Gabriel says to her, you are highly favored. The Lord is with you. Kingsley Barry says that, okay, that's great. Good to know. In the back of her mind, she's probably saying, can you get to the point? She was anxious And would you would be as well. The Bible tells us to be anxious for nothing, but with prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, to make our request known unto God and the peace of God that passeth all understanding shall keep our hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. Amen. But we get anxious. Oh yes we do Downright nervous, downright come on and tell me what you gotta tell me. Anybody into anticipation, I just tell me. Get to the point. What is it you're trying to tell me? I I don't have that much time. And so there she is on pins and needles waiting to hear something that she's never heard before and it's coming from God. Naturally, Mary would be greatly troubled, wouldn't you? The angel says, do not be afraid. Yeah, you already said that. You got favor with God. And here it is. You will conceive and give birth To a son. Can you see her face? First, you interrupt my life and you bring me some news that's hard to understand. That yes, you will conceive and you will call him Jesus. I believe that what happens next can help us cope with life's interruptions. We have to ask the right questions, first of all. And Mary says, how will this be? She didn't beat around the bush. She asked the angel, sis, I'm a virgin. Amen. Mary knew what it took To be a mother and so do you, mothers and fathers, and how is this possible? How is this going to take place? How will God use you and I in the midst of our eruptions? We may ask why. And Mary was told she was highly favored. Amen. But I remember getting called to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. And you know, God spoke. It happened, but I was like, oh you you sure? It kind of in my mind, because God knows everything about us. And so I I laugh at folk who think that preachers and Christians are perfect. I said, God bless you. You know, you everybody I see in the Bible, they were some rascals And God had to change them around. And so I knew that I was not worthy, but to be favored to stand and to put my hand to the gospel plow and not to look back. Don't get to quit. Don't get to be a half a preacher. Don't get to be, no, no, you said you've been called to preach. Never forget what I called mama and told her that I said, Oh Lord, you done told Mama, you done told the world in it. You know, if mama got it, it it's on the express line. And she said, I'm on the floor. Thank you, God. Oh God, it's out. Amen. It's out. It's out. It's out. But I didn't see myself then or now being worthy to declare this gospel. All things are possible And Jesus told that to the Father. Sometimes we talk about that father whose son was possessed. And the disciples came down and they could not heal him. And he says, if you can And he said, if I can, I can. I can do it. Why? Because all things are possible to those who believe. My God, I've been excited on that. Things that you didn't think were possible The things you didn't think would ever happen in your life, things that you didn't think would ever come your way, God has exceeded your little expectations. Can I get a witness today? Amen. You were just preaching for that, and God's sake, I can do abundantly more Than you can never think or ask. I thank God today. Amen. Sometimes we shortchange God. But God is for and so this was a great question to ask how But also, you've got to wait for God's response. Verse 35 says, the angel of the Lord answered, the Holy Spirit will come on you And the power of the Most High will overshadow you. Here's how. You will conceive. And you will bear the Christ child, and it won't be in virtual fertilization. The Holy Spirit will come on you and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. Like what David says. He that dwelleth in the secret place of the most high shall do what? Shall abide under the shadow Of the Almighty. My God, all you need sometimes is a shadow. You can't take the full effect of what God is about to do in your life. Just give me a shadow, amen. And to know that she was getting the response directly from heaven, how it is going to happen. And there's something when the Holy Spirit gets involved. Give me 20 other names of people that are reputable, that's great. But when you tell me the Holy Ghost Has a hand in this that gets me excited. What about you? That the Holy Spirit is in the mix. The Holy Spirit Spirit is going to make it happen. Amen. And this interruption is no match for the plan of God. The Holy Spirit is right on the job. My God, you still mad about interruptions, but the Holy Spirit is about to come in and make that thing plain to you and make it plain to me, to God be the glory. Yes, I got interrupted, but God took the interruption and did something with it. John 16, 13. But when he, the spirit of truth, there he is comes, he will guide you into all truth. He will not speak of his own. He will speak only what he hears. And he will tell you what is yet to come. So in other words, we need to listen to the Holy Spirit. You've heard everybody else. And you've listened to every other source. But when you ask the Spirit of God, speak, Holy Spirit, oh, how should I move in this way Don't let me go to Mother Rose. I want to hear how you want to work this miracle in my life. I want to hear what your take is. We need, oh, hallelujah, we need the Holy Spirit to operate in our life. In the midst of life and eruptions, we we wait for God's response, ask the right question how, and then pay attention to the details. The verse says, the angel answered, The Holy Spirit will come on you, power of the Most High will overshadow you. So the Holy One to be born will be called the Son of God. Didn didn't he say that earlier? Don't you think when something is repeated? It's like we get it. Amen. God was specific about some important details of the miracle in the works. The one to be born will be called the Son of God not might be called the son of God and we we try to get ahead of God we'll try and place a name on something God has provided. Uh-oh. It's a miracle, but you're calling it good luck It's a miracle and you're giving other folk the praise for something they've done in your life. No, no, no, no. Let God call it what it's going to be. If anybody asks you, who is your daddy? Tell him it's God. Amen. You don't need a DNA test. You are what? A child of the king. And so make sure, Mary, as you go forward, that it's understood That here is the way it's gonna go down. We try to tell God what to do. Maybe none of y'all. Amen. I mean we try to help God out. And try to help them and influence them. Like, don't you know you're talking to God? Like, God, I'm just kind of coming to you. No, no, no. You've got a motive, and so do I. Pay attention to the details in life. Amen. Matthew 16, 6, and Simon Peter answered, Thou art the Son, what? The Christ, the living God. When it was asking, who do men say that I am? That that don't mess this up. Don't get so far into this miracle and you start to change the blueprints. You want to change it so other folk can say so. You want to change it, but stick with the plan of God. Jesus can relate to what it means to have a life in eruption. A centurion big man in town came to him and said, Listen, You don't have to even come to my house. My servant is sick. Sorry to bother you. Can you heal from where you are? No problem. Amen. His disciples, all big and bad, out on the boat. And the wind starts to beat and Jesus is taking his afternoon nap. I like that Jesus. I'm kind of a nap guy myself And what they interrupted him to say, Master careth not that we perish. He gets up and speaks to the wind. Jarius, the synagogue leader, interrupts Jesus. My daughter has just died. But just lay your hands on her, and she was healed. The woman with the issue of blood says, excuse me, I'm gonna make my way and touch the hem of his garment. And I know I'll be made whole. Jesus is familiar with interruption. So don't say I'm sorry. Just come to him in your own way. What about when they brought the children to him and the disciples got all upset that he ain't got time, he's got a tight schedule, he got another stop to make. No, suffer the children to come unto me for such is the kingdom of God. And he never complained about interruptions. Even though we might complain in the flesh Jesus never said, Oh man, are you bothering me again? No, he would say, Come on to me. Come unto me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. There's an open invitation He turns in an eruption into an opportunity for someone to see the Jesus in you, for someone to see the joy of the Lord in you, for someone to see the peace in you. For someone to see the hope in you. Isn't that good news today? Amen. All because of an interruption. Thank be to God today. Some folk might think that Calvary was an interruption. Oh, but I'm so glad that he went to the cross. It wasn't an interruption It was an intervention. Amen. Because he knew that we needed a savior. And so thank God for the cross. Thank God for what he did by sending Jesus Christ Amen. So the next time somebody interrupts you, instead of getting mad telling, child, let me tell you what the Lord has done for me. I know I got a little tool at first, but now your interruption gave me an end. To tell you how great the Lord is. So the next time you interrupt it, tell somebody I serve a risen Savior, and he's in the world today, and his name is Jesus. The next time somebody interrupts you, say, you know what? Goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. And I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. The next time somebody interrupts you and say, you know what? Come on, go with me to my father's house. For there's joy and joy and joy. Life's interruptions. Think of what the Lord does in these situations. Thank you, Mary, for allowing us to sit on the sidelines and to see how you handled news that was unfamiliar. But yet has blessed humanity. That is the word of God today. It's already blessed. Amen if you're able to stand today. We just hear this sense of wow interrupted. But I thank God today. For everything he continues to do in the life of his people. We won't be the same again. He will take care of us. As we come today, I'm glad God cut me off of the path with some stuff. Because I was headed in the wrong direction. What about you? Had he not interrupted me I might have been heading, as the old saints say, to a burning hell. Had he not interrupted me, I would have gone in a totally different direction. As we come today, let's bow. Father, I pray even now that you might interrupt the life. Of that man, a woman, boy, or girl who knows not the Savior. Interrupt them. Shake them at the core. Because you can do what others can't do. Our lectures have gotten old and stale and familiar, and yet we don't think people are hearing us with the gospel. But the word says that one planteth Another watereth, but you give the increase. So be the interrupter today in the life of that person who's not says, I yield, I yield What must I do to be saved? Save someone today, we ask even now, in the name of Jesus. Amen. Bless God today.