Good day, my dear friend. I pray that you're having a great day in the Lord. I know many of you are working on leftovers from the 4th of July. And don't they seem better the second time around, seemingly? But we just certainly want to welcome you to the broadcast and let your friends know that Harvest Christian Ministries is on the air Let them know from coast to coast. Always welcome my friends in Indiana, those who are in Florida, in the Carolinas, and right here in the Baltimore DMV area. Amen. Again, welcome. I'm Pastor Ted Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries. right here in Baltimore County, Maryland. It's hot. Maybe where you are, the weather's been a little steamy, but blessed be the God. We can feel it today. Amen. Speaking of hot and steamy and warm, uh, you all know I'm a Florida boy. I grew up in Lyfe, Oak, Florida. I say that very proudly. And a few years ago, while uh being home uh during a week of revival, uh me and my oldest brother, only got one brother, uh, we just took a moment. He pulled his guitar out We thought we'd give you a little sample of some down home saying. I'm following along. She doesn't need away to the ski the way He's a little because he will make it one day away for people with my life. Well I was talking really changing. Amen. That's my brother James Too. We're right there in the front yard at 508 Martin Street, just having a little fun in the Lord. We thank God for everyone. Want to always uh welcome you and to try to keep you informed by way of the pastor study. Uh we know that all over the country that we've seen uh certainly the COVID-19 numbers rise. And so in terms of our immediate future plans to get back into our building, which is the Movie Six Theater that is still on hold And just continue to pray for our nation. Continue to pray for any plans that we might have in store. The Bible says, I know the plans I have for you. Amen. As always, we want to encourage you by way of prayer with the prayer closet. We thank you for your prayers for this ministry. We can feel them. We know that You are covering us in prayer. We appreciate all that you do. Especially our Harvest Christian Ministry family right here in Baltimore County, Maryland. Wherever you are today, you can reach out to us by way of our website. Matthew 6 and 6 talks about Going into your prayer closet and praying. We want to pray for you. And many of you have sent your prayer request in by way of our website And just let you know that we got to pray for each other. Amen. No matter what you're going through, it is so important to lift each other up in the Lord. Well, we're on the archive move, so I was able to go back. This would typically be our men's Sunday at Harvest Christian Ministries, and thanks to the Archive Department We're able to go back and pull one of our men's songs that we're singing at the Shadowstraw Baptist Church in Chase, Maryland. Let's hear them as they prepare us for the Word of God. You're the center by your The time will lose any early straight common stream round. You know, you're trying to go over to the All that good comes from you. So for the end of the video, I mean as well, and you can go in on the laptop. Without the story by that direction. I like your name along and you are Shadow of the Mar, and I got a half on the oil. Well, I don't tell you why I don't think you're right. And also, yeah, yeah, yeah. The first is all that you run. Amen, amen. How many persons can say that today, that Jesus, you're the center of my joy, that no matter what is going on in my life, or in my situation or in my predicament that he is the center of my joy. Let's have a word of prayer. Father God, we come in the name of Jesus and we thank you for the Bible says the joy of the Lord is our strength, that weeping may endure for a night, but that joy cometh in the morning. As we come today, it is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase Save someone today, encourage another, and when this time is done, we will give your name the praise and the glory. In Jesus' name, amen. I want to welcome you to the Word of God. It comes from the Gospel of John, John the 10th chapter. And verse number 10, Gospel of John, we say gospel, which means good news. And don't we need some good news during the uncertain times in which we live? You can find it in your Bibles on your uh tablets, but we'll also put it up on the screen as well if you found it. Say amen. If you uh have your Bible in the next room, go and get it. We just want you to be able to have the Word of God before you John 10 and 10 reads, the thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I have come that they may have life and have it to the full. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, Living a Life That Matters. Living a life that matters. Across our cities and towns and on distant shores We see people have taken to the street marching, protesting, holding signs that say Black Lives Matter. This is not a slogan, it is a movement that really became more prominent after the death of George Floyd there on the streets of Minneapolis, Minnesota. What this has done, I believe, has caused us to reboot the conversation as it relates to race and injustice. It is so important that we as a nation, we as a people, we as the body of Christ don't become silent, but to talk about what it is that's taking place in Christendom. that becomes so key. And so even as I come to you today, I did not come to uh talk about Black Lives Matter. I didn't come to the pulpit to take a position or have an opinion necessarily But I always want to focus on what are the scriptures saying? What does the Word of God say? And so our focus today is what does it mean to live a life that matters? I came across a poem this week written by an unknown author. And it arrested my attention. It caused me to pause and to reflect. I want to share it with you. Here's how it goes. Ready or not, Someday it will all come to an end. There will be no more sunrises, no minutes, no hours, no days. All the things we have collected Whether treasured or forgotten will pass to someone else. Our wealth, our fame, and temporal power will shrivel to irrevolence. It will not matter what we owned or what we were owed, our grudges, resentments, frustrations, and jealousies will finally disappear So too our hopes, ambitions, plans, and our to-do list will expire. The wins and losses that once seemed so important will fade away It won't matter where you came from or on what side of the tracks we lived at the end. It won't matter whether we were beautiful or brilliant. Even our gender and skin color will be irrelevant. So what will matter? How will the value of our days be measured? What will matter is not what we bought But what we don't. Not what we got, but what we gave. What will matter is not our success, but our significance What will matter is not what we learned, but what we taught. What will matter is every act of integrity compassion, courage, or sacrifice that enriched, empowered, and encouraged others to emulate our example. What will matter is not our competence But our character. What will matter is not how many people we knew, but how many will feel a lasting loss when we're gone. What will matter is not our memories, but the memories that live in those who loved us. What will matter is not how long we will be remembered, by whom and for what. Living a life that matters does not happen by accident. It's not a matter of circumstance, but of choice. Choosing a life that matters. That poem certainly blessed me. And from the moment I read it, I found so much in it. We need things to encourage us along the way. In our text this morning, it is the Gospel of John, the 10th chapter and 10th verse. And we find Jesus doing what he does best. He's proclaiming the good news, but he's doing it by way of a parable. And a parable is an earthly story with a heavenly meaning. And he has quite the audience as he's sharing with the people who follow him about the importance of what is laid out before them. The fee comes only to do what? To kill and to kill and to steal. and to steal and to destroy and to destroy, but I have come that you might have life and have it to the full And within that text, within that chapter, within the gospel as whole, he talks about the sheep hearing the right voice And you know, when you're a shepherd, the sheep know your voice, and they'll respond to your voice, and they'll follow your voice. What a word for us to consider today. Who are you listening to? What voice is driving your life? What voice is helping you to make important decisions? Living a life that matters is so key. We need reminders. We need reassurances. All that lead to what I believe is a relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. Reminders. It says, the thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. Jesus is issuing a warning to the people, and he's putting it in such a way that they can get it. He's issuing a lookout, a silver alert, that people that we deal with so often have evil intentions. They're operatives who come to do us harm. And you may be the nicest person in the world. You may have won the yearbook favorite, most likely to succeed, most favorite. But there's somebody out there who could care less about you, and there's someone out there who is following a very destructive path. And so Jesus gives a warning and a reminder that Look at who you are dealing with. There's no benefit to dealing with evil people or hanging out in evil places. or handling evil things, there is no benefit. If you look at this text in total, I believe he was throwing some shade at the Pharisees. Uh these were people who were religious leaders who their only purpose was was to start some stuff. And they would follow Jesus around. They were hypocritical. They were opponents of Jesus Christ. And the Lord said on one occasion about those Pharisees, they don't practice what they preach. Evil is always present, but I like what David wrote in Psalm 23 and 4. It says, Yea, though I'll walk through the valley of the shadow of death I will fear no evil, for thou art with me, thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. And so it becomes so key that as we live in this world, to know that as we try and strive to live a life that matters, There will be opposition. Amen. But I love the reassurances in the text. Amen. It says, the thief comes only to steal and kill and to destroy. But I like this. I have come that they may have life. I've come that they may have life. Now see, Jesus is a life giver. He's a life sustainer. And I have to look at this text closely because he says, I come that they may have life. And so that included Thieves and robbers and backbiters and those who were cheaters that he had this word just for them. That the life that he offers is available to everyone But this promise is that I have come for this purpose. I came here for that. To bring you life. I came here to make sure that if you accept me, that your life will matter. Now and later. Amen. I mean we all love to get a headline every now and then and we love a pat on the back. We'll take a plaque and a trophy and a ribbon. But thank God that when it comes to life, what really matters is a life that is connected to the Lord Jesus Christ. I am so glad today that I've given my life to Jesus Christ, that he's taken this ordinary life and shaped it up. Can I get an amen on that? Has he shaped your life in such a way that you are not who you used to be? John 3. 16 says it so well, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that those who would receive him and believe would not perish but have everlasting life. John 3. 16 is a passage that we Uh familiar with it can get for me if you only got one. That's a good one to have. The story is told of the late English evangelist Henry Morehouse. He was a former teenage game gambler. He was a gang leader. And the word got out that uh Morehouse is in town and he's preaching one sermon From one passage, John 3. 16. If you gotta have one under your belt, that's a good one to have. It helps you develop a life that matters. And then there's 1 John 5, 11, and 12 And this is the record. God has given us eternal life. And this life is in his son. He that hath the son hath life. He that hath not the Son of God hath not life. So it's so important to be connected and to be reassured that I'm in good company with the Lord Jesus Christ. Reassurance. a reminder, but also a relationship. The latter part of verse 10 says, I've come that they may have life and have it to the full. of King James people know to have it more abundantly. Have it running over. And a relationship with Christ leads to a rewarding life. One that is full. one that is rich, one that is satisfying. It is a life that is abundant. And abundant means eternal life, a life that begins the moment that we accept Christ as our personal Savior. And it goes through all eternity. What an assurance. Song says blessed assurance. Jesus is mine. Oh, what a foretaste of glory divine. There's some things you ought to be assured of, and that is when you have a relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ, the yes, I know him And he knows me, and I'm one of his sheep. My sheep know my voice, and they follow me. Philippians 4 and 9 says, But my God shall supply All your need according to his riches by Christ Jesus. We're not talking just material things. Yes, Lord, thank you. Put more money into my account. Thank you, Lord, for the material stuff. He knows what your needs are. He will give you the desires of your heart, but I'm so glad that I will serve him irregardless. How many folks have served him through storms and tough places in your life? Has he not taken care of you? Can I just pause there for a moment Has he not looked out for you? Has he not made a way for you? This pandemic hit. Oh God, what am I going to do? He says, I got this. Amen And so there are rewards to living a life that matters. 1 Corinthians 2 and 9 says, but as it is written, Ear hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither hath it entered into the heart of man the things that God hath prepared for them that love him. It pays to serve the Lord It pays to live a life that is connected to the life of Jesus Christ who died for us. I love him because he first loved me. Don't you feel love today? There's something about the love of Jesus Christ. And we have to make a decision today about that love. And if we want to really live a life that matters. I said earlier that God Is a life giver. He's also a life saver. I know you thought of that little package. I thought I was somebody back in the day when I got a pack of lifesavers. Why there was a variety, but he saved my soul one day and so I know him as a lifesaver. What about you? He is a life changer. Amen. A life changer, taking you from where you were or where you currently are. He will change you around. The Bible says he picked me up off the Myrie clay and place my feet on solid ground. I thank God for that. He is a life changer. He will change your life. He is a life preserver. I was sinking deep in sin, far from the peace for sure, very deeply stained with sin, sinking to rise no more. But I saw a preserver I saw the good news of Jesus Christ. It embraced me, and I know that I have been saved. My life matters because He is a life preserver and he's a life restorer. Your life may be in shambles right now, but he can put your life back together. Peace by peace by peace. I love what Rabbi Lawrence Kushner wrote in a poem about life matters, but having a life impact. He says everyone carries with them at least one and probably many pieces to someone else's puzzle. Sometimes they know it, sometimes they don't. When you present your piece, which is worthless to you To another, whether you know it or not, you are a messenger from on high, helping to make a difference in someone's life today May the way you live become a message that speaks to someone else. I have a message from the Lord. Hallelujah. It's a message to you I give. Tis recorded in the word, hallelujah. And it's only that you look and live. Look and live, my brother live. Look and live, my sister live. Look to Jesus Christ and live. It's recorded In his word, hallelujah, it is only that you look and the Don't you want your life to count for something Don't you want your life to matter? You can still be on the street, you can carry your signs, but make sure that what comes from you is a life that makes a difference, and that comes by way of Jesus Christ. That is the word of God today, it's already blessed. Let's bow. Heavenly Father, as we come today, we thank you. Thank you, God, that you have received us unto yourself. And God, before we met you, our lives just existed. But now that we know you Our life matters in every area of our experiences. So I pray today there might be one listening or watching this broadcast who has never given their lives to you. I pray that moment happens even now. God, we thank you for who you are. We thank you for sending Jesus Christ to die for our sins. Our life matters because Christ matters. Save that soul today. We pray in the name of Jesus. If you are there today and you don't know Jesus What a great day to receive him unto yourself. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Bless God. I want my life to matter. I want you to know that we want to keep you updated. uh as it relates to information about this ministry. We can get it out to you by way of technology that's so important that you stay connected, know what we're doing. And you can find so many things on our website. Webmaster has done an excellent job of making everything available for you as our viewing public. Now, thank you for your online giving as well. We thank God for your commitment to give unto the work of ministry The Bible says to bring all your tithes into the storehouse that there might be meat in my house. And won't I open up the windows of heaven and pour you out a blessing? There won't be room enough to receive. We thank you in the name of Jesus. Amen. Also, you can find us by way of Facebook. You can find us by way of Instagram. I did not mention earlier, but Our good friend at Rejoice Musical Network, Mike Chandler. If you want good gospel music, just go to our site. You'll find a link for Rejoice. You can find good music all day long. And you might hear your pastor every now and then doing what's called a seat of encouragement. Well, it's been a great day in the Lord, I pray. You've been blessed. I pray you've been enriched today by the good news of Jesus Christ. Well, I want to end up today with a little clip from our man's choir as they take it home for us. I'm glad the Lord, I read the window, I read the Lord, the window, I let the window, I'm very window, I wake up the Lord, the window. Amen. We have ways of uh bringing uh good music and worship and fellowship to you in so many different ways. We thank you again for joining us. Share this broadcast with someone. Maybe you got up a little late, didn't catch it all. Go back, throw a watch party. Some of y'all love throwing watch parties. Let your friends know that you were blessed and share it with them today. On behalf of the entire team, the Team Harvest from Studio C, have a blessed day in the Lord.