Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Praise God. Jesus a wonderful King. How many folk are just glad to know that you know the King? I know you know some people, but do you know the King of Kings? And do you know the Lord of Lords? Do you know the first and the last? Do you know the beginning and the end? He knows you. Let's bow today. Father, we thank you for this opportunity just to speak a word from your word. It is our prayer always that we might decrease and that you might increase. Someone today, encourage another, and when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise in Jesus' name. Amen. Praise God. There's a word that comes from the Gospel of Luke. There in the first chapter, verses twenty-eight through thirty-one, it reads, the angel went to her and said, Greetings. You are highly favored. The Lord is with you. Mary was greatly troubled at his words and wondered what kind of greeting this might be. Verse thirty But the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary. You have found favor with God. You will conceive and give birth to a son, and you are to call him I want to preach today on this Advent Sunday, the first Sunday of Advent, from the Samonic title Living My Blessed Life. Living My Blessed Life. It would have made the headlines in the Nazareth Times. Uh the gossip line uh would have lit up Uh Twitter and Facebook and Instagram would have broken new records all because of the news that came out of Nazareth. News. Information poor girl pregnant father not identified Can you imagine that even the most holiest people would be sitting on the side saying, is there an update to this story? Can you imagine scholars say that she was perhaps thirteen years old and yet gets a heavenly visitor? and changes humanity as we know it. Folk are asking, who is the daddy? That's the question on the table. And how did it happen? Amen. Mary's life would never be the same again. Because of what was about to take place. Under a microscope of biblical controversy, I want to suggest this morning that Mary is well positioned That she's being set up to live her blessed life. The Bible says that this is recorded. That Luke may have gotten the scoop. Luke got married to spill the beans. Luke paid special attention to what was happening around him, and they believed that she was able to share with him all the particulars about something that would change our Outlook as we know it today. She lives this blessed light because she's able to discover her worth. How valuable she is. She's trying to process this worry that comes around all of this. And she is trying to make sense of the words that she's heard. Worth. The angel went to her. That by itself is pretty remarkable. The angels do visit. God sent Gabriel to visit with her And Gabriel says, greetings, you who are highly favorite, the Lord is with you. What an angelic greeting. She did not expect it. She may have been a bit confused uh at to give this announcement. And and and Gabriel didn't didn't mess around. He didn't you know how sometimes We give a long dissertation. He just hit it. 11 words is all it took for him to deliver a message that would change the world. She was startled She was confused, and she was greatly troubled. Mary realized, though, that her life Had value. And sometimes we beat ourselves up because we don't think that we measure up. Again Poor young from the wrong side of town, and she gets a visit from the angel. Others may have seen her as just a poor teenager, but God saw more in her Yeah, yeah. And can I say this? God sees more in you. Folk counted you out. Folk didn't think you can make it. Now I'm not Gabriel, I'm just a messenger who stopped by to encourage you in the Lord today to let you know you can live your blessed life now. Amen. You may have walked in the door doubting yourself. May have turned the corner said, I can't make it, but God is You may believe that you don't have the ability, don't have the education, don't don't have the context, but can I tell you? Mary, she felt worth all of a sudden. Let me let me let me back. Have you do you value yourself? Sometimes we're our worst enemy. Why? We're beating ourselves up. We're talking ourselves down and talking ourselves out of situations, but there was worth in this woman, and she allows us to see there's worth In each of us. She was the most unlikely candidate. Everybody wanted to be the person to bear the Christ child, wanted to bear the Messiah, rich, big-time folk who had all that money, but it was Mary. Her life. Worthy. But she took time to notice that there was some worry taking place. Now don't I don't know about you. Getting that kind of news, you don't remain cool, calm, and collected. And so, verse 29, Mary was greatly troubled at his words. And then wondered. What kind of greeting will this be? Because angels may come with different messages. You know, we can send uh machinery to Mars, but we can't come up with a cure for worry. Amen. What causes us to stay up late at night? What causes us to stay on our knees much longer Mary was worried after what she heard from an angel Trying to to process this. Have you ever had something in your life to come your way and and it took you some time to process it? Now I I know you deep and you probably just say, well I got this. But I mean something that comes to bless you but but you're still struggling with the source of it. Amen? That that God has spoken something to you through a messenger, amen. And you're still saying, but I'm still a great Okay, I'm scared. Even though there was a blessing connected, she was worrying because she didn't know what the outcome would be. Look at the source. It was the messenger for God. The Bible says that the thief comes only to kill to steal and to destroy. But I come that you might have life and have it more abundantly. Do you see this Mary now? One minute feeling like, oh, I must be important. And the next minute saying, oh my God, what have I gotten myself into? Worry, worth, but then the words that are spoken become so important. Verse 30. But the angel said to her, Do not be afraid. Well, that's comforting, isn't it? After what she just said to me, do not be afraid, Mary. You have found favor. with God. The God has picked you out the crowd. The God has noticed you where you are. That God has selected you for a special do you know what that feels like When folk thought they were gonna be the one and God fa oh y'all don't feel me today and God favored you, you weren't qualified, didn't have the looks or the pedigree, and all of a sudden look at you, you were somebody. Because of what God saw in you you have found favor with God and then to drop this on it and you're about to be pregnant. You will conceive and give birth to a son. Let me just tell you right now it won't be Joe Junior, you will call his name Jesus. Those words changed Mary's life. Forever. She got details right. Have you ever gotten details like that? That God has spoken something to you that wasn't just like foggy. Yeah. But it was specific. Well y'all not telling me today. I I I I know it's happened suddenly. Happened to you? Inquiring minds want to know. So specific, she is a recipient of God's grace She didn't seek it. She didn't want it. She didn't line up for it. She didn't rub elbows. Didn't cut any deals. She earned God's standing. It wasn't promised, it wasn't handed down, but she was able to listen carefully to the words. And God is speaking to us today. Some of them we miss it. We miss the encounters because we're so busy Bible says that faith comes by hearing. And hearing by the word of God. You can't live your blessed life Just on osmosis. You can't live your blessed life by being a good person who buys Girl Scout cookies. Or some of y'all bought them this year. Support of the cause, but you like them lemon drops. Amen? But but can I just bring a few witnesses to the table? David says when it came to God's word, thy word is a lamp unto my feet And a light unto my path. It's the word. Thy word have I hidden in my heart that I might not sail against you. You've got to have the word. John says, in the beginning was the word. And the word was God. Isaiah says, the grass may wither. Flowers may fall, but the word of God in doing. Do you feel me? You gotta have the word of God. You can't say, Oh, I want my blessed life. Praise the Lord. No, you gotta have the word. The word's got to dwell in you. You've got to put it in you, and that's how you have a blessed life. Even Jesus said, heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word will last Forever. Well, you know the rest of the story. Mary said, yes. She brought forth a son, wrapped in swaddling clothes and lying In a manger. Mary lived her blessed life in her darkest hour. That same son would be Falsely accused that that same son would be executed on a cross, but he dies, but he gets up again. And because of that, we can have This blessed life. How many folk wanna want a blessed life today? Amen. A blessed life that comes with assurance. Not not insurance, but assurance. Blessed assurance, Jesus is mine. Oh, what a foretaste of glory, divine air of salvation, purchase of God, born of his spirit. Washed in his blood. This is my story. Oh, can I get personal? Everybody got a story that you hadn't told number chapter one. But thank God for Jesus and you can claim the blessed life, but we all Got a story. A place where God has brought us from. We all got a story. Things we've been through, we all got a story. Things that God continues to bring us through, and yet we still get cool and calm. Thank God that you have. A story. But your story has to be connected to the story. I ain't talking about what you did back in 71. I'm talking about the story. The greatest story ever told. A songwriter says, I heard an old old story about a savior who came from glory how he gave his life on Calvary. To save a wretch like me. Can I save Tim? Can I fill in the blank? Since you won't be with me today. Save the wretch like Tim. No, wait a minute, wait a minute. Save the wretch like Tim. Tim, oh so you were a wretch. Amen. Aren't you glad that God saved you from yourself? Oh you didn't think you were a rich because you weren't as bad as the next person, but thank God for Jesus. That's how you get to a blessed life. You must tell the story. That's how you get victory in Jesus. That's how you get a blessed life. That verse says, He plunged me to victory. Beneath the cleansing flood. I don't know about you, but what happened when you get up from the flood? What happened when God touched you with the finger of love? What happened when you were able to say, God Thank you for everything you've done. Can I just testify today? I'm living the blessed life now, but it wasn't always that way. I lived the sinful life. Amen. I lived the lying life. Oh, you're gonna find yourself somewhere in this, but thank God. for Jesus. I'm now living my blessed life. And my blessed life gives me joy. And my blessed life gives me peace. And my blessed life gives me hope. I I'm living the blessed the blesser, or Yukumo, you may as well go in Are you living your blessed life? Are you living the blessed life? Oh, come on, give God a praise if you're living the blessed life. A life that is engineered, a life that is guided by the Lord Jesus Christ. Thank you, Mary. Hey, for being an exhibit on what can happen. When God sees your worth, I dare you to leave here and say, I don't know if I can make it. He sees your worth. And yeah, you might be a little unsettled because it ain't never happened before, so you're a little worried. The word of God with you wherever you go and you can live the blessed That's the word of God today. Come on, stand today. Come on, stand today. Jesus is love and he loves you. In a special way. That that Jesus lo loves you. And that's why He died. Just for you. Oh my God, we need Jesus in our life. We thank him today. Help your children and don't let them fall by the side. My mind of the road and teach them to love. one another and heaven might find a place in their hearts. Jesus is the Lord How many know it today? He won't let you down. Hello. In my heart. My, my, my. You gotta walk on. Walk on through temptation. Love. His love, his love, and his wisdom will be our helping hand. I know the truth, and his word will be our salvation. Lift up behind and be thankful. Come on, sing with the brothers. Jesus. I know. Oh in my heart. I just need sixty seconds to let you know there is no way you can have a blessed life apart from Jesus Christ. You say I'm blessed, I'm blessed. No, no, no. Unless you've received Christ into your heart, unless you've confessed him as personal savior, you you might have a a best life. Oh, I know some of y'all thought about that anyway. But I'm talking about a bless life. For the last 30 seconds I have to just dog your heads all over this place. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. We know that your word never returns void. I pray in the name of Jesus, God, if there is one. Who has never confessed you and developed a relationship with you today can be that day for them to say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. Yes, sir. I'm a wretch undone. But I I I want you to come into my Heart, I believe you sent your son Jesus to die for me. And I believe it today. I believe that he rose again. And by confessing that with your own mouth You can be saved today. That's a minute and five seconds. Today, if you don't know him, receive him today. In Jesus' name. Come on, give God a praise today. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course, by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you It's www. com2harvest. org. That's come the number to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called Seeds of Encouragement. You can get them by way of iTunes from Podcasting. or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed. Yeah