Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. How many people want the Holy Spirit to move in their lives today? Amen. The Spirit of God, the power of God, encamped in vessels like these. Isn't it amazing that the Holy Spirit is not someone you should be afraid of? You ought to embrace the Spirit of God. You know what? I need you to guide me and to keep me. Even as we come today, we're thankful to God Let's bow before the Lord today. Heavenly Father, we come in the name of Jesus. As we stand behind this desk, we look to the hills from which cometh our help. All of our help comes from you. God, we ask even now that we might decrease. And that your word might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. But when this time is done, we'll give your name all the praise and all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. I've said it uh before I'll say it again that when it comes to proclaiming the good news of Jesus, it hasn't we're just getting a hold of you. that my whole life is focused around uh coming on Sundays and coming during the course of the week to try to share with someone The good news of Jesus Christ. I forgot what it was like to be able to hang out on a Saturday night. I don't know. Maybe you still know. But I think most preachers are doing what they're supposed to be doing, sitting before the Lord Uh asking the Lord to to certainly uh guide them and to give them a word that will bless the people. It always starts with us. Amen. There's a word from the Lord, and it comes from the book of Philippians. They're in the second chapter, verse number 13. It says, for it is God who works in you to will and to act in order to fulfill his good purpose. I want to preach today for the Samonic title, Living Life on Purpose. Living Life on Purpose. Back in the spring of 2008, I had the opportunity to attend the National Preachers Conference. I saw it online and said that would be a great place to go. It's often good for preachers to get away and hear other preachers, not to preach better, but to be preached to And then that case I was in Woodbridge. Didn't really know anybody. I saw the program. I saw oh man some heavyweights are coming here. Big name people. I was just glad to be one of the number And so one evening as we sat in a beautiful church there in Woodbridge, I sat over on the pew, on the edge. And as I sat there, we were waiting for the main stage and I felt a tap on the shoulder. Who the world knows me here? And by the time I looked up, that person had gone to the next person and tapped them on the shoulder I said, well my God, that's Rick Warren. Rick Warren at the time is certainly known because of his book, The Purpose-Driven Life. How many of you all have read that devotional Amen. If you have not, you've missed something. It is really a great piece of work where he writes a 40-day devotion. It's great to go through with someone and to let them know it. It has sold more than 32 million copies in some 85 countries. It just reminds you of who you are. Let you know that you're no accident. Let's you know that God has a specific purpose for you. You know, also know that you're not an accident That you're not a mistake. God don't make no junk. I want you to embrace that for a moment. The fact that God has made you means there has a purpose for you. Maybe you walked in today saying, you know what, I'm just getting by. I'm just glad to be here in Jesus' name. No, God's got a work. He wants to work in you and through you. And and the Bible is proof that we're special people. In the book of Genesis, it says we were made in his image. And then later on it says he formed us from the dust of the earth. He blew into our nostrils and we became a living soul. And Psalm 139 says, what? For you were created in your innermost being. You knit me together even in my mother's womb. You are important. God sees you as being valuable. And sometimes we don't hear that enough. We're busy beating people down or getting beat down to just say to them, you know what, you've got potential Anybody ever told you that? And you knew that you had much potential attacks. Oh, you gonna you can make it? You think I can? Yeah, yes indeed You're going to be okay. Now it's encouragement, but think of what God does in us and through us. Amen. This morning we have the Apostle Paul to become our tour guide today Paul, of course, is one who has written the better part of the New Testament from Matthew to Revelation, and he writes to the church today. He's sitting in a prison On death row. Now it's interesting that a guy whose life is already in jeopardy would take time to write people on the outside and say, you know what? It's gonna be alright Now Paul, how do you know that? Oh yeah. I'm here because my purpose is to be in prison. It's to be in chains. You never heard Paul complaining. And you may have found yourself in situations that seemingly had you bound, and yet folk couldn't understand why you were still smiling. About take your house, just mileage. Yeah. You know, stuff is going on. Yeah Because when you serve a risen Savior who's in the world today, it's not that you don't think about it, not that you're not concerned about it, but because of what he has put in you, you can still be a blessing. Paul said, May, I'm in prison, my boy. I got one today. You know, I told one about in fact I'm glad they put me next to this guy Yeah, yeah, cuff me to him so I can tell him about Jesus. He wasn't complaining, and so Paul is writing to the church He is encouraging them that even though you're under persecution on the outside, that God has a purpose for you. I already believe that faith today. That that there's something for you to do. And that he has something in store for you. You don't just exist to be existing. Amen. You get nothing else today. You say I'm important. Let folk know man I'm I'm I'm I'm somebody. I'm a king's kid. I mean I look like much, but you don't know who I know. I know people in high places. Paul was saying, no matter what, it is God who works in you to will and to fulfill his good purpose, or the King James, his good pleasure, it pleases him to see you do well. He gets a big old grin because you're doing well, because he wants the best for you. And so to live life on purpose, we've got to be able to allow God to live in us. Allow him to live through us. And know that Jesus Christ died for us. And so all in that one verse, it is a moment that he lives in us, that means the Holy Spirit takes up residence in our hearts. From the moment that you declare I'm a Christian, from the moment you declare I'm saved, from the moment you declare I've accepted Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, you are then filled with the Holy Spirit. It may not feel like it in the physical, but once you open your life to him, he comes in and takes up residence. The Bible says that your bodies are a temple of the Holy Spirit. I don't know about you. Man, just knowing that the Holy Ghost lives in me. That that made me want to do right. Amen? And knowing that his presence is with me, I better watch myself. But thank God for the presence of God, the Holy Spirit. He is the one who is carrying out The plan of God in your life. And always know this. The Holy Spirit is a person. It's the person of the Holy Spirit. Amen. And the Bible says we should not grieve the Holy Spirit. In other words, the Holy Spirit has feelings. Anybody ever hurt the Holy Spirit's killers? I have. I've said some things and done some things in life that just did not please the Holy Spirit. And that's why the Holy Spirit convicts. Nobody got to beat you up and say, You know you were wrong. Man, you late. The Holy Ghost done got me already. Amen. He's already convicted me of something I've done. But you must know that the Holy Spirit, that God is In us. Amen? So that wherever you go, you take the presence of God with you. Not because you're trying to be big and important, but you ought to light up a room. Folk in the gloom and doom in the break room. Oh no. And you said, good morning. Why are you so happy? It's gonna be all right. My heavenly father provided for me. I know the man signed the paycheck, but God has made it possible. He works in us And knowing that he is in us lets me know that I've got purpose in life. I'm not just Here, Acts 17, 28. For in him we live and we move and we have our being. We can exist in power and in spirit because the Spirit of God dwells in you. Let me let you process that. Do you know he's in you? You ever feel a little different sometime? You feel a little joy come on you, you don't know why, and feel a little peace every now and then. It's all because the Holy Spirit is residing in you Don't you feel him right now? He is working in us. But not only that, he's working through us. He says, I made you for my good pleasure. I made you because I want to use you. I made you because you're mine. Amen. And the fact that he wants to work through us. That I'm going to use you today to do something. And you may not even remember what you've done, but how many folk want to be used? Amen. Bill Withers had a slung out years ago. Keep on using me. To you use me up. Amen? How many folk want the Lord just to use you? To use you up? I always know if I go top 40. I'll get a few people wait then. Amen? His desire is to accomplish something through us We are his instruments. He uses us to get things done. He uses us to bless other people. We are his handiwork. Amen? He said, Well, let me go ahead and use Tutan for a minute. I mean, he's not really worthy, but I'm gonna use him. Yeah, he's not done all he should be doing, but because I have purpose in his life, that I can live on purpose knowing that he's working through me. That way I'm not patting myself on the back. Or trying to get the credit, or trying to steal the headline, yeah well I I did all right, you know. It was my years of experience that brought me here. No, no, no, no, it was the Lord working through you. Amen. You might have gone to a seminar or two, but he was in the seminar. Thank God that he chooses to work through us. Not the other way around. We try to use him, but we've got to give him permission to work through us. It's amazing he does not break the door down and say, You know what? I'm gonna come up in here. No, he says, you know, can I get a work order? Why? Because I want to use you for my glory. Who would ever thought he would use a country boy like me? Amen. I was kidding with some friends of mine the other day because all the debate about class ranking and valedictoria and I said that that wasn't me. I wasn't nowhere near it, but I but I knew people. Yeah, I I was a yeah, I I I I hung out with the with the class wrecked people, number one and two. They were friends of mine, man, so I I could hang out with a smart guy and I'm with it. Amen. But God will work through us to accomplish his purpose here on earth. Philippians 1 and 6. Being confident of this very thing. He which has begun a good work in you will perform the work until the day of Jesus Christ. In other words, he's always working. He's always coming up with something new. He's always working you and using you to the glory of God. Don't you feel you have a purpose now? The fact that he is working in us and through us That ought to give you power today to know there's nothing that you can't do and nothing you can't accomplish through him But also know that his son Jesus Christ died for us. They can never forget that. We ought to be the one giving him the glory, not getting glory for ourselves. But at the end of the day, it is because God so loved the world. that he sent his only begotten son to die for us. Never forget that. Never downplay the fact that there was a sacrifice made on our behalf that he died for us. Amen. Aren't you glad about that today? That you think about your life and where you are and say he went to the cross just for me? He knew there was a purpose in the works that even though nobody else can see it, Mother Rose can't see it Your father missed that one. He already had a plan for you. Even when you were in your mother's womb, he already knew what you would become and tell the devil now I'm not washed up. I'm not done yet. You ain't seen nothing yet because he's still working through you. He's still working in you for his purpose and for his good pleasure. That's why he died for us. Galatians 2 and 20, we preached it the other week. I've been crucified with Christ. I no longer live, but Christ lives In me. And the life I now live in this body, I live by faith for the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. Thank you for giving yourself for me. A wretch undone. Thank you, somebody who didn't deserve it. Thank you, somebody who kept messing up. Thank you, somebody who thought they had it together. He died just for us. He went through so much just for us. Went to an old cross just for us. He's taken little and made much I love the story of George Washington Carver, born a slave, but a godly scientist. He knew how to create other products out of products which already existed. He made paint out of clay, marble out of wood shavings, starch paste, vinegar, ink, shoe polish, molasses, caramel's out of sweet potatoes. He made butter, oil, cheese, dye, face powder, breakfast, food, pickles, instant coffee, axle grease, and 276 other things out of peanuts. Peanuts and sweet potatoes. Anybody hungry yet? Oh you about one of fire right now. I know you do But it wasn't the sweet potatoes or the peanuts, but it was the blood of Jesus Christ that changed us That made the difference in our life. Oh, the blood of Jesus. It will never lose its power. You know, I've had a career for more than 40 years in media. But one day, my career bumped into my calling by chance. And they had a conversation. My career said to my calling, I've been grooming Tutan since he was a boy. I deserve some credit But my calling said to my career, I knew Tim in his mother's womb. And my career said, now look at all the accolades I've given him. My calling said, but you can't give him eternal life. Amen. And sometimes he'll allow your career and your calling to get along, but never forget it is he who has called you. Amen. I stand today in my calling. And my calling is to encourage somebody to let them know that serving the Lord will pay off after a while. I stopped by to let you know you can make it if you try. I stop by to encourage you to say all things are possible through God. I stop by to tell you that goodness and mercy shall follow you all the days of your life It's my calling. Amen. You may build great cathedrals, large and small. Skyscrapers, grand and tall, you may conquer all the failures of the past, but only what you do for Christ will last. When it all adds up, you may have twenty five hundred certificates in forty-four trophies and Some ribbons on the side, but only what you do for Christ will last. Only what you do for him will count in the end I know what my purpose is and I'm glad he's called me. Now do you know today that you are somebody? Do you know the day he's picked you for a reason? My God, you all just say, God, thank you, thank you, thank you. Think of what he's doing through your life. Somebody told you you wasn't gonna make it. Somebody told you you didn't have the grades Somebody told you you didn't live in the right neighborhood. Somebody told you you didn't drive the right car. Somebody told you you don't have on the right clothes. But look at you now. I am more than a conqueror through him that loved us. Amen. I'm so glad that he lives today and he lives inside of me. You mean I'm somebody? You better believe it. Why? It's an inside job. He's constantly developing us. Constantly working in us and through us to have us to become all that he would have us Anybody feeling courage today? That is the word of God. It's always come on stand today. I'm living life on purpose. I'm not just here to be here. I got an assignment today. Supposed to do. I don't have all the credentials, but I got Christ. I ain't been to a workshop, but I got the one who knows me. And know what I like about that? He said, don't try to fix yourself up now. Come as you are. But let me get myself together and then I'll be ready. No, no, no. You'll never be ready. Let him do it. He wants to transform us today. As you all There he is again that spirit. Come see, come receive No need to fix up today. He's always on the line. Come just as you come and see I'm in live forever That's what he promised us. There's the line water and never. I want to take about 60 seconds to let you know that the Lord Jesus Christ loves you. Just the way you are. And what he'll do is he'll open the door for you to come on in. And then he'll begin to transform your life. He'll begin to give you everything you need. And what I like most of all and appreciative of He'll give you life eternal. Now, Reverend, you're making it sound so simple. Can't be that easy. Well, let me tell you. I believe the scriptures. That one day I was lost in my sins. Didn't realize it So I was alright. But when I encountered Jesus for myself, I accepted him at an early age Then I had to get that lesson yet. So that's badness in me. But along the way, he kept guiding my path. And then when I got mature enough to realize, okay, wait a minute, you gotta make your own call. Mama can't do it for you, daddy can't do it for you. And I opened my mouth and said, Lord Jesus, I just want to make sure. I believe that you died. I believe that you rose again on the third day morning. Save me from my sins. And man, the process. It kept going. Kept going. And now I've got peace. But he who's begun a good work in you, that means he's he's still. He's still working. No, no, no, no, ain't nobody there yet. He said, you know what? Pretty good this week, but I'm still Working on you. Did okay last week, but I'm still shaping you because I've got something for you to do. Amen. Again, I I'll say it, I'll be redundant. You're no mistake. You're no accident. You ain't just on earth for nothing. There's something he wants you to do. And maybe you're already working in it. Yeah. And don't realize it. Let's label it purpose. Let's bow our heads today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. We thank you for these words from a man who's locked up in prison, but he knew his purpose. In the person of Paul, I pray in the name of Jesus, if there's one today under the sound of my voice, be it in this place, be it over the internet, if they don't know you, may you touch their hearts today May they confess, I want to know this Jesus. Everybody talks about. And then may it be a real experience. Do it today, God. We ask it. We declare it. We thank you in advance. In Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Thanks so much for listening I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comthenumber twoharvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.