Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Amazing grace. Shall always be my song of praise For it was grace that brought my liberty. I do not know just why he came to love me so He looked beyond my faults and saw my knee I shall forever lift my eyes to Calvary To view the cross where Jesus he died for me How marvel the grace that caught my falling soul He looked beyond my fault and saw my knee Amazing grace, it shall always be my song of praise. For it was grace that bought my liberty. Oh hallelujah. I do not know I do not know just why he came. To love me so he looked beyond my fault And so money. I shall forever lift my eyes To Calvary, to view the cross with Jesus Dice for me Ham The grace that caught my falling soul. He looked beyond. He looked beyond Christ looked beyond our faults and thought Amen. There's a sweet spirit in this place. What is your song of praise? What is it that you sing when life gets rough and the hills are hard to climb? What What do you strike up in your own spirit that allows you to get through that moment? A song of praise unto God. As we come today, let's bow. Heavenly Father, we thank you. While it still baffles our mind, we thank you for sending Jesus to die for us. It is amazing. We ask even now as we come that we might decrease and that you might increase. God allow your word to speak for itself. When it's all said and done, we'll be so careful to give your name the praise and the glory. In Jesus' name, amen. Blessed be the name of the Lord. It's uh it's good to be on the Lord's program, isn't it? Good to be in the presence of the Lord on this. another day. There's a word from the Lord that comes from the gospel of Luke, and gospel simply means that it's good news. There in the 15th chapter, verses 1 through 7. Now the tax collectors and sinners were all gathering around to hear Jesus. But the Pharisees and the teachers of the law muttered, This man welcomes sinners and eats with them. Then Jesus told us this parable Suppose one of you has a hundred sheep and loses one of them, doesn't he leave the 99 in the open country and go after the lost sheep until he finds it? And even beyond that, the next verse says in verse number five, and when he finds it, he joyfully puts it on his shoulders. And goes home. Then he calls his friends and neighbors together and says, Rejoice with me. I have found my lost sheep. I tell you that in the same way, there will be more rejoicing in heaven over one sinner who repents than over 99 righteous persons who do not need to repent. My Lord. I want to preach today from the Samonic title Lost Lives Matter. Lost lives matter. Our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, during his earthly ministry, addressed the kinds of issues that no one wanted to touch. He would talk about things that no one wanted to discuss. He was seen in some circles as being a radical. Yes, Jesus was labeled as someone who was dangerous, someone who could not be trusted, someone who was downright uh to be feared, but to be also looked upon with that funny eye. But when he shed light on the issue, it always transformed people's lives. Whenever he addressed something, whenever he spoke on it, your life would not be the same. It is in that spirit this morning that I make mention of a movement sweeping our nation and our world. It's the Black Lives Matter movement. It's a grassroots effort that was formed following the death of a teen in Florida. It spreads from there to Missouri and to New York and even right here in Maryland. It is no doubt a headline movement I stopped about to declare this morning that all lives matter to the Lord Jesus Christ, especially lost lives. Here's what Bible scholar David Jeremiah says. He says, lost is the best word to describe a person's condition without the Savior. I'll be focusing over the next few weeks on this topic, Lost Lives Matter. By the time we get to the passage this morning, we find Jesus engaging the people. He was popular, people followed him, a lot of them wanted to see what he would do next. They follow up for the miracles so often. But you would find him talking to people that no one else wanted to hang with In this case, he was talking and sharing with tax collectors who had a shady reputation. They were investments, supposedly, and that's not the kind of folk you want to hang with. Based on those worldly standards and also sinners. Nobody was off limits to the Lord. Aren't you glad today that He hangs out with you? Amen. You missed that. Aren't you glad today that he accepts you just the way you are? You would find Jesus spending time with those that no one else wanted to be with. You know if people are funny sometimes they love you, sometimes they don't. Sometimes they'll turn their nose up at you, sometimes they'll just downright me But Jesus spent time with people who the very ones declared their. And here's the root of this. Those who followed him were Pharisees and teachers of the law. Pharisees would hang around. These were persons who were scholars who followed the Mosaic Law. That is, they believed in just what we call the Torah. Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, and that's what they base their thought life on In fact, they could be called the religious police. They will go around and follow Jesus, can I just be real? And start stuff. Know somebody like that? See you doing good but they just want to start something and want to tip over the uh the basket. And so that's what they did They saw Jesus spending time with those who were in need, those who were outcast, and they start to mutter. There's friction. There's tension. And when people see you walking with the Lord, they'll turn their nose up. It don't take all that. Your holy roller. You know, you need to just relax sometimes. How many folk know we don't have time to relax? Why? Because people are dying left and right, and many of them their lives have been lost. He was all about trying to reach the loss for Jesus Christ. They were so struck on the law, didn't realize that grace makes the difference. The Bible says by grace we're saved, and not by works, lest any person should boast. And grace is God's unmerited favor. You can earn grace. It's just because there's an old saying, favor is not fair. God looks out for us in spite of ourselves But he is targeting those who are lost. In fact, he came for that very reason to save the lost. Why did he come? He came to save the lost, and that's what we're focusing on uh in our time of sharing. There was a sense of obligation. And so he uses what we call a parable. A parable is an earthly story with a heavenly meaning. And so, well, I hear you all talking, but let me just throw this at you. I love how Christ would uh engage people. Suppose one of you has a hundred sheep. Just can we talk for a moment? I mean we're in the area with a sheep and you know what it means to have a sheep and to lose one. Won't you leave the 99 and go find that one? He's just putting it out there. Because in that day to lose a sheep uh could have tough consequences of their value. If you couldn't bring back and say, well I found out that sheep is, you know, was eaten by a predator, then you could lose money and lose revenue. But he says, what about you? What if you had that many sheep and one got away? Wouldn't you wouldn't you go after them? Wouldn't you go until you found that sheep? There was this sense of obligation that no matter what was taking place, that one sheep became important to the shepherd. He wanted to make sure that he did whatever he would to find that sheep. And there are people that you know and that I know who are lost. And we're obligated, let me say that again, we're obligated to go after the ones. Let me say it again. As believers, Bible toting, cross wearing, hallelujah singing. Give God the praise, thanks. God has called you for such a time as this to try and reach the lost. And you know who's lost. Why? Because you've been lost before. You know when somebody don't know the Lord, you know it might be in your home. Might be in your neighborhood. Whatever that approach is, but make it your obligation to try and reach one for Jesus Christ. There's nothing like connecting with someone and say, let me just tell you my little story about how I was lost in sin and and uh when I first uh Deacon Roy got out there, I said, but man, either these church folk were some bad folk. uh before they got saved. You did all that? And he still kept you sometimes your testimony will be the blessing to say, you know what I'm not all that I could be, but let me tell you and folks are and and you and you and he accepted you? And when folks look at you, sometimes your testimony will bring the lost in. Why? Because every loss life matters. He said now wouldn't y'all go do it? They said a mumbling word. He said, I'm just putting it out there. And what he shares is that the importance of finding the one. Open 1 Peter 2, 25. Peter writes this to the church, for you were like sheep going astray. But now you have returned to the shepherd and the overseer of your souls. Our testimony would help people. You want people to think that you were born on the second pew? Never done anything wrong Uh you know you always cross all your teeth, dot all your eyes. If folk knew the real you, Mother Lost would come running to Jesus and might follow you to church So be vulnerable today and know that you're making an obligation to let someone know that you are important. That your life matters. The Bible says that he's long suffering, not willing that any should perish. But not just obligation, but this observation. So he continues the conversation, and Jesus is using again now a parable Earthly story, heavenly meaning. He says, for the shepherd, and when he finds the sheep, he joyfully puts it on his shoulders He goes looking for the sheep. The sheep won't come to you. The lost won't knock on your door. You have to take uh the initiative to go to hang out where lost people are. I ain't say happy hour. But going places to where people that you know are not lost. Some of y'all got happy on that. But see once folk know that that bar stool was yours, you can say, you know what, let me tell you, bro. Let me tell you, sis, been there, done that, not going back. This sense of an obligation and observation means that he puts the sheep on his shoulders, but he takes time to find the sheep. Amen? It takes time to go after that person in your case whose law. Let me ask you a question. Do you know anybody Who's not saved? Taking the Holy Ghost poll. Do you know anybody either in your home, your community, your job, who you know for a matter of fact? Has not given the life of Jesus. I want to just see your hands today. Praise God. So you have an assignment. Reverend, I don't want to, you know, tip over the egg basket. But begin to pray for that person that you know and God will open the opportunity for you to plant a seed. In fact, they're already watching you. Why? You go to harvest. Yeah, they already know about you, so they're watching you. So God will give you an opportunity to share the good news with them. Don't hit them hard. Don't jump on them. That ran me away, man. God came up with a you know I would I'll start I said there he is, I'm going a different way But take time and bring to mind, raise those hands again, bring to mind that person you know is lost. And ask God this week to give you an opportunity to reach the lost. It is what you have seen in your own life. Our mission is to find the loss. You know what? It's not a on and off thing. My wife will tell you, we we can go on vacation somewhere, and I'm still on. I don't shut off and say, you know, I'm I'm I'm not there Sunday, so I'm gonna be, I'm gonna chill. I got my sunglasses on. But I'm always looking even on the beach for a soul. Yeah, I'm I'm in the beach yesterday. Place, how you doing? We went last year to a place in Florida and she'll tell ya I brought C D on the beach. Oh yeah, I mean just in case. Just in case somebody said, How you doing? I said, you know, all right, how you? And I reached under uh you know where the water was and pull a CD out I don't know if they came to Christ, but you have to always be looking for someone who's lost, observing to say, you know what? Perhaps that person needs to be found. Bible says in the Gospel of John, I am the good shepherd. This is Jesus speaking. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. Gets out of his comfort zone. Do things that may not ordinarily be you. I'm not a big talker, Reverend, but just live the life in front of the laws. uh eased in, uh, you know, uh put in something that they might be familiar with. So yeah, praise God. Some time ago people said, I hope the Orioles win. You praying, Reverend? I said, he made all the birds You know I what if it takes. But you gotta use gotta be creative in trying to reach someone. I'm I I'm passionate about this that as believers of Jesus Christ We have an obligation, we must be able to observe what's going on, but know that there's a time of celebration. Once the shepherd finds the lost sheep, He calls his friends up, shoots them a text, emails them, man, you won't believe that I have found the lost sheep Rejoice with me. And we've got to be so excited that we be in a state of celebration once we're able to reach somebody for Jesus. Has anyone ever led someone to Christ? I'm asking for your hand again, not picking on you. You ever led somebody to Jesus? You know what? Let me tell you about Jesus. Can we pray together? And they accepted Christ under your watch. How did that feel? Man, that was exciting that you know what? I, little old me, said something to someone about Jesus Christ, and they received it to the glory of God. My God, and to what the word is saying, I found that lost person, and now they're fine. Come on and rejoice with me. I tell you in the same way that there was rejoicing over a sheep in this parable, there is rejoicing in heaven anytime one person says, You know what, Reverend, I confess my sins to Jesus Christ. Don't you know there's a party going on in glory as a result of that? Can't you picture the saints of heaven throwing a party Because somebody has joined the family. Oh, you hadn't put that in your mind yet. Can you see the saints of God saying, Oh, praise God? I mean, big mum and them, all of them who've gone over saying, Yep, there's another one I was praying for that boy when I was down there, but now I know that God has made a difference in the life of that person. When was the last time you threw a somebody got saved party Well some of y'all can party. But I mean thrown a I'm excited because my cousin's brother's niece got saved Some years ago I remember going in the basement of my in-laws' house with one of my nieces and saying, Do you know Jesus? No, come on, let's go downstairs. And I led her to Jesus And she got it. I was like, yes. And then you know what was going on. Why is he so excited? Because I've led somebody to Jesus. And so if nobody else celebrated it, I got all excited that I led someone. Make it your mark this year. To lead someone to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. One day the angels threw a party on my behalf When I opened my mouth and said, Lord, I receive you into my heart. There was a party that broke out. There was a celebration that took place, and every time one accepts Jesus, There is rejoicing in the Lord. Amen. Philippians 4 and 4 says, rejoice in the Lord always I say rejoice. Come on, Education. That's the exclamation mark. That means it's time of excitement because I've led someone to Jesus. That gives me so much joy that I've had the opportunity to use my testimony. To lead someone who I know is lost. You can tell when people are lost. You know why? You remember when you were lost. And how you avoided any contact with church people. Any contact with folk, oh I'm not going to because Cousin Jr. is going to talk about the Lord again, and I'm not trying to hear it But once you heard it and once you embraced it, haven't your life been better now since Jesus saved you? Don't you have more joy since Jesus saved? Have you found yourself having more peace since He saved you this joy that I have the world didn't give it to me? And the world can't take it away. I'm looking for the loss. And we can't lose sight of the fact that Jesus came just for the loss. He was beaten for the loss. He was whipped. Crucified for the loss. He died for the loss. He came up out that grave on the third day morning for lost lives. And today we have an assignment. There are many movements, and that's great, and they're all important. But as the believer of Jesus Christ, your movement ought to be to find lost lives. Because they matter. One more time, just raise your hand of that person that you know who's lost. Yeah, just just keep your hands up and and think about that person. And ask the Lord for opportunity to lead them to Jesus. Let's bow today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus because you are so passionate. About the lost being found. You painted a picture of a shepherd and sheep. But you really are the shepherd. And we really are the sheep. And I'm glad today that you found us. And put us on your shoulder and carried us and called others to say, guess what? There's something on the hotline. That which was lost has been found. Father, I pray in the name of Jesus that we might connect with that person. Open the door to allow us to plant the seed. The word says, one planteth, one watereth, but God gives the increase. Lost lives matters. That's the word of God today. It is already blessed. They matter as you stand today. Make a decision that I'm gonna follow the path that Christ followed. And what he wanted to do, he wanted to reach the loss. I'm casting my ballot for Jesus. Why? He makes the difference. He can allow that lost life to be found. Come on, sing with us today. I have decided to follow Jesus. Make your mind up today. I won't be lost for long. I am the li to follow Jesus. To follow Jesus. No turning back. No journey. No journey man. Though no one joined me. Oh no one joins still still I will find no no one join me No one join me still I will go by Oh, no one joined still I look No turning. No turn. There's gotta be a disconnect. The world behind me. The world behind me. The cross. Well before me. The world behind me. The cross before me. The cross. The cross before me. No turning no turning right now The welcome committee in heaven are waiting. I'm waiting for another one to come. They've got to spread out in heaven. Say now if we get one today at harvest, we can go ahead. Y'all know what to do. We start celebrating. Maybe you've come today. You've never given your life to Jesus Christ. Never confessed Him as your Savior. That puts you in the category of being lost. Sounds harsh, but you're lost. But today, you can be found. As you come today, I want to just appeal to you to give your life to Jesus. Why this generation says he'll make your life brand new. It's kind of hard to describe, but I'm so glad I've got the new life now. And not the old life. The old life gave me headaches. The old life gave me grief. The old life made me feel guilty all the time. What if I get caught doing this? What if I have folk find out that I wasn't attempting to thought that I was? Let me just testify. I did some things that I prayed to God that He wouldn't take me home because then the whole story would come out. Oh yeah. I played the good church board role for many years I could woo the best of them. But in my heart, I didn't know Jesus. And I feared that what if the Lord took me home tonight? And they said, let's go ahead and look at all this stuff, it's the good boy, and what they would find in my home And what they will find in your home. If the Lord took you home, are you ready to go if the Lord called your name today? I'm kind of over the place, but I want to kind of sit there in. Now is the time. To give your life to Jesus. Don't put it off. Don't say, well, Reverend, let me think about getting me a week. I'm gonna pray about it. Who are you praying to? The prayer that the Lord wants to hear is I'm a sinner in need of a Savior. Today I want you to cause them to be a ruckus In heaven. I want you to cause there to be a celebration in glory. They're waiting to get words. Oh, we've got one more The devil thought he had. As you bow your heads today, I have no power to know whether you're a saint or not. And I cannot save you, but I can tell you about this Savior whose name is Jesus. As you bow your head today, begin to search your own heart, and ask yourself Am I lost or am I found? If it's lost Ask Jesus right now. Say, Lord, come into my heart and save me. I believe that you died. I believe that God sent you. I believe that you rose again with all power in your hand. And the Bible says if you believe that and confess that, you will be found. You will become saved. Think about it today. Make a decision today. Make a decision today. While those heads remain bowed, if you're here and you know that you don't know Jesus, I want to pray with you. While heads above. Make a connection with you so I can pray with you. Raise that hand today, wherever you are, while all heads above. I want to pray with you. I don't want you to leave this place remaining in the lost category. Because today Your life matters. If you're here today, you're not sure. Ask him, Lord. Say, I don't, I can't get all that terminology. Just save my soul. That that'll work Right there. He'll come in. He says, Save me. And once you ask him, he comes right in. He won't force you, but once you start something, he said, Lord, save my soul. Like that. He'll come in and do it. He did it for me. He did it for you. He'll do it for others today. That's my appeal today. To you Praise God. If you've come today and you want to be a part of this fellowship called Harvest, the door's always open. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you It's www. comtoharvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.