I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen. Whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website, I really do believe that God has a special message just for you A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries for a worship experience already in progress. Praise God. This all in the Lord Jesus Christ. This at the moment, even now as we're preparing our hearts for this time of sharing, look to the hills and when it cometh Our help, all of our help cometh from the Lord who made heaven and earth. Heavenly Father, we come today in. Every time we stand before your people, we're in awe of what you're able to do from this vessel. I pray but now, dear God, that as we proclaim your word, that I might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today, encourage another. But when this time is done, may you get all the praise and all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. How many folks this glad to be on the Lord's side one more time? I never used to talk this way in the world. I would just get up and think that I made the day But after a few risings and settings of the sun, you realize that God didn't have to get you up, didn't have to get you to work, didn't have to bring you home. Didn't have to give you food on your table, didn't have to get you clothes, but nevertheless, we serve that kind of God. I want to share some passage of scripture this morning from the Gospel of Luke Beginning there in the second chapter in verse 42. When he was 12 years old, they went up to the festival according to the custom. After the festival was over, while his parents were returning home, the boy Jesus stayed behind in Jerusalem, but they were unaware of it. Thinking he was in their company, they traveled on for a day. Then they began looking for him among their relatives and friends. When they did not find him, they went back to Jerusalem to look for him. After three days, they found him in the temple courts, sitting among the teachers, listening to them and asking them questions. Everyone who heard him was amazed at his understanding and his answers. Verse 48: When his parents saw him, they were astonished. His mother said to him, son, why have you treated us like this? Your father and I have been anxiously searching for you. Why were you searching for me? He asked. Didn't you know I had to be in my father's house? But they did not understand what he was saying to them I'm going to preach today on this Mother's Day from the Simonic title, Lost Lives Matter Part 4, a Mother's Day edition. A Mother's Day edition. Just for a little while this morning, I want you to journey with me on the dusty streets of Palestine. And keep in mind you're in the midst of over 200,000 people. That many people would fill Camden Yards more than four times. But as you're leaving, you are among a family of Mary and Joseph as they leave Jerusalem. They have been there to celebrate Passover, a time in which God had delivered them from the enemy. A time when they had placed blood over the doorpost so the death angel would pass over. And now they're heading back home. Aren't you glad today that God has kept you and taken care of you? My God, if you want to celebrate, you can celebrate the fact that He's still keeping you. Celebrate that he brought you out of darkness and brought you into the marvelous light. We've lost, I think, our capacity to celebrate the good things of God. We celebrate everybody else. But sometimes God does not get the glory he deserves. So imagine you're in that crowd And that many people are trying to move away and move out of Jerusalem. And as I said before, in that crowd, Mary and Joseph, these are the parents of Jesus. It was a long trip. And at some point, they discover that we don't have Jesus. Isn't that something to to lose Jesus? That you're so busy doing your thing that you turn around and realize I no longer have Jesus. Jesus lost. Wouldn't that make headline news? We can't find him. He's lost. The one who was sent to save the lost, in fact, lost. Now there are two parents in here, maybe three. Can you imagine misplacing your child but for a moment? At that busy shopping mall and you look around and they walked away. Uh you know that feeling that you get that perhaps somebody has taken my child Maybe a concert hall, maybe a local store. So imagine then what Mary and Joseph were going through Not a few people, but that many folk, and somebody realizes, we don't have Jesus. A twelve year old is missing. A twelve year old is seemingly lost I want to suggest today that while it's not possible to lose your salvation Once saved, always saved, it is possible to have an ineffective relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. Yes, I know him. He blessed my soul. But how is my day to day, hour to hour, minute to minute, second by second relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ? At the center of our text today is Mary, the mother of Jesus. And her story could easily become a made-for-TV movie. Small town girl from a rough side of town, engaged to be married, and turns up pregnant. Or some of y'all watch TV. You wouldn't change that channel. Is there more to this story? And the word is that her husband to be could have had her killed, but did not do it. But by now, Jesus is 12. And the gossip line has chilled down now. But they find themselves with their child at a place that's important to help him to grow. I want to suggest today that there's some lessons we can learn. Lessons for parents, there are lessons for children, and there are lessons for our greater community. Amen. Let's talk firstly about this sense of a lesson for parents. It says when they did not find him, they went back to Jerusalem to look for him. They were concerned about their child. Now I know sometimes brothers are a little lax, but you don't mess with mama's child. A mama will stand you up and jack you up and almost beat you uh because of their children. Now dad, we we'll ban somebody, but there's something about that maternal bond that a mama fight a tiger if they get in the way of their boy or their daughter. Amen And so this challenge today is that we find them going back to Jerusalem almost a full day. Now in between, they didn't say that they blamed each other. Theologians say that Mary, did you do it? No, I thought he was with you, Joseph. And either way, that the text didn't say that But what it said is the lesson that they went back and they were doing the duties of a parent. They look for him and they find him. I can never give up on my children. My mother and father never gave up on me. They were not dream killers. As crazy as it may have sounded Mother will say that's right, baby. You can do it. I mean some of y'all drip some crazy stuff up in your life. And you go jump off the roof and be Superman or uh Wonder Woman. Now they stop you from that But they always encourage you, and they never gave up on trying to make sure that you got to know Jesus for yourself. Amen? And you can't give up on your children. No, you can't. You must help them to find the Lord. You can make them find the Lord, but any good parent, any good father, any good mother would put it out there. Can I get an amen this morning? I I think sometimes we become afraid of the children. Uh oh. No. You in my house, you go hit with Jesus. You in my house, I got my gospel CB on. You're in my house. I'm not changing my station. Amen. Let me get back to the text. They were concerned about their child so much so they didn't get Uber, but they walked back They backtrack until they found him. And the challenge today, really, in our society, there are over 13 million single parents in this country. And their challenge is even tougher to raise a child by themselves. But to God be the glory. I know some mothers the kids act better from a single parent household sometimes than it does when they're two parents. But this sense of saying there's a lesson for me as parents. Bring your child to Jesus. Like what it says in the Gospel of Matthew 19:13, and Jesus said, then the little children were brought to Jesus For him to place his hands on them and to pray for them, and the disciples rebuke them because they got a little attitude. And there'll be folk who will stand in your way as you bring your child to Jesus. But there's no other thing than you can do than to present your child to Christ. Any anybody ever been there? You're on my street? Do you feel me this morning? I mean, i it's your responsibility as a parent, as a nosy neighbor, your responsibility as as Uncle Joe, Aunt Betty, uh you know, cousin, you know what Baby, in the part of the conversation, you need Jesus. That might sound old-fashioned, might sound old fogy. How many folk know that the Lord still makes a way out of no way? He's still a keeper And so what we see is a portrait then of responsible parents. Yeah, he he might have been lost, but I don't found my child. I have found Jesus for myself. But not just that as a lesson for the children. It says everyone who heard him, once they found him, they found him in the midst of lawyers and doctors, and he's answering their questions. He was a well-learned fellow. There was something about him being holy man and holy God. That everyone heard him, but when his parents saw that love what the Luke said he said, they were astonished I imagine they were a little hot under the color. Where have you been? We've been looking for you. Nobody ever got in trouble for that. You slipped off, didn't tell nobody, and all of a sudden you ended up some other place They found him, but what they realized is they were dealing with no ordinary child There's nothing ordinary about Jesus. He's the divine Savior. And I believe, until my one or two educators, that all children can learn. But the key is what are they learning? What are you exposed to? I'm just gonna do a one-on-one workshop on parroting. Is that all right on Mother's Day? Amen. We must walk the walk And talk the talk. Uh you can't say one thing at the house and post something else on Facebook. I know it's Mother's Day. You can't do throwback Thursday and then oh Lord. But what you put into a child is what will come out. And so if you're surprised at acting a certain way, what are they seeing? It was obvious Jesus came up in a household to where there was order, to where there was discipline, to where there was the word of God, and that's why he turned out that way. But make sure we're careful what we say and what they hear. Now, let me just say nobody is always that goody to shoe. Amen. I come confessing. Now I'm not always on. But I try to be on. But as God grows me, I pray that what I present is a model, not just to family, but to the community. Amen. How many folk know today there's somebody in your neighborhood you know and you just say you know what? I don't think they ever done anything wrong, and later you found out they had a little past But they carried themselves in such a way that God will be pleased with their life. And so Jesus was in a place the way they expected him maybe not to be, but he was a word person. And so there he was sharing And that became the time to look out. You know, it's not happen chance. The Bible says it very clearly in Proverbs 22 and 6 is that you have to do what? Train up a child in the way that he should go, and when he's old, he will not depart from it. Yeah that now they're lost, but what well have you been training? How many folk in the been in the military? I know a few of y'all are here. You know about basic training. I I I hear that's a tough time uh in the military for basic training, but you have got to do basic training as Mary and Joseph did with their child. There's a lesson uh for children to follow and to obey. Uh we've given our children options now. Do you hear what I said? I mean let me just take go down homeschool. How many folk know that your folk didn't ask you five times? Uh my dad would say, I said it slow and I said some more. I said, what does he mean? But I got it. So as we look at this text, as we look at the portrait that's being painted today, there's a lesson uh for parents and a lesson for children, but finally, there's also a lesson for the community. And so Jesus responds. After mama pulls him up, he responds, uh being more than just a 12-year-old, and says, Why were you searching for me? Now, can I be real? If we had tried that, you would have got a backhand. Are you talking back? Some of y'all are not from the country. Are you talking back to me? But he was genuine in saying I wasn't lost. You're looking for me. I'm I'm twelve and really I'm of the age within the faith that I become a man And I'm in the place in Jerusalem where it all unfolds, and I'm doing what I'm called to do. Why were you Searching for me didn't he got really di didn't you know? Can you imagine that kill a toe? Didn't you know that I'm about my father's business? And he said, but they did not understand what he was talking about. But what he had in store was for the larger faith community. I have to realize that God's agenda is more important than my agenda. He's got to be first in everything. He's saying what I'm about to do will change humanity. It it's my father's business. What I'm about to do will will make life better. What I'm about to do will do the kinds of things that will build up a whole nother generation. The community will be better. Why? Because I'm in the community. Your house ought to be better because you're leading it. Your job ought to be better because you're there. Amen. Your community ought to be better because you live there. Focus, you know what? Now that that's a praying house right there. They take care of their children. They don't take any stuff. They're nice, but they look for the community. And that's our responsibility. Amen? And so what we glean from this story is that Jesus was not smart mounting. He was sharing that which would make a change in all the world. He came to seek and to save the lost. And the truth of the matter is he's still looking for the lost. Oh, thank you, Lord. He's willing to turn around and go a four days journey just to win one. He's willing to go to a place called Calvary just To win one more soul. The Bible says that he went on from there. He didn't say, Well, I ain't going nowhere. No, he he he stayed there for a moment, but then he went home. With the spirit. He was obedient. You can be about a good cause, but not be obedient to the oh thank you, Lord. You can be doing great things, but in the same vein, you're not being obedient to God. He says, yeah, I I know y'all didn't get it, but I'm still going home. I'm uh I'm still junior. I'm still heading to the house anyhow Because things would change. He would make a difference in your life and mine. I like what Paul says in 1 Corinthians. He says, you know what It is written, I have not seen nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man the things which God hath in store for those who love him. Don't I get you excited today that you serve the kind of Savior who's not done with you yet? Amen. I am. I'm glad today that he found me I'm glad today I admitted I was lost in my sin. And Mary has a unique perspective. Here's why. She's the only person who was there at the birth of Jesus. And also at the death of Jesus. Jesus promised to prepare a place for us that where we are, he is, will be also. In my father's house there are many, many mentions. He had to endure a lot. I think sometimes we play this thing short. He had to go through a lot just to save you and to say it was a sacrifice. His mission was to find the loss. I don't think we show God enough appreciation. Can I say that again? I don't think we show God enough appreciation for everything he's done. I don't think we show God enough appreciation. I don't think we show God enough appreciation about what he's done in our lives. We are guilty of taking God for granted. Well, he's supposed to get me up. He's supposed to start me on my way. But every now and then somebody ought to say thank you. Every now and then you ought to thank him for blessing you, for the blessing he's bestowed upon you. Every now and then you ought to say, Lord, thank you for eternal life. The fact that I will live forever beyond today, amen. I know what the tombstone said, but there's a new home not made by him I thank him for the grace that he gives me. It is God's unmerited favor. I don't deserve it, but Lord, thank you. I thank you for everything you've done. I I thank you for my faith because I know who I believe in. My faith is what I stand upon. My faith is what I lean on. How many folks lean on their faith? Oh song said leaning on the everlasting arms. I thank him for sanctification. That is God's will was to do what? To set us aside. And to set us apart just for His glory. Amen. I'm glad today that the Lord stops by to remind us that no matter where you find yourself, He's yet near and He's yet dear. Aren't you glad he went to that cross? Aren't you glad he willingly gave his life? Or you don't sound too glad today. Aren't you glad today he said, you know what? I see one who needs to be saved. Had he not gone to that cross, you'd be lost, and so would I. But I'm glad today he found me on a Friday night in a small church sitting on the mourners' bench And the pastor came, or you heard my story, I'm gonna tell my testimony. He came right on down. That preacher was sweating and he was looking serious and it was Friday night and the saints had been praying all week and there was me and Mars Williams On that front seat. Well, when I went home last week, guess who was at the church when I showed up? Well, my God, it was Maurice Williams. I said, Maurice, man, together we came down on the same bitch. But look at God. We could stand together and now give God what's your testimony? What's your story? What has he done for you? Oh, oh, what he's done for me. I shall never forget what he's done for me. I'm yours, Lord. Don't look like much, mess up every now and then, but uh I'm yours. I I I'm yours. I belong to you. Everything I've got. Don't have much. Got some tucked away, but it's not material, but I'm still yours I I give myself away. I give myself to you. Everything that I am, who I proclaim to be, you know the the the the two of you There's the Monday through Saturday you and there's the so and the the there's the Sunday you but either way I'm jealous Everything I'm not. I could do better. What about you? But I'm glad today that I am completely his. Lost lives matter to Jesus. A lesson in this for the parents Come on, Mary and Jordan. No, we gotta go find that boy. Excuse me. Y'all go ahead. We gotta go find him. A method to the children. He was about the business of the Lord. Just twelve, but wise Beyond he she is wife. He's holy man and he's holy God. All about the community. Your place ought to be better because there's a saved person in the house. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. Somebody give God a praise today. Come on, stand all over this place today. You matter to the Lord, amen. He loves you. He wants your heart today. That's what he really wants. He wants to get deep into who you really are. And today we bring ourselves before him. He's that kind of God. Who would serve a savior? Like this. Open your eyes, my heart. That's your request today. Open the eyes of my heart. I want to see you. I want to speal. Open the eyes of my heart. Open the eyes. Open the eyes of my heart. I will I want to see I want to speak to see you high and live. Shining in the light of your glory for our power and love and we stay holy, holy, holy, holy. Holy, holy, holy. Holy, holy, holy. I Lord to see you. I want to see you. As we come today, this is the most precious time of the worship experience. A time we'll make a decision for Jesus. I was saying to someone the other day I interviewed, I said, you know what? I said you you're a lawyer. Yeah, I'm a lawyer. I said, well, I I used to love the closing arguments. Whether it was Perry Mason or whether it was uh Matt Locke. But they would make the case I stopped by to make the case that Jesus wants to save your soul today. That he went to an old rugged cross and he died just for you. And as you come today, it's a time to search your own heart. One thing I know is this. Nobody is a mind reader. I don't care what Sister Rose says. They can't read your mind. Only God knows what's on your mind and your heart. And so you may not look saved, but you're saved. Or you may look saved and not be saved. And so when I come on Sundays, I come to bring the message for all. Like an old farmer, I just took a handful of the word and threw it out, praying that it might take root The Bible says one planet, another water, but God gives the increase. As you come today, I want to tell you about a Savior whose name is Jesus And his story has never changed. He was born in a manger in Bethlehem, wrapped in swabbing clothes. Herod got all worked up, there's a king in town. That's killing he eat looking for a king with the king mobile. But he didn't realize that God has said his best by way of a baby. That baby grew. And we got a 12-year-old baby. Look at that. Baby started talking. Look at that. Look at that. Look at that. See the baby's there. Right? A baby. And a baby can save you by your belief. I believe that story, Reverend. I believe he grew up. I believe he went to the cross. I believe he died. Here's the next piece of evidence. He died, but he got up. And nobody else That I know of has ever died and got back up. Amen. I mean I I love the movies I've been to heaven, but I mean, died and got up again, but heaven. And that crystallizes our faith and makes it different. As you bow your hands today, ask yourself the question, do I believe that God sent his only begotten Son, Jesus Christ? And do I believe that he got up from the grave with all power in his hands? And the Bible says, if you believe that in your heart and confess it unto the Lord, thou shalt be saved. That message is over 2,000 years old. Today, take 30 seconds and ask yourself the question, am I saved? In the next 25, if you're not, say, Lord Jesus, come into my heart and save me. I'm a sinner. I'm lost. I need to be found. And right now, my Bible tells me he will save you. Now take 30 more seconds to hear his voice today. Just to ponder it. Just to process it. Just to be firm in what you believe. Praise God. While those head remain bowed. For the next 15, if you're here today and you don't know Jesus, raise your hand today while heads to bow. I want to pray for you today where you are. If you don't know Jesus Praise the Lord. If you don't know Jesus in the part of your sins, while all heads above, raise your hand. I want to pray for you where you are today. Well you are I want to play where you are today. Nobody's business, but your business in the Lord's business. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired Of course by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. cometoharvest. org. That's cumthenumber twoharvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called Seeds of Encouragement. You can get them by way of iTunes from Podcasting or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.