Hallelujah. An awesome worship song. I don't know what you come to do, but I come to worship and praise his name. What an awesome, awesome song. When you sit and think about what God has done for you throughout your worship experience. And how he has blessed you even beyond measures. You can't do nothing but give him praise. That's right, that's right, that's right. Because it all belongs to him. Wow, such a powerful message. Yes. Thank you, Lord. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We worship you, oh God. Yes. We give you all the praise. Father God, we come this morning and say thank you, Lord. We thank you for this time of worshiping you. Truly, dear Lord, we don't deserve it. But by your grace and your mercy, you have looked beyond our faults and met us at the point of our needs. So Lord, we come this morning to say thank you. Thank you for allowing us to be able to wake up this morning. And if we haven't took the time to even take that time to say thank you, we want to do it right now just to say thank you, Lord. Because it had it not been for you. Where oh where will we be? My God. So Lord, may you increase in this worship experience as we decrease. Let your words come forward, O God. Speak, O God, to us, your people. That we may go out rejoicing in the God of our salvation. So we thank you and we praise you. In Jesus' name. Amen. This morning, as you have read the text this morning, now read it again, come out of the book of James, chapter one. And it reads like this Consider it pure joy, my brothers and sisters, whenever you face trials of many kinds. Because you know that the testing of your faith Produces perseverance. Let perseverance finish its work so that you May be mature and complete, not lacking anything. If any of you lack wisdom, you should ask God, who gives generously to all without finding fault. And it will be given to you. But my text is going to come from these last scriptures. But when you ask, you must Believe and not doubt. Because the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea. Blown and tossed by the wind. That person should not expect to receive anything from the Lord. Such a person is double-minded and unstable in all they do. I want to give an honor to our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ for this opportunity. to be able to share this word that God has placed in my spirit, to my pastor, who has truly been a truly amazing encouragement in every and everything that I have done. Also I wanna um give uh honor to my wife uh soon to be next month, thirty-two years. And uh thank you. I thank God for her strength. All that she has um inspired and done um with me and for me, I thank God for a praying wife. Because you know there are times when we um can go astray or we think what we want to think and do what we wanna do. But when you have a praying wife It keeps you balanced so that you don't go astray and and do things that you have no business doing. So I thank you for um thirty one now thirty two years of your commitment to me. Even though I know it might be difficult at times but nevertheless Praise God. Thank you. This morning I just want you to preach and go with me and let's go back to our area of that I want you to focus on. How many of you have been To a beach. Alright. For those of you who haven't been to a beach, we're gonna help you understand what a beach is like. Have you ever been to a beach where you're sitting on the balcony of your room? Yeah, see somebody already there. If you're not sitting on the balcony, you're you're you're sitting out on the beach and in the early morning hours as the sun begins to rise. There's this wind that just sh just blows. And you s and you listen and watch the waves as it shh. And while you're sitting and watching the waves, the wind is blowing and it's causing the waves to toss. To and fro. To and and fro. To and fro. And every now and then the wind may pick up and you'll get a higher wave. And every now and then the wind will drop down and you get a lower wave. Uh-huh. But in this text, James, the half brother of Jesus, he is writing to the twelve tribes that are scattered abroad and even to the Jewish um community. Here we have what is framed within an overall theme of patience Perseverance, wisdom, trials, and temptations. James writes to encourage the believers to live consistently He wants his readers to mature in their faith in Christ by living what they say they believe. I just told you about the beach and how the waves go to and fro. And James is trying to paint a picture to give us an idea that sometimes That's how we are. We're like the waves. When the wind blows, we go down. Sometimes it blows harder. We become a bigger weight. We're being taught to and fro. Now The title that God has given me to share with you this morning is Make Up Your Mind. Uh-huh. Make Up. Your mind. Verse six says, But when you ask you must believe and not doubt, because the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea, blown and tossed by the wind. speaks to the fact that that person should not expect should not expect to receive anything from the Lord. Such a person is double-minded and unstable in all he do. Now I didn't say that you're always double-minded. Okay. He said the text says he is like a person who is double-minded. So in other words, what what I want to stand This morning is that we have to come to a point where we have to um know how to make up our mind. Let's not be like the waves come to being tossed. To and fro. One minute we're over here. Next minute we over there. One minute we're over here. Next minute, we're over there. It's almost like you're being bipolar to some degree. Sometimes they hear, sometimes they're not. But but what James is trying to get us to understand is that he wants us to understand, first of all, that what does it mean to be done? Double mind. Double minded means you are wavering in the mind. You're undecided. You're torn between two directions two minds. Listen, no Christian becomes double minded overnight. No, no, no, no, no, no. It takes time to develop listen. It takes time to develop an unrelenting desire to pursue a particular course. In other words, whatever your desire is that you're going contrary to the word of God. Uh-huh. It's that that it's gonna constantly you're you're you're putting your all into it. You're pursuing something other than what God has already called you to do. That, my brothers and sisters, places you into a double-minded spirit. So in other words you you you you know what God wants you to do but you want to do what you want to do. So you don't want to hear what God has to say, how he's outlining everything in your life. You like you know what I've got this I don't need to hear from you right now. I got this. So so let me work this out. And God said, not a problem. You go here. But he but but he he gives us a warning. That when you become such a double-minded person, you become unstable in all that you do. So so so so so what he's trying to get us to understand is that James says when you um uh are pursuing a particular course Until we part ways with that thing which is stabbing at Jesus all the time, we will continually find ourselves in an inner Turmoil. In other words, you're constantly trying to figure out what's going on. What's going on? Why, why, why? Well, have you ever considered your ways? Have you ever considered what you're doing? Uh-huh. But then When you look at the waves, have you noticed when you're standing on the beach, the waves they come up high and to get closer to the seashore, they become low. Well Wavering is the same as in the sense double-minded. Wavering means to lose strength. When you're waving, you lose strength. You lose your determination. You lose your purpose and you be Begin to doubt the very word and will of God. Matthew 6 24 said he spoke to the one who tried to serve two masters. As such. He is unstable, which means he's a waver. Hebrews, which is what we're on this entire year. Hebrews chapter 1 says, I mean 11, verse 1 says, now faith is being sure, being sure. of what we hope for, and certain of what we do not see. Verse 3 says, by faith we understand that the universe was formed of God's command. So in other words, you can't be both certain and doubting at at the same time because that's a double-minded person. When the Bible talks about don't waver, it means don't threat to what the Word of God says. Isn't it amazing how so many times we know I said we, including me, I don't want you to think I'm apart from you because Guess what? I've been there. I've done it. So I know. We hold fast to what is said in the church. But the moment we go out that door, Oh Lord. Oh, here comes the wind. Oh, here come the waves. And now we're being taught to and fro. Never mind what you just heard. Oh Lord. Never mind what was just given for us to be instructed as to how we can Manage and live our lives. We go out the door and we begin to doubt the very word that we just claim that we hold fast to. That's how the enemy works. So so so so James was trying to encourage him. Change or or or start the wavelength. Remember what you were taught. Hold fast to what you were already instructed with. And you say, well, well, James, how do you know? Well James, though, because he'd been there. James had a very difficult time trying to accept the fact that his half brother Jesus was the Messiah. Now James didn't want to hear that. I mean, it literally took Kim a minute. No, that's my brother my half brother. No, that's a messiah. No, that's my half brother. He didn't he didn't want to come to the point of realizing that he himself had to bow down to his half brother who happened to be Jesus. So James knew what it meant to be double-minded and unstable, wavering, and even though he heard the word, he had doubt. He He he kn he is look, oh God, look. Isn't it amazing how somebody can tell you the truth? You know it's the truth. But all of a sudden you begin to doubt. Well, well Uh, well, I I don't know. No, no, no, no. You know. You know. But the problem is you're allowing the storm, the wind, to to just just to blow and and and toss you to And pro to the point where you begin to doubt. And when you begin to doubt, you lose your determination as to what God has called you to do. You lose your desire as to what God has called you to do. So so don't so don't waver. to use you in the way he has called you. God doesn't move on our time. No, no. But he moves on his time. You see, we want to have the provision, but not the challenge. We want deliverance without ever even going through the fiery furnace. Like Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednico. Now Has Shabbat, Meshach, and go not stood strong on their faith and their belief? Now God said he would show up. He just didn't say when. So Sometimes you got to get into the fire before God shows up and do what he says he's going to do. But that comes by faith. You can't do it by wavering. You can't do it by doubting. You can't do it. about being a double-minded individual. They didn't double-mind themselves. They didn't start to waving. They said, no matter what you say We will still do what we are known to do. We will still trust our God because we know what He can do. And so when they threw him in a fiery furnace, the king looked. How many of you through in there? Three. You sure? Yeah. Well, I see a fourth person, and the fourth one looks like the son of God. Even the king knew who he was. So in other words, what I'm saying is that don't waver. Don't flinch. Stay on what you know and just wait until God jumps in and takes you to the next level. Lazarus has been dead for four days. And there's a stone in the front of the grave. Jesus said Says to Mary, did I not tell you that I am the resurrection? And he that believes in me shall never die? And they say, Yes. Then Jesus asked them, do you believe this? Yeah. Because if you do, then I will bring him back to life. And they said, Lord. I believe. Can God count on you and I to wait on him and be of a good courage like David? Come on. Can God count on us to trust in his word? Others tell you that you should just give up. In the book of Mark, Jesus says, have faith in God. Whatever it is, have faith in God. If you don't have faith, You will never see his answer. If you don't have faith, you will never see his praise. If you don't have faith, you will never see his power. How do I know? Well, the text. James one seven says, He who doubts will receive what? Nothing. So don't expect God to bless you when you're being double minded, unstable. It's only because of your unbelief. So God can't bless what he what you don't believe. How can I tell you or give you something if you don't believe that I am the giver? And that I am able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that you've done. never actually think. So if I am who I say I am and you say that I am that I am, why is it that you gotta doubt what I am as to what I can do for you? When you're in a battle, the only victory you have is faith. And that faith overcomes the world. Listen, the Bible is filled with imperfect people. Uh-huh. And oftentimes we want to emphasize on their imperfection. But guess what? It's not so much uh the imperfection, it's the faith that qualifies them, not the imperfection. Uh huh. It's their faith. Look, you you you you you can be a whore monger, you can be whatever you know, um thing you're going through, but guess what? It's not your imperfection, it's not my imperfection. It's what I believe on the word of God that makes the difference. Yet you see me for a who I used to be. But God sees me for who I am. And so therefore, long as I know that God sees me for who I am, it doesn't matter what you gotta say back from where I used to be. Yeah I've been there. Yes I've done that. But guess what? What? I'm a new creation in Christ. All things have passed away, and behold, all things have become new. Oh God, thank you, thank you, thank you. Help us, Lord, help us. How do I know? Well, in Romans four three it says Abraham's faith will count it as righteousness unto him. There are a lot of us Christians, imperfect Christian, that don't have faith. But the word of God says it is impossible to please God. without it. Abraham being called by God didn't waver, but he believed in God. We want God to speak to us, but the words of the Lord right here in this book. In the Bible is the word of God. So so what's the point of saying you you you need to hear from God? God said, Open me up. I'm right here. Can't you see me? I'm talking to you. Don't you hear me? No, you don't hear because why? Because the book is no longer here, it's over here. You don't take the time to open it up to look at it. You too good to keep the clothes. You think, Well Lord, speak to me. Lord speak to me. God said I don't always speak in audible voices. Sometimes I just want you to open up a word and let the word speak for itself. Because I am that I am. God's delays are not God's denials. Have you been waiting on the Lord for an answer. They that wait on the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall run and not grow worried. They shall walk. And not faint. Have you taken God at His word? Don't stop believing even when others say you should. They may give up, but don't you give in. They may not endure, but stand without wavering. Hold fast to your faith. Carry on with the blessed assurance that Jesus is mine and that nothing And I mean absolute and nothing is too hard for God for me. And that all things are possible, but whatever you do, don't wait. with the Lord for years. A double-minded life will avoid, it will bypass, it will dip and dodge much of the good which the Holy Spirit wants to work in you and through you. What we as believers desperately need is to fully surrender our hearts and minds to the Lord. Listen. The reason why a wavering or double-minded person seems to have old habits hanging on indefinitely is because old habits are the fruit of an unstable heart and mind. Whatsoever a man thinketh, so is he. The only way to enjoy the joy and peace that God has for us. is to get back to a single-minded approach to Christian living. So make up your mind. You can't serve two masters. Since you're either going to serve me and hate him, or you're going to serve him and hate me. Make up your mind. Father God, we thank you for this word, dear Lord. We pray that be um inspired. In our spirit to do what needs to be done. May you grow us in your word, O God. Teach us your word, O God. Teach us how to stay focused upon you. Let us not wait or asked to see as the wind blows to and fro. But let us stand strong. on your word, dear Lord. Let us be steadfast, unmovable. Always abounding in your word, dear Lord, and in the work that you have called us to do. So Lord, have your way this evening. Bless us in the way that only you can, dear Lord. Grant us um um um the wisdom dear Lord to make the right decisive decision. And Lord, help us in our unbelief. Teach us your word. Let us stay focused in what you have called us to do and let us stay connected to you. That we would have a Single minded with you and you alone. Let this mind which was in Christ be also in us. We thank you and we praise you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Praise the Lord. Come on, scared of this. It's an ultra