It's our word from the Lord. It's Florida like outside. That's why I've got the biggest towel I could find. Thanks to Ruthie Washington. Amen. Got my name on it too. But uh if you have your Bibles, please open them up, if you have your devices, to the book of Philippians, the fourth chapter of Philippians. Paul's letter to the church at Philippi. And we'll be spending time today in verses twelve and thirteen. That's Philippians 4, 12 and 13. And when you found it, say amen. Thumbs up, smiley face, one small horn. Amen. And we read together, it says, I know what it is to be in need, and I know what it is to have Plenty, I've learned the secret of being content in any and every situation. whether well fed or hungry, whether living in plenty or in want. And verse thirteen says, I can do all of this Through him who gives me strength. Philippians 4, 12 and 13. I want to preach today from the Samonic title Making a Case for Contentment. Making a case for contentment. Jane Wachesky is from Zanesville, Ohio, and up until a few weeks ago she may have been known to her friends and family as Nightbird. And not long ago she got a chance to go on the big stage and appeared on a program called America's Got Talent. Uh you maybe have watched that a time or two, maybe you have called in, maybe you've rooted for a certain person, but on that particular night she performed a song that's killing YouTube these days It's entitled I'm okay. I'm okay. The judges were impressed uh those in the studio were lost for words, but it was not just the song that got the judges' attention. It was not just uh those that she impressed their on the stage, but she shared something from her own life, a personal testimony, that she'd been given a two percent chance of surviving from cancer. She shared these powerful words that have been with me all week. Never come across something, a saying uh that just sticks in your spirit and you think first of all it's for somebody else but you never know it can be for you. Here are these powerful words. She says we don't have to pick life Is hard or pick life is beautiful. She says life is beautiful and hard. At the same time. Did you get that? That that we don't have to pick life is hard or check the box for life is beautiful. But life is beautiful and hard at the same time. And she goes on to say, you can't wait until life isn't hard anymore before you decide to be happy. That that stayed with me this week and her words I think serve as a reminder that no matter what you and I are going through That God is still good. Amen. That no matter what you're facing, no matter what your situation no matter how bleak it looks that that life can be hard and beautiful at the same time. I want to suggest this morning that it is possible to be content In the midst of your current circumstances, with the help of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. In the text today, we hear from the Apostle Paul. Well known. He wrote the better part of the New Testament. And Paul is writing from a prison cell. That's no small matter. We we write from the convenience of our homes or on our laptops, but there he is locked up All because he would dare declare the good news of Jesus Christ in a Roman prison. And what he really writes for the people in Philippi is really a thank you letter Don't thank you go a long ways. Uh Paul is saying, I want to thank you all for remembering me with the financial gifts that you've sent me. Doing ministry is not free. Doing ministry comes at a cost, even in the here and now. And Paul begins to tell them that I'm really all right I'm pretty content. Now can you imagine that you sitting in prison and you saying that it's alright? But we live in a world of discontented people. Yeah. Discontented Safe people, discontented people who love the Lord. And they may have all the possessions, but they're just not content They're not satisfied. And get this. Now this is from someone who took plenty of risk. Paul took a lot of risk for the gospel He put his life on the line. His life is one that reads from some big-screen adventure classic starring Paul. I came across 2 Corinthians 11. I just found a few things so that you might hear what Paul went through. That that Paul might give you some credibility. He says, Well, three times I was beaten with rods. Once I was pelted with stones. Three times I was shipwrecked. I spent a night and a day in the open sea. I've been constantly on the move. I've been in danger from rivers, in danger from bandits, in danger from my fellow Jews. In danger from the Gentiles, in danger in the city, in danger in the country, in danger at sea, in danger from false believers. He's not done yet. He says, I've labored and toiled. And have often gone without sleep. I've known hunger and thirst and have often gone without food. I've been cold the naked Besides everything else, I face the pressure of the concern for all church. I mean, is that not enough? I I I I know you've been through some stuff. And I know life has been hard for you and the hills have been hard to climb, but but Paul took a licking and kept on ticking. There he is. in prison, writing on death row, and he's trying to make a case for why it is important to be content. And Paul helps us with three things I believe. He shows us that contentment is unconnected to our circumstances Contentment is learned, and contentment flows from our reliance on the Lord Jesus Christ. Philippians 4, 12, 13. Let's unpack this. Contentment is unconnected to our circumstances. He writes in verse 12, I know what it is to be in need. And I know what it is to have plenty. Say what, Paul? In other words, I know what it means to stand along the interstate with a sign that says, I'll work for food. God bless you And I know what it means to host a food drive where I'm giving away food and clothing. I've been on both sides of the equation. Now I know that where you are today, you have faced some difficult life situations and may be facing them now. If people could get a peep At your whole card and see what you've been. This a child, how did you make it? I mean, yeah, we put on the best face, but so many of us have faced trials and tribulations. The Bible says In the world you shall have tribulation, but in me you'll have peace. But Paul gives all this background to say, listen That it ain't about the circumstance, it's about the one who I serve. God is a God of circumstances He's Jehovah Jarah. He will provide for you. Does anybody believe today that he will provide? Yeah, I mean, he comes along and He undergirds us. He comes along and he helps us. He comes along and provides for us each and every day. I always say, we got a history with God. Sometimes we get amnesia, forgot where God has brought us from. We making it now. But my God, when you look back over your life and see where God has brought you from, all you can say is hallelujah, and thank you, Jesus. Paul writes earlier in the same letter, Philippians 4. 19, but my God shall supply all of your need. according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus. And I believe that the contentment is so important beyond the material. See, this life we live is a spiritual life. Amen? And the Bible says the spirit warreth against the flesh. That your life, you may not look like much, me either, but thank God for Jesus, he continues to take us through. And we find ourselves like the grandmother on the porch in the country, shelling peas with a fan in her hand and saying, you know, child, it's gonna be okay, baby. And you say, what do you mean? I mean it's gonna be okay. The same grandma who put a few quarters in your hand to get on the greyhound talking to somebody to go into the big city. They had that kind of faith and they were content where they were. They invested Physically, but they invested also in your spirit. That that Paul says it's not just having contentment Be connected to our circumstances, but also he says contentment is learned. Contentment is learned. Other part of verse 12 says I've learned the secret of being content in any and every situation. Whether well fed or hungry, whether living in plenty or in want. I can hear my mother right now saying, Child, there's no secret what God can do What he's done for others, he will do for you. And there is. There is no secret what God can do. Paul had a relationship with the Lord that he could say, I've learned some things. That I'm not a know-it-all, but life would teach you a couple of things. Life will teach you how to be more loving. Life will teach you how to be kind. Life will teach you how to be faithful. Life will teach you how to love on somebody. Why? There's some thirds that you learn in this life that yeah you know what I'm gonna be alright because of whose side I am on he says in every situation I got a full belly and yet my stomach is growling. Oh, some of y'all know about that. I'm full. I paid the tip out the door, but at the same token, I need some tea. Blessed be the God today. This is something that we learned. Life is a teacher. You find the things that you thought made you happy were not that big a deal anymore. Amen. Having Christ in your life has made a difference. Can I talk about me? Thank God. I have a Sunday school class or two under my belt, but thank God for his mercy And thank God for his grace. He's still growing me up. Amen. My God. See, see, some of y'all don't know what it means in the country to buy a pair of dungarees that were too big for you because mama said you're growing to them. My God. And in life situations, that there's some stuff you will just grow into. Amen. You'll be beaten, battled along the way, but thank God for Jesus. There is no sh sh secret in what God can do. I love Romans 8:28 says, and we know. That all things work together for good for them who love God, for them who recold according to his Well what are you learning? In the classroom of life. What are you learning not about other people, but what are you learning about yourself? The person you see in the mirror each and every day. What are you learning? Yeah, we got a wrinkle or two. But what are you learning about your walk with Christ? Are you learning to be more content and more caring? and more understanding, blessed be the God today. And so, Paul, we thank you that contentment is a uh uh uh a course. Contentment is a credit-bearing situation that along the way, you remember in college, you got four more credits and you can just graduate Amen. Well, thank God you've got some credits with the Savior today as you grow in him. Contentment is learn. It is unconnected to our circumstances. But finally, contentment flows from our reliance on the Lord Jesus Christ. Verse 13 is one of my favorites. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. Not not some things. But but all things. And but there again, this is locked up death roll uh Paul This is I've been beaten and shipwrecked, Paul. This is uh I've been pelted by rocks, Paul talking about I can do is he out of his mind? I can do all things And you about to have your name called any moment now to die? In the face of that, he knew who he served. That Christ has brought him through. That Christ has connected each of us. And it's not through your homegirl. It's not through Brother Man or your crew. It's not through your ride and die. That's kind of you know, but it's through Christ. It's on that solid rock that each of us stand today that it is through Christ that we can make it. It's through Christ we can become content and chilled in our current situation. Amen. You see, there's no limitations in Christ. There's nothing too big for him. Amen. Acts 17, 28 says, For in him we live We breathe and we have our thing. Do you feel more contented now than when you drove up on the parking lot? Because you may have jumped up and saying, you know what? If I had another car The one running now, but I wish I had some air. You may have driven up here and said, you know what, I like my house, but you know I don't know. I could get the yeah, but now that you've come here You felt the sense of contentment knowing that you know what? Every day with Jesus is sweeter than the day before. There's a story that is told a true story Of a man who had a farm. He's a farmer. Lived in a very prosperous piece of land, orchards, grains. He had it going on. But he was discontented. He he wanted more and the story says that a wise man from the east, can I point right there? Uh always uh be careful of wise people sometimes. They tell you they're wise A wise man said, man, brother, you need a diamond mine. You need a field. And this man left all that God had given him And went all over the world trying to find land that he thought possessed diamonds. Oh, you know where this is going. And he goes from place to place to the point he becomes so frustrated, he takes his own life in pursuit of something If you're not careful today, you'll run your life in the ground, pursuing more. Time to hang with the Joneses, so to speak. The time comes that he has lost his life And then the man who bought the farm is out one day with his camel and it goes down by the water brook. Amen. And when he goes down, the camel looks down, and there he sees a diamond in the rough. And so all that this man had been looking for and hoping for was right there. Sometimes we chase wild dreams and we chase new ideas with everything that we need is right here. Amen. How's life for you down on the farm? Huh? Are you content? Are you okay with where God has you for this season? Amen? You have value and you have purpose in your life because Jesus Paid it all. My God. He paid the ultimate price for our sins. And that's good news today. That we're looking to see how we can bankroll something. And God is saying, I will supply all of your needs. According to my riches in glory by Christ Jesus. Amen. And so when we come to this place in life, know that you can find contentment in Christ You can find contentment in his word. You can find contentment in everything that you go through because the God that we serve is a mighty good God. The strong word that says through it all Through it all, I learned, there it is again, I learned to trust in Jesus, and I learned to trust in God. Through it all, through every pain, through it all, through every disappointment, through it all, through every challenge, through it all, through every heartbreak, I've learned to be content I've learned to trust in God. Is there anybody today who knows what it means to trust not in you? But to trust in God. I'm glad today that I serve a risen Savior and He's in the world today. In other words, I'm alright. Right where I am because I'm walking with the Savior. I'm okay. I'm not worried about what I don't have, but I'm thanking God for what I do have. I've got peace that passeth all understanding. I've got joy divine. Do I look content? And when you become content, your whole body will change. You may have walked in and you all rigid it. But now when you think about what the Lord has done for you, my God, you put your hand in your pocket and you become relaxed Why? It's not your world. He said, I will take care of you. I'm glad about that today. Thank you, Paul, for stopping by. Paul has not made bail, and Paul won't make bail. Poll is done, but thank God for the pole in you. That no matter what, I've learned to be okay. Copostadic. Anyway, the wind goes, it's all right with me as long as I'm standing on the promises of Jesus Christ our Lord. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. Oh bless God, bless God, bless God today. We're gonna do Holy Communion in a moment, but I want to just take a minute. uh to just pray for you and to invite those uh on the lot or at home wherever you are to tell you about Jesus Christ. Come by as an ambassador today To let you know that only what you do for Christ will last. Let's pray, Father, we come in the name of Jesus, and there may be one today who is discontented. Upset, worked up, pulling their hair out because they think they ought to be at a certain place by now in the world and by the world standards But I thank you today that they may come to realize that it is in you that they can find life eternal So I pray today, God, if there's one listening, one watching who has never really accepted you as the personal Savior, they may open their hearts today. And allow you to come in to suffer them. The Bible says, if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised them from the dead, the Bible says Thou shalt be saved. I believe that today. I stand on that today. That gives me assurance today that I am saved And that life is eternal on my behalf. Do it today, we pray now in Jesus' name. Amen. But praise God