Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. The song was written written and sung by uh Mr. Jonathan Butler We hope you enjoy one. Praise God this morning. So let's say everybody praise God this morning. Falling in love. With falling in love with Falling in love with Was the best thing I've ever ever done It is all I feel protected In his arms never did connect any arms I deal prototype there's no place I'd rather be Everybody seems all in love with G Falling in love with you was the best thing I ever done. It is prospect of now. Every day I think look like this. There's no place I'd rather be Capby I'm singing that starts falling in love with Jesus Falling in love with Chu. Oh falling in love With Jesus was the best thing I ever Ever done. Cause in his arms I feel protected. In his arms, never still in that day in his arms. I feel protected. It's the best thing I ever ever done. Just praise it now. Let's praise it now. Everybody sing. Holding in love with the falling calling Our with me With us was the best thing I ever It is I think protected, it is on now. I feel pronated that no place I'll ever be No no no no no no no No play forever Radher be me No place I Amen How many folk are in love with Jesus and not ashamed to admit it? Amen? Oh, you don't sound like you're really in love with Jesus The Bible says that he first loved us. Aren't you glad that he loves you in spite of who you are? And what we've all done, he still loves us. You don't sound too excited about that. That when he pulls your file and pulls mine, I know, but I still love it. When he looks at where we've come from, he still says, I know. I love them. They belong to me. And the devil can't snatch you out of the Lord's hand. Let me just say that. Once saved, always saved. Let's bow today. Heavenly Father, we do come and we sense your love. We feel your love. And we spread your love today among your people. As we come, may we decrease. And may you increase. Save someone today and encourage another. But when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise And the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Always honored to stand before you to proclaim the good news of Jesus. All week long I've been thinking about you and thinking about this word and praying to God for you even in my late hours saying, God You work the word out that somebody might be blessed. There's a word from the Lord today from the book of Joshua, there in the sixth chapter of Joshua. Verses 1 through 5. And it reads, Now the gates of Jericho were securely barred. Because of the Israelites. No one went out and no one came in. Then the Lord said to Joshua, see I have delivered Jericho into your hands, along with its king and its fighting men. March around the city once with all the armed men and do this for six days. Have seven priests carry trumpets of ramps' horns in front of the ark. On the seventh day, march around the city seven times with the priest blowing the trumpets. When you hear them sound a long blast on the trumpets, have the whole army give a loud shout Then the wall of the city will collapse and the army will go up everyone straight in I want to preach today from the Semonic title, Marching with the Purpose. Marching with the Purpose. I remember the days of lining up along US 90 in my hometown, and I could hear the drums from afar The beat. And as the band got closer, you could hear the horns. But what intrigued me and caused me to smile was to see the band. In uniform marching. And once they got to the center of town, the band showed off That's what bands do when they get around folks they know, they turn it on. And I would watch them in amazement as to how they were in step and on cue. Marching. Marching along the way. Perhaps you were in the man. You can brag about the band that you were a part of. You can brag about the fact that you still have your instrument and maybe you still have your uniform somewhere in the house But whether it's a parade or whether it's marching by way of our armed forces, it's great to see the cadence. And the movement. Whether it's expressing your freedom of assembly and free speech, people march. And they march with a purpose And that's good news today. In our text today, we meet a band of marchers. They have left the area of enslavement in Egypt. They've come across the Red Sea. They've spent 40 years in the wilderness, and now with a new drum major, one by the name of Joshua, they proceed. To get into the promised land. It is great when God has promised you something. And that Time comes when you want to claim what God has provided for you. Anybody been calling on God for something and you know it's on the way, you know that you're close, you can feel it Well, Jericho was kind of in the way to get through Jericho to get to this promised land, a land that always like to say as the Bible says, that runs with milk and honey. But between the promised land, there was a jericho. And between where God is taking you, there is a jericho in your path. And that's why you gotta march with purpose. Because there's something or someone who has built up walls around you. And the enemy, the Canaanites, knew that the Israelites were coming, and they fortified themselves by building high walls and thick walls to keep the Israelites out. Don't you know that God has provided a way for you that nothing can keep you from reaching that He has promised to give you? Well, I'm getting excited about that all by myself Amen. Amen. I'm excited about that. And you say, well, I guess that's it. But I say to you, don't stop marching for the master. My God, the people were tired. The people were frustrated. And I could see Moses in the style of the old school HBCU drum major run back and saying, We gotta come home and get into our promised land. Anybody trying to get to that that God has promised you? Have you thrown the towel in? Or you saying, you know what? I have got to march with a purpose. That's the good news in the text. I want to suggest that you've got to have that kind of mindset that I refuse to stop pressing. Paul says I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling in Christ Jesus. I don't know about you, but I I can't give up now. I've come too far. I can't give up now. God has made me a promise. I can't give up now. Aren't you going somewhere? Don't make me push you this morning. But there's that thing that came to mind that you say, well I guess I'll camp out right here. What if they had done that? They would have missed the promise of God. There's some things that they have to take place for them to claim victory First of all, they have to follow God's directions. The text is very specific. March around the city once. With all the armed men, and do this for six days. Instructions. Have seven priests carry trumpets of ramp's horns in front of the ark. Once a day for six days. This is just a warm up It's a practice lap. Many of you have run track or you walk, know that first lap is to get you warmed up. And so what God told them by way of Joshua is just follow my directions. He didn't say go one and a half times around. He didn't say, we feeling good. Why don't we go two times around? But it's important to follow God's directions. Seven priests, those who serve in the temple, and make sure they're carrying their trumpet And make sure that we don't try to alter the plan. Can I just be real this morning? Sometimes we, well-meaning, will alter the plan of God. God told you one thing, but your best friend said something else. Child, I will go around two times. I will go three. Maybe four. But God's directions are very specific. Keeping in mind in the backdrop, God had already told Joshua, the land is yours. Well we gotta walk around then if we already know we're gonna get it. Just about the obedience. Well I know I gotta pray in church this morning. Have we all been there? Well it seemed like to me, why don't we go that way? But he says, make sure that there's this sense of going around once. Carry the trumpets. Have the army. Have the ark of the Lord in front of you. The ark being that portable worship box with the Ten Commandments that they would take with them, and that is the presence of God goes with you. Isn't that good news today? Because if I think about how God wants it done, I've got to listen to him and not to conventional wisdom, whatever that is. I gotta make sure that in spite of what my mind is telling me, to just do it God's way. Is it hard for you to do sometimes? God, but I I think I know better. I've been down this road before. Let me try it my way, and oftentimes he'll let you do it. He gives you free will. Over in the gospel of Matthew, there's a promise, I will be with you always, even to the end of the earth. Following God's directions. But also we got to trust God's math Another part of verse 4 says, on the seventh day, march around seven times with the priest blowing the trumpets. Okay, I got that. So your math, God says, not one, but seven times around the walls of Jericho. And now the priest can start to blow the horn that, isn't God specific, the horn they have been carrying, but on the seventh day. Not the eighth day I overslept. Not I forgot on the ninth day, but on the seventh day. And there's something about that number seven. Creation seven days. It represents that which is finished. It represents completeness. But every now and then we would try to do our own math. And try to change it, but it really comes down to obedience. It's better than sacrifice that even though I think I know better, I've got to do it God's way. God could have taken it in four days. No, no, I said seven days. I'm not trying to prophesy up in here But maybe seven days from now, next Sunday, the thing that God has planned for you, it may be a seven-day journey No, I want it on Monday. No, I want it on hump day on win. No. On the seventh day. But they have to look And to listen and to understand and to obey God's math They had to believe God. Had to be faithful. James 2. 17 says, even so, faith without works is dead. It's not a lazy faith we have, but I don't want to march. Do something. Even though God already has done that thing in your life, He wants you to participate And to do something. You don't want to lazy say, well, the Lord will make a way somehow. If I just wait on him and all No, he said, I'm telling you by way of your man's servant, do something And my math may not make sense to you, but my God, I'm God. One day is in a thousand years for me. So just trust his math. But finally, watch God's miracle. When you hear them sound a long blast on the trumpets Have the whole army give a loud shout. Then The wall of the city will collapse and the army will go up, everyone, straight in. That now listen to the trumpets. And once you hear the trumpets, OQ with a long Blowing trumpet, I want you to shout. Well, y'all miss that. That Once you get to where God has placed you and your victory is in view, I dare you to shout He was saying to them, once you have heard the lone sound of The trumpet. You know what a trumpet sounds like? Can you hear? Unless you can't hear the sound of a trumpet even now. I just heard it. Hallelujah. And so that means that's my signal to shout. And then the walls will start to fall down after you have done what I told you to do. Don't watch the enemy, but watch my instructions. And then when it says, you know what? And then they begin to fall. And the walls of adversity will fall. And the walls of challenges will fall once we have seen the miracle of don't you know God is still tearing down walls? It wasn't just Jericho. It might be in your hometown. It might be in your home. It might be on your job. He's still tearing down walls. And as a result, he says, then you'll be able to walk on in and get everything that I promise you, God is good. Aren't you glad that God, as Paul said in 1 Corinthians, he will give you the victory by way of our Lord Jesus Christ? Anybody feeling victorious today? Don't you know Jesus is the one who gives up victory? My God, he was marched up that hill to a place called Calvary. And he got there and they hung him on an old rugged cross. And he did that for you and for me. The grave could not hold him. And so based on that, I'm motivated to march for the Lord. Come we that love the Lord, and let our joys be known join in a song With sweet accord, and thus surround the throne. We're marching to Zion, that beautiful city of Zion. We are marching upward to Zion, that beautiful city of God. I just want to see if you brought your marching shoes today My God, every time you hear a parade, you may not be in it, but once you hear that beat, you will start to move your leg a little bit. Amen. Every time you hear the parade come through town You may not have the rhythm, but you'll start to kind of move in a way. Do I have a witness today? I was out not long ago covering an event and I heard the band from a distance. I'm about to go on TV now, but I heard the band. And I put on my best march with the band. And sometimes you've got to march through the things that you have been challenged by. And to march means to pick one up and to put one down. Anybody feel like marching today? Anybody feel like marching with a purpose? Anybody know that to get to where God is taking you, you can't walk. And he don't want you to rock, just march. My God, I feel like preaching today that I want to just keep on marching toward what God has provided for me. So I close today. Anytime there's a parade, the band director takes time to get the plane. Where does it start? And where does it end? Where is my band placed? And where are we gonna end up before it's all over? There has to be a plan And God has given you a manual to use. A manual to get you from point A to point B. It's important to have a manual A good friend of mine was blessed with a new car the other week and she said to me, I'm in the car, but it won't shut off. I said, I can't help you. I have no skills in gadgets. I'm pressing all the buttons, but it's still not working. Even though we were on the phone and she's smarter than me, I said, why don't you just read the manual? And it worked long before she got the manual. I realize that in this manual there's love. In the manual. God so loved the world that he sent his only begotten Son, that's in the manual. That folk might know that you're my disciples based on how you love what it's it's it's it's in the manual. He'll give you peace That passeth all understanding. It's in the manual. He'll give you joy unspeakable that weeping may endure for a night, but joy comes in the morning. The joy of the Lord is my strength. It's in the manual. Salvation is in the manual. Do I have a witness today? I'm still called up on what it takes to get from point A to point B. I'm marching With a purpose. Where you going? God's got something for me. Hold up I'm sorry. I'm doing the Lord's business. Wait a minute. No no no no no no no I'm I'm just marching But you you get no no no no don't don't don't don't bother me I'm marching with the purpose in mind God's instructions God's math, God's miracle. That is the word of God today. It is already. You feel like marching today? Come on, stand on your feet today March on. I feel like a a marching song. I know what the invitation says. But I feel like some glory glory. Hallelujah. Since I laid my burdens down. Can I go country on y'all? Glory, glory, Hallelujah, oh c'est Hallé My bird and the hung, glory, glory Hallelujah, c'est allé my girl Friends don't treat me. Oh friends don't treat me like they used to. Like they used to both Oh prince, don't sleep me. No, no Like they used to oh since I lay my birthday. I'll go home the live Jesus I'm going home to come on watching. Live with Jesus. Sit and lay my burden down. Oh, I'm gone home to O Lord Live with cheese. C'est sale. C'est ça. C'est aller ma venir. Hallelujah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I feel like Martin. I feel like Martin. What about you as we come today God has given us that old Bible story to remind us that you've not walked far enough yet You gave up on the once a day, but you didn't come back for the seventh day. But you come today, maybe you have put your marching boots away Given up on life and so there's no use. But then you hear a sound From heaven. It's just the right beat for you to get back in the game. Lord, I The band leaving me, I need to get back in. And what's so good about that is when you've been trained, you can walk alongside the band and just pick up. Yeah, yeah. As you bow your hands and say, Father, I come in the name of Jesus. There may be one today who has not marched. But today you're calling on marches. The whole time they walked around, nobody said a word. No complaining. They just marched. At the right time you gave the signal. I pray in the name of Jesus. If there's one here today who knows you not, they might get in a hurry And march toward the cross of Jesus Christ. In Jesus' name, let's say. God, we thank you today for your word. And for those subtle reminders Those stories of the Bible that grandma taught you, that pop pop read to you, they're alive and well today in your word and in our experience. The Bible says if you come and don't know him, confess your sins. Believe in your heart. Confess with the mouth That God said his son, that he died and rose again. The Bible says, Thou shalt be saved. Just for the moment. Take inventory on your own life Ask yourself, do I have the victory on the walls coming down in my experience? God wants to get to your heart, but he won't tear the world down. You've got to confess and invite him in. Save that soul today, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D. But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comethenumber to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com. All you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes from Podcasting or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.