So let's take a moment as we head toward the Word of God to pray. Father, as we come this morning, it is always our prayer that we might decrease And that you might increase, save someone today, encourage another, and when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. There in the Gospel of Mark, 3rd chapter, verses 31 through 35. Mark 3, 31 through 35. It reads, then Jesus' mother and brothers arrived. Standing outside, they sent someone in to call him. A crowd was sitting around him, and they told him, Your mother and brothers are outside looking for you. Who are my mother and my brothers? He asked. Then he looked at those seated in a circle around him and said, Here are my mother and my brothers. Whoever does God's will is my brother and sister and mother. I want to preach this morning from the Samonic title Misunderstood Part 2. Misunderstood Part 2 Have you ever wanted to just shout out loud, You don't get it? Or perhaps You wanted to shout, you're missing my point. These are utterances that All of us have shared at one point or another, if not audibly, we've said them under our breath. Misunderstandings are not easily resolved. You may be in the midst of a misunderstanding that's lasted now for a number of months Or a number of years. And misunderstandings can last for a lifetime. But we don't need to wait that long to get clarity. Amen. A misunderstanding is not something that might happen. A misunderstanding is something that will happen at some point. But here's what I'm glad about today. The Lord Jesus Christ Helps us to understand that we can get past our misunderstandings. Think about it. His entire ministry, earthly ministry, Jesus faced moment after moment. Misunderstandings. That was a part of the job description that people just would not get it. Amen. And here's the truth of the matter. Even today, people still don't get it. Let's recap from our last time together. Jesus shows up on the shore there to minister. Once he gets off of the boat, there's a crowd waiting. And they began to follow him everywhere he would go. 5,000 people, not counting men and children. And they followed him all day. They listened to him all day. They observed all day. And Jesus made note to his disciples that the people Are tired and hungry. Isn't it amazing how Jesus takes note of things that we may miss totally? That's why he's Jesus all by himself. He says to one of his disciples, we need to feed the people. They are tired and they are hungry. And what a great miracle that they find a little boy's lunch and two fish and five loaves of bread, and they begin to feed the people so much so there's some carry-out left over. But the people began to still hang around. We realized last week in the Gospel of John that they had a motive. And they had a method. They wanted to make Jesus their earthly king. That was their intention. They were stuck on the miracles. They were focused on what God could do for them by way of Jesus Christ. And look it, they really wanted to do it by f they they want to strong arm Jesus and make him king. Motive, method, but Jesus goes to the mountain. And every now and then you got to go to your mountain just to have a little talk with Jesus. Well, Jesus went to have a little talk with his Father. By the time we get to today's text and the Gospel of Mark, it just so happens that Jesus is coming down to one of those mountain moments. He did that frequently Because people got on his last nerve. He had to be refueled. He comes down and the crowds are still following him, a different crowd perhaps, but there is still a misunderstanding He's under attack by religious leaders. And they, I think they were planted just to try and give Jesus a hard time. They couldn't make sense of what he was doing and did not want to understand it. And they even said he's working with the power of Satan. Isn't that something that they would say? That's what they believed. Amen. Understood. He understood where he was going. They misunderstood the mission altogether. If that wasn't enough, To be misunderstood by those around him. Mark 3 early on says that Jesus' friends and family also Misunderstood him. I'm getting into a rough area there. Family. Amen. Don't you love your family? Your family loves you, but even in family, there is often a misunderstanding. It's in the text. They are convinced, the family and friends, that Jesus is crazy. Yeah, I said it. It's in the text. Uh they believe that he has lost his mind. Uh they believe that he is insane. They remembered the Jesus from Nazareth, but they had quite The problem trying to understand the Jesus who was healing the sick and giving sight to the blind And so his mother and his brother showed up where he was teaching in a small house, and they were prepared, I believe, to do an intervention. Let's just go in and bring him to his senses. Let's just go in and remind him of who he is. Anybody ever done that to you? They see you doing the work of the Lord and say, well, he must be crazy Let me just put it right down where you can get it. He or she is a Jesus freak. Always want to go to church, always saying hallelujah, always giving God the praise. They thought he was crazy. It's not the first time Jesus has been misunderstood. At the age of twelve, he's with his parents there in Jerusalem, and as they're heading back uh they began to say to each other, have you seen Jesus? They had lost Jesus. They went back to Jerusalem and they found him in the temple courts, confusing the lawyers and the doctors. They didn't know what to make of him at 12 years old. But by the time they found him, Mary gave him a piece of her mind. What are you doing to us? And all he could say was, I'm about my father's business. And now in his early 30s, Jesus is still about his father's business Let's read again verses 31 through 35 in the Gospel of Mark, the third chapter. It says, then Jesus' mother and brothers arrived. Standing outside, they sent someone to call him. A crowd was sitting around him, and they told him, Your mother and brothers are outside looking for you. Who are my mother and brothers? he asked. Then he looked at those seated in a circle around them and said, Here are my mother and my brothers. Whoever does God's will is my brother and sister and mother. I believe this morning that Jesus shows us the importance of keeping our distance. And maintaining our focus and taking advantage of teachable moments keeping one's distance. Verse 31 says, then Jesus' mother and brothers arrived, standing outside. They sent someone in to call him Jesus stayed in the house where he was teaching the people. He kept his distance. He did not go outside. He kept his face. He kept distance between himself and the misunderstanding. He refused to budge. He refused to be interrupted. And that's what we have to do sometimes. Some things we ought to keep at arm's length It's not your time to deal with the misunderstanding and not your time to deal with a perceived Family matter. How about that? We need to just be still. Jesus didn't hop up and run outside and He kept distance between himself and the situation. He was being still. Psalm 46 and 10 says, be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations. I will be exalted in the earth. The family stayed outside. They sent someone in to get him, but what they desired was a more intimate conversation. What they desired was a Q<unk>A. Jesus, we showed up because the word around town is that you lost it. The world around town is that you are out of your mind. They misunderstood him, even though they grew up with him. Does that make sense Folk think they really know you, but they don't know you like that. He did not want a confrontation. I mean Jesus could have come out and say, who I'm coming out. Let him know I'm on the way. He did not do that. He used wisdom to keep distance, to avoid a confrontation. You don't always have to face up on something right away Just because you can. And just because you think you'll win the argument, but take time to just be still. For Jesus, the timing was not right. And you got to know when the timing is right. But in the meantime, keep your distance, but also maintain your focus. Verse 32 in Mark 3 says a crowd was sitting around him. Now just picture this. And they told him, Your mother and brothers are outside looking. for you. I believe Jesus was where he wanted to be with the people. The Bible says the crowd was around them. They were trying to catch something. They were trying to learn something. And the crowd took notice that Jesus did you not Did you not hear us? Your your family is here. Your people are in town Did you not hear, but he stayed focused, razor sharp, on the people Maintaining his focus. Apparently he did not want to be distracted Amen. You gotta know what you can take and what you can't take. And you have to know there comes a time when you ought to just Chill and be still and remain focused on the mission. And that was it. He knew he was about his father's business, and so therefore he would not be distracted by what was happening outside Outside of this purview, outside of your community, outside of your home, don't lose your focus. Isaiah 43, 18 and 19 says, remember not the former things. Neither consider the things of old. Behold, I will do a new thing. Jesus was doing a new thing because he was focused, I believe. on a crowd of people who desired to know more about the kingdom. Some had motives to just get the miracles, but he took time. I like that You don't have to always jump because somebody says they're looking for you. You don't have to always respond just because person say, now now I need to see you now. You can put them on your calendar. But when you're about the work that will change lives in your home and your community, wherever it may be, stay, focus. Don't get out of focus, but stay focused in the midst of a misunderstanding. I could stay right there. You know, it's easy to lose focus You know, in the world we say, I'm gonna send another message in. Tell him his mama name outside You know, it might be stern. But that's not what happened. But person may say, I've called you five times to tell you your people on the way. I've done texted you ten times. I sent it on Instagram and Messenger, but no, there is a time for you to focus on the work of ministry, he may have been right at the point of drawing someone nearer, not concerned about who was on the outside Maintaining your focus and keeping your distance, but then also take advantage of a teachable moment. Verse 33, 34, 35. Who are my mother and brothers? He asked. Then he looked at those seated in a circle around him. And said, Here are my mother and my brothers. Whoever does God's will is my brother and sister and mother. Can't you see the reaction of the crowd? Wait a minute, I don't think we can fold, but but he was getting deeper than what they could see. Whoever Does God's will. Whoever promises are being followed by that particular person. Whoever is there trying to stay on point You are my brother. Hey, bruh. You are my sister. Hey, mama, because you're doing that which lines up with the word of God. Now before you say, now, Reverend, hold on. Jesus was not being disrespectful. Family was important to him, but he did not want to miss this teachable moment for those who were with him and the teachable moment that the family received because he didn't come running out to them to deal with the misunderstanding that they didn't believe was a misunderstanding. Does that make sense? Blessed be the God today. He was so focused and he knew about the moment. He even said to his disciples on one occasion, Matthew 9, 37, 38, the harvest is plentiful and the laborers are few. Pray to the God of the harvest that he may send more laborers. We need more laborers Amen. In the fields of our community. We need more laborers in our school system. We need more laborers on the workplace with all that's happening in your community and mine, it's a teachable moment for Jesus. He says, if you're doing what God has called you to do, then you kin to me. We can fo in the glory of God. Amen. Over time, they understood him. Over time, his mother understood him. Mary there at the cross. Understood what this was all about. The Bible said earlier that there's certain things she treasured in her heart. There she was weeping at the cross. And then when she went to the tomb and realized it was empty, she and the ladies, there was an understanding. She she got it. Amen. Jesus spoke to her from the cross. Woman, behold your son. Son, behold your mother. Amen. And he returned to glory. And Mary, knowing that she understood, was there on the day of Pentecost. in the upper room, understanding, but being filled with the Holy Spirit. James, his half-brother, also eventually understood and wrote the book of James. powerful transcript to the early church. Amen? So don't you throw in the towel yet Know that God will clear things up, that God will make sense of your misunderstandings. Came across the biography of Lucy Eddie Campbell. She was considered the mother of gospel music in the first half of the 20th century, one of nine children. daughter of former slaves in Mississippi, didn't understand it, but God found a way at the age of two. A father was killed. The family moved to Memphis, Tennessee, and she began to write The songs of Zion, she began to put on paper what God had put on her heart. Amen. And one of the songs that she wrote is one that we've heard, but I love lyrics to hymns. You know that by now. She wrote, if when you give the best of your service, telling the world that the Savior has come, be not dismayed when men don't believe you. He'll understand and say, Well done. Oh, when I've come to the end of my journey Weary of life and the battle is won, carrying the staff and the cross of redemption. He'll understand and say, well done. Aren't you glad today that he understands when other folk don't understand? He will understand. When family don't understand, he will understand. Amen. And he will say, well done. Well done, thy good and faithful servant. You've been faithful over a few things. Now come on up and let me make you ruler over many. I don't know about you, but I got a better perspective now on misunderstandings. I'm not going to stay up late at night worrying about who misunderstands me, but I'm going to focus on the Savior. The one who died for me, the one who kept me, the one who leads me, the one who guides me. I I'm thinking about that savor today. And so while you are stuck. On a misunderstanding, make sure you don't miss the message that Jesus is the Savior, He is the answer for the world today, and that's why we we need Him Okay, you don't agree with the misunderstanding, but my God, I don't want to waste time worrying about what somebody is thinking. I want to make sure that I stay razor-focused on Jesus, hey, the lover of my soul. Jesus, my rock in the weary land. Jesus, my shelter in the time of storm. Jesus, my fence. All around. Can I call his name again? I thank God for Jesus who just laid it out. He says, I gotta keep some some distance. I love you, family, but not not not now. I'm focusing on the mission, the souls. And he uses that teachable moment to say, now, now, now, if you do the will of my father, then yes. We are cousins in the name of the Lord. That is the word of God today. It's already blessed. Blessed be the God today. Even now, let's take a moment to think about that word. Oh Father, we come in the name of Jesus. And we thank you how you always add clarity and focus to a situation in life. I thank you today, God, for helping me to understand me. That can be a battle all by itself. There might be one today who is listening or watching who knows not the Savior. Their misunderstanding is that they've never given their heart to you. That's our prayer today. If there's one who needs a Savior, and we all do, I pray in the name of Jesus you might open their heart. The Bible says, thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in your heart that God has raised them from the dead. The Bible says, Thou shalt be saved. Touch the heart today. We pray in the name of Jesus. Praise God. Maybe you're watching the day and you're looking for a place to worship. You found the right place, harvest Christian ministries. We're going virtual now, but on March 13th, we'll be heading back to in-person. Stay tuned for our updates. You'll be able to see how you can register. But let me just say this to those persons who've been such a A great part of this ministry, the ministry of giving. We thank you for your gifts of love. Building fund is coming along just well, just over halfway, and we thank you for your gift. Small or large. We thank God for our benefactors. Those are persons who have given $2,500 or more. I realize if you don't ask, you won't receive. My pastor Dr. Vaughn says so well. Tim, people are waiting for you to ask them. So I'm asking even now that if you are led to give to this ministry, go to come to harvest uh. org and building fund you'll find everything you need there in addition to uh being able to get updates. and what's happening in the life of the church. Well, it's been great to be with you today. It's been great to share with you on this Sunday morning, praying that's your week. Is a good week. Amen. And know this angels are watching over you. Wherever you go today, don't look now, but God has dispatched goodness And mercy. And goodness and mercy will follow you all the days of your life. Amen. On behalf of the entire staff of Harvest Christian Ministries, I want to thank you for joining us today. Share this message with somebody. I was blessed by it. We love you in the Lord. God bless you.