Good morning, good morning. We're delighted to be in the house of the Lord one more time. It's Snowing in Baltimore or something like that. But nevertheless, we thank God for another worship opportunity. This is the day that the Lord has made we can rejoice and be glad in the day. Snow, rain, sunshine, we'll take it all. So glad that you could join us today for the Harvest Broadcast. And we thank you as always for your prayers and your support. I was just talking to a friend of mine on yesterday, and we just took those two words thank you and we got happy just on that Thank you. The Bible says, O give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, and his mercy endureth forever. So even now, uh take a thank you moment. You may have ten things on your list We're going to ask God for, but right now just say thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for all the great things that you have done. We continue to celebrate, of course, Black History Month, African American Month. We thank God for accomplishments of the past. and the present and the future. And also, on Monday, fellows, don't get amnesia It's uh it's Valentine's Day. You better get candy or something, a balloon, uh, or some green. I was in the store on yesterday and I got a balloon and and the woman says, is that all? I say, yes, my wife lacks green, but to God be the glory As the metrics continue to trend downward in Maryland, we're looking forward to returning to in-person worship. in the month of March. That's not too far away. So stay tuned. We'll keep you posted. And while I don't mind preaching the empty seats, I wouldn't mind talking to you. So we thank you even now You know, there's so much happening in our culture and our society that there's always a need for prayer. The Bible says that in everything to give thanks, but it also says we ought to pray without ceasing. So we begin our broadcast today as we always do with a moment of prayer. Bow where you are today. Heavenly Father, we pause for the moment just to acknowledge that you're God. All by yourself. As we come today, we come as your children, just spending some time in your presence. We know that you are God of all, God who provides for us, God who keeps an eye on us. God who comforts us, and we ask even today that you might keep us in your care. We come today confessing every sin. The Bible says if thou shalt confess thy sins, he is faithful and just to forgive you of your sins. And then to cleanse you from all unrighteousness. Father, there's so much happening in the land. Violence, destruction. wars and rumors of wars, but we pray today that you might calm the storm, that you might change the hearts of people. That's only something that you can do. And so we pray even now because we're not people who are down and out. We're hopeful. We are people of faith. So I pray today that as this word reaches some home and some mobile device that you might Take up residence right where they are. We thank you for Harvest Christian Ministries and for the people of Harvest. We thank you, God, for this opportunity to share. And I pray even now That you might bless our time together in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, blessed be the God, always grateful to uh have this opportunity to preach the word of God and uh thank him for using me. You know, God can use anybody at any time for any purpose. uh under the sun. And so I pray today that you are working and operating in the gift that God has given you. I want to look today in the gospel as pinned by John. And that is in the New Testament. And we look to that word today. John the sixth chapter. Verses 14 and 15. That's John the sixth chapter, verses 14 And 15. And when you found it, say amen. If you need a minute to get your Bible, that's fine. I would rather you follow the Word of God, and that way we can all learn and grow together. There in John 6, 14 and 15 it reads, After the people saw the sign that Jesus performed, they began to say Surely this is the prophet who is to come into the world. Verse 15 reads, Jesus, knowing that they intended to come and make him king by force, withdrew again to a mountain by himself. I want to begin a preaching series from the Samonic topic Misunderstood. Misunderstood. When was the last time you were misunderstood? Was it this morning? Uh was it this week? Was it this month? And you may agree that it's one of the hardest burdens that we're called to bear is to be misunderstood. by people, by by family members, to be misunderstood by friends, and look at this, by complete strangers We all desire to be understood. We think that what we have to say is important. We emphasize it, we rehearse it, we share it. But we want to be able to share our feelings and our thoughts and our perspectives, the way we see the world with people who are closest to us. But we realize there's often a disconnect. So often there's a communication blockage. And it starts oftentimes when we look into the eyes of that person. And you realize that they don't really understand you. They have that glazed look in their eyes. And they may never really understand you. They're confused and they are puzzled. That kind of response is a sign that you've been misunderstood. Based on something that you said, something that you did not say, something that was an action that may have been taken out of perspective And no matter how you try to explain yourself, there is that blank look Can I tell you today that if you are in the crowd of the misunderstood, you are in good company. Amen. Jesus, our Lord and Savior, knew what it meant to be misunderstood. Amen from his birth. To his death, to his resurrection, to his ascension, he knew about misunderstandings. In fact At the beginning of the book of John, there in the first chapter, verses 11 and 12, it says, referring to Jesus, he came to his own, and his own received him not. Misunderstood. But verse 12 says, but as many as received him, he gave them the power to become the sons and daughters of God even to them that believe on his name. Jesus was misunderstood. He was disrespected to those in his hometown of Nazareth. I don't know about you. I'm from out of town, even though I've been in this area for many years. I cannot fathom going back to Live Oak. And not being able to be let across the city lines. That that that would do something to me. I said, don't you know I was born here? Don't you know my people are from here? But even where he grew up, Jesus was misunderstood. They questioned whether he was authentic. They questioned whether he was the real deal. Amen? And oftentimes we face that. So in this first installment We'll spend our time in the sixth chapter of the Gospel of John, verses 14 and 15, is where we'll find Jesus making the rounds. Outside of his hometown, he goes and preaches the gospel, he teaches, he lives by example. And there's a moment when he shows up on the shore of Galilee, and the people are waiting for him. Word traveled fast that there is this one day called Jesus the Messiah who is doing marvelous works. And you know, it don't take folk long to hear it on the grapevine, so to speak. There was no social media back then. But don't you know people were waiting? And we know that when he got there, he began to share with them. The day was long. And what happens? The people, Jesus recognizes, are hungry. And they're tired. And he says to his disciples, We need to feed the people. They knew what their budget was. It seemed like an impossibility, but they find a little boy's lunch. Two fish and five loaves of bread, and they feed the people, and they are full. In fact, the Bible says there are twelve baskets left. carry out long before we define it today. Amen. And verse 15 is where we're spending our time. It says Jesus knowing that they, they the people, intended to come and to make him king by force, withdrew again to a mountain by Himself. At that point, he realized the people had a motive, and the people had a method, and it would drive him to a moment. They wanted to make him king. Jesus was not surprised by their intent. He was not fooled by what they wanted to do and what their reaction was once they've seen the miracle. They wanted to make him a king. Make him an earthly king, someone who they believe would free them from the Roman rule, who would meet both their materialistic and their personal needs. Now before you point a finger at those people, is that our motive today? to make Jesus our earthly king, someone we can pull up on an app and ask for a blessing. Uh-oh. Or a genie in a bottle. We're all guilty of just running to the Lord when we need something and want him to be who we want him to be. That's not the case at all And Jesus knew what his mission was. And there in John 10 and 10, he says, I am come that they might have life and have it more abundantly. Jesus knew who he was and is, even though the people had a motive There was a reason why they wanted him to be king. He was misunderstood. They didn't realize that Jesus is the King of Kings and that he is the Lord of Lords. Unto the glory of God, even right now. But the people's very motive was evidence that they did not understand him. They misread him Have you ever misread Jesus in a situation in your life and you thought by now that your five-year plan should have been working and it's not? You you you misread Jesus. You misunderstood his purpose for your life. But there was also a method. And there again we're in verse 15. Jesus knowing that they intended to come and make him king by force. Amen. The people had a plan. Make Jesus King and to do it physically, you don't do anything by force in a very laid back manner. They wanted to really put hands on him and say, we're going to make you our king based on What we've seen you do in the signs and wonders based on what our idea of who you ought to be. Ever been there? Folk have an idea of who they think you ought to be They've already done your resume without your permission. They want you to be a certain way. Amen. There is a method. The Bible says there were 5,000 men in that crowd that ate the fish and bread, not counting the women and children. So that they believed that if they wanted to They could really get one Jesus and make him their king. They they wanted to strong arm him. They wanted to set him up on an earthly throne and give him a crown. That was their intent. And they wanted to do it by force Amen. Got to be careful. But this is not the first time. Throughout the Bible, we read where persons want to handle Jesus, so to speak. In the Gospel of Luke 24, 29, they got up, that is the people, drove him, that is Jesus, out of town, and took him to the brow of the hill on which the town was built. in order to throw him off the cliff. Fuck a mean. And mean to Jesus. And you wonder why they're mean to you and You wonder why folk are stabbing you in the back? Well, they did the same thing to Jesus. They had a motive. We're gonna do this And to do it by force, but Jesus knew exactly what they were up to. He beat their whole card. Amen. They they they have this this method. And persons today have a way they think they can change you. They have a way that if they put you in this corner, that you'll respond one way If they force you into this corner, they think you do something else. Amen. If they fire you from that job, they feel like they've got you Amen. Give you a shabby evaluation. Does something in your life that will cause you to be discouraged? Know there is a motive, but know that Jesus is already two steps ahead. to God be the glory. He was misunderstood. They had this this motive and they had this method. But I love the last part of this passage. It says that Jesus withdrew again to a mountain by himself. He didn't go to sightsee after all. He made the mountains. This was nothing new for him. But he went to the mountains to pray to his Father in heaven. Amen. He needed a moment. And the Bible says he withdrew again, which tells me he has done this before. That whenever folk got crazy, whenever he wanted to hear a word from his father, whatever he wanted to get direction, he withdrew himself to the mountain again. He'd been there before. Mark 135, it said, very early in the morning, while it was still dark, Jesus would do what? He would get up early. And leave the house and go to a solitary place. Now, I'm not Jesus, but I love getting up early. It's the country in me. In Florida, if you didn't get up early, it was going to be hot by the time you got up. Any job you had to complete, you better get up early. But it's good to get up early and to have a little talk with Jesus. And to tell him all about your troubles. And he will hear your faithest cry. He will answer by and by. Do you have a place to go to? When you've been misunderstood, you need to change locations when you've been misunderstood. Don't stay in the midst of the misunderstanding. But do like Jesus did. You need a moment to get away to a solitary place. Amen? A place where you can go and whisper a prayer. Whisper a prayer in the morning, whisper a prayer at noon, whisper a prayer at the evening. It will keep your heart into. . Oh my God, it will. It don't take a long prayer, but just enough time to say, Lord, help me. So I don't hurt nobody or they hurt me. Amen. We all need a moment just to say, can I take a break? And in that break, I'll find me a prayer closet somewhere. And say, you need to chill out. It's a misunderstanding going on. But Jesus knows all about what you are facing today. This moment with the Lord will remind you, I believe, that you are a child of the real king. Not some made-up king, not some king earthly, but the real king, a king who died. A king who went to an old rugged cross, a king who was buried in a tomb, a king who got up on the third day morning. with all power in his hands. The Bible says if I believe that narrative, I am a Christian. I'm saved and I'm sealed. I'm sanctified and I am secure in him. I'm separated and I am sustained. I am a servant and a soldier. Blessed be the God today, and one who will one day see the Lord. So, in those moments when you are misunderstood, I think of David over in Psalm 121, he says, I will lift up my eyes unto the hill from which cometh my help. All of my help cometh from the Lord who made heaven and earth, but he didn't just stop there. He made me and you from the dust of the earth. Aren't you glad about that today? And because he has made us, you should not feel discouraged. Why should I feel discouraged? And why should the shadows come? Why should my heart feel lonely? and long for heaven and home. Well when Jesus is my portion, is he your portion today Is he the one who keeps you in the midnight hour? Is he the one who provides for you? Is he the one who is by your side? His eye is on the sparrow And I know he he watches me. We bought this property a little while ago, and I noticed that before we got the property, the birds had access to the property. I'm not seeing the sparrow, but there's a cardinal who greets us every day and lets us know that he was here before us. But it's something about using your godly imagination in the midst of being understood and seeing God in all of his glory in creation. Amen And I sing because I'm happy. The birds are saying now, and I sing because I'm free. His eye is on the sparrow, and therefore I know he watches me. So don't let a misunderstanding get you down. Don't let a misunderstanding become a dead-downer in your life. Don't let a misunderstanding cause you to weep in the midnight hour. Just continue to trust in the Lord. Amen. My God, you're not the first one to be misunderstood, and you won't be the last one, but you know your hope is in the Lord today, and because of that, I can hold my head high and just sing the songs of Zion. So what? I've been misunderstood, and so was Jesus. There's a motive. And there's a method. But God gives us each a moment to deal with that misunderstanding. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. Amen. Right now, as you watch this broadcast or listen to it, you you you about pulled your hair out this week. I don't know why they treat me this way. I don't know why. I'm always misunderstood. Join the misunderstood club. But what other folk may not have, you have. And that is a relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. Perhaps today you've joined this broadcast. It's a new day for you. Amen. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. As we come today, we thank you for the example of Jesus in this moment. Folk may misunderstand our faith But I pray today, if there is one who is down and out and does not have a friend, I pray in the name of Jesus. That they may hear your voice today. Come unto me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you Rest. They might receive you today in their heart. Might have a new relationship. The Bible says, if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus. And believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. The Bible says, Thou shalt be saved. Today you can make that decision over this medium Drop us an email. I want to know more about this Jesus and we'll contact you and share with you the plan of salvation. Father, we thank you for the Spirit in this house today. We thank you for the power of your word today. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, blessed be the God today. We thank God for that first installment on Misunderstood on next Sunday. We will do part number two of Misunderstood. Amen. You've been misunderstood. Share this with somebody. Child, I know what it means to be misunderstood I want to take a moment again to thank you for your prayers and your support, and thank you for how you have been such a blessing to our building fund. We began back in August with a certain goal and God is providing and so we thank you. No gift is too small and no gift is too large to the glory of God. We thank you. You can find that information on our website. Give right there. Amen. So I want to thank the staff and the ministry of Harvest. I mean he is right here with Daddy. Until next time, we want to thank you. The Bible says, now unto him who's able to keep us from falling and present us before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy to the only wise God our Savior be. Glory. Majesty, dominion, and power both now and ever. And the people of God say, Amen. Have a wonderful day, and we'll look forward to seeing you on next Sunday. Thank you, and we love you in the Lord today