Oh, I'm not sure what I'm saying. Good day, this is the day the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. I'm so glad to have you today. Of course, we're celebrating Black History Month, but today is a pretty special day for A lot of people it is St. Valentine's Day and certainly want to say to you as you get ready for Valentine's Day. Here we go. All right It's moving. Welcome. Sometimes technical difficulties happen, but we want to welcome you. Can I say it again? Happy Valentine's Day to you. Thank God for you. Know that we love you and the Lord loves you even more. Amen. Well, let's kick it off with a song from our praise team to get us going today. I've been doing the gun girl, girl, and the girl the all the girls I love to break him. I love great. I love to break him. I love breaking. I love to break. I want to pray. I want to pray today. I want to pray name only. I like the great name. Hallelujah, I love to pray the name. Hallelujah, Hallelujah, I love the brain the name, I love to pray for all the days. Never ending down the truth. It just does your neighbor. I want to pray him. I want to pray to name him. I want to praise the name I love to Amen. How many love to praise the name of Jesus Christ? Amen. We're so glad you could. Join us. Take time now even to share this with persons that you know and let them know the Harvest Broadcast is on the air. We've been saying for Black History Month that uh we would feature uh members of our family, in particular our parents We know a lot about them and of course time could not allow for their whole story. Last week it was James Tutin. Today is Edward Eddie Dawson, Deacon Dawson. Let's hear his story. Albert Eddie Dawson Sr. was born in 1929 in Boltork County, Virginia, to the parents of Charles and Beatrice Dawson. But West Virginia is where Eddie Dawson spent most of his life. It's where he and his wife Roberta raised six children, Meredith, Edna, Paulette, Maria, and Edward Jr. They were married 60 years. Eddie Dawson was known for his warm smile, humor, and work ethic. He often held down two and sometimes three jobs while pursuing his education. He had a special love for his grandchildren, who called him Da. Eddie Dawson was a deacon and one-time chair of the Trustee Ministry at the First Baptist Church. Deacon Eddie Dawson, this Sunday's family history. Amen. I got in trouble. I didn't uh there's another name. I think I must have left off Charlene, but we know uh that that was uh kind to the heart. Amen Praise God. What a wonderful family. I'm so glad this family has allowed me to be a part of their family. And we're just excited for Jesus. You know, we're talking about the Word and how important it is And we've talked even all of last year about the plans that God have for us. And so I want to just look at this passage, uh Jeremiah 2911, for I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord, plans to prosper you and not to harm you, plans to give you hope and a future. That has not changed at all. That he still has plans for you. No matter what you're going through, the Lord continues to have plans Just for you. Amen. Let's take a moment even now as we look to the Lord in prayer, is to set our hearts. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. And as we come today We acknowledge first and foremost that you're King of Kings and Lord of Lords. God, we thank you that you've allowed us this opportunity. To be alive, to witness the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. As we come today, God, we ask that you might clean our hearts. our minds today that we might be better for you. We pray, dear God, for those who are struggling, be it financially, be it uh in other ways, we just pray for families, dear God, those who've lost loved ones Those who are just trying to make it through, you said, Come unto me all you who labor and are heavy laden and I will give you rest. So we pray today, God, that you might be that comforter that we need today That you might be that strong tower we can look to today. And Lord, we'll be so careful to give your name all the praise and all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Well praise God we're that much closer to the Word of God and we're great uh know that the Word is coming. We want to go to our choir one more time and then we'll come back and prepare for the Word I was thinking of the things of the war, very. . Was the master of me and my despair with cry From the wall is lived in me and I Love with me, love with me, when nothing else for hell, love with me. We love red and we love it and we're loving us to help love. Souls in nature will grow up, see the face in one. To buy his woe out of the angry ways in the master of the sea, they will away, he was away. Love me helping help, lovely, lovely, round and being. Oh big All my heart to him I give ever to heal my wing in his breath, his presence with praise. Merit my soul that cause they will reserve you to help me. We love that we're gonna be when we are doing Praise God, love lifted me. You know, thank God for the hymns of the church. They say so much and Uh you know, I want to also commend this praise team. If you've ever done this before, putting this kind of arrangement together. Can I testify? I tried this about a month or two ago I could not line up my eyes with my mouth. So all that's happening during the midst of this pandemic, we just want to say thank you, choir. It takes good eye coordination and everything. Well, we're preparing for the word of God. We want to certainly do one more time uh talking about love. Any song we could find about love, we think it's so important today I love you, and I live my morning to the birth. I love and I live my mother to murder. Oh my soul, graceful, praise the word in one. Ballancer. Pretty And three What the fuck? Well, bless the Lord today. It's now time for the Word of God and It's always an exciting time. Let's bow. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. As we proclaim the good news today, may we decrease and may you increase. Save someone today, encourage another, and when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Praise God. There's a word from the Lord today that comes from 1 John. And you Bible scholars know that 1 John is near the end. of the Bible. Amen. 1 John 4 and 20 is not John the Gospel, which of course was written by the same John, but 1 John. And we're reading 1 John 4 and 20. It says, whoever claims to love God yet hates a brother or sister is a liar. For whoever does not love their brother and sister, whom they have seen, cannot love God Whom they have not seen. I want to preach today from the Samonic title Mixed Messages Mixed messages. We live in a message driven society. What we say is not always what we mean. I don't know about you, but there have been times when I've texted someone and you've done the same and what happens? What you meant to say came out a little different because you hit the wrong key Amen. And so sometimes what you intend to be a message may be received in a different way. whether a text or the spoken word. Now, let's keep in mind, let's be honest, some messages are accidental And some are intentional. Sometimes we want to tell people off and we do it by way of a text or a spoken word And when you think about this old nursery rhyme, this old neighborhood rhyme from back in the day, you remember it, sticks and stones may do what? Break my bones, but words can never hurt me Words can hurt you. Words that are spoken to you and words that you speak to someone, you may walk away saying, I told them off. I gave them a piece of my mind. And yet you may turn the cheek and try to be a different person the next day. At some point in our lives. We've all been guilty of speaking words. We wish to God we could take back. Here's a powerful example in Psalm 141 and 3. And it says, set a guard Over my mouth, Lord. Keep watch over the doors of my lips. I could stop right there and give the benediction I want to talk this morning about mixed messages from the perspective of agape love, love that is unconcerned with self. concerned with the greatest good of others. It's not really always about you. Agape requires faithfulness. It requires commitment and sacrifice and get this, without expecting anything in return. Agape love in the Bible is love that comes from God. God's love is a part of his character Well, John, who writes this text today, is a good person to talk about love. John the apostle, he said this about himself. He says, you know what? I am the disciple that Jesus loved. Look at that. No shame in this game. He was the kind of person who was the youngest of the disciples. Let's do a background check on John. John and his brother James. uh were there in Galilee and Jesus came along looking for two first round draft picks. He finds James and John sitting in their father's boat, Zebedee, and they're mending nets. And they drop their nets and follow him. That's John and James. Their father Zebedee, their mother Siloam, approached Jesus and said, Now, is there any chance That my boys, when you get to your kingdom, can have one on the left and one on the right. He said, Now that's not mine to give. John was the only disciple who was there at the cross when Jesus was crucified. He looked down to him and says, Woman, behold your son. Son, behold your mother. John made a commitment to take care at the Lord's request, Mary, the mother of Jesus And today, John is writing an important key letter to believers. And I believe that they address this issue of mixed messages. 1 John was addressed to fellow Christians. I thought about that this week. This letter about hate and love and lying was not to folk outside the church. This was to the church. Let me say that again. That these are not folk who say, oh, they don't go to church, they don't love the Lord. These are people who say they love the Lord. Actually The letter was to a group of people who were false prophets. They were running a rampant. Now, false prophet is A person who spreads false teachings or messages while claiming to speak the word of God. In the Bible, false prophets also spoke On behalf of false gods. Look out for false prophets. In today's text, John was calling out these false prophets. They're to be be reminded to love one another. Love comes from God. John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that He sent His only begotten Son that who Soever believeth in him will not perish, but have everlasting life. In weeding out mixed messages, there needs to be a time to be, first of all, identified And we look at being disqualified, but finally to be justified. Identified. Whoever claims to love God Yet hate a brother or sister is a liar. Now the criminal case, and many of you have seen Perry Mason or Medlock or some of the more popular shows that deal with legal matters, there's this sense of a positive identification It requires a facial identification of the accused by a witness. Yes, Your Honor. I saw this person at 8 o'clock, maybe it was nine o'clock They were driving a blue car and when they get out the car, uh notice their face. Of course, that's something that can be put out there. Can you identify? John makes a positive identification, he's talking to false teachers. And they came in and around to hinder the work of God. They claim to speak for God. They claim to love God yet. Yet lets us know there's a situation uh or an event that is not finished yet. Now now if hate is too strong of a word, Reverend, you hit it kind of hard today. Well, what about this? Do you like someone who dislikes despises or harbor malicious feelings toward a brother or sister, I say same difference. Have you not been identified as those persons uh who claim to love God but we just nasty to folk? And don't treat them right. See, that's what the word ought to do. It ought to do what ought to change us. That all they know is that you are a God loving person, but you treat folk bad. You're mean. Goodness. And you you you so when you think about this, how can this be if you claim to love God? If I claim to love God, if I said publicly, you know I love God. Amen. We've got to be very careful. And Jesus gives us a way of saying positive ID. Matthew 7 and 15. He says, beware of false prophets. Which come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are raving wolves. Jesus said that Those who send mixed messages can be identified, but also they face the risk of being disqualified. What do I mean? Let's take up the last one. Whoever claims to love God yet hates a brother or sister is a liar. Didn't tell the truth, told a big one, uh disqualified based on something that was done or said. In sports, people might be disqualified for breaking a rule in the professional life. You can be disbarred. There's so many areas, if you break the rule, you can become disqualified in what you do Now, in life, lying can disqualify us. A liar is someone who attempts to deceive others by conveying misinformation. The word liar just so happens to be uh in 1 John five times more than any other place In the Bible, John just kept saying, Now you know you're telling one. You're a liar, you're a liar, you're a liar. I remember my father saying very quickly when we kind of told a big one, he says, You are a liar, and the truth is not. In you. Mm. But in a criminal proceeding, one legal team may require that a witness take a polygraph tab. They say, I don't know if they're telling the truth. Or a lie detector test. You've seen them before. Maybe you've taken one. It's a device that's supposed to help determine whether or not you're lying or telling the truth It works by doing what? By measuring biological responses to the subject. But for John, he had the Holy Spirit as his polygraph. Think about it Have you and I disqualified ourselves by saying something or by putting forth the truth that's not really a truth? We've all been there. And you say, well Robin, I'm not a liar, but you told one Yeah, you didn't call it that, but it was just that. But there are things that disqualify us, and lying is one of them. Now Colossians 3 and 9, Paul addresses this at the church at Colosse. He says, Now do not lie to each other since you've taken off your old self with his practices. So that means maybe you used to be a liar But now you are a loving, kind person. What is that about? It's about God changing your life for the better. Those who send mixed messages are not only disqualified, they've been identified, but there is an opportunity to become justified That a part of verse 20 says, For whoever does not love their brother and sister, whom they have seen cannot love God whom they've not seen. This analysis may have gotten the attention of the false prophets after John called them out And John made the determination that what you are doing does not add up. False prophets. And they're faced with a critical choice, and so are we. If I do not love, I mean like if I do not love my Christian brother or sister who I I see all the time. I see him at the grocery store, I see him at church, I see him at work Praise the Lord. And we say we we love them. But we we you know God, we've never seen God before And yet we say, I love God. But we see persons and we don't like them. We hate them. It says that that should not be. Now justification means I'm declared righteous as one who wants to make it right with God. In other words, false prophets, liars, cheaters can be forgiven. Amen? That's the good news. I left it like this and say, okay, examine yourself, but you know that when God changes your life for the better This is some old stuff, huh? If any person be in Christ, they're a new creature, old things will pass away. Behold, all things become new Justification is an avenue. It's an option, a chance for you and I to rewrite the love script. Think about it. Think about where you are today. Think about where God has taken you. Now you you really are somebody, but think about where you used to be. Romans 5 and 1 says, therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Well, I think we run the risk of mixed messages when we allow people, places, and things to separate us from the love of God. So Paul talks about that later on in the book of Romans that when he raised the key question, is this something that applies to you? Who can separate or what can separate us from the love of God? He starts to mention things like distress and famine and tribulation. Can I add coronavirus or the pandemic? That they cannot separate you from the love of God. But if we're not careful, we will allow deep-seated hate to separate us from the love of Christ. Can I be a DJ Disc Jockey? Back in the nineteen sixties, Jackie DeShannon and then Dion Warwick did this song, What the World needs now is love, sweet love. Ten years later, Stevie Wonder came along and says, love Is in need of love today. I took that from my barber yesterday. We start talking about love. I said, Man, I gotta go find that on my uh playlist. But 2,000 years ago God demonstrated his love toward us, that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. That is no small matter That's real love, that's genuine love, and that becomes so important. And this love message ought to challenge each of us today. To be better. Yes, we try to judge ourselves and say, well, I'm not as bad as the next person. But what messages are we sending? Well these messages mix uh folk but not catch the Monday you. It's different from the Friday you and the Sunday you The Bible says that ought not be. And although I can't see you in the physical now, can I just say to you that I love you and that the Lord loves you as well? Amen. Now none of us are perfect, but thank God that it was at the cross where we first saw the light, and the burdens of our hearts rolled away. It was thereby faith. I receive my sight. And now guess what? I'm happy all the day. Can I challenge you today to put that matter aside. Maybe the last conversation you have with somebody, there again, you told them off and say, I'll never call them again. Uh don't let me see them in the mall. Don't let them see me on my street. We can be some mean spirited people. This is a part of the invitation. The sermon's over. Can I just talk to you about what it means to be loving one toward another? There's so many things that we've carried with us. The other person has moved on. They're not even dealing with it. And you still holding hate in your heart. That's not what the Lord said. Amen. And so we offer Christ to you. We want to play this song from the choir, and we'll come back and move on We all were bright to you, oh my brother, we want to brighten you. Oh, my sister, he will give you my own. We are glad to you all I will. We will hear me branding for your We are priced in O my brother. We all cry. Amen. We love a good offer. What I mean by that is is we love an offer in the mail. coupons or someone saying you've got to get this discount. That's probably a sale today, a president's sale. But I want to offer Christ to you today that if you've never given your heart to Jesus Christ, today can be that day. What's the value in it? The value is life eternal. The value is knowing that when this life is over, there's an opportunity to live with the Lord forever And some offers we turn down. They're not for us. I don't know why they're sending me these 15 mailings, but you look at it Even before you toss it in the trash can, you'll see whether that's really 30% off or do I need to buy something to get this The price has already been paid. Jesus has already died and shed his blood for you and I. It's a decision that's up to you today. To accept Christ as your personal Savior. Listen about Father, we come in the name of Jesus and we realize today there's still persons Who've never given their heart to you. They've given their heart for Valentine, but they've not given their heart of hearts to you. It is our prayer today that they can receive you on what the world calls Valentine's Day, but every day with the Lord is sweeter than the day before If you're there today, the Bible says that you shall confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead Thy shalt be saved in Jesus' name. Amen. It'd be time for our announcements from the newsroom It's our desire to keep you up to date on all of the harvest happenings. We'll be glad to keep you informed. Send your text or email to come the number twoharvest. org slash updates We can't thank you enough for your financial support. If you'd like to plant seeds online, contact us at comethenumbertwoharvest. org slash giveonline. With your financial support, Horvest is becoming a global ministry, reaching listeners and viewers now in 40 states and 30 countries. To God be the Lord. For prayer, reach us at contact at comthenumbertwoharvest. org. For WHMUS from Studio C, I'm Tim TimU. Now back to you, Pastor. Thank you, Timothy. That's a great newsman there, I tell you. You know, as we enter this week, we're entering the Linton season and other persons are getting ashes on Ash Wednesday and That's your choice, but it doesn't necessarily mean that it's going to make you uh any more than to be remembered. We need to remember. In other words, this is a time for transformation. So For the next forty days or so, from Wednesday on, uh we are preparing as Jesus makes his way to the cross and persons may give things up uh for that period of time. And whatever it is the Lord has led you to do, uh listen to him. Amen. He's the one to listen to. Well, uh for the entire team I want to thank you for taking time to join us today. As always, we're blessed. Every time you stop in, we're blessed. And so share this word today with someone What is your takeaway? Your takeaways, you know what? I got to make sure that I'm loving folk. On behalf of the entire team from the studio C, Pastor Tootin. Have a blessed day in the Lord.