Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Father, we bless your name. And we give you praise. As we stand today to proclaim the good news of Jesus Christ, it is our prayer that we might decrease. And that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another But when this time is done, may we give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Somebody say Amen. Amen. There's a word from the Lord today that comes from Exodus 3 and 10 through 14, and then we're going to tag on Exodus four, verse number one. Verse ten reads, so now go. I am sending you to Pharaoh to bring my people, the Israelites, out of Egypt. But Moses said to God, Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh? And bring the Israelites out of Egypt. And God said, I will be with you. And this will be the sign to you that it is I who sent you. When you have brought the people out of Egypt, you will worship God on this mountain. Moses said to God, Suppose I go to the Israelites and say to them, The God of your fathers has sent me to you. And they asked me, What is his name? Then, what shall I tell them? God said to Moses, I am who I am. This is what you are to say to the Israelites. I am has sent me to you. Chapter four, verse one. Moses answered, What if they do not believe me? Or listen to me and say the Lord did not appear to you. I want to preach today from the Semonic title, No More Excuses. No more excuses. He's known as prime time, Dion Sanders. He quite an athlete, just happened to have gone to Florida State University, my alma mater. But at one point during his career, he played dual sports. He's the only uh athlete who was able to score a touchdown and to have a home run in the same week He played for the Atlanta Falcons and for the Braves. Sanders grew up in a little place called Fort Myers. I say little, but it's bigger than Live Oak. And he talks about having grown up in what he believed was a tough community. And as he would walk through the streets of Fort Myers, he would meet a lot of guys. In fact, he called them idols. IDA, Addis. And these were guys who would tell him, if I'd uh done this, I'd be making three million dollars. If I'd have practiced a little harder, I'd be a superstar. And Sanders says these Otta guys had a lot of talent, but they had plenty of excuses. Do you know any others? Are you familiar with any of them? When it comes to excuses, it's one of those uh words you don't need Webster dictionary to tell you what it is because we've all made something. Here's my definition. An excuse is when we refuse to believe that God is able to work through us. To achieve the unthinkable. Let me give you the Tim Tutin definition. An excuse is when we refuse to believe that God is able to work through us. to achieve the unthinkable. Excuses. Here are a couple Let's look at it from the standpoint of you being pressed to move out of your comfort zone, to move away from where you've been stuck. You may say, I don't have the knowledge. Or the information, Reverend. I don't have the education that's required for this. I don't have the money. The timing is just not right. Here's a famous one. Let me just pray about it. The Bible is full of people who made excuses Some of them more known than others. What about Moses? Moses, a biblical giant, was one who made excuses to God himself. Moses' life was filled with adventure. He was born at a time when Pharaoh was out trying to kill all the firstborn males. Somehow God laid hands on him, protected him. His mother put him in a basket. He ended up being raised in the house of Pharaoh. As he grew up there in that house, the day came that he really began to understand who he was. Isn't that amazing at some point in life you ought to know just who you are. Don't let anybody identify you and tell you who you are. Moses sees one of the foremans, a Hebrew, attacking uh one of the Israelites, and he goes and he intervenes He kills the man and he takes off. He's the fugitive from justice, makes his way, and he's run as far as he could. How many folk know you can run, but you can't hide? Forty years later, he finds himself on the backside of a mountain. He's minding his father-in-law's sheep. And all of a sudden, near him was a burning bush. I want you all to get the big screen addiction. There's a bush burning, and it would not be consumed. It never went out. And get this, the bush started talking. Some of y'all want to hit the road, Jack. But he heard the voice of God coming from that burning bush. He said to him, Take off your shoes, for the ground that you stand on is holy ground. You know God will show up in your situation just like that. This is called a theophany. When it says the angel of the Lord, that means that God Himself spoke. He didn't send a Gabriel He didn't send a Michael, but God oftentimes will show up in your situation and let you know, hello. This is God. Oh my God, y'all got quiet on me. Have you ever shown up into your experience? You may call it a God moment, but God shows up to address you specifically. There he is. Eighty years old. And God is saying to him specifically in verse ten. So now, Moses, goal. I'm sending you to Pharaoh to bring my people, the Israelites. out of Egypt and Moses starts to to to to to to to to to to make an excuse. He stutter stuttered And he said, now you must have the wrong one. But Moses begins to try and wiggle out of what God has said. Sound familiar? Have you ever tried to wiggle out of something that God says to you? Oh you're not with me today. I have. Hello, my name is Tim. And I've tried to wiggle out A sign, Miss that God has given. Can I just be honest? Can I just testify? Hi, I'm Tim I I tried to sidestep God, tried to run, but he ran me down and used me in spite of myself. I've avoided doing what God has asked me to do. That's just my testimony. Maybe you've not had it. What is the mindset of Moses? He's thinking, I'm not good enough. I don't know enough. And I can't say enough. Verse 11: I'm not good enough. But Moses said to God, Who am I? That I should be the one to go to Pharaoh and tell him to let your people go. And before I could get a good excuse out, verse 12, God said, I will be with you. Oh my God. You mean I'm not doing this by myself? No. I I will be and this will be a sign to you that I've been sent. When you have brought the people out of Egypt and you will worship God on this mountain. That thing caught me last night. Wait a minute, hold on now. Even though God is saying to him, here's the plan, God already fulfilled it by telling him It was gonna happen. Huh? He says, it's gonna be a sign. In other words, while you're still making excuses, it will happen. It's going to be assigned. You'll remember this day. In fact, y'all be having church at the very place where I gave you the assignment. In God's summer, he brings us back to a place and to remind us Of what he's going to do and we're still thinking I'm not good enough. I'm inadequate I lack the ability. I'm incompetent. I'm not qualified. And there was truth in that excuse. By himself and by ourselves, we are inadequate But look at this. Who am I? Aren't you glad you serve a God who's got your back and your front and your side and still chooses to listen to you? Freeing God's people would not be based on Moses' ability You fulfilling the plan of God in your life is not based on you. But God with you. I don't care how many degrees you got, how much training you've had, you can't do it. It ain't based on you. I know you're a bad somebody, but when God selects the person to serve He gives them the resources that they need. Oh my God. I love Philippians 4. 13. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. My number one excuse I'm not good enough and then I don't know enough. Verse 13. Moses, this is the dialogue, man. Moses talking to a bush. That's right. Then back and forth. Can you see it? Back and forth. God suppose What if I go to the Israelites and say to them, the God of your fathers has sent me and they ask me, What is his name? Uh oh. Then what shall I tell them? And there's God again. God said to Moses, I am who I am. This is what you are to say to the Israelites. I am has sent me to you. Tell that job in the viewer. Why'd you select us? I am sent me. Why do you think you're qualified? I am. Told me to apply for this job. That I am sick me for this very purpose because I don't really know enough. But the fact that you don't know enough, that's good. Because God provides him with a script. And the script is just that. Read this line in your situation. Read this line. Tell them that I say it to say this. Isn't that amazing that sometimes we think that we have all the eloquence? We can say it so well, but my God, I dare you to just say, God sent me. And I he told me to say this. And I'm not adding to it. I'm not taking away from it. Because I don't know enough. Amen? Don't worry that you don't have all the answers because you don't. And neither do I. Amen? I'm not smart enough to have all the answers. I'm not capable of having all the answers. But God is faithful. Look at Isaiah 6 and 8. He had been there serving uh the king. And the Bible says in the year that King Uzziah died, he says, I saw the Lord highly lifted up, his train filled the temple. And then God says, Is there one who will go for me? And he said, no, you got the wrong one. I'm I'm a man of unclean lips. I'll clean your lips up. Uh I got an excuse, you know, I can't do this. I I got to be somewhere. No, I can't handle that. Um if you had caught me day before yesterday, well some of y'all looking at me like y'all never been there, day before yesterday, last year, I would have been ready, but you did this is a bad time, Dow And and and and there's Isaiah said, but anyway, if you're gonna fix me, here I am Lord, send me. Anybody want to be sent today on a mission for God? I'm not good enough. I don't know enough. I can't say enough. Exodus four and one. And they're still going back and forth now. And Moses answered and said, But behold, they will not believe me No hearken unto my voice. For they will say, the Lord has not appeared to you. Man, is that you feel the pressure? Everything he brought out, God could fix it. Every time he threw something on the table, God said, uh huh. Every time he said, but I but I he God had something. And our own lives were always giving God an excuse. And God will say, yeah, but it is possible for me to do it. The people won't believe me. They won't listen to me. They peep my whole card, my credibility is in question. He did not believe that God had the power to fulfill in his life what God had already predicted. It makes sense to you. In other words, it's not really about you anyhow, but God has got this thing. I'm speaking to myself today. I'm heavy myself, amen. And and so he did not believe it And like Moses, we use the excuse even when it comes to sharing the Word of God. I don't want to offend anybody. They won't hear me anyway. Share the gospel. That's right. Uh folk are dying. Souls are heading to hell and we're saying, I gotta be proper. Amen? Hearing about you anyway, but take time to share what God has done for you. Talking to one of the deacons this morning And we're just talking about, you know, I got my own testimony. I may not be able to quote you verse and the passage, but look here. I knew who I was before. I know who God has made me now. I know God is not done with me yet. My God, I'm glad to be on assignment for the master. Okay, there were other excuses. He was 80. Some of y'all over 80 in here, y'all still rolling for Jesus. I was young. Moses lived much longer than that. And then he used almost the Tim Tudon excuse. He said, I I am a stellarer. And I'm not making fun of a stellar. Why? Because I was one. Amen. But God fixed my mouth like He fixed Moses' mouth. He said, No, you gonna I can fix your mouth. Anything broken that's keeping you from serving God, God can fix that. The thing that you're saying now, Doc, if you had fixed Uh no I no he can fix whatever it is that's forbidding you and is allowed you to keep giving God can make a difference in that What's your excuse? Not good enough. Don't know enough. Can't say enough. This week at work I uh sometimes I'll just drop the gospel on co-workers. They'll ask what you gonna preach Well on Friday, young man said to me, I'm telling you, I'm only talking about Moses this weekend. He said, Yeah, I hear what you're saying. He said, but you gotta left Moses out there. You gonna end by just saying he was an excused guy? I was like, you got a point. Because what happened is that Moses did go. He did obey God, he was a little reluctant, he had excuses, but eventually God was able to use him to go down and tell Omean Pharaoh, let my people go. And they did. And when he got to the Red Sea with about two million people behind him, they started grumbling, How are we gonna get it? You brought us out of here, and now what? There was no excuse. He needed some assistance. And God gave him assistance by what he had put in his hand. He gave him a staff and said, Look at that. Take the staff and raise it And it will open up and the folk will go over on dry land. When we get rid of our excuses. Then God can do the extraordinary. When we get rid of our excuses, God can do the exceptional. When we get rid of our excuses, God can do the extravagant. He can expand us. He can do exceedingly abundantly above all. We can never ask or think according to the power that worketh in us. That gives me excitement. Allows me to express myself. You see the prefixes there? He fixed me, that's the prefix. Is that one day he fixed me? And then what's the blessing is that God executed his plan for humanity. Well, yes, he did. God sent his only begotten son. That was his plan. And when Jesus went to the cross, he never made an excuse. When they beat him, he didn't give an excuse. When they lifted him up on that cross, when they drove those stakes into his arms and pierced him in the side, he never Gave an excuse. He never said, you know, maybe I should have not taken the assignment. But it was at Calvary that God made the difference. As I close today, I can't make any excuse for not praising him. Why? He's been too good for me. So so so pardon me if I start giving God the praise. Amen. I thank him for doing what he's done in my life, and I make no excuses about shouting for joy. There's nothing about when you feel him moving, deep down, and don't say I'm sorry. No, no, no. I'm not making an excuse for giving him praise and for shouting for joy and for thanking him. It's all a part. of the equation. I found this. It was lyrics to a song I've never heard, but I love what he said here. He said, excuses Excuses. You hear them every day. Now the devil he'll supply them if in church you stay away. When people come to worship God, the devil always loses. So keep those folk away from church. He offers them excuses. No more excuses. That's the word of God today. Come on, stand today all over this place. Get rid of your excuses. But I was gonna. No. If you hadn't caught me, no. But you don't want No. When God is in it. All you gotta do is say, you know what? Here I am. I'm not much. Don't always get it right. But I will follow you. Don't know quite where I'm going. No real itinerary, but I trust you. How many folk trust in today? Hallelujah. Make a decision today. I've decided. I have that testimony Oh, no, no, no. No turning back No turning back. Though no one joined me. Oh no one joined. Still. That's your testimony today. Oh by myself, but not really. Don't want to I mean the I will be a little bit more. No journey man. Wanna talk to you for a moment. This is the most crucial time of the worship experience. Here's why. The Word of God has been deposited. And it's on you. And so now if you've not given your life to Jesus Christ, It's probably because of some excuse you've made. I'm trying to get myself together. Well, I'm still drinking. Still partying, still smoking, still chasing. And when I get those things straight, I'll be ready. You're never gonna get it straight. But if you come to Jesus Christ, or something right now, then He will do the removing. He'll take the taste away. He'll take that from your flesh. But you have to come first. That's the deal. Aren't you glad you came to Jesus as you were? And once you've got rid of your excuses, you realize he wasn't trying to hear that anyway. But I go back to that one part of the verse that when he spoke to him on that mountain, he told him already. You're gonna remember this? The mountain? And you're gonna worship in the place that I gave this to you The place where you found him is the place you ought to say, God, thank you. Is there a worship in the house today? I mean it was in the church that he changed my life around it, so therefore I can worship him. If you've come today. And you've never given your life to Jesus. I'm not saying that you, I'm a good person. I've helped, you know, buy Girl Scout cookies. That's all nice. But do you know and believe that if you die today, is there any doubt in your mind that you open your eyes in glory? Any doubt of what I think I kind of sort of believe. No, if he took you today, is there any question about where you're going? If you're not sure, Throw your excuses away. And in your heart today, ask Jesus Christ to save you. Let's bow today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. For that soul today that brought their excuse bag, excuse script Touch that heart today, God. The Bible says if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in thine heart that God has raised him from the dead, the Bible says you'll be saved. Do it today, God. We pray now for that soul. In Jesus' name. Come on, give God a praise today. Let's take a little bit of that. In my life, Lord be glorified Be glorified, be make it personal. My lifetime How many wants to be glorified? How about in your home today? In my home Be glorified, be glorified in my home. If you desire to be a part of this body of believers, Called Harvest Christian Ministries. There's nothing to stop you from doing that and making that move today We don't make no excuse. Well you came two more times, you can come on. No. The Lord is leading you to this place. Come Walk for the Lord today. Don't be ashamed of him. Or if you're more modern, I'll just keep coming and I'll just blend on in. That's fine too What's most important is that you know Jesus. Let's give God a praise today. Thanks so much for listening I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. comtoharvest. org That's comthenumber twoharvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.