I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen. Whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website. I really do believe that God has a special message just for you. A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries or a worship experience already in progress. That is our prayer. Enlarge our territory, enlarge our hearts. Enlarge your peace. Enlarge your love. Enlarge your understanding today. Let us bow Heavenly Father, we come today, and as we stand before your people, we thank you for your word. As we declare your truth, it is our prayer that we might be helped, might be comforted, might be more aware of who you are. In these last and evil days. We ask it all now in the name of Jesus. Amen. Yeah. There's a word from the Lord today. It comes from the book of Revelation. There in the 21st chapter, we'll do verses 1 through 4. It reads, Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and there was no longer any sea I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride beautifully dressed for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Look, God's dwelling place is now among the people. And he will dwell with them. They will be his people, and God himself will be with them and be their God. And then verse 4, he will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There will be no more death Or mourning, or crying, or pain, for the old order of things has passed away I want to preach today from the Semonic title No More Crying. No More Crying. Our nation weeps. Over and over again. It's weeping for the families of Those who have lost their lives. This week, but in particular, the names Alt and Sterling. Folando Costell, Michael Smith, Brent Thompson, Michael Kroll, Patrick Zamparipa and Lauren Orange. We're weeping because of what is taking place in our American cities, but also what's taking place in our own towns. in our own communities. Some are expressing pain in a public way. Others are doing it in their private moments and we're left At times with this blank in life, that where there is no image, that we paint on the screen of life those things that God has given to us. Here's what I'm certain about. That Jesus saw some 2,000 years ago a broken humanity. And that's why he sent Jesus. Things were so messed up then. Things were so out of control then that Jesus sends His love, he shares the message of God to a broken people. And we're still broken. And we're still imperfect. And we're still struggling even today. Those of us within the faith look around and the world is looking for us for a response. What what now? You're the Christian. What what now you go to church? What now and we think of a savior who died such a horrific death But overcame the grave, overcame death, who rose from the grave with all power in his hands And and so we share tears, uh tears of emotion, tears Sometimes of anger, tears of disappointment, but there will come a day when there won't be any more crying. And this is not a cop out for the Christian. Well, Christians, all you're going to do is say, the Lord, or make a way, all you're going to do is say, Thank you, Jesus. But the Christian has that kind of perspective. We're in the world, but we're not of the world. We're affected by things that happen. We have our own opinions. But at the end of the day, our response is that trouble won't last always. And that's what gives us hope. If we're not careful, we'll fall into the same there is no hope What's wrong with America? It's a society of the problem. But the believer has a different set of lenses. I mean, just this week in seeing tears I was at the homegoing service of one of our dear members, and because of this time of grief, there were tears being shared And then the next day I went and performed a wedding ceremony, and there were tears being shed by the bride and the groom. The Bible gives us permission to cry. Word says that Jesus was holy man and holy God, but he also wept. When he found out that his good friend Lazarus was dead, even though he knew the end, the Bible says Jesus wept. When he looked over Jerusalem and saw how wicked the city had become, Jesus cried. He shed a tear. In the book of Romans, we're reminded that we're to rejoice with those who rejoice and to weep with those who weep. In the book of Revelation, we find John there on the Isle of Patmos. I was almost there a few years ago. I was in Ephesus, and they said, Patmos is over there. Now John's not there anymore, but he wrote what God had given him about this new heaven and this new earth The things that we have now will not last forever. He'll create a brand new earth. It'll be a brand new city coming from above. God will live with his people. I mean, I'm just going to pick that thing. You mean God gonna come on down and hang out with us? That's why we have hope is because what has been promised That while weeping may endure for a night and for a day and for a season and for a situation and for a predicament, but joy cometh in the morning. And so when I begin to think this week about the burden, my co-workers normally ask, Tutan, I know what you're preaching this week. I said, No, not necessarily. Because they want to hear from the faith community. How are you all responding to the violence that we have taking place? God will live with his people. God will come and develop this new neighborhood. God will do something that will Exceed the here and now. Now I don't want to sound like I'm ready to go, like right now, but I do have the hope that when, or y'all not with me today, when I die. Hallelujah. By and by. And that is the hope of the believer. That there's more than just this. That is to not overlook the pain. And many of us in this place have lost loved ones in a violent manner. But God is still God. But crying will no longer be an issue. Why? There will be a new peace. He will wipe every tear from their eyes. He's written a new chapter. Every last tear, every tear that's forming in your experience, he will wipe it away. And he makes a promise That I am aware. Aren't you glad that God is aware? Sometimes we think that God, I don't know if you care or not. What is God doing? God is not asleep. God is not dead. God knows exactly what he's doing. And while we may not understand it now, the old songs say, you'll understand it better by and by. But there are glimpses of the here and now. Has God ever brought you through a tough place in life? And you realize that when I was at this moment, I had no hope. I was low. I was in pain. But somehow God came through. He lifted my head. He'll lift the head of a nation. God can do it no more crying because of the peace that passeth all understanding He'll take care of that. That no more tears in heaven. It would be no more sadness in heaven. No more disappointment in heaven. Can you imagine that kind of world? That nobody gets disappointed. Nobody is hurting Nobody is upset, but I'm so glad that what he does in the here and now. Reverend, I hear you talking now, but that's over yonder. I'm talking about what the Lord will do right now. He's able to wipe your tears away. He's able to give you that kind of peace that will sustain you in the midst of what you're going through. And so we pray for God's peace. What does that look like? Is it a quick prayer? Or do we pray that God, I pray that with all that's happening in a world that's turning around, you still speak peace? That when life is out of control, when things are out of whack. The Christians say, Yeah, I know. But the Christian can still find a smile. The Christian can still dig deep. Why We know the end of the story. I feel like preaching today. And so while we may come today and say, well, things about and don't get me wrong. We all have an opinion In a conversation, in our life experiences, and what we've been through, and and we can get in, but there's still this deeper peace that as a believer, there's a uniqueness about what we have That the world may not understand. He will allow peace to come and to take up residence in your heart. That you'll have a smile when you should be frowning. And there's something very strange about that, something very spiritual about that, but he doesn't And then Jesus even says over in the Gospel of John, he says to his disciples, you know, things are about to get rough. I got to go back. I'm out of here. But let me just leave someone. He said, peace I leave with peace You and you and you peace I give unto you and you and you, not as the world giveth. The world's peace is not real peace. I give a let not your heart be troubled. And neither let it be afraid. So you know what Yeah, I mean we lock our doors. Yeah, we try to obey the law. We all do. But this peace that he gives us is a new peace. It's a strange peace, but it keeps us in the midst of confusion My God, I feel his peace even right now. That when the world is all out of whack, you as a believer walks in and says, you know what? I can be a part of that discussion, but I have this underlying peace that keeps us. John writes, he proclaims that in this new order, this new arrangement. There'll be some peace. He'll wipe every last one. Every every lay lay la every last here. Can you see his holy just? And what you've gone through, he'll succeed. And what you've been through, he will wipe. And there's a new peace. But not just the new peace, there's also this new presence. That God is with us. When you feel alone, when you feel that no one cares, when you feel there's no hope. Know that God is in your midst. There will be no more death. Or mourning, or crying, or pain, there'll be no more business for the funeral home. Brief counselors will be out of work. The doctors will close up shops. Why? Because of what the Lord will do. And again. I won't let you know. I don't want to say well now, Reverend you talked about over yonder and after a while. I'm saying right now in those parts that you are dealing with that may seem to be dead, he can revive you from where you are And the pain you're going through right now, your own personal pain, because he's on the scene and because he's present, it'll make a difference. Mama here and now guy. I know over yonder, but I want to say, well, what about today? What about right now? God is with us. Amen. Mahalia Jackson used to sing that song, soon we'll be done with the troubles of this world, going home to live with God. But I ain't home yet. And so because I'm not home yet, and you are not home yet, you ought to just receive his presence and know that he's with you through every situation. He's with these families. He's with your family. He knows what you're going through. And that alone changes the atmosphere. Your presence. He will change our lenses that we'll see things a little bit different. You know the Bible says we're some strange folks Well when first Peter said we are peculiar people, uh-huh. A royal priesthood. The world thinks we're a little off to be putting all this hope in a God we've never seen. The world thinks we're a little strange And that everybody is a God. And that the world thinks that way, but because we know that the Lord our God is powerful and lives with us, there's this presence we have It's not arrogant. He said, you know what? God, if you don't be with me, I can't do anything. Unless you're don't you take God on your job with you? I know you know all your skill set, but God, if you don't be with me, I won't be able to do it. And so that's why he begins to change The atmosphere changed the situations that I don't want you to leave here as a hopeless people. Right now he's with us. And we can cling to that knowing that he's with us always, even to the end of earth. You may have noticed we purchased a little uh what do you call it? I'm having a A trailer, that's it. Look at that. And God show up, you start losing other stuff. We got a trailer on the back of my pickup truck. And every week we disconnected And we we put the trailer away. And the truck becomes a truck. But in God's way, you're always connected. That wherever you go, He goes with you. Whatever you're going through, he's going through with you. And whatever you are facing, his presence is there. That's good news. It says over John fifteen, as the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Now remain in my love. Now stay put in my love. And folk don't want to hear about love when things get crazy. Amen? I'm not going political, but love still makes a difference. No, we're not weak, but we have a love that we possess that may not be like the world's love. Aren't you glad you got the love of Jesus in your heart today? He said, let it remain in you. That when you come through, say, oh, there's old love. Name you love. How you doing, love? That ought to be something about you, the Spirit of God resonate in you, that your nickname ought to be love. Folk want to see the love of God just coming out of you in your smile, in your style, and what you do and what you say and where you go, His presence. New peace, new presence, new path. He will wipe every tear from their eyes. There'll be no more death or mourning or crying or pain For the old order of things has passed away. The lineup has changed In the world of sports, the manager can change the lineup when he gets ready. No, I'm gonna let I'm gonna let Davis pitch today Yeah, no, I'm gonna I'm gonna let Brooks go to first base. God can change situations. He can change the order of this world And so while things are out of control seemingly, God still has things in order. It may not look like it. It may not feel like it, but God is a God of order. And He is always prepared to take us the right place. At the right time. For the right season. And so what John is saying is that, you know, that's old Because he will do a new thing. Ain't your mercies are new every day? Great is that faithful every day you get up, he's got a new thing he wants to do in your life. I'm glad about that. And so there's this new path. He will change the order. He'll return. He'll change things up. He'll take us in a new direction. And as God right now He can change your season. You may have to spray off the path. But because of who he is, I'm glad he does that. How's that fit into what we're doing now? Is that this too will pass? It's it's a low moment. And you've had personal low moments in your own life, but God Will raise you up and put you on the right path. Talks about this new heaven and earth and that he's going to be in the midst. He's always there with you. And I like what Isaac says. He says, forget the former things. Some stuff you need to just let go. Don't dwell on the past. I'm doing a a new thing. Oh, but we always did the old way. A new thing, and now it springs up. Do you not perceive it? I'm making a way in the wilderness and streams in the wasteland that God is at work. That's the message I want to give you today, that with all that's happening, that he brings along and promises this new peace and this new sense of presence and this new path that's just for us. And we go about our lives. No more tears, no more pain, no more destruction. But this world is not your home. You've got a visa that at some point we'll be going over yonder. A new body, a new home, a new experience. Now that means you can take care of the one you got now The trade-in value is still good, but you'll get all new things. Like the word that Paul writes in the book of Romans. I kind of heard it in my spirit today in the book of Romans, there in the eighth chapter. It gives me the kind of hope that I think that we need in a time like we're experiencing now. It says very clearly in Romans eight and twenty-eight I know that all things work together for good for those who love God who are called according to his purpose But when you go down to 31, it says, What shall we say then to these things? If God be for us, who can be against us? He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? Who shall lay anything against the charge of God's elect? It is God that justifies. Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died. Yea, rather that is risen again, who's even at the right hand of the Father making intercession for us. But like this Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword as it is written for thy sake We are killed all the day long. We are counted as sheep for the slaughter. Nay, in all these things We are more than conquerors through him that loved us. I'm persuaded that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature Shall be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. And that must give me hope today. So him said, I'm thine, O Lord. I've heard thy voice and it told thy love to me. But I long to rise in the arms of faith. And be closer drawn to thee. Consecrate me now. That's my prayer. To thy service, Lord, by the power of grace divine. Let my soul Look up with a steadfast hope and my will be lost in thine. Draw me nearer. Draw me nearer. Draw me closer to thy cross. And to that bleeding sign that even though I may be discouraged, I need for you. To draw me. That when my nights alone draw me. When my situation seemingly is out of way, draw me. Come unto me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. I want you to continue to draw me Then when my situation changes all of a sudden, draw me. When the nation is out of the white, draw me. When my peace is low, draw me. When my joy can't be found, I need you to keep drawing me. Draw me to thy precious bleeding side. And that gives me hope. But no matter what happens, our God still reigns. And he still promises. No more crying. I'm with you. That is the word of God today for the people of God. It's already blessed. Come on, stand today all over this place. We've got hope hope. We're not a hopeless people. God is with us. He's right by our side. He's gonna bring us through. He's gonna give us hope. Our God is in all so God He rains From heaven above. Wisdom. Our God. How many know it today? Our God Our God is in us from God. From heaven. From heaven, I love my way The power of our God. He reigns. He reigns. He reigns. How many believe it today? He rain Our God is He rains He raised Our God is I am God. As I come to you today, I'm glad I can stand on that rock. That's higher than I am. I mean, we're all affected. I don't care who you are. You've been watching this. You've been seeing it. It's on social media. It's everywhere And yet, when we think about what do we do, how do we respond? Our response is that God is yet in control. And for the believer, we've not lost hope. It's not in a leader or a program. God is yet alive and well. He sent Jesus into a hostile environment. Oh, they hated him so until they killed him. But he rose victorious. Let's bow today. Father, we thank you that you've gone to prepare a place for us. But in the here and now, you're ever present. We pray for every family, not just in Texas, not just in Louisiana, not just in Minnesota, but in Maryland, in Baltimore In your neighborhood, somebody is going through and they've shed a tear. But God, might we wear love, might we wear hope to let them know that God has not forgotten them. Father, I pray even now for that lost soul who knows not you, that you might display yourself in front of them, that they may see that there is hope in the Master. Your word says, if you confess with your mouth, the Lord Jesus, and believe in your heart that God has raised them from the dead, the Bible saw that shall be saved. There's something about being saved. Thank you, Lord, for salvation. We ask it even now. If you're here today, just one last call. You want to get to know Jesus. No man knows the day or the hour, but he'll be back. Just tell it to be ready. Folks go this is it, thousands of times No man knows the day nor the hour. We just want to be ready. And being ready means being saved. Search your heart today. If you've never said, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner, save my heart and save my soul. Today you can speak that within your own spirit, man or woman, and he'll come in and save you He'll do it right now. He'll do it today. He'll do it on the spot. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Praise God. Praise God today. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called speeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.