This is Dr. Tim Tooten with Harvest Christian Ministries. This message was preached at Bring It to Life Ministries in Baltimore, Maryland. The text for the day, Isaiah 21, verses 6 and 7. Be blessed. This is what the Lord says to me Go post a lookout and have him report what he sees. When he sees chariots with teams of horses, riders on donkeys or riders on camels, let him be alert fully alert. That is the word of God is already blessed today. You may take your seats in this place to honor. uh your bishop and to encourage your hearts. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, Not On My Watch. Not on my watch. The year was two thousand, it was the spring of the year, and the national media was going crazy because of a very intense situation in Baltimore County. In fact, it was a manhunt for one by the name of Joseph Palzinski. He had held a family hostage in Essex for about 97 hours and they were trying to negotiate with him, but he wanted no part of being free or being captured. The police department actually set up a perimeter around that particular neighborhood and they labeled it a kill zone. Which meant that there were certain places you could not go, not knowing what the suspect would do. One Sunday afternoon in the midst of this standoff, I got a call at home saying, Tim, we need for you to come in. and to be on assignment there over in the kill zone. So I had churched all day. I was tired and got home and uh met uh one of our top photographers at the station and we got in our live truck and it was pitch dark. We drove over to the kill zone They put the media in a certain location. And I'll forget that night because as we sat there in that truck, afraid, but yet trusting God Uh my friend, the photographer, said to me, he said, let's make a pact. I'm tired and you're tired. So I'm gonna take a nap and I want you to watch me I said, no problem. I got you. And the next thing I know, he was waking me up I was a poor example of someone who was keeping watch. In fact, he is the very deacon I mentioned to you in this church. He was the one Said, man, what happened to you? I fell asleep. But God has a reason and a role for the watchman in this modern-day society that he sends to watch over his people. A watchman is someone who stands at a high location and has a real view of what's happening all across the land. His job was to be alert. His job was to pay attention. Don't you know that you are modern day watchmen? That God has given you an assignment to be at a certain place, to be the lookout person in your home, to be the lookout on your job. My God, you ought to take some Holy Ghost right where you work That ought to be a love zone and a watch zone. People won't even come by your desk. They know it's been anointed. Remember when we first moved into our new newsroom I got permission from the boss to anoint the place. Got my oil, went in, anointed every desk. In the name of Jesus. In the name of Jesus. So wherever you are, you have been assigned as a watchman. Isaiah is the one who is at the center of our text today. He is one who the Bible says in Isaiah 6 was serving King Uzziah. And the year that King Uzziah died, he said, I saw the Lord high and lifted up. And his train filled the temple. And when God asks, is there one who will go for me? He says, Now I'm a man of unclean lips. You don't know my background, my history, or my rapture. But won't God use you? He says, here I am, Lord, send me. Isaiah would serve and would go and God would touch his life. And we find the same Isaiah there in the 21st chapter of the book of Isaiah. He's having a dream. It's a vision. And what he sees disturbs him. He sees uh Babylon being invaded. He sees destruction on the move. Don't you know that God still speaks through dreams and visions? Uh Bishop Bart, I did a seminary paper back at St. Mary's and I picked the topic does God still speak in dreams and visions? I want to be relevant, so I call down home and And got a hold of Miss Nettie B. Haynes. And she said, Yeah, boy, don't you know he speaks? And she began the old mother told me, yeah, he still speaks. God still speaks Through visions and dreams. As he spoke to you lately about what he has in store for you, but for Isaiah, it became a nightmare, seeing what God had showed him And so God really gives him something to share with the people. And so really, as I think about your pastor and your bishop, he is one that God has called to be on the wall. He's on watch. Amen. He's in the line of duty. You don't know that behind the scenes, that when you asleep, that he's praying And when you're on vacation, somebody is praying for you. This morning at the Harvest Church, I walked through every chair and prayed over it I said in the name of Jesus, the seat you're sitting in has been prayed over. Somebody's been praying for you. Amen. And that's what a watchman does He doesn't slack on the job. He's always praying for you. And so God shares something with Isaiah. And that he gives him assignment, and he also gives an assignment to this man of God. Why? Because first of all, he has foresight. Verse 6 says, this is what the Lord says to me. Go post a lookout and have him to report what he sees. To have foresight is to anticipate. That something is going to happen. To have foresight is to look ahead. You're not caught by surprise. And that is what God says to Isaiah. You know, you can get uh some self-help books and you can find some books that can develop your foresight. But when God speaks to you and God gives you a discerning spirit, you've got foresight. You see stuff coming before anybody else catches it. You can see trouble on the horizon. Why? Because you've been in touch with God. You have got foresight. And some have suggested that Isaiah didn't really send anybody, but it was him himself who actually went to the wall And got on duty and was able to say, Here I am, Lord, I'm looking over to see what you would have. And not only that, but when you are a watchman You take the message that God gives you and give it to the people. Now they might be mad at you next Sunday, but it's not your fault. You just tell them what thus saith the Lord. And when you see something, say something. Amen. Oh, I feel my help coming today in this place on Sunday, amen. That he's got some foresight. He's not a hindsight bishop. One who says I'm a Monday morning quarterback, I coulda, shoulda, woulda. But having foresight means I can look out and see what God has in store for me. I love that old hymn. I heard the voice of Jesus say, Come unto me and rest. Lay down thy weary one. Lay down thy soul upon my I came to Jesus as I was We're rewarded and said I found in him a resting place and he has made me glad. Anybody glad today My God, when God shows you some stuff, you get excited about it and say, you know what? I'm on duty. Leave me alone. I'm watching for the Lord. Amen. First John 3 and 2 says, Beloved, now we are the sons of God, does not yet appear what we shall be, but what when we see him, we'll be just like him. Amen So a watchman has foresight. You ever see your bishop walking around? Nothing wrong with him. God is showing him some stuff within the ministry. Getting into this building was a foresight moment. Amen. Some folk that didn't see it. I don't think we I think we okay where we at. No, no. God has shown me some stuff and placed you strategically in this neighborhood. For such a time, oh, you don't film me today on that. You're not just here because it was open. God had worked that thing out in the midnight hour. Amen. Somebody had to pray, so there's not just foresight, but God gives him He said, Now I there say to the watchman that when he sees chariots with teams of horses, Riders on donkeys or riders on camels, let him be alert, fully alert. Now you got to be country to know the difference in that A horse and a donkey. Some of y'all from the city, you we you know we we used to uh do you ever plow or you thought about plowing? But he gives him a particular insight that he knows what to look for He didn't want to mistake the enemy for just somebody who would do some A-rabbing. Amen. But really he was looking at what is it that God has shown me he that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches, that he is a watchman And God has given you a watchman who takes time to spend time with God. Not a shoot from the hip type pastor. Not uh it seemed like it's right in my own sight, but I've taken some time to meditate, taken some time to lay before the Lord. And let me just can I just say this Sometimes pastors don't even get to sleep. We so filled up, can't take a nap. Our mind is moving. We're thinking about what God is saying. My son said to me, Daddy Turn the faucet off. I can't. I'm always thinking about the next thing that God has for his people. It's something that gets a hold of you and nothing you can do about it I wish I could switch it off, but I can't. It's Jesus all the time. I'm on vacation. How might that work for the ministry? I'm going just to get a sandwich. I'm gonna tell somebody about the goodness of the Lord. Why? Because he put so much in you He's giving you insight as a watcher. My God, you're qualified when you spend time with the master. And that's what Isaiah did. He has the assignment of just hosting someone, but being very specific about what you're seeing. See, there'll come a time when folk will call right wrong. And wrong right. It'll look good, but it may not be the right stuff. You can tell real Holy Ghost people. They may not always shout, but my God, if you look at them long enough, y'all know the old mother who sits on the porch, don't say much but rocks in her chair and she's just moaning unto the Lord. God has given you some insight there. You may not say a thing, but it's in you. And don't you know he's working something out in your life today? You didn't plan to come to church, you didn't plan to be so involved, you just want to get enough. Can I just say this? I didn't intend to get really into church When I moved to Baltimore, I checked it out and you know I looked apart and had my big toe in, but I wasn't trying to get real serious about church. I just kind of looked the role, but then something got a hold of me. I went to the church last night and my heart but after I got there I couldn't play no longer because what? Some rough times came. I said, Lord, you're showing me some stuff about me. And that's good news. Not on My watch. As I stand before you today, God has sent you a watchman, one who has foresight, and one who has insight, but one who also has a search life. No, he's not a night security guard. He's just a prophet from the Lord. Amen. He says when you see something in the text, be alert. In other words, get to your attention and God will send you some stuff and show you some things that will blow your mind. Has He done it in your life? See this is some craziest stuff, but God has shown me and it's made a difference in who I am. See y'all never been challenged. Everything has been an easy street. I mean where you almost lost your mind. Well you have to say, Lord, I'm asking you to look into my heart today. And then a watchman has no flashlight. He's got a searchlight. Why? Because he's already been examined by God Amen. The Bible says, let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. Won't he do it today? Oh, you won't turn your light on today. My God, you got a light. You got a light. You got a light. You got a light right now that you're using and yet you don't want to turn it on. Oh, let me push you today. My God, you just kept your mouth shut when you should have said something Amen. And that's it. He's called us to be what? Light and to be salt of the earth. David says in Psalm 139, Lord, you have searched me. And you have known me, and you know my downsettings and my uprising, you know my thoughts from my fall. My God, you can't search anything until you've been searched. See, some of y'all never been patted down. That no way they got a a culture now where folk talking about they have a false but you ain't never been sped 'em and get patted down and somebody searched you. Do you got anything on you? I just got Jesus on me, amen. You ever been searched and patted down and folks want to search and well what you holding? I ain't holding up with the Holy Ghost. Amen. Amen. I ain't got nothing on man. The warbas of my warfare are not carnal, but are mighty pulling down a straw. Michael, you need to be searched. And he'll search you even in your situation. Anyone want to be searched today? I know, I know, I know, I know he's got a word from glory. He wants to search you. The watchman has a searchlight. And God is using him to do just that. Not to get in your business, but to shine the light. Every Sunday just shine that. No, over here. You ever have somebody here to hold the light for you and they would no no no over here and that's what God would do with the watchman. You'll kind of shine and say, no, no, no. Turn it back here And let the light from heaven shine upon your soul. Aren't you glad today that you've got someone who don't mind standing on the wall? Don't mind being a watchman, a prophet who patrols, always on alert, going through the congregation, how can I help you? What can I do for you? He's one who perceives that something is going on in your life. And he said, How did Pastor No Maddis? He didn't. God has shown him some things as a watchman And then he stands and proclaims the good news of Jesus Christ. May not be what he wanted to preach, but the Holy Ghost will change your message In the midnight hour, it's not for you, it's for me. And so often, can I just testify? They're preaching to themselves every Sunday. Amen. Come here, mirror. Mirror, mirror on the wall. That's what you're doing. You're preaching to your own self And God will use you to proclaim the good news and to protect the saints. Don't y'all mess with other my members. I'll fight for my members. Amen? And he's going to court with you. He's going to situations with you. He and the pastor, because why? God has called them to watch over your soul. He is one who's accessible One who is active, one who's available, one who's accountable to God. He gets this message from high. I know y'all say something to him. Do you hear me now? He's constantly staying in tune to what God has in store for him. As watchmen, we can't afford to sleep on the job. It happened in the Garden of Gethsemane. Jesus said, I need for a few of you brothers to come watch with me. And what happened? They oh see, y'all know that Bible story. And we've been to sleep. He says, Could you wait just one hour with me? He says, I know that you know your spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. And today I say to you, know that God has appointed you a watchman and He's also given you a license to watch as well. A watchman is always on duty. A watchman has insight, has a searchlight, has foresight, but a watchman has to look to the heels from which cometh his help. His help cometh from the Lord who made heaven and earth. He will not suffer your foot to be moved. He that keepeth thee will not slumber. He that keepeth Israel neither slumber nor sleep. The Lord is thy keeper. The Lord is thy shade upon thy right hand. The sun shall not smite thee by day, nor the moon by night. The Lord shall preserve you from all evil. I won't preach now. He'll preserve your soul. He'll preserve your going out and your coming in. From this time forth and forevermore. What am I saying today? Is that every now and then you'll feel the move of God in your life saying, you know what? I know what you want to do, but I'm going to put you on duty. You've been appointed to watch over your family. I know things may seem rough, but you are the watchman in your home I know that things may be pushing you, but you've been called not to signify, but to watch. You've been called to watch and to pray. How many folk today are standing high and say, Lord, you've appointed me And here's what I see. I see lives being mended back together. I see homes being repaired. I see ministries going I see folk being healed. I see folk being delivered. I see joy returning to your heart. I see peace that passeth all understanding. Don't you see what I see? I see the Lord, He's high, and He's lifted up. Why? Because I'm unbeauty And what he tells me to say, I got to say it to the glory of God. Why? I'm a watchman. What are you doing? I'm just on duty, watching over God's part. And that's what God has done. He's given him a flock to watch over. Can you see what I see? I see the Lord moving in all of his glory. Don't you see what I see today? Not On my watch, oh devil, you better back up. I've been called to watch. And don't let something happen under your watch. Don't go to sleep on the job, but stand high. See, God, help me to see what you see. Every now and then the enemy will try and cloud your vision, give you a false report. But every time I get up, I say, God, show me something that I may have missed the day before. But most of all, show me myself. Yes indeed. Old Song says, Search me, Lord. If you find anything that shouldn't be. Take it out and strengthen me. I want to be right. I want to be saved. I want to be whole. Can I swear you in today? As you stay all over this place, I want to swear you in as watchmen. Everybody in this church, you can stand today. My God, raise your right hand. I am a watchman. I see what God shows me. And my pastor has put me on post to serve as a watchman. Father, I thank you in the name of Jesus. May we take this assignment so serious. We miss so much stuff. Because we've been distracted. But may we never miss the move of God today. God, I thank you for this bishop and this pastor and this people. Watch over them. As they watch over this neighborhood on the post of duty, I thank you and I glorify you in Jesus' name. Let's bow our heads, remain. Father, I come now. Maybe there's one in the house today who's been under surveillance but has not given the life to you. I pray that you might touch that heart. They might run saying, I yield, I yield. What must I do to be saved? God, I pray even now that you might save a soul today in this place. Yes, Lord. Pastors and bishops have no crystal ball. We don't know, but you know. Touch that heart today, God. Save that soul. The Bible says, if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in your heart. That God has raised him from the dead. The Bible says, Thou shalt be saved. God, I pray in the name of Jesus that you might save that soul today. Save that soul today. Encourage that heart today. Give new hope to that person, God, who didn't realize they've been put on post. To go higher and to a higher place to get a different view. And to see what you've got for us, we can't lay low We got to go high. God, I thank you and I glorify you in Jesus' name. Somebody give God a praise today. I pray you've been blessed today. This sermon was preached at Bringing to Life Ministries in Baltimore, Maryland. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten with Harvest Christian Ministries. May God bless your day.